
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Stella Delorme, or, The Comanche's Dream .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6985
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Stella Delorme, or, The Comanche's dream 
            
               0%

A, WILD AM) FANCIFUL STORY OP SAVAGE CILIVA LRY
BY
NED BUNTLINE.

SEW  YORK
F R E D E R I C        A.   1 IR A
NO. 24 ANN STREET.

D Y,

F'

S TELIAA

BE tO HME:


STELLA DELORME;
OR,
Ehe  mmh ' @m.

Er rznE according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860,
BY CAULDWLL, SOUTHWORTIH &amp; WHITNEY,
In the Clerk's 0111ee of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

CHAPTER I.                  their head chief, sprang from hi if; with
The great camp of the Comanches was his pennoned lance in his hand       4+t. lance
itched in a wild and picturesque gorge of the whereon were more scalp-noteh.  u' than
Sierras Chrrate, where the waters of the Rio could be counted on the weapon o t .e oldest
Pecos bounded, all glittering, from their rocky brave in the tribe.
source. The ornamented lodges of tanned     Ie was tall, formed like an Apollo, with
buttalo.skin rose thick-like the house's of a noble features, and eyes wherein shone the fire
large village-in a small basin carpeted with of a true warrior.  'ihe war-eagle feathers
grass and lowers, which had been hollowed were twined in his scalp-lock, and more tian
out by Nature's hand between the lofty moun- one scar upon his broad breast told that he
tains ; and the smoke of the watch-fires rose had not passed unscathed through the sterm
like misty pillars in the stilt air.  The moon of battle. But there were no scars on his
was at its full; and tihougi the hour of sunrise back.
was not yet come, all around seemed clear as  "What is the matter?  Why has Lagona
daylight-so transparent was the atmosphere, sounded the war-whoop ?" asked Nenahaha,
so eloudles the sky.  s                   his father, as he stood by the side of his son,
To and fro, in front of the narrow entrance whose whole frame was quiveringr with excite-
to the gorrge, where their eyes could sean the mneut.
va   extent of prairie to the east, rode the inThe Great Spiritghas spoken to me in a
sentinels of the camp ; and within, picketed so dream !" said the young brave, growing more
as to he really for instant use, in case of alarm, calm. " Let the warriors go back to their
were tie wil steeds of the Indian braves.  lodges ! I will tell my father that which I
It would have been a study for a painter, dreamed, and I will take counsel of him, for
that ca! p! High on either hand rose the there is wisdom in his heart!"
great lark cliffs, with vines acid shrubs cling-  The wondering warriors obeyed, for the will
iug here and there to their precipitous sides ; of Lagona was law to them. By his deeds of
dowvn thenm rushed silvery easeades-soietimes daring he had won their love and respect.
leaping off itto a cloud of spray, again trick- And again all was quiet in the camp,
ling in light gem-drops dowa into the mossy  " What did the Great Spirit show to Lagona
beds below. Then that picturesque amphi- in the land of dreams ?'" asked Nemahaha,
theatre at the foot of the rocks, now tented when the two were alone.
over for a foreground, would complete the    " A maiden-of the pale-faces, more beauti-
picture.                                   fiul than all the flowers of the earth, about to
It was not yt the hour of dawn, when a be sacrificed by the Lipans. Anti the Great
wi'I, shrilt yell was heard from the large ecn- Spirit told Lagona to mount and rescue the
tral lodge of the camp. It waste war-whoop, maiden, and take her to his own bosom !"
and scarce htad its fearful echoes rung from  The old warrior shook his head and seemed
cliff to cliff of the pass, when full two hundred annoyed, when his son uttered these words.
Warriors bounded out into the open air, armed  "The dream is not good !" said he.  The
with guns, lances, bows, shields, and war- Chief of the Corranche must never defile his
tlubs.                                     blood, by mixing it with the mud of the pale-
And with the shrill war-cry still quiyering faces, The eyes of my son were in a fog-
on his lips, young Lagona, the brave son of did not see right I'

(

/

A_

)

i


STELLA DELORME ; OR,
" lothing evil comes from the Ureat Spirit!" foam which fleew fronn its bitted month, anel
said La 'ona, quietly, lot tirmly. "1HE led  leading another, blacker than the clouds of
me tO the land of drearn, i e and I will do lbs  night.
bid ding! I will go to th  Lipans ! If I find  These steeds he reined up beside the saeri-
the:e a pale-faced nmidet doomed to die--she  ficial fire, then he bounded to the earth, and
is nom., and I will take her to my breast !"  with one blow of his broad-bladed knife, se;
Lagona have a eare-the Lipuias are the lpersecuted maiden free from     the bands
our friends,' sail the old chief.          which had been cruelly drawn around her
"" hiend or foe,  ona knows no fear, or slender form.
f eh no love for them ." said the young chi.  Without uttering a word to the astoni.hcd
Anl arming him elf hadily-, hut coin plete- Pekito, who for an instant seemeed spell-bound
ly, lie  nt t, the pickets and unfastenei two  by the boldness of the act-without glaneing
powerful and spirited horses-one white as at the hest of warriors, or even sleaking to
snow, thl other black as night. Mounting one  the maidenl-he lifted her upon the back of the
and leading the oltier, he rode forth fromn the  black courser, himself mounting the other,
gorge at full speed-halting only for a moment and with a yell of triumph, bounded away
to tell the weird that ho wished no followers, from the terrible spot.
and desiredI that the camp should not be bro-  Only for a moment were the surprised Li-
ken up untilhias return.                   panis silent and quiet. Then their farful ce ics
The dew lay bright upon the grass liads  of Iiappoiited rage burst forth--tlhen tI cir
and the flowers through which he sped ; and  bows were quickly strung, anil the yell of 1r-
the star leI grouse, and deer, and aitelops suit heard. But their horses wire not at
fled r lit andile1tft as he rode oni-but he heed- hand ; and in a imonient Lagon and the rescu-
ed tlimi not. his course was liid for the Rio  el girl were beyond their reach-speedtng iar
San Saba. where he knew tiot a large body of away, like birds uo)0n1 the wing, OVe' the al-
Lipans, freuh from a foray into Texas, were mst boundless prairie.
encamped.         -                         "The Comanche dog shall pay for bir with
his own scalp !" shouted old Lazaro, the head
CTIAPTEIR H.                  Chief of the Lipans, and faiier of Pekito.
1:ound for the seerifice-irobed for the bridal " Dig up the hatchet, ye braves of the Lipans
of d yath-vet so betutif il!             -sharpen your kmves, for the Comianehea
A nmahin of not miore than eighteen years shalill diimk blood .
-with a fas fimIitless in feature, an eye blue  And his words were received with  pprov-
as the cloudless hieavens-long, glossy hair of ing shouts; for his warriors weare maddened at
golden heit, iin which, as if in mockery of her the audacity of him who had robhel them  of
woe, gay feathers had been twisted-was bound  their captive and the pleasure of witnessing
toa blood-red stake in the centre of the Lipai her death-agonies.
camp; robes of enowy white, such as rlhe     And they hastened to prepare for the war-
would  hive worn at a bridal in the sunny  ipa he, and to pursue Jgona and his prize.

hone fromi which she had been torn, were upon
her les aic.sreim, and mhic1 jewels were on her
neck ; her cheek was white as the drifted sow,
her hope hal dep1artedl from her soul. 'There
wa rio sign if merev in the painted faces of
the sav 'ote vtarriorsrwho veiled mitd danced
around'. r'--o hope ftum the yet more merci-
less ,f he" ''ne sex, who jeered and deridd I
her beec.nst. sI  tremuhled in  her helpless
agony.
The fag     e heaped about her feet-the
tornent wa. oip net to commence. Wath
a blazing terch in I'i hand, Pekito, a young
thief of the Lipans a1' echei from the circle
af yeling dsmons that irrounded her ; and as
they be.moe silent, he .'a l:
"The warriors are t:ed of dancing and
s igin--it is the turn of The pale-faced squaw
sow !   Pekito would   hear her sing; her
-se     would be music to his ears, for he lost
a bR+{er by her father's hands !"
And he bent dow to touch the torch to the
fagots.
limit ere this was done swift, like the swoop-
ing eagle when it descends upon its prey, a
horsoeemea hounded through the dusky ring of
warriors, endingg a fiery steed as white as the

CHAPTER III.
Not many miles from the camp of the Li-
pans, at the very hour when Lagona so gal-
lantv hore their intended victim  awauv, an
armed furee of the must: gallant aind desperate
mien in the known world-the far-fanTexm'  l'uaan
Bangers-was riding slowly over the prairie
slowvm, for their horses seemed jaded with
long nud hard travel ; and most of tleemn--ex-.
cejiting only a few led favorites belonging to
the otilcers, anid kept for en hour of need-
could scarcely be spurred out of a walk.
At the ht a of the pariy, beside him who
seemed to be the leader, rode an old nuns,
whose face exp dressed great sorrow and a look
of despai'inghgony. By his dress he did not
seem to belong to the Rangers-for they were
rudely uniformed, and splendidly armed with
rifles and Colt's incomparable revolvers, as
well as heavy Bowie-knives. But he was in the
dress -Vsually worn by our opulent Southern
planters, and carried a i.audsomely-mounted
doubule-barreled  fowing-piece - a  weapon
which would be utte-iy useless in savage com
bat, except at very close quarters.

THE COMMCHE'S DREAM.

I er that we must encamp at yonder
grove !" said the leader to the person last de-
sceibed. " There is water and timber there,
and our horses are fairly run down."
And ii pointed to a belt of timber in the
distance, which rose on the banks of one o
the branches of the San Saba.
-.Oh, for Ieaven's sake! don't talk of stop-
ping until we fiud my 1)00r Stella. Major Ben
said the later to tie' chief of the Rangers.
- My de' Mr. Delorme, I would not if it
were Iosie for the men to keep on !" said
the oteer, with feeling. " But our horses are
so used up by this rapid and continued march,
that if we were to overhaul the Indians, they
could with ease escape us. By the signs
which have freshened every hour to-day, we
are ieenr then, ane ought to be in trim for a
bhang-ip li ii ; for the Lipans are tougli-d'vc
ti 1r th II
" Al, toj or, if von had an only child-the
r J'W~d e'f y i  : hart-in their bow'eI', you
would not chle me for impatience."
I do not chide-I only counsel means to
inison' our success. By another day we can
sorly amertake them, and if our animals are
ll r cut, we can whip a thousand of the m !"n
" What ! with only seventy men !"
"cThe Rangi's never count their foes until
they stop to take their scalps !" said the Ma-
Jor, quietly.
"FMajor McCullough, there is something
C i um rik n over there to the son'-east !" said
iii 'old I!niger, who hid been scouting a few
hudired yards in advance, and had drawn up
his horse to await his leader.
And hle pointed to a speck in the distance,
n hiehci omod to be meoviug rapidly over the
p'irie; bit whether it was bialo or a human'
h in  ee 1o1Iii it be ead lv distinguished evei
Ii tii m experienced eye of a Ringer, unaided
hby artilmial means.
'Phi majr quickly unslung a small field
tcpOn ' 'xidi he carried at his side, and
ai etim.' the{ focus, raised it to his eye. His
i 1  i hlh and a gleam of pleasure flitted
o'eu'r his weatier-Beatin fice, as he fixed his
!linkeemm u,i the distant object.
' ring up the led horses !" he cried. " Let
every 1 itni when ias not a spare horse dismount
-aod it his beat bre'athel .
What do vou see, major ?-for Iaven's
eas'", rs alk I is it a sin umf my child '" asked
Mr. IDlorme.
S\Wai', siri'-wait until I cam speak with cr-
taiity' !" sail ihe Ranmgeir ; and now he looked
hevoni the first objuet to a cloud, evidently
of'cinst, behind thmiti.
Tb plan or fairly trembled with anxiety.
At lait lie n;niu aked the major what lie
saw.                                     -
" Two persons riding at full speed, and fol-
loned far behind by a crowd, judging from
the du-t they kick up !" answered the latter.
Are they pursued Indians ?"
"One is-the other is dressed in white, and

looks like a woman ; but they both ride as
swift as lightningf"
"My heart tells me that it is my Stella I"
cried Mr, Delorme ; and he madly spurred
his jaded horse, and tried to urge hiint onward.
But the horse, too tired to make even an
effort, stood with drooping head, and bore the
galling spur without flinching.
"Tape a fresh horse,  r. Delorree ,xwe will
soon see into the matterI" said the major,
kindly.
The led horses--seven or eight in number-
were now brought up; and the major mounting
one, assigned another to the planter, and the
rest to the most experienced and daring of his
followers.
Then, aft: r having given directions to those
who were to remain behind to repare for bat-
tle, he led the way toward the persons vhon
he had seen, at full speed. But fast as he rode,
the planter kept close by his side, and the rest
of his men kept well up.
As they neared the objects ahead, they
could plainly see that the two nearest them
were pursued by a large body beyond. The
former, when the major's party were first dis-
covered, halted for a moment, as if they feared
new foes in their path ; but their stop was only
mtoieentary: they were soon in motion again,
and did not alter their course, which led di-
rectly toward the Rangers.
And the speed of those who went and those
who came, soon brought the parties close to-
gether.
Thank Heaven, it is my child i" sliouted
the planter, at last, as he recognized her who
rode the coal-black steed, and who also, know
ing him, now waved her hand in recognition.
"I[ wonder what the deuce that wild Co.
mance' is doing with her 2 He ie a deadly
foe to us-or his tribe is. This is some new
freak" muttered Major Ben, as ha checked
the speed of his horse.
A imoment more, and-Lagona-who had till
now held the rein of the fiery horse upon
which the rescued captive rode, checked it
and his own, in the'eirele made by the halting
Rangers.
"Stella-my darlingchild!" cried the plant-
er, as he threw himself from his horse and
clasped his daughter to his heaving breast.
" Safe, my fiatheer, safe !" she sobbed, as she
returned his embrace.
" What tribe are those that follow Y" asked
the major of Lagona, who sat still as a statue
upon his panting horse.
" Lipans I They want the scalp of the
white-flower, whom I took from them when
they were ready to burn her !" said Lagona,
quietly.
"By Heavens you're a trump, if you are a
Comanche :" said the major, warmly, extend.
ing his hand,whichthe young chiefdid not take
"Too proud to shake hands with an old
Ranger, 1 suppose,' said he, noticing this.
"The hands of the Rangers are red with


THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.

STELLA DELORME; OR,

the blood of my people 1" said the Indian,   " It's worth mtere than our lives to move
haughtily.[ without an order front the major," said the
" There's not much od ls between us there  officer next in charge.
-I expect your lands are as red as ours ;   " Then I go alone !" cried the agonized
but we can appreciate a noble action in a foe father ; and alone he sped away after 'his
as well us a friend. You have saved the girl, child.
and we thank you for it !" said McCullough.  The Lipans, when they saw how few of the
 I did not save her for you-I took her for Rangers were about to charge thiem, drew up
nmys-lf !" s.aid Lagona, haughtily.       in something like order to receive them, and
' That's cool; but we've no time to argue  while they drew their arrows t) a head, and
matters. There are too many yelling Lipans  loosened their lances for action, they gave
in that crowd for us to face. Mount, Mr. De- back vell for yell to the advancing foe.
lorme-we must retreat to our main body, and  Soon the Rangers were at hand, and on--
then we'll have ;trength to make these yelling  the reins loose upon their horses' necks, the
devise turn their backs !"                  terrible revolver in each hand---they came  !
The directions of the major were obeyed, In a moment they were within range, and a
and not a   inoment too soon, for the Lipans sheet of fire opened from their deadly tubes,
were close _   d,      -and then the hurtling shaft, the pointed lance,
The partyding back at full speed, were  and the gleaming ateel began to do their
soon again with the Rangers, who, now form- work.
cd in line of battle, awaited joyously the ap-  Necnllough's voice was loudest of all, and
preach of the red-skinned foemen.          his form foremost for an instant only ; then a
But the Lipans, when they arrived within a  wild steed dashed on even before huii, and the
few lhin-ired yards of the Texans, drew up-  terrible cry of Lagona rang fearfully upon the
for they had a wuhlesome terror of the men  ears of the Lipans.
whose tire, once opened, was fatal and Lnceas-  I)own-down they went, before the lead and
ing,                                       steel of the Rangers ; down-down they went,
"I'd aive a thousand doubloons for fresh  under time terrible war-elub of Lagoon, and
horses now !" muttered McCullough, as he saw  wheresoe'er he rode they fell back. For, close
the enemy halt. " One fair charge would tum- behind him, wheeling as he wheeled, and
ble half of them to the grass, and send the charging where he charged, rode Stella I)e-
rest oIf howling !"                        lormuc, borne powerless upon the mighty steed
The Lipans, seeing that the Texans muade no  whereon he had saved her from the death by
advance, I nnu to gather courage, and as their torture. Like a spirit, rather than a mortal,
force was large, they legan to '  cavort" in cir- thus she rode, unharmed, amid the storm of
oles, and ve  deian lese.             weapons-pale, excited, wondering how she
"They must have a lesson, moys !" said the could be spared.
major; " but we must only make a small show,  The Lipans, terrified at their fearful loss,
or they'll all run and give us no chance forlbegan to retreat ; and McCullough, who had
fun at all!'                              lot nearly'l a third of his brave folovers, felt
mie now direeteml sme lifteen or twenty men, not like following them. But madness seemed
who hal lime fnuet ani freshest horses, to pre- to have seized 'upon Lagona ; lie rushed all
parr to follow lim ; and when they had looked  wildly into the thickest of the retreating foe,
to their arms. tm'gt'ened their giriths, and set seeimrig only to thirst for blood, ind to
theneives tirmly in their sadLes, lie gave the  scorn the thousand deaths which menaced
will yell of the~ Ramurs, ani driving home hi:n.
his spurs in the flanks of hisii ry horse, dash-  limt a shrill shriek from the lips of Stella
ed at headlong speed away twar the yelling  aroused him in an instant fromm his bloody
savages.                                   frenzy. Ikit m had seized her bridle-rein, and
his men were close in ms ream-, at least those was urging her horse away amil his retreat-
whom lie had picked, uad t eir yells racing out  ting braves.  In a second, Lagona was by her
as loud as his own.                        side : one moment more, and Pekito was a
For ore instant L.',nema glanced at them, comse - brained by the war-club of the Ce-
and then giving the celi to us wild steed, and nmanche-and the rein of Stea's horse was
shouting hi we.e-ey, he hook his lance aloft, free, and its heal turned back in time for her
and sped mtna1 on. t- join the fray.      father to see who had a second time saved his
And a cry of terrr rose from the lips of child.
Mr. Debrmre at thi moment : for the coal-   The Lipmi were now in full flight-all
black st-el upon which Stella was mounted, save some fifty, who were'' tuetehed upon the
hearing thm cry of its Comanche master, flcw  ground, auii who would never tread th war-
off wildly to jun him aid its mate, aind poor path imure,
Stelln was powerless to restrain it.         And Lagona--all covered with the blood of
" For leaven's sake, men, charge all, or my  thus within whim hue hal battled, and stminetd
ehild is bet '' crirelii thplater, as he saw thu with his own, from more than one wound-nmow
terrified girl borne away like a leaf upon a sat as quiet upon his panting horse as if he
whirlwind.                                 had only been at play.

S

CII APTim IV.
It was nearly night. The Rangers had made
their camp upon the branch of the San Saba
before spoken of, in the commencement of the
last chapter.' And it was well they had so
good a camping-place, for they sorely needed
4    rest.  -
Some of them were bathing their tired limbs
in the clear waters of the little stream; others
were cooking food at their cheerful camp-
fires ; still other were guarding the horses,
which were cropping the luxuriant and tender
grass by the water-side.
But a central group, standing beneath the
wide-spreading limbs of a huge tree, demands
our imunediate attention.
It consisted of Major McCullough; the
planter, Mr. Delorme, his daughter Steila, and
agona, the young Comanche chief.
Near the latter, needing no restraint-for
they would not leave their master--stood his
two horses.
And never did man look more noble than
he, as he stoo l there, with his arms folded
across his chest-his tall form as erect as the
lance which lane d his shoulder-his look more
proud and fearless than ever an emperor dared
to wear.                              '
"Noble chief! twice you have saved my
daughter's life, at the risk of your own !" said
Delorme, who had been.told by Stela of her
rescue from the stake. "I do not know how
to reward you sufilciently. Here is gold-all
that I have with me. If you will come to
Bolsa de Flores, my plantation on the Guada-
loupe, I will give you more."
"The Comauche despises gold!r" said La-
gona, contemptuously, pushing back the heavy
purse which the planter offered to him.
" Accept, at least, my watch and gun : the
one will tell you tihe time-the other wI de-
fend you from the foe."
" The sun is my time-keeper  I have wea-
pons of my own !" said Lagona, in the same
proud tone.
"What can I give you-how reward your
bravery ?" aked the grateful father.
The eye of Lagonatested for a moment up-
on Stella. She looked very, very beautiful,
and hr blue eyes were fixed upon him with a
look of intense gratitude. What wonder that
he, all untutored in the " art of love"-for
art it Seems to be, alas ! too much-what won-
der, I say, that he should mistake that grate-
ful look for an expression of love. He did ;
and pointing to her, looked Delorme full in
the face, and said
"I plucked the white-flower from the fire
for myself. Give her to me!
The plnterlokled aghast. had the Indian
asked for half- ay, all -of his estate, he
would not hive been more astonished.
" What !" he gasped--" give my Stella, my
angel child, toa savage-to a wild Indian ?" t
"Are you better than the Great Spirit ?"

8

I

said Lagona, haughtily. "In a dream, III
gave her to me- -bade me go and save her,
and take her to my breast. I have done so,
and she must-he mine!"
"Dreams always go by contraries, my
young buck !" said the major, quietly. "You
had better take the gentleman's presents, and
go back to your tribe again."
"You are a fool! 'You have a squaw's'
tongue--keep it between your teeth t" replied
Lagona, bitterly.
The blood rushed up into the face of Mc-
Cullough, and his hand sought the hilt of his
knife in an instant. Stella saw that the storm
of his fiery passion was about to break forth,
and besought him not to be angry with the
the man who had saved her life.
"I will do your will, lady," said the Ranger;
"but more than one red-skin has eaten dirt
for saying less to Ben McCullough than he
did !
"The white-flower need not speak for La-
gona. He is a brave, and does not fear the
pale-face chief. But he loves the white-flower,
and would make her his wife. Lagona is a
great chief 1 A, thousand braves conic when
he calls ! Let the white-flower speak !'' said
the Comanche.
"She must go home with her father 1" said
Stella, shrinking from the bold and demanding
look of Lagona. "Let the chief accept our
presents, and return to his tribe, where many
a maid will be proud to accept his love."
" Lagona will not go! The Great Spirit
has spoken, and the white-flower shall be his !"
cried the Indian, vehemently.
"Look ye here, Mr. Lagona-if that's your
name-you'd better sing in a lower key in this
camp !" said the major, exhibiting unequivo-
cal signs of anger. "You have done his
gentleman a favor, and he has offered to  ay
you for it, like a man. You refuse his pres-
sents, and ask what is not only unnatural, but
im possible ! And now you begin to put on
airs, and make threats! You've got to draw
rein, and stop just where you are, or we'll have
to teach you a lesson of patience !"
The young Comanche turned, and if looks
could have smitten a man down, would have
blasted McCullough where lie stood. But the
latter had faced angry Indians before ; and he
smiled bitterly, as he said
"You can't scare me by making faces. If
you don't know how to behave yourself bet-
ter, leave !"
And he pointed to the horses of the young
chief.
" Lagona will go, but lie will come again;
and lie will not coni alone! He has spoken!
The white-flower shall be his !" cried the Co-
nmanche, as he called to his horse, which bound-
ed to his side.
"He has spoken a lie I The white-ffower
will never grow on red dirt l' said the major,
scornfully.

g


C    K

8                            STELLA DELORME ; Ol,
The yotrmg Indian na'e no reply: but him! They will ask for Lagona's life: they
vaulting upon the back of the white horse, will come here for his scalp ! It is well.
rode off at ful speed, followed by the other. There is no need for more blood to run. When
" Thank Heaven he is gone !-his looks ter- they come, tell them  Lagona is ready. I~e
ritied me," aid Stella, as she leaned upon her will go and sleep now."
father's anin fir support.                   Arid the young Indian turned to the lodge,
" I wish that he had accepted my presents," as if he intended to lie down again.  But
eaid Mr. I)ciormne.                         Nemiahiaha rose, and glare'ig from his son to
"It were betir, while you are wishing, to the warriors, said
desire that you will see no more of hin-at    "Dreams come from the Great Spirit-they
least inatil we are once more back within the come unbidden, when we sleep, and cannot
lin' 'f settlements," said the major.       he]) ourselves.  If Ligona has obeyed the
" WTi, do you think he will dare to pursue  spirit of his dreams, an blood has followed,
us ?"  ~                                    who shall blame him ? If lie has fought the
" I don't think touch about it-I know he Lipans, he has done it like a brave ! If they
will. IIc dare do anything : I rea I devil in ctore for his scalp, they miustfirst ttke ours
his eye."                                  If lie lis done right, we are glad.  If he
"'Iien we ought not to tarry here."       has done wrong, it iat ter;s not: he is still a
We will not long. After the men and (omtanche chief, and no Lipan dog must seek
beast have been fed and rested, I shall take  to gnaw his bones. I have spoken !"
the lack track ; and we may deem ours'ves "  T'I iair' was rnit with aplauding yells when
lucky if we donut have hini and the thou- the old chief :at down ; and tle' fierce wirrroes
'and' rae he lasted of yelling at our heels rejoiced at the thought of battle-pastirhcs
before we reacli the borders."              close at hand.
---.--Laoiia t o rneil again, and said
CIAPTE;lR V                    " ly fitlier his spoken. Ills warriors have
Fonri divs ha lchaps='d sinr'e Laigina had chidi hli wrds. Lagoina liars them. I
Aft lie en ip of the  Jomnees, anid his fi- the Lilani come, le will strike thei. If they
tiher's  es were often anl wearily east to- I int, he will gi wliere the Ureat spirit leads
ward the (act ; and though, withthe uruil loim-for h'i dre ui is not all fol lildtl! Let
stoicisi of it savage, he sought to conceal tie iuarls lie awake : the ipapus are snakes.
his anxiet,Nemabahia could it Ottrlill ia1 Very ctutngening!
his fti      I bit as the su wsi iv'jt sinkin r ain the cry of approval elmo from the
in the wtst on tie i'vening of th furthi dia, lipo f tlt ire and dilsoly tLrinr and then
the Volnt  ci f caime rring ftr nionly iti'o tli ili '1aratdt, som e to go upon tIn icoUt to
Cilpl. h bi  f his lieres covered witi theli' lookfi thneir' expec tel foe, otelitrs 1 ipreparie
lOase arI di t if rai ltra f.'r th baLttle--fr Well they kineiw that thlie
Upn hIs aI  1 tw1 if ire the rn'and st  iitiain3tVn!nC0  tie Liiils cold only "leep in
of utthle; up'in his face, a dlo'l lof hir a or -hI 'nil it they wouitt ld soon sx fir rep
ger. W I   Iiediltup in f ont of hi; fatIi 's ar' iln for hli tii'r 'centl ls.
lAe, h thr w himif frot lis baeo'; and
ewithiout speaking a wtr] either to Nemrrahbta         (ill AP1TER1 VL.
or tih nareitors who atlhrd rharound, liei en- L  I ti de f'ore-;itie I.ap If Flowrs  in
tir r  tie leg, nil ca1   htll'imif upon tlh  all T i , no [.rti't r ide1e erbil be foondI
t artht ih li                                  is  '  : i f iii Varia   Delorine, the fath r
'l ii fe if my oni ii dark. irisobert is i f 4l'r.  ro'Ili''i tit. valle itnaner 'tI i
I:: a clil. We trill lt him r't, an I thin he he liti' t  il  nlpe. it' Ibnk  over  -a' d w ith
will tell its whalit hie has s' "t'' isd tie' old lo'y t i i' lsekh frim  tlre lay ltuxriiirit
chief to tIe nwarriors; anid tIhe i Io I itl 1ih  anlid fl wrv'  "tirhs-in I still rtneir
hRi pi oin ieat dhn bifhoI're Ith wifirl, o ni 1 r tlb ihak. r's itf  I b'lils, preenthi ga a pr-
all ie r, st dii tie ciii.                  s'ip'e a varied as it wais bea'rutful.
The am ut ii it 'n bhiion  the' ro''y el) i  ''Th' mniiron n as it sit I  iin a hiditifuh l
tnil igii t c mi iia', n i  thei'  I in  larkn s- : as Iit  ti  'tr'v  t;  hi ut   gr  tri  nd'sar  other oit-hittili-
11ooiln anid stai 0 inteout, aundI 'ave L  ht io  wccre ii r, ania itll wasii surroonlEi ty a
tier'  'ov r  N h li' Fr  a  long r me heioCi i sld r l '1r i'o:11  f  t  it' ,  r' n -dritel  briets, 'a -
clief ani ies  fIiliny-i-  sat  antidI Stioke'd, iniI  e  'si 1ii  e or# I   i t o   a Iii ttestrong gate; for thiotugl
Lagonita tiiiitt1 d i'- within tir;he l1.  ut iii the ri    p-nt if the slat', set the prhntn-
it h't it  t cr -' frith, nt  raise'  his hannii, as  ti ai   niii   frr'o lt r si Ile n ii t, run  liibil' to the
a  ietu fint ite was about t+) speaktn. oti  l eiocasiin I ini' -r ion 'iof thes savage Lpansi or
\VWarrioreF" sail he, " Lagona has been ( ltoan;'ih s.'
npeirg hai ears to a dtam, and blood has  ihr   wr cc  i'Clre herds of cattle gazing
rn bee h- ie did so I Tie handuof I agoi' nia a'out, rnairde b lrI watchedI by' iout ed ani
is red nit Ii tie blood of the Liprans. Ilis belt aIerm  hter'lstni ti, ani in the fields untiteroursr
is full of their scalps. 'Their ainomen motrnoi ganigs of slaves were at vork. Yet lovely as
for Pekito, their young chief, for Lagona killed ws thi s  no. giranl as wais the instrnion, gloomo


THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.                11

sat upon ever face wi In its walls, except
two ; fr the life of the homestead, the angel of
the domain, was missing. While on a ride
with her father and a few friends, Stella Do-
lorme had been borne away by a band of red
marauders, andl several of those who bravely
fought to save her had been killed in the at-
tempt, and the remainder, with her father (who
had fought with desperation), had been driven
back. limt he knew no rest until, giving the
alarma to the gallant Rangers, he with them
started in pursuit of the dreaded and hated
abductors.
Two there were, I said, within that dwelling
whose factes were not clouded for the loss of
Stella. tOne was the wife of Mr. Ovarian Dc-
lormie, t hugh not the mother of Stella--for he
had liukd liiiself oi' a second marriage to a
fashionable lady, artificially good-looking, and
possessed of many filmsy/supe/rticialities and
aceomphisliiunts i;but never a trace of a heart
co bhie found about her. And though when
Mr. )lorlmi  w as present, she professed a very
sincere, in truth, a very passionate attachment
for Stelli, she hated her from the bottom of
her soul--if she had one. But Mr. Delorme's
wealth was her ambition-that for which she
married him, and would at any time, have en-
Coiiimassed his death.
0 Money !-what a thrice-accursed fiend it
is-how ofteii dois it trample down every holy
gnarl of ie affections
The ether, wio'wore no shadow of gloom
1iuoi his lace, was her nephew--or at least he
was suppliosedl to be-one Paul Malerson, a wild
and disi tated young man, whom she had kept
ever under her' especial protection, and who,
tlhrougiihe iilaenee, hal been regularly in-
stalle Ias atnuiare 'of the mansion. when he
was not avamy-a s fretuently he was--en a
" sre'" in tliso otf the seaboard towns.
But wien at the plantation, his conduct was
ever iliteep tionabie b ; for Mrs. Delorme had
deteruimii that, by hook or crook, he should
nmarry Sti ; for 'the intriguing woman could
init ea' tit meI tught t(hit niy part of M '. )e-
lormt'as vao- etilae should ever go beyond her
fivx.  tw   retportettl hvherthat both of
the ptarnat  f yunmg Malersonwere dead ; anid
as ht'li a nem've sten t ihut-fttr lie had been
ri aed fromt eliildhed and educated at a boys'
bodall01  choo!-no tnt knew to the COitiasy,
even if it w'r not the case. And it did not
setiem ito be iii lprobable th at lie should succeed
in tnausing thi msairtrage ; for Stella htd seen
notmin  of the world, ass1 btut little society
vi:itei hr leather's house, and that generaly
of a cl a ss more suited to Isis age aid taste
than her wn((Vi.
v liii t ella lItlI bet abductel Paul Mal-
ersttn was a isent an one of his city visits ; and
at (ts' hiour when 1 introduced him to the
reader, liad ju-t icturedI and Ilearned of the
eat t'r,
" Wel, Aunt Ifattic," said lie, after Mrs.
Delormt bad informed him o' all that had oc-

eurred, "what is this to me? Mhs Stella is
probably scalped, or else the unwilling bride
of an hidian before this !"
Perhaps not-the Rangers may rescue her;
and if so, it would be a pity that you were not
at hand to be the hero of the affair. As it is, let
me advise you to hasten and collect a few men
and yourself set out, as if you felt some anxi-
ety in the matter. If she is rescued, this act
will show favorably on you  part: if she is
iot, why Mr. Delorme, when he returns, will he
pleased with your zeal; and if she is lost, will
be very apt to make you his heir.' -You can
lose nothing at any rate."
"But my scalp! if the red devils happen
still to be lurkiug round 1"
"There is no danger of their being in the
vicinity when the Rangers are out!1" replied
Mrs. Delorme.
"Yell, my good aunt, I suppose I must
even do your bidding. You have managed
well for me heretofore, and it is best that I fol-
low your guidance."
The conversation was now arrested by the
sound of glad shouts outside ; and both aunt
and nephew rushed to the nearest window to
see what occasioned them.
"Upon my life, they have recovered her-
see, it is Delorme himself riding with her at
the head of the Rangers. Oh! if they had
only been an hour later, and you had met them
with your band, what an effect it would have
had 1 But run down, my good Paul, and tell
them what you were going to do ; atid if they
ask for me, tell them I aun almost dead with
grief and anxiety. hurry I I must fix for them,
and be as distracted as possible !"
"Jupiter! what a manager you are, Aunt
Ilattie !" said the admiring nephew, as lie left
the apartment.
I a few moments after, Mr. Delorme enter-
ed the room, accompanied by his daughter,
and was met by Mrs. D. with a burst of hys-
terieal joy that/was very affecting. Iler hair
was all en ndglig , her eyes as red as if she had
heen weeping oceans of tears, instead of merely
rubbing them, and her air that of one who had
suffered intense mental agony.
"Ohs! thank gracious heaven ! you are re-
turned in safety !" she screamed, as she threw
her arms around Stella. " I have nearly died
with terror, and Paul was going to rescue you
or die !"
And then Mrs. Delorme made a successful
attempt to faint fashionably, which gave; Mr.
Delorme and his daughter more trouble than
a reception less hypocritical would have clone
W hat shall We do ?-she has fainted away !"
cried Mr. Delorme, as he lifted her from the
floor, and bore her to a ofta.
"Tickle her under the nose with a feather,"
said a rough-looking man, with dirty apparel,
grizzly beard, and matted hair, and a look any-
thing but prepossessing, who, accompanied by
Paul Malerson, had followed Mr. Delorme into
the room, though till then unobserved by him.


THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.               13

The sound of that mania s vo ce siemmied to
have a noghe efyect up 111)00Mri. D1l) r   foru
withi a u 4Iicraim of terrorJot he openled her
iss.  e- IIt him an jtutancwith a ize tof
',-ar andl Ioroir, mid tlien liniited in dead ear-
titst.
aWhI in- r  ymoum, im', ftim-t  h-mm-s to  inmit mu 
thiu' mliIiihi i't a  Ieakl Mir. Lecorie, an-
~ri1_v."
(1 1 1  iiinu   :i acy. if yoo  plea=.m
#1hat '  ,t h' r eta  truzh  tv o  ep takto  a  el--
Iin, r    '  I 4 h1 -  'rum1in' r, it h l a  sume  i
Wi 1  m a'  , itor?" cril lMr. lrhmi'ie,
timm'°'i1ts'.
W'hy, im h'iov her', Paul ailmr-{n, ha' a
ri h t tmi   wi  me'': r, and1  thmtmu' w int -.
I1i' it mmy hum''lit birioth' -I Jhn,
John. hum vu rien frim the ra -   '''i l
lrs. I  1"mrni# mmm, i mm'rrumptil  him  quickly, i hite
tier fiC I'  'in p lm ihi- a1  bnk ttikofimitmit mni
.  em   e-i ' 'm i r, 'm-r old  tle1hmamii; so 'y'oui
O)I immu '.  1,'I - 4'  Iii  Vs l '  1I 40mumnm mits 'm
n -  i 'e   mi ia1mit tho01me iii  my  '-  Ci's
honue, , b.  ii  "
AnId l' hI ir '1milrt msu;a-if townvery
h      :  if t  ac ' frimi'0 iii a  pli1 g  wcit h aw  hoit1
'm I 4(in'-  I'm   n halif', ie  r1'c'ete d  to
nuit' hi if emu itrmale.
'th l' e ofi lr.i  lrmt'' heId, d s(with aner,
al'hio ti hm wxias ione oh' tile um  hopitahite
tand!i  '     I o-1 if  mmn ;i  l t  tht '1 1) m1 i r  of  the
st'tttai' w  inuitiic   htaxl  rudh  and as1ml it uuin-.
..1.'' '  ittmy  poort rthr 111, Mr. 1)1 n -
mu  d  a  im',I'  i' 1 nt  used  to  refiteent.
L  e '- i  aI'lo  tit hle w0hi'.  I wih wi   l ar h1t
iv'4i1 whati O mimI- ti' alit   n-eli1 '.'°- isre .ved, whe m
w'  u1i  '  hi 1m t  inl !
It t  u-4 m 'in', mI  hmini. that 'ui d huh0 not be.'-
fIurei'i i)1  i  me  thnatl  xone bro' their  wasi  oil'
F  p#n  1 l-  i  I 1  it 'd."  sail Mr. D'tIelmem--, coli-
hv. a he It 4 1mi i-du'rtter fron the roimn.
-' 'n  Ii  i1  1 -'' I lull' ii   Ihi- li
1ia I a,   Iw to +   Ial h with  l  thi l h'C i ti
reon.   1 l R hn l mty      and    '  .l  t r'i e i
lium  a:u r nhI - r h1m.tuiand  ham d  h nlinttthe irilum.
"   hI'1-:'  hi  n'  I -0mni lknow i s ml-th i onmnm
Ilr is imin  y.itv i  Ite  i my  stin, tand  olu tit
to knmw e in I r's  er.te .
A  1'1)Pkt1  .  1 .1-1r  o e tu1  n"i 1cuttyv fit'-
Oil  ii   II  '  -'rm ,)'in  mini t'_'i ' II V.i  n  u-I  i'
on  b  r  ,  lit i '-  r tin  oif mm o y-,x,',
.. tt  I 2     a  '. 1,'n 1" 'h 011,  2m  at et  ' !
S'. '' I   tir  ii ilr   i:  i our hml ."y
\'i'  1hil  th, ml''  it,  Itt''  mlii' in',  f  ityou
t' 55  m' 't '   i n  -  in  mun, a m  e "'i  I1   h a'l0-
tI  in t i I'   '  mitt   a' mi1 ther' w'rthi,' '  hml
to  14   'P=1,-  )i  th. (' in'mmer  odf  unw-  mammin i
wmmoi i'   it otna mt I h1 he mmW -Isw fur
ther'  11 :. .
3( 1m1' '  11hi - n-m thine   Pah!  A eiik  meu
nim    '    ml wi, I it le1\ e ts amllne. "  Itre
t'h1  . : 1 i 1- ti  i mmii $iiV.
Ii'.r   -  :11;fet1 ri u-t l   l imiec'm ~i  '
T  mt 'n manobumituniligl.

"So, my girl, you thought by a change of
name and this rich marriage to elile mie, and
limaike oui' own fortune, eh ?' sneered  aler-
son, when they ) I''alone. '
iForI Heavens sake I speak low ; we kn t
nit who may tie listening ' said s. ini artullh.
SI Care it-I f'ir no nan . I have ri . t,
ull null 0'nftori'0i  tt n-,'' said  lni  main, 1'ritall.'
0 John i hamve Cercy on e!oinnc  honot rui
" [ il iwitiout "Oiucomei i ( dwni'ui hantdsomuiely.''
-I woili t anx rte, i you thadn etb a d ni un
lix ' 1e', or lilt hhiimi to thie itecy of lhe1
world.   unt I'm 1Ioor--I inmust hasve nmon -V
If I "ive yoil all I have, will vou len e rile'
anl trubilhe m e no ure.oi
"Yc; tihunt is, Itt limt tioitli you while
tlii  emit his' 5.  11:1 i nirc t in'  ilium  i, amid  I'm
()1 lhar dry corn fi'rom a hot ilhov'l.
i i. I)oi'tme iniit to an mner ooini, an
hin n   it u'd  with a pui'.=c oh gold aml a roil
if hank-not-,s.
'I miius al I iss e-now, oi' lt iv ii cake
go, ' ¢ he  sa.  .    .
slow iimhi is there lire ' he askd.
Sit min't know-b twae-n tI'hr' and four
Im'an mid d~olltu-al mtat tIit hasn
h"  I em  it c'i lat lie ea while, if I donit
have  a   limit. If I do, Illt sein Ifor ini;i
adt a yii tdin t Siit it, It emcun  ta' it. ANark
that, mm1y  ii 1(11 'lady.  I'll  imiakuhe  Paul  mx-' li ii's-
:nmer'-I know ilhis liaiuts--atve bleen wat clh-
ing hium fo 'oul  inn.  ly fly n ekii  Imimi, I
iia n l x  uiint. but it'm  l;-oIl -s ha mve  - kms.
Ii Mi hi1reI I go; ju;min t ill  ory uiiof o' li
tiunem, ' k,'+t no'w.''
Tlie la:dy i tihdierl, blut did not resl etthe
enresss wli be c-armsiely iin-in'iim  ui15 tier
til.l   h tie ntext nmun hi   alsis gon'.
In a heuw umontils alfterI, liiir hunimiud mitered
i i uihave di-mim d---i( your baothi iI'very
sulyIIIi,. imiadmn.' msaid lie.
S  , Y , id-e a"nriamin," sad she, lanugutlv and
looking irealv sick  t iiheart . ''e wI uwiso riude
iii roighi. I sinaw1 tiat he hmid a ri d ' i )yoU,
mumh iieicn I reumiitirted Withilii hube got an -
1t5   itIii    ile, mindi
"cYes    Iast lim tdkmiug whil Paul outside
"1( wa ais d     aeDi' St1m? To h t-' hircame in
nmylt' mmm tell meii (if it'- ftiulil idsvtuire mii.
'its- m i 'r s  r mum"- i''a ii 1lh' shock e d m'm, hut  I  ('tnn
heatr it'' il Mrus. )ctlormime, wishitmu to change
li'  utm ii''t.
" I nii ill c:I hmr '''imid Mr. )elorume.
W"huli Joni Miai1 i'lersoi sent fim the pres-
eno'' uit rin"-. I-Mornme, he saw Paul stamhin g
it  thl ' lbiaid piatez ill roid of the lunme.
A ppircolchmiiig the young mnan, ie sic1, ini a luw i
tine :
I 'mml, I want to Imilk to yon. ('tmue omt
lur'-lis ynI ti-rIhot of folks, animi  heal' what
'i        i i ' 1 ur\rl '  i' t to  k neow.
'Tic' sut-r 'metnmm uIkilx' oh 'xi I. for hum W59
It b  no in'. -nu t lilased withthe looks of his tew'-

STELLA DELORME; OR,

found father, who was anyth.ug but "winning
in his ways."
"Don't von want some money, boy ?" asked
the man, shaking the gold in his pocket.
" No," said Paul, abruptly.   "My aunt
never lets me want for any."        ~*
Li ! is that so? Then that's another
mark in her favor. But if she tries to shut
down on you, all you've trot to say is, ' Iland
over, or you'll get John Malerson's secret.'
That'lt draw her purse-strings-you can bet
your life it will. But I've something else 'to
ask yon.  When are youe coning down to Gal-
vestin gain ?" ?"
'4x11 y do you ask?"
" Ont- because I want to see you when you
on-e. I suppose vou'll sooi be there to see
your Nw Ilriteans''hone, Ada McAtpin, eli ?"
Goo I I leavens I Doyvou know her?"
Yes, by sight. But don't get yourself cx-
uited, my lad."
A re von going to stay about here I"
" No-1l don't like the laxv of the land nor
the nobbiiness of the cove that owns it. I'm
oi' fur (talveston. When you coie there, go
to the  Arcade' and ask for ' Jack Malerson ;'
you'll hear from  me or'see inc."
er y nell, sir."
a Dy-bhe, Paul ; I'll give your love to Ada,
-f Ise her. She's a niie piece of humanity.
But don't color up, my boy i; ITnot blab ny
of your secrets.  )nly remcniber iwhat I told
voui, and make Ilattieshell out free."
'I  eic arse man inow walked to a horse which
was fist eined to a tree near by, and mounting
it, rode away.      -'
CHAPTER VIII.
It was a terrible scene--a fearful battle-
and atl the more horrible because it was
waged, not by the red men against their natu-
ral enemies,'the pale faces, but by bruthei'
againet brother---the Lipan against the Co-
inanehle,
There, in ilie wild niountain-gorge of the
Charrate, where Bust we saw them in their
euani, the hland of (Neiehaha and Lagona had
btii attacked by Ihi veng ful Liipns, who
songhlt preparation for the rough usage which
they hed received at t-he hands of Lagmiona-and
his teilporiiary allies, the Rnigers. And from
early hanii, until the nists o evenin  were
gatlieriiig, they had fought with desperation
---siiuces carvingg from side to side-and hald
tlei' wea pos been s gladly as their hate, one
or oter of fll         i two parties, or both, would
hav   been (Xtermiinated ; even as it was, a
Ifitfl intilglier occurred. Nemielhliha was
utr mcei  dwi, never to rise -many of his
hravest f lowers fell by his side. But the
ip ans ustiered even more than the Coian-
cein s  Lwouua iicver bef rc had so daringly
ditst~iui shied himself. Ie seemed to court
1ea i all the tiimie ; but the grin monarch
only threw victims in his way.  is belt was

strung all around with scalps ;his quiver,
filled again and again with the arrows of the
slain, was as often emptied ; his lance and
war-club were red from point to butt; NM
arm was weary with striking.
And when old Lazaro, the brave chief of the
Lipins, cried out at the hour of sunset for a
truce, both parties were glad to rest.
I Why should we war about a woman ?" the
old man cried. " We are fools, and have for-
gotten wisdom! I have lost moy son by the.
hands of Lagona: he-has gone to the happy
hunting-grounds, and I cannot call him baic.
But I will not mourn for-him. Let us eight
no more. I have a daughter who is a star in
the sky of beauty. Let Lagona take Agar,
my child, and be'a s :n to moe in the place of
Pekito. I am a withered tree; I shall soon
fall down, and be seen 1o more ; and he shall
be chief over all-for we are brothers. We
should know no enemies but the pale-faces,
who have robbed us of our lands, and have
trodden the bones of our fabbers into dust!I"
The old chief paused, and east dowta his
shield and war-club-a sign that lie would
fight no more. And an indian would scorn
to strike an unarmed foe ; such treachery is
left for the pale-faces!
Lagona threw down his weapons. and said:
"We are brothers, and will light no more.
We have been fools, and Lagona has been the
biggest fool of all. His eves are open, and he
looks through tears ; for lie sees his dead
father and many braves who will light no
niore - both the Comanche amid the Lipan.
Blood has run like water ; but it has been our
own.   The pale-faces were the first cause.
Blood calls for blood! It must flow from
their veins. Laigcna cannot yet look Agar
the beautiful in the face, for his hand is red
with the blood of Pekito. But Lagona will
lend the warriors into the land of the pale-
fices, aid they will take many scalps, and
much plunder, aid many captives. Lagona
will never raise his hand against a brother
more, but lie will fight the pale-faces. Whc
will follow where he dares to lead ?'
A uiinivemsal shout of applause followed this
speech of the young chief; and alt of the
braves declared their readiness to go wherever
he led.
Then the old chief Lazaro anid Lagona clasp-
ed hands ; and they, who had lately fought
with such fierce desperation, - moved to a
bloodless amping-place, andu ate ani smoked
together with as much friendship amid good-
feeling as if they never had fought each other.
And that iiighit-delaying to bury their
dead until another day, and altogether omit.
ting the scalp--dance which usually follows a
battle---they laid their plais for an offensive
foray into the frontier settlements of Texas.
Lagona was to lead the expedition, and to
take a chosen band of picked lwarriors, of both
tribes, numbering five hundred or more.


it

r

STELLA DELORME ; OR,
arranged the rest within th e mansion, which
CHAPTER iX.                    was strong, determined there to take his stand
Since the hold and daring venture of the if the Indians should ever get inside of the
Inditi, which had so nearly deprived him of walls.
ht d ini center, Mr. Ovarian Dilorme had kept a  Mr. Ma1ioney, with a large body of the
vc .y  e t, g nard about his house, employed  slaves, was engaged in "drillig ' tiemi fir serv
couts tocon t( tiutly 1cour the plamis, I the  ice in tie min hall, much ti the iusient
d wietoni iof tih tomaiiicle niid Lipan country, of Stella, who, in spite of her recent adventures
aind aLo kepst up a constant cominumeation  seeei d now free from  alarn. Sli, too, was
with McCulouhi, who, with his Rtangers, was armed ; and, bemig by the side of her either,
potted neari at liad.                   ,and apparently so fearless, did much to en-
At iilht, his cattle were all corralled, Is courage the servants t resist-ice. Mr's. De-
seitinei pote d, his watch-dods loosed, and  lorumie had been ill ever wiace the appearance
arn iliac t0 by the side of evtry ian-even  tf hr brother, and was conttindit to her rooi.
the sleeper-so as to be ready at all times to  Paul haid volunteered to eoiniadi( iii the
euet an attack ;for tie well knew that the rd  defteice of the gate, and oberve the move-
v'rs if tihe plains would si k re vei ne' fir limits of the liiiana.
the loss of their   arriors, and having been  Nght caine on ; and soon various rightt
once on hi panitattin, would come again ;  air's, in different directions, slhowei that the
for the no mitiry of an lilian never fails wileIi Idiaits were usiig everything utsltjehl they
life last,, be it for good or evil.         ctuld fude coiiustill t  mkii e li lit towr
It w  somc I lit or ten dyis after his r'e-- by. Stoon a ratt ing itre from the ir. tio ellof
turn, that Mr. Iglorme wsit  iiforiied b1' a  lie gate told that silo' of them ha  i  comc
hat-hr e I ti  wit altii lii I ad tent o iiut, tat  witIihitiannte of tanul's position i;iti ad  lr. Dce
aii iiniise bdi y of Ini'ins was approach- limtie went out to ho, at the state of m iiatters
leg,                                        in that quarter.
HeI inraintly i enit an ex pies to the coim-  Stella, timhough lie itegAted her to stli, would
ii aider ith - llaiirers f hiiel, hai his cattle  noIitt leave liis siiI; an, wi huniiiii, iendeit d 'tl
driven imt  the corral, ani prepiired to miet imto the small tower, where Paiul, the four
the iniendin at tick--thankulid ithat this time  T''a'n, art a dnzen or orbiii ai I ick, w a, re en-
he It i redis el uitteit'it warning to eitalt  'at it i endinlug li n pr -enat arming i
i ii tii  '  ir- fr def-iee'.                inrge inirid of the red  nd riii who had nile a
Yt lit' I lit a small force to 'protiet so  letl iriiued effort to reael t he iati'.
laire a it .ni so mutichi eiround. lie haid,  "tSme onei iur st lead Lt niI ho knows that
it  is  tr l' niIt  r  a iIinlldred  slav   s ; hurt thiei r  iit s t i iti our weakest  pitiiit, sir,'"i~ sud iPau Ito
wetaott, or it least their mrtist etileient one, .\lr. l)eloirmue. " They make no t iIrt any-
was tlie bute. Irish fashiion, a negro generally  witere else."
hutot it h    w     hllie shlit, and puts   " Yet, ty lad, t s! They have proltably
Ins gun v  rw'there in general, nt now here tsut itt the half-tirteds within them thatI I stat
in lartiz'lar.                            tvay. Bitt it is all the litter for us ilflotey
lie Ihia sortm' fifteen or twenty Mexi'aian  ctiiie' tIteir nt tack to n iit it ; set' have
h'rlsn.'t  wit eire great on tire Ira" tint. not got to divide our forest s. Mayjjr McCul'
itihe m ii bt:ia king  oIn ms, uncertin  in thie  it/.  ltiiht nil  hi' tnt h anl  lftr  t  Iislit,  il hilt
Paul, wi i hi stomtte ciiirag, wast wit hi I titil ieiivmrs Wdill iiowthem ciii dow ni fastr it hnit i
-also i  ,'laitney, an trisi ovetvt'rer, n lis ois cii a etmiut ennile. Iltllo ! what's( iat /-
ha  u'it'iit'iVtt in se5 -   er o  S it in undert ht'  ar'-  iia armtfromtli ithe h use,natstiure s'  oI  live !--
liet liti b  , and rilwhitih cltimd to 1   as " illi-ant liinmig there, ty all that's imeiful ! 'lii dtv~
a Sliter  , ei-vt i hlldd a  lre.  i'ur of it taine nit over the i all somewhere''. I iust
Mit'il   Atgh lii i l hitlieun alo quartred 'gt btat.''
with litiunti t lis t pti 1lail desime.     "'Vi F toriavien's sale, stayiiW i  yoisti\"tu are,
All ttit' i ' wt'ere p.tlyt m  d, I  iearmed  ir!' sitl'rtil, er"ti-pmg the armti oiflit ix-
and I    ali It'd wdwit  extra  mitut tttitin ;  alti I c(itd  aint tr.  " 'T  nii ti ill intercept nl i1( imur-
when' the IC'm:Uwill' dmynvi, t te ealihnti of idiryou onuthe t'wasr. You an~d  essS tella
Mlr. I'rt wit'' teas e a  etll preprret as hi'ctubl  are safer lr i ; amit I will d, fenid yiu while
mrrake it fi' lit antcitiait Ia stack:,amt iint a  tee is a thrill of Iilood in iy b odi'. See I
rtoni lt ti itnttt; fir even i the gi'yriv it the Ihre ge tfire it tIhe stgir house ;' and the
coming   rk i l i' it'he  dum y'  rm11   ft  ti  ,nI-  it 'r-uatlit ris are  iliglt  altrd'   !'
cireb '  ft'e  t l tb  e'nii, ant i t'  rtibh  '' T y'I  w'ssill m eitlIii' I'  grainied  the Iplnter.
I h  tlad, rs thi  ri hi'twit hI rir el  i t 'ed  Ml  niteti  y  is tit iig  thtm it Ittts,''  :tl  l'amul-
tti and frei C  15 ' ti o hmititi oIn, run1 onitid the  ''It ar his muriskits ive totgeii'. liIe ;will de-
walls i hitit i mreled rtih bmhitintgs.  f in lithe mtans'ion."
Statiilt;til' htil uniritgem's andi sotli'm if is    Pea to-if flt y din't set it on fire,
hindls i ti' t:t'wr ntirehover kdli Che cal ItliLilt', too t' said M'. eItt'iirlr', di jeslm y-
whict    ei  oyi  ertat'nit' titr rtrca to tilii iretosturt'  ' 'ttt1 Ia luint moilit'tri tI intl'nlimi they
-for the wail wits cry ligh,-r. Deloite I aIrA .i:id for: rtii've let the cittic louse!'

THE COMANCH
said Paul. "They are wild, and will raise
mischief amongst them."
The scene iowv, though terrible, was inde-
scribably grand. The out-buildings, sugar-
houses, and store-house were all in flames, and
threw a light as clear as day upon all within
the great inelosure. Ialf-naked savages run-
ning here and there; horses and cattle, mad-
dened with fear, rushing and plunging about,
bellowing and neighing ; the Indians yelling
and screaming, and the rattling fire from Ma-
whoney's irregulars in the house--all combined
to effect a terrific Picture.
And those who were in the little tower
gazed upon it until they were aroused from
their negligetnce of matters outside, and per-
taining to) their own position, by a shower of
arrows, wiich laid one or two of Mr. Delorme's
negroes cold, and narrowly escaped doing the
sane uncalled-for favor to himself and Paul.
"There g(}es sixteen hundred dollars. The
cursed ras'als won't leave me a nigger on the
place !" muttered Mr. Delorme, as hue looked
at the two wio Were downm.
"Look out, Miss Stella! Crouch low, or
ar arrow tay spoil your beauty," said Paul,
coolly, as he'pushedher baek ; and then, tak-
ing deliberate aim, knocked over the nearest
indian to him.
"Paul, you are very thoughtful, and a hero
to boot. 'T'here's more in you than I thought
there was," said Mr. Delorme. And now,
aroused to ration, ie sent a couple of doses of
suek-shot frotu his gun in amongst the crowd
of Indians, Wiho were rushing up to cut down
the gate.  severall reeled and fell, for they
were within ctose range; arind as Paul and his
men soot in an adiitionral volley, the Indians
recoiled and fled beyond the reach of the guns.
" Indian for niger, red for black, you dev-
ils !" shouted Mr. )elorme, whose blood was
now fairly up, fr the flames were licking up
thousands of sli lars' worth of his property.
The Indians inside, who saw too late that
they had oily injured themselves by loosing
the cattle from the pens, for the infuriated
beasts ran wtlly to and fro aBout the tdace,
and kept the foefrom approaching the house
in a body, now bigan to shoot them down',and
Mr. Delormne had to groan for his herds as well
as his negroes.
But suddenly the shrill note of a bugle was
heard    tl   hea coming in close order, and at
full speed, abalndof mounted men approached.
Taking the Itlianus who had been repulsed
from the ga'e in dnik, they charged with loud
yells, delivering a rapid fire with their " six-'
shooters," w' iI semit the red fiends flying over
the plain. ''hen, wheeling, they headed for
the gate, which Mr. Delorie now caused to
be thrown open.
t The Intlins within, hearing the firing with-
out, and tihe well-known war-cry of the Rang-
ers, did not wait for their murderous charge,
but hastily retreated over the wall in the di-

I x

IE'S DREAM.                             15
reetion by which they came, assisted by the
drooping limbs of trees which had been left
standing there, and which they had used as
ladders.
When the gate was opened, the cattle and
horses, now in full stampede, rushed od, and
had not the column of advancing Rangers
swerved to one side, they must have been tram-
pled down by the maddened beasts.
As these swept on, scattering far away over
the plain, and rushing off' where the Indians
could easily gather them up and drive them
away, the Rangers rode into the inelosuro now,
full of dust and smoke.
"The red devils have been giving you a
regular warming! Inever knew themso bold,
Mr. Delornme," said the leader of the Rangers,
at he saw Mr. Deborme leaning on his gun at
the foot of the tower by the gate.
"You may well say so, Major Ben," replied
the planter. "I doubt whether there would
have been anything left me, even life, if you
had not come as you did. But I did not ex-
pect you so soon-how came you to be here so
early ?"
"I was out on a scout, and met your mues-
senger-but excuse me ; hadn't we better go
up to the mansion, and see what damage has
been done there? All is still in that direction
at present."
"Yes, I saw the red devils getting away over
the wall before you reached the gate."
"The Rangers, accompanied by Mr. Delorme
and Stella, now moved toward the mansion,
but Paul remained to guard against a return
of the Indians, if they should venture to rally
and renew the attack.
"'Who comes there?   Stand where ye are,
all of ye, till one of ye advances wid the
countersign," shouted General Mahoney.
"You open the door. Can't you see we're
friends," shouted Mr. Delorme, in reply.
"When a soldier is in a state o' siege, ho
must never thrust to his eyes-we never did in
the Carlist warr," replied the redoubtable Ma-
honey. "Stand, I tell ye, or inc army shall
opei fire!"
"Let them try it, and I'll hang you on the
tallest tree in sight," cried McCullough.
Oeh, Major dear I is it you?  Sure to yer-
self I'll surrender the kays of, the citadel,"
snid Mahoney, well knowing that it would not
be safe for him to trifle with the chief of the
Rangers.
The doors of the mansion were now thrown
open ; and the major, after giving some direc-
tions to his men, preparatory to a chase of the
invaders when -it was light enough, entered
with the planter and his daughter.
"Well, what damage have you suffered
here?" asked Mr. Delorme of his overseer.
" One nager hit on the head with in arrow,
sir; but the skull was too thick for penetra-
tion. Some of the rest scared from  lack t
mulatto, at' that's all."


V  iI'-y' o  Fs.' ia W'U try ari erd. i ) m1UChIIn adVaUC( Of twe, Cty Ii' tG  Her.
1'    t.. e  nt 1' °to 111  1 ''00 Cate w1li  the  phoxlioiso  fair  that ai  oI   h  t "  aid tnr
iy11 ' (1'111 IiIi  't  ie  out could  bea seon allitol ti. ni  t' Ipi ' .f  t  chr
i'        t 1 0 "''i rt,    ){it   i  tJit i l:rl i  ur'-  ~lc ek  aidhf  v I '  ' S li4."t 0 l l "t .ritg  bitto
1   It'' i ip  1't  o1Va  hi  i  a: .J d in lie r  li  a  full  anod  eou tt   -Ii'Pnn r  ,
tlt'Mi  loti   -1111buL              ft  i(~uii an r I 'tot j tI11011.. li'r
l),tt t   " ,!           f  t ' j i-  jol;t)   31311 8 Oft  lit {  d i' 1' V I tl)1C,  arid
,i ti} ii {)f  ox 't)yit iitt  Llia tin the  leti' aas  '(P01111,  tinktarid  i'i  x-h r'co
r .l i nl i t r  lit'' 't 1  i I (, art  liii-t riol-  luioxig  ihiri, bo  Well  d'sCi'iled  iiithe DatdaUlo
ii  '  tli  " ii'atr  io  Q(   t ti''i v, I   1010a-.iByrone di.
11't t+  i  I''~fs itml  nn UOt  tt aU t   TIci'at lit; "lv  fititir tI
oat                                 ti:  t  ot say tasi/naiI. lot'its 1riei1't'y 11'a dortl)In-
XI Dt  '  )  .( :t..t r 1 o1 t i   1' f r sli-  Iantei   'l'i'rtl}lt'r too  P''wi11fa:irit''an 1  Ari-ri
'  a   i  i  ' t  y  d         cart,,  t It 1attor  ,  titoit  1'ilril rt  cin
X  i  at ,  t! f at'' .' l doalat  the  litti{ di-  Ins'  tp it tlie  cnt r1'-ta, aid a  ii  tn  1
1 1  .m  o°tr.iageaitiea achaiirt' Wit!hinrit''ilt of    1ino lily.  She
'11 l iI') N.          i'1 tr ie ti' i, 1 ri   ihi' la 1k 4  h 'ii   1 ct~-t'tiir lie_
..       t  f 1 ?1 1 t1 r   "l "lr ,af orx .i t '  i t  i t   1 lot.t   t a   i   t t r
'l t s' : ', h  1 t o itv  '  !l ie  'l, l'   '[II' hai
it'  a ' i i tt t 'rfa'  '  l  i i  i  alia  ' ti rIL. t e  an i80e'l't
tl' t 'I  i1t ~    i  ii I.  j ''1 it xe  nt Mi' P:li Mi{ ,,  10"li
i     i    i   ii'Ii i;C ii  . t  t   uu t ' t ae,  tliiivainet1i te'.if til'ott'i y  ate
t i   .  a  t t ! t t  i+ + '   i Itc      it it
i  'i  1 i a a ;  'ii cheer,;  or o n' Stai t  . l iii  l it 1y111   i{ i  t'
tiritti'  II  P           lit ;1\"n" 'utlitta'  ai tl    1 t  tjr~ i
a   '.    '   t   _1  '  a. I      ta m',u the 1ro t'  itt to ih r  tit'tk  i l  }ir'  atl
sc     .t3 t  ll 1  if t'q l 'ae t e lii' tIntt  i't Wv i i ftS  11 ti ,3o   11111   t'  '1."
t' lt ;-  'tit.  ':,t it  x :i t1 'et i t   ii    1iiii    P t;  e s n 'It f   t ii t~  to i t c~
'i   t i . ' ' t I I i  i 11 \ )t   it i t ll It tx; i ttt1n tlt1',  itil
Wh  i,,it+ah":_"ti  u  ' a  tI  i ''   fittt  t a!  ia  it  la'i tl t' t'  L   i,  i rl' a
t;i '  ix kt  '   '  " a  '.i t : 1.,+i  l tI.  x" ti3t nit  rit I:L
a i   t . xs         e Ii r  t  ir  ti1 1 1 1 1   aS  a t  i t ti ' 1a  tIr u x   t  t o   ' 'itw e t oe
itittail) ii t ' at''(ittit               itt    I !;l  '"1 311 Oetti i.
ti l i 1 1 1   li i' i  ' I i' 11 1  i i    ' t+i ti \S it  v;toa t   i t w iel v i l~ rt t ti   r +'_"+ 'l  1  forI nc?
t,  a  l'I i.  : u; a  1   :it  .1 n lii  0  ao   pat 1 u lt  Thi1 is l  Mat i l, Aga  iii l;itu iiiitt. e
n1.  ,  i 'O ,, t i t  ii l 'l,;_ iiui i  or va t it r  t: it ",x e   13.'i  ot at, It a  101s ~   il A i
;i'Va b,1  tt        '  t    i l " n ha'iis ici' tini t ,I ir  l '  It''I1t;t ll ii
}+                           rng1t1 iit  ri  Co e  it  h   ye  ith  such  "


THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.

a beseecliing look, that his bold gaze softened
beneath it Ike ice melting in the sunlight.
"Iwill, A la, for I like von now, though I
uiever hieard much good of' you."
Tin I you," said she. "Will you have
somiie wine "' And she rang a bell for a serv-
at.
I like brandy better-wine will do for
gentwr flks lt ha i  ; but Iro been brought up
in a (ruh way at sea, and am a rough cus-
"'The finest diamonds are found in the
roughest coats," she said, And again the sun-
liglit of her smiles fell upon the rude shell of
his hiarshi nature.
I (I dnit wonder thant Paul fell ia love wth
you," he said. " hu've got a terrible cap-
turn' way of your own."
The eruIt nw-mie in, and the lady or-
dered   '  Iuc  reirshm ients as the jundgedl woul
best sit Mr. )ck Malkr:on, or Capta Jack,
as he liked to be termed.
Andenn' g these lie made himself freely and
prf etly at h(Lan, nly pausing now and then
i) .st         t pr  I n thio, 01' uponC e  his beauti-
L Ih : i. Leaving him thus engaged, we
u ill op n aothleir chapter.
CIIAPT'Elt XI.
On ) hi d1ay suceedliig the attack upon01 La
Iois idIe 1in'res, Maj. Ien and his hangers
(1o11Ilie trail of thIe repeating mel mien;
hut theyi tl go t bey'oid his rec, carrying
away liii' i aI and wounded, and also a huge
1ubiei'r of Mi. I )elormue's best horss. The
da n eih they hind i nflieted upon the
pi! mtr was veiny great, but such1, however, as
lhe enla ly 'epali iVith the iniense means
at is enntuiami 1.
Alti   h Mii  'irs. Delorme begged him to re-
morIIe firom a 1itin so dangerous. he stub-
h   rly rms 1, tr in all Texas could not be
founI rihet lan I or a more lovely situation.
A    aI n15 0 si I tel'  wou11ld  ineivitnablyx' gather.
aroud lim iin tbe conrie of time, thme value' of
lil  ' pr'  y  I  o ereas e ithm years. And
Mi'.   orme w    a !t'rn eal resolte man,
3  in hlie nd his love-powerful i
adl is prejulices.
lilt !i n,111) e hal exhibited a dishk',
a':thi ithan )a t ialit ', f anI Malerson ; fir
i'i truth Ii tre was imoi'e oi diike than to hk
a the eh-e'ic r of the youth-for he was
wilI rI'  e. ill iovera,- aol none too) lion-
or(ble i is ay. lhut he'had for his wife's
silkl-to whom lie  tielemed muchob attacied-!
S    rai wuth bin, and allowed lir toisuply
lii 'rabil anie.   )
lbut 1!10 ti batIs in whi Paul exhihit ed
to1m   1ihbravey'v adt coolness. the manner of
Mr.   oIrme eh-m1g1 d toard  P l, andl lie
tr' ite  lni a  kiudly as if he wele his own
sin. I I alE SteIa on no liecot to) role
out. without nt escort, and suggested that

Paul wguld be the best she could choose.
And he also consulted Paul in his new plans
for rebuilding, where the destruction had oo
curred-made him several valuable presents
and in many ways exhibited marks of esteem
and confidence.
And this seemed the more-remarkahl ?
cause he never asked after, or alluded to
Paul's father, or the single visit which he had
made to the plantation.
Mrs. Delorne was overjoyed at this treat-
ment of Paul, for now the road seemed smooth
by which she meant to accomplish her long-
cherished design of his union with Stella, the
heiress of Delornme. And she took an early
opportunity, when they were alone, to urge
him to do his part toward bringing about this
desirable cousunnation.
"Stels does not seem indifferent toward
you !" she said. "Urge your suit and ehe will
love you!"
" But, my good aunt, I do not love her !"
he replied.
"  don't ask you to love her--think of the
property ! You may yet be the richest plant-
er in T, xas, instead of-" she hesitated.
A dependent upon your bounty !" said he,
bitterly. " You might as well speak a thought
as to harbor it !"
"Oh, Paul, you are cruel! Were you my
own son, I could not love you more, or do
more for you, than I have done !"
"A favor loses half its value when the
giver ever holds it up, like a debtor's over-due
note, before the receiver !"
"Ahi, Paul, I do not deserve this ! I only
seek your interest. It were better that you
were married and settled down."
"Maybe so-may be not. But I have a
question to ash, my worthy aunt. My fa
other -"
Oh, for heau en's sake do not speak of
him l" cried Mrs. Delorme, turning pale.
" Put I will. lie tas sonic secret of yours.
What is it?"
"Paul-you must ns rer know it ! When
vou do, I will cease to live," said she, half
choking with agitation.           .
It is strange' I" muttered Paul. "It must
he something that much concerns me, or else
you'd not f.ar to tell me."
"Never speak of it to me again, Paul, if
you love or even respect me!" she said.
I shell not, without you stint nie iii pocket-
monre'," lie said, coolly.
My Gl, are you as base as your father?'
she groaned.
"A little selfish--but not base, my good
aunt. I want to take a trip down to Galves-
ton, and need money to keep up appearances
I have a little divinity there, wrapped in mnus-
lii, who thinks the world and all of me."
" li, Paul, Paul, how you torment me !"
'Yes-like my naweake of Tarss- Pra
given that way."


STELLA DELQ~tME ; On,

a  tal hI avi   thI'at, 1k a haimn, yoiu' I r- Ji3 holdl hiaaandle  to Conem haer', i bi  he  ma)31
pent i a  i l i yo'r a in aa''   likely  wxas the lea r of th' han alwho gav  us
I a' ii', e ''''   aa'n:, ina tiamo--afi' r I've  sbCh  trouble  the  other  nght!' -aia  m'. ie-
P    '     a aa' ."                lm whi'l'. 1)1  a sihado3111 w  carn'.  aaaawart i  lice.
th~   hava  w i"'h  ' a, ith you  minnaya'  '' V u  isrly 'al niot hi'am'ia  llima Iai'iiI' ?"
rb'.1'a  a 1  la':   1  i axow 'al h -vi  '  y n  saill  I ll,  aai usiam)laI iy.  e ' biil''r tiat but
':.11  i ai.  a. in  ' r C a I ' ,al  I nfor Lii   I  li adie  1 a  t''I'ibie  deat "i: '
Sl                                     a i a c umes alaont, lie shalt  mt h  hiar al
h  a   naCa',a'  b: m a':a  aa, al  I t h ni ldI there waee  aar'  '   i ,' ' id I
'  '!  t  it,  " a ,f n ' t a ita"'  .lanai1  ',  hot  'at, '.  11  1 t "mO. ~ tis'  I'  iLt  '1Fil'
h}!nyx  L  1  ' pr o;f)- ,  in  M3 1 Destr:nie.
S It a   a' a'.  : I  -' l :l' i  I1 -  On('L hi  an''aitid'  byi fat' tlthamam  ialiiaaal''tl,
1 ta' t  i a-   i naaat  am  ' 'I  (ama.  .  ,'"' a ''    I e'iIlh.  '' Ainh n 'a'  u aL too
pI a1 at bi a   J i   ' a'' , a  -h''1  alh  mit  wit'if  h  hai' 's  alan o',  a  be)  a v y
I'  ii-'  '  I  "''  aa ' ai ,t : 'a' 1 .  1 a'   ' at.,i1  la:,a'.,  na.  '"V-'l'aaaa'.'a1hi:11aai'  tIa'ail.a1a1i ' tin
wi  I   t'  1' ,i _i".I i , in t ' hm i. ,_a a  ai  h in ih   'i.x 'C   lt 1 i  baveV. 'a  ami  can
in ll'  'v'  uin  h1n '  -teii  : a0 ami  ' a'I   t  '   'e yi'   'a'   r'   h i m  ogu11) aa  t i E'  i.  mn  hIas  owan
, ,a 1'3: ai  ¢ ',  t, iIn  a   ' ma  a to  a dv'a'1,1 - r ."
'a  c   lilll  xi'''atm 'a  W4a:.a , max'i nimami lainI falaaaIi''
-\h 1a:ii,                  it i  my  n-'-er  , iva1iu-ro hand 'mn l !"  sl l  r  .I
              F1',, h, 1r-1,lr , ,      a:n a-th, ll     m t+rm of
'  t , .,i   .  Im ' ' ii'  11  0 V Iia 'i ' i W a   l Ia   t ia un ai,  aaaa U aar a a a
aWhltihI i a  a  a l n'   t  i -' in'
''' hi                             ah v  mail  qiv    a('10,1  ha a, :m1 Ia '  in
a 4  fr' 1 '  n  --  h  a;ih1m  h  Ia   i a  a ilal tforaa r a  lo tmik-
'a  -  a ipa r a'  thm lam ala  aid  :
Ti'aal              .'I'! inam :-aia"  a  "1  i" a /'aira a "
'a  n am   o a i'r : f tr t w 1 ' - i   i l) s1i , " sam    r'a.  D)1rrl i  ' ' I  r,
animal araI-i'a  a'5  in vaam arinti'n N m n
a   ° - .  ''  " " ,' ' a'11 ,  ,I  i' i : 1  m   ' \,  " 1 +' J) I '  am  ) 'a  ' a aa a   x   ' '"  1   l
F   aa'   '1't,  1) ' at:'  , a  wiai h"I 1,ta mp a n  pa '  f'' a  thme  pt  a  ,I I'   a  a.r
       '1.  thaen'  r'I  i'artmn.:' as  max  ta iow rk  athdiaii1  ! atiamlar  ofi   ni t a
ma nI''!      1'tI        4''' ;       l"       ada  'ia '  a a'the   : ei' , ar-.
0        I " ,  t -  11 a I t I aii'i \lI.  !'~li'  i  i 'v  '   ala  ''l : i  '" a  aaal f 1 Lt'111 1 + Il  it
I  a' a  r'" n  - w. a m n rai i  tai  am  ,  va  'a  'ai 1 i h i n e r i "a  m   a  vou a na  hera
wh~  a  a  r, lmr  'aa  x,a  am'  'iaia'  ax baa  b-ail toa a tk  m a niiiila h a   m h aill..
It a'  a  ' ' at  i  r  at  ii'te.  hfe  bi  ama , a  f'a  ays,  a  I'?"
na'       n' --a'oesp r hnaealaaam  Iu an  t  mimaxnawm i nt li'toaaaw  hi  lt'.  It-a
unaaaa        I by -h - aflt pi''a  afte ua. ge!  Ile a mialitao ia'  aarr ''ii.'aamdhtar
h             .:.I  I la Mr  i )  trm  l  ama tm h ll'  faaedC ahflt'.  1ut'    'a, ' L oi' it,
ft a'' '  '' ' "' 'n' a.    h i   arit  a'n   '', haa r am"ii ay  I kI awihat  ,:t. 11 a  pial+ at-
Ir            bn a   i ' tha:-  ala1. I  v i r  r ,  a o  a"  a  t a. a. nad e: 1   ia i h  1 a
t  In           mt aa "e a  o t I 1l  a -I iahi t'" hma i   'mm e 'a ' t ail  in
a~ a     '  av 2'aJ 1a',''1 lae  i  ml'it  wa7 'I '' 1'  .Y 1iit.' i1

111  1  u .I1'  a'  'li t  v  t  I jaitt  a  1'l1
lU  a
ala1Era
a    ':  Ar' y't  i
gra        h'         ' a  d:dr.  I  ' a 'ann ,
l                     , nai"'-.
a' l -b,   h       port a t '''  a,!"''',  a n, aa . I
Ma  : r   n r u.  f.1tih1irnn nhi  3 l
ta is a a  a  '  TI  tamr  I L  tyth  are o 'a u s 
again. a    'hanr' Iur a hInlr'  of'm
wer cue at a'yi ih l !L , inthre the x
An I the  hr-'ve  ovEram  - t  .air I a i l l t '
hao ,  far  lan Inldani, spila li11y i tla dr s ,  an 1
ml  i'te   upoIalan  a  ama gn m ii   la lit r al'of  snaow t'
wi:t' a 'minalmaig I nrely uf thnei amiame
that .  't t aihe huimame.
a Iaias ioai-    o eveal me fra tihe
tort'Iir.1n  laipal "s  c' 'rel  Sta Ii.
\.' an i .: s I for you na hs rewardd ! lIe

1     a pa Imy i'a1.  1 ala nda.t  ma ahowaax to
 1Iti' nvI I fl a'atr ti' am v'ulin+ot
a;   'la  ,at rilac  il  a  an'y  Ii ai  : haxtc:1 ala' an '
la)  .aataliiat  '  aiit'  Jli  a' I  a' miii- I  I):! a'  'lI :taui
" Ltali:as nat at eamnvarl. 'T'lh lam,3e andi
I  tla.it  t ac'  palec fined'I  chi  'If  m'' e ' 1 i sa  sie
h   l ' I a  i  s'l '  hir, la-  if  th IiaGre'at  Spmt,
.r+}  lob   il i igarnia m ats of 1t S'aiun, ' t  ari d mm'
maV r it!  If tlh' p ala'i a'uta d 1lchia r'f '.ilb  tarieh-
arin theii' fa'ce mf 1.' (alt. Ifliaha kill lini,
no' -+it a  a. miwlarir, buait ma a d l
" If I I't a  li''Wve within m ' nai  work with
mi   l ma'nam. wihlo  promi  not toa tory to steal
my', abuhtm'ier ?"
Ii aUfln Will prom  isea.  la vhWil look aipaonn
liar as hex' 'los ponii  to a1sai ta'- wx lichi are Vcry
beautiful, but a great, way oil.'

20

I

if-

~TIE GOMANCH
"Ym-'w' In a stranI e request, and it is im-
pru lent in me' to grant it, but I will trust
ylou" said Mr. I)elormne, atte'r a moments'
hesitation. A n lie called a servant and bade
him loke care oft Ii "na's horse.
'Tab ti a:endT kep them until I ask for
tlhe'ii," said Lauina, hindiig his knife, hat-
chet., hme,h )  and arow,, to the planter.
t. Tuanlok  wxel,'  ,ahl. Mr I)elormae ; I
real  believee 'ow  that  Lag al  i  is in  arne t !"
S i aili )t  1  child "    h1e1(1  C omanche,
qigOev.   I 1ony sa xwhiit I iioiitn!"
i   . ma1  Y1: a uxu weom Pa to iy hioue-Vou
11'x e c . ,n , ani  hoOr  ::1'es  i nd  in  h11ml
it lh Iha  You tshil lit idy ti' arti we know,
an  i  \ ': 1'f:l r abaX1 b 1   +'one of a our teach-
's     I  t  r.'.e, cii ed awaii x'y b l'the  iohi1 r
haElltl  'c j.  5 iai i i+'
- 1a n  i +r^n' ighi to learn of her'-
Il  m    ar1n 1 f ah' whmi  do unot love,"
ail 11' ni.  ai i a dl bai t one  glance  t   her
dulrine  i b It  O ntlver;! ,:ii,  And 1thlenClothough
h    i' b  ar ii. .llimIlb hhisacheek, he aw no
Iu .  h1 l 0 lo  1il i   a le
S     re  a n b e f.lax' ilow -yvour conifilene
in i ',1l n h('n unmia'a C'on. (0mi  with
mi .' .  1 ah' -plan t'r,  oing  l  way  into
''' l if he ia  I L gi''na  entere ,a lien
hv a0+na  avenu , M. Mahione 'C5i -0'ut.
ab1 '-' - aw  m   w' ait l  be  l'i 'srtlh i'ed  Il-
the  ale-bah'7  aa.wil  th bral'In'y  in i ' his haalt d
1  min h 'i  ' i 1  a 'h rdi  'r a  'hink,  ad ihe
wot il t uo l ' i 'tan'   ud 1 id tr -watler  was
jil'I
".\n I he' I oke 1,le a)i 'iut .  Ift' P. ie  shows  moli e
1i 'n-  'ia m  i   -whit.' 1 'ai  ,in  hi:a  i'e'ail."
" T   ' thr' ito "0  a o '  ISit go150   tleIady1'-
but l d  '  :  , r1 at5   it afo ti e  kni a  b' owh :'l ' 0'
thei  h a  a'  o 'i"ort b ' i 'a  in  a  stih:'aiy glass
ini an'  t m de'lid I ilita'I  would we white
i(  a  a ''it 1"
". T   11 c ur l,' ai  fromii  this ndia  n, and
Iew m'um'    yo1  iiaoaffnd  u lan, thl'n n"  'aidl Sl i .
I s h a  an' to  liV w xto the  mato r ?'" -
" '+ ,h it,."
"w- am 'na'al !Iln'i tt Pat r'iak
A  e ys  a  illior  is wxital:ia'-mp s'i,  iIor hell
-p            ta 1 ti    onile o' these lire
Iii  II'  1 1
a    I a   ain  ind1(T   'C ianel iimo,iand youn
S'il  I  in  n i  'a   a a+a',always  prioxvidl  you do
It' a t  t hm!s'
,  " 1  , a , Iily,  '  be  at  c-a'refnl  as  if  I was
i  v, hu' ve r 'a r lp' a vedell ' a''widt a'eyg  w'x lien tim
an i mt iv
+   a  a  a  va m'''l
l   " i ly ! Whale I'a under tlhi pro-
k   1a  1  a' \' '1 i1ni' mm i' ' n b1111 1he'aaiv  I'm  is
, 'a a  i 'i:f a  r''''i  aone ofi ti' i' witi
f'  a  e'  m  m' ii ' m0  tahe tt, r  C' iii iint'1',l
nw,  ait 1 wis  'm a'aaou  mlasan5 t alw'sia' an 1  no
diuhani'tae.[Ii  lNid   yea eai'ly good-night."

Ii
IE~

I'S DREAM.                              21
The overseer now betook himself to his own
quarters, evidently liking to increase, so far as
he could, the distance between hin and his
dread, the chief of the Con:anches.
Stella and irs. Delorme, laughing at his
eagerness to leave the locality, entered 'the
house, where we will leave them, whilegwe turn
our attention to another quarter,
CHAPTER XIII.
Paul Malerson, with a pocket full of that ar-
tical wlwich onl/ is needed to establish one's
gentility in our mno dlRepublic, had arrived,
resist red his name, and just been ushered into
the lest room of th best hotel in Galveston,
whn a    ervanit announced a " gentleman "
who wished to see himi on particular business.
ad a the same tinae the servant permitted
Captain Jack alerson to enter the room.
Alh, Paul, hiow are you ? Been expecting
1ou for some time. lao has Ada--told her
aou ble her soon--said I'd look out for you,
and here I am!1" cried the captain, as he came
in.
" I'imi much obliged to you for your unne,
cessary care, sir-- almost feel old enough to
take care of myself-the more especially that
I have never until nowh, known anything of pa-
rental 'arc !" said Paul, sitily.
" No fault of mine, lad no fault of mine.
as you will learn by-and-by. But it was ne-
eesary tit Iha should see you the moment you
arrive el, for I have been working for you, pack.
ing your cards all night to palay a wiing
game-d'e lear?"
I hear sir, but I do not understand."
" iVo ?  Then I'll explain.  You see, I
knew you loved little Ada, who is a trump of
a girl, and loves you harder than a mule can
kick, al as I had a diamond ring worth a
cool thousand that I didn't care much foir, so
I took it to her and told her you sent it?
Didln't'I do it up brown  ou're all right in
her books now!"
Yes--just at the tinae when I want to be
out of them. I caine dot; n here on purpose
to break off with her !"
 Whaw ! What does this mean ?"
"My aunt has arranged iattars so that it
will be to mciy interest to marry Stella Do-
l0orie."
What, the old planter's daughter?"
"Yes."
SI ['e i rich, I suppose ?"
" Yes, sir, very-a--nd she will be his heir-
( Gt much by him in hard cash, jewelry,
plate, and the likes of that ?"
Yes, sir, a great deal ; but why do you ask
that?"
" Oh, for no vvry particular reason, only I
was thinking of your interest, dye see ? 1
lou't want to see you tangle yourself in any
cbains but goldsn ones. A man is a fool if he


1!

STELLA DELOIME; OTR,

does, nw-a-days I But we'll have time to
think of this matter and talk it over before
you go t the country again. Meantime, when
you icah on Ada, don't let on hut that 0ou
sna lir the diamond. And if you get short
o dir- s, come to ie at the A reade and ask
for lire, and you'll find 'eo all ready fir
you i.
"Thank you, sir-if I n'cd then I'll call."
AnI with this understanding, Mr. Jack Nal-
erson left his son's room.
here's the captain, once more. Long life
and rich deals to Iis hand !'" was the cry of
banlv  picer, the lieutenant of M3lersins'
gang, when Jack, returning from  his recent
visit enter-dh the roan, or rather den of smoke
and wlihky fumee, which they occupied as
headl-quarters.
TheyU ere a hard-looking set of custonirs.
Men if nrly cnvevery nation aid lhue except
blaek, for they were iurdeiers and thieves if
a classt i, 'e'.a manlt to be found associating
with ' "'ii-  ri. Sntre were dresl in the
asual   bIrk-I -g s'yle', as urnetifully as they
could atV+o"d-others rough enough to siit lit
mat romrane 0maalen's idea of a ruflian or a
Vi' I, ln Is," ii l Malerson, as he entered,
Aini you inlane 'ttired of doing nothing .
i 'h1i:t itn - re,  ta itirn  .' sail S uiidv y si{'tr,
who   r, I -hair an I cholerie face imtica't-l a
PePPy '       : "t 'v tMysward, to use' tint h1,air
gusg'  ti' 11  ' immortal  Itst ',   'th   ri'i'u andh
trusty, fir want of use is growing ruty .' (')
Inr s  ri til/t rj-u-mtf in yoni'hi b  ).K.
Haiv.   't1nI ing ahead, u pui'n Male-
Ion t"                            ..
.Y  -lei   heul, if we manage e it right
Tb -."'s aiitbag tip onrutry ik' i-a a lu as a
bank,  itr. '   i- t Lts i- mti-ny 'rni jIa{
on lanh an l a-ynuiantity of nutrers an i
horse   1 rnman to take tire while hal.n is-
as Indians, anI cear tuthi  out !  he'-
got in ,1   g tsr  a p ul0# y  ra-j   :  uit  1ttoats, li'i i
,e sht  1ibe  m o'-s s ife 'isn't I  - l  m o  m .
Iaams I 1 lt yon draw tits for ie". ouee
I'  hn         ' e it t biart ourt for  h r, btut that
i  it h  in  t i .h
'li ong r  . vaI ti.3tnnuur timentot itu
eheer'.
"   hV'lin are cw t start ?1I I rii  fnorna-
tion. tyh rit s  ainros an--i  ' ' r or t tt
try, a  't  f-lItw a     .i i It-tit I t he  ls
a cotkin 'anera  t'h oati 'oi-ti'' t.
St m as twe ca ty ain a  t ! t'  -v,'
a little ' cr OIto d{, anil tul, n 11  hlatb ar 1
cy my ittlnut. Ai -nit, II t iht, no dr htig
seo -te ca,    'alei a  l hili a we tp to-
er antid woIrk theg r lie up rglht
e \V-li hi' a ,tbtr in exp-anunt te~r befren'-
the wil s rea 2' en IolMr. iierr.
to dIt 'li hM'-.ipht i, as  hie  ' armed  her  ri m  ai"  a

s-hort tim  iafler ie left his men. " IIo ha
coni here to break off with you !"
" Then he has coime to die I'' said Ada,
while her ne eyes flashed angrily,
Not so fast, mry beauty-not so fast. I
came to caution you aigout that very thing,
for I know the grit that is in you, and you'll
stick at nothing if you're once roused ! I arn
going to fix matters ii a better uway. I'll put
that girl out of his way, if you'll be easy with
Iin I''
W ill you-oh, bless you, will you " cried
Ada, clasping Iis hands.
Yes, girl, yes. I will fix her so that he'd
as soon marry a Conmanch squir awas her
In, now shall I trust you -
Yon 11 trust te because I Iihis father, and
I like you well enough to waist you for a
daughter."
" I iil trust you.!" said shy.
'that's right. But now Ada, don't you
t'll hin of thi second visit, IiougI ie knows
of the urst ; and whatever you mi' hear about
the Delormaes, keep it to yourself.''
I prouise that. But s tlhe girl whom he
wih Is to uiarry a D'lriie
" les, her nusnre is Stella Delorme- out I
ar t nit listay hirt tItng'r, for I expe'ct Iaau
wail be along sottu. Ah . there hieie cotme
down the street-- Imust slip out hy the hack
door, as ie coein uniat Itlie front.'
Ma gave her visit tindreetions how to leave
tit' htuse unseen ; al a few noments after he
left, Paul entered.
ClAPTER XIV.
Whein Pal enter'ieI, Aa, as site  ally dil,
btune hk to his ariue ant niuptrted i hunlreda
of kaem.   r s upon his lilt. Iii gtnut, bit rather
'otIl'i-y rtre i-ur  iervent car't , at then
II lia hack to the sfai fromti wliCh slaie had
strun g.
"   tdWn, deat Ala," sail ble, " I want to
talk to yiu."
" I at ill ears ;g  on, dear Paul,'' sail shre,
retiring Is hand urn lers.
II- tem    d at a loss what ti say, for the
sil j . tt hatrats utpliermoo t in is inui.sd was;
niii entthtt. ra    oit ntahie.
Wal,I tail, w'hit is it?  Why do you not
'I it m  ia t oatn iid to san" said Ada,
ciiihu   at hits hEmairrasmont'.
Tut r- m ei' pt)tt', Adta '' sa1 Pauli, at
Lt, wa th l   uil.ioni iii toe as 'vell as manner.
An 1+tli ru'for -quite a 'riuinal in the eves
of ta 'en--d, yi t not iim mss. But I aur ii
sorry ff- r' you Ptl. \Vhnat can I o f' you?4
I'rm noat very rici mn this waih's goo In, brut
thIn trea ury of miy anlloee'lin is full ani oer'
flan mu"
"Ala, you are a good girl. You knovr that
I love s ou!
Ioe  I ('t 'ut t  yin  1i, Paul.  B rtna' wI
rnaO youit nh-ilot..  ' ou are otw taCrg youi

brain for a plausible excuse to east me off.1
But you cannot find one-you cannot find oN!
You say that younare poor-What of that?
have I asked you for money ? My love can-
not 1)emeasured by bars of gold, and bars of
iron cannot imprison it!"
Paul trembled with emotion, but was silent.
" Why do you not reply to rue, Paul ?" con-
tinued Ada." Come, I will give you a theme
for conversation. Suppose we speak of Stella
Deloruse
eavens !do you know her ?"
As well as I wish to ! She is very pretty,
Paul. Ilo you love her ?"
"No, Ada, no; as God is my judge I do not !
But I am poor, and she is an heiress !"
And so you tip up the pleasure-cup ofj
love, and fill it with gold-bitter, indigestible
gold '"
"  Ada, I do not know what to do! I do
love you - but you need comforts, luxuries,
which, while I am penniless, I cannot give to
you     Let me marry her ; let her have my
liand, while you retain my heart !"
- Paul Malerson," cred  Ada, while her
color rose, anid her eyes flashed, "' do not de-
etroy all mv dream ! Do not change my love
iril) lite ;t for' your own same do not I Do not,
make nrc desnisc you ! 1)o you think that I
could let von corme illegally to my arms, while
you are legall boiu to another ?   No.
Paul Maler'soni, do not thus taunt and insult.r
rme !"
" Ada ! Ada! I do not know what to do !"
"Be just-be just to yourself and that will
be justice to rie ! I did not seek you out. I
was content, when you found  ue. I ask ino
other lot. But in you I thought that I had
found a young, pin', fresh heart, untainted by
the corruptin atmosphere of the world ! I
loved you, hid away, and kept myself aloof
from the world for your sake. And this-thisj
is my reward I    arcwed-Paul Malerson,
AInEWLL !"
And 'as she poke, sihe drew a dagger
from her hosom and raid it above her breast.
11cr cheek was ghast ly pale-she was breath-
lesa, and every nerve w's ic mlinto firnr ess---
a momentI nure, anid ithat bright steel had
opened Death's pathway to her heart. But
Paul caught hI haur ere it descended, wrest-
ed the dtt4er anay anid threw it through the
an low bVonlidr reala .
"Ada-Ada, would you destroy yourself?"
he critel.
Yr's, soul and body !" she gasped, and
sunk fainting into his arm.e.
" This is love-  cannot give her upI" he
muttered, as he lni I her gently down upon the
sofa, and histened to call her maid to aid in
her recovery.
CTA PTER XV.
Two   weeks are, when   counted oil into
hours by the tongue of Joy, but brief, very

brief breaths of Time! Yet, i tengtnened
by the sigh of sorrow, or the -ong-drawn
moan of pain, how measureless ati unending
do they seem.
For twi weeks had Lagona dwelt beneath
the roof of Varian Delormse. And during
this tii e, the distrustful planter had tried, by
many, and even by harsh and cruel means, to
test the sincerity of the young Comachie's
professed desire to learn the arts and ways of
the pale-frees.
Ie had sent him to the fields with his hoe
in his hand. And Lagona went and did what
he had never done before-worked! He had
mode him perform many a menial service ;
and though the throbbing heart of the proud
young chief almost broke from its bonds, ho
persevered, bowed his head, and obeyed I He
had endeavored to throw him alone into the
coin pany of Stella, while he Ik ept a secret
watch upon him, to see if Lagona did not, in
deed, intend to try to carry her off.
But though the young chief trembled when
he heard her voice, lie would not raise his eyes
to look upon her; though fearless of a thous-
and foes, lie seemed afraid, even of himself,
weiii iim her presic.
But another peril to an unsophisticated
heart was in that house for him. Mrs. Do-
lorme- asI believe I have elsewhere said-was,
for her age, a very beautiful and attractive
woman ; and her art and knowledge of the
worl i rendered her capable of turning every
point to advantage. From the -hour when he
came to the plantation, Mrs. Delorme had
been madly infatuated with him ; so much so,
that she could hardly avoid attractiii the ob-
servation of other. But Lagona die not ap-
pear to heed her attentions. She nane hiu
many presents, but he carelessly threw them
aside ; and when she spoke to him, only n-.
swered in a monosyllable and turned away.
This very indifference only sceened to fan the
flame which burned in her heart.   But if
Lagona was really aware of her preference, he
iiade not the slightest recognition of the fact-
a matter which much pleased Stella, who,
from the moment when Mrs. Delorme had ox-
pressed her admiration of the young chie's
person, had noticed her conduct, ani observed
her evident partiality towards him. And
thouli no tell-tale, yet the honor of her
father was too closely held in her heart, for her
not to feel anxious that it should not be
stained by imprudence, not to say guilt, o
the part of her'step-mother.
It was night, about the time stated in the
opening of this chapter, and Largna, who had
been kept at work all day, was seated near
Mrs. Delornie, who was aisliint him many
questions regarding his tribe-th. ic habits and
manner of Iiviig. These questions, although
by no means pleasing to the taciturn chief,
were answered briefly and respectfully by La-
gona. .As he poke of his mountain home,

1
1 II
Lp P

TIlE OOMACH1S DP1T&amp;M.


I i
1
24                     STELLA DELORML'; Ol,
#j    ri.:h  'nif1 WIfh  iivcrv  ce'ifnrlesnnd  glter. this t'rrifi'h1ivwre  slfOO'l with  Sycllii, 1iSt~nin
tjtlr Fstr 'HtS   i itI' H4 i  i  i' 'atifri  i Wt tIIut  'S tt  $}it"' 1' HiH  lt  i ' I) ,d t~
$tiI  I L  "  c'.,:  tIii 'r  wti1  iti rtryy i  1;s  antid  " WiV ' .is  t),tit, cir . " d  I 'iin  1'  lie  ,tit t
i Lirk. gri'''i  tit'. i   'ii  t  itT"3 l iltet11.¢ t ii '' ut',  I  Lcupj'o   i. fs hip   isIiiullt's  to
'tie    (' it.!!(jui 15Its 'itite  fk;' aii1eel  s t' .iiic I bt 'ii  i, tl?°fi'   I 1j; I~ 1t lhe  a1h'd~t, blit Ilv.
..))  r. { '}#  t  '  i )ut: i tli'rc'. ,._ie+n  e'i'.'cd  u/i  tc ' I'  saij
t.ht   ', i°   I  IIl to t' ) t   ri . .'s  ile 1 s i  '.  '  1'i  n tu' it ,  l1.ho  eile'toi  a ) i: k xo
likt  ' i  i LI  p h iail  I '- z I]~tr the  tsr' .~i(t  1liit ,3 .  iii  vihit'  tluii i  !i  '4HiI'
it 11'     '',  '! ridIt 3.- "i.   Th  &amp;o'iti4i 'a t, e Hfi" 'rt  sIi
fs'   t   : w uit t .' ;oi Li " i, ii : tI t  i' t ti  I  1}_ ri   t  fMr.  l)1  ritz  oU n
1i3  ] t'1 i1l(i  "  H  r 1 i the  I  t t, +it..  fir  a 41  r .t he
,_    "htiii ''  it; I,    .i'   ttZ   oip 3t ii'ti'  11  i' lt titI't''srwit i t'   er"  i+ i't us ;f
f;1                                           ti = s Is  Ittt.
tti ''r(':I' ,  i  ' t)t ,  u  I1 I; [' i ' i .c ' Ir t i~ e t   , xi is C "t I  "  '
iI,      i; I d' It     o 1:i!"  I'  i     I L  1tei )''I   tt t  t .A l ti  s  ' ilir
.hh       i ii  .: +  .                   iiIl iittt :    '..' t   1- r o . '  l " f  .:   '   1 5   I  ii ) i i.?  !u  ii,
xi                             I xi
it ''xti'   h " ori l.r ii i'Ex T  i olt x''vKItsu.'   l' c''lI u }  h h  rit   f
ttf                          }Ii i''  ti.t'  I  t   t  I
3} r    t       :     itI  ai II  {+ ;}  It' ii ''   i;u' , (i il i   l i  i l 't:  1'' 1  c'
'g     j5 .ti '  i '   ' t it  n 1  '' f  ' .  1i --  i  t. TSe  Iti  ' n' is I 1.  ''}s?  A'+.i
x+  1!^~i  ..'"1   r  i 's''t ' a oriI  l~ii :''' 1-- i  i  .4 1  I"I  ''tit'! vh  u  n I l  i   . '''trI't.''Loin
{                   C       I 1                       Y it I i' i  iI i
SFtLI1t ~          tIf  'Ia ijr'-  i  t  i- il~ t
it        nijt-    cttt iir #  (  t +  n Tt'I( tj  1 ri  t ( .h    t tr n / r 1 f

Ii
l1
1
MIt
H
P1
rit
z'


ii
ii
I

TIE COMANCH
The fire which opened from the tower at
first was hot, and fatal to several of the- be-
;e'gers; but in a short timle it slackened, for
Paul hald begun to get short of aimmunition.
Cut down the gate with your axes, lads,"
*houtcd the leader, not attempting to play In-
dian any longer in Iii.1 voice, though dressed
like one. " Make a bold push, and the day is
ours !"
And1 they dil so ; and in a few moments
would have defected an entrance, had not the
terrible war-whhoop of the real Comanche been
heard in their rear ; and the next instant,
pOturinr in a  murderous fire, a hand-they
knew  not how large, or who they were-
bounded in amongst them, led by a warrior,
whose every blow brought a man to the
earth.
" Toy our horses, lads-save yourselves as
bsy-s  n can-toey'ire too many for us !"'
cried the loler of the attack jog band.
An luck a was it for them that their horses
were near, ,e s not, one of them all would ever
have (e p'ted. As it was, iore than half
were ile tad upon the ground. Bat the
lea der, liIingi desperately, got the rest ofl,
and all of his wounded. And not being pire-
par l for pursuit, Mr. Delerme could not fol-
iow them.
CIIATER XVL.I.
Lagna, a gain I must beg you to forgive
me for iny uiin jutiist suspicions, and my cruel and
unmanlyvireatment,' said Mr. Delorme, after
he had ~rturud from driving away his assail-
ants, and1 + oo oiie' more in his house.
" Lagmna fotrgets ilI but the p1ale-faced
chief a hindu:sI ' was the reply of the young
ehief.
Agun yon have placed me under renewed
obligat ini by your bravery. how can I re-
ward vounr
Il- inev r p aking of it again. I have
Ion' rie  -isno Imore
STake thi fr-n me," sai IMrs. Delorme,
tt-iu tago tih'ow a richly ch1i of gold about
he  u lsed it back with his hand,,and
qui lb  aid1:
I tin im e  I dIo not hikechans" I''
h is ib i, and turned away ; and in a
few lmoin   aso in    clie'haile', where he
buir I pa naiy into a    tit of w eping.
nIIn n !h I   i scoined bIIy this saca'e :.
I, weio ar teatiful, anl so founly, madiy live
him   si c s  robbed.
Iut thieson !of apnraeiing footsteps
warn-  h r to be upon ierguard:  i and seim
checke hIi' sohs, aild latv wiped her eyes.
It wa Pal 'l-d-rson who cane. liii fae was
'lu-hIeiI, amidl be su'a   nuh excited.
What io y viwant   Why do you come
her; lt i' yi'vat hebmoobr "in' she asked.
l  vam kin , itdmu, who it was that led
he atatck iiere oOuight " said ho.

E'S DREAM.                             27
"No. Why do you ask? Who was it?*'
she answered.
"It was the man that you told me tvas my
father !" said Paul, n rrowly watching every
change of expression in her face.
"Heavens! John Malerson a robber ?" al.
most screamed Mrs. I)elorme.
Yes. I suspected as much, when I saw
him and his associates in Galveston. lie led
the murderous gang, disguised as Indians, to-
night. And now I know why he asked so par
tienlarly about the wealth of Mr. Delorme."
" You have not told Mr. Delorea of this
yet?"
"No; lie was busy when I came in."
"Then, for your life, do not I The villain
has been foiled: do not now expose him!"
I do not believe that he is imv father."
"lie is, Paul-) IIeaven ! he is ! I know
it ! Would to God that I did not!"
" What is the secret that he holds in terror
over your head ?" "
"Paul, in mercy do not ask me now. The
time may come when I will tell you ; but do
not ask it now. 1 nam very, very wretched 1"
And she wept, as if she, indeed, was so.
I am going to Galveston again," said Paul,
when his aunt became more composed.
Far what ?" she asked.
"To warn him, that if he puts his feet on
this plantation again, his neck is in langer--
even if he be my father."
"Do be cautious, Paul ! Let me advise you
net to go near him. some of his vile gaag
may assassiiate you."
" 1 do not fear them. Moreover, I must go
to Galveston, for I promised to see Ada Me-
Alpihi onee more, before I part with her for-
ever  That done, you may arrange matters
with Stella and her father, for ie, as soon as
you please. I begin to love the girl, and I an
sure she does not dislike me."
" Well, Paul, if you must go, do it ; but re-
turn quickly. Take this purse: it containa
all the miiney which I have by me now."
He took it, and left her again to herself.
/
CHAPTER XVII.
Ada MeAlpin sat in her beauf iftul room,
lookmg pae, sad, and dejected, to an unusual
derea. She was not dressed with Ir custom-
ary care. Icer beautiful hair la in tangled
masses upon her whit' and lovely neck andi
elhoufllrc. ier eyes were red with weeping.
She started, and trembled, when she heard a
kuock at the door ; and her voice ntis low and
husky when she said
iCome in."
It whas Jack Malerson who entered.
his look was also gloomy and mouse.
What news ?" she asked.
" I)ark-very dark I" he muttered.
" Where is PIaul?" she asked.
" I neither know nor care. I went to D .

it
Ii
F} i

a

":


23                  STELLA DELORME ; OL,

Srmt's 1plac  to  carry' the girl off, anid ts
e'rVe  'n1, iial  I  t  half of  my r arty, and!
carn it  a :r  hIn} tY; e t11 m i  heri'  otf  og  me 1   !"
S 'A1a  It  i   lave shid a tar if y u hltti,"
sad  i    ' -h  '  a  in  f, t'wh  limi l1t felb.w  d
the f '   -' sof  I;' fi'l  r ei  - hi  d , and  now
rlt nl'ii  i   a  'rt 1. f i'w   ,  a
t\da ba It   r111  n  rnd, wu4 in i  1zow l hd
I . L ;'  u  rh ara'1  aod  of  ti1 -
thV;"i '           ia'
1P  ,  , m   h  n, 1   r: ti ,   r   'i    h  i   :
"  I  !  ' Y   ' k1 I h  ' v w r  1. I n 1l ith
F nib.ar          Cf t. a
1)1'  1  .  k  ir  ,"  i  '. 't  l l.  n  i ly. tI
Y.;h               :  I  i  e'-
,i m.     ' n  i'  at? i n-I  any I  fni . Ipi  bi
t 1i  ii r :.  ni t i i i hdI}  I rL vIe
t   t  re"_i Fi1 _t  at1  1i'  a  T  i t. av ,Ft !"

lip ; not an eye-lash quivec ed ; not a limb
uov ced ; but leir eyes gon'eI111i upoIn1 n with
ai icy glare, whiclihe niver, nver coul for-
git.
" Ala, what is the mater '?" h1' acked, at
lat, ab11ost toerri bI y hite tis' ilnc' and tri'ribh
" 1'thing,"' said slhe, Ip"ahin:' F'xlwl a i
shi Ere in gre''I'inat  pain.  "(o!"1'' she ahdel,
rai inl lier' ar, and pointing ';towards the
dor.
M Mr Havien ! not whihe you lok i o,  ! You
ar' itl1'I hi -critd.
" Go"''-ti e rpeate; I;an1  ti hr whie
am''; and  s nit- ir e't itle  icioiit''d toL th-
do or.
"N Nt leavinisyou t huN !"hIt F=ri l. " :'/, a .
t n1   1,i 1  nor1'  t')  nos, _Ada!"
", " l  ih}  titd,  louder  {1.nut  lfor .:  n d+
eit she1 point Edito the door.
.° bi  ct  )! aft.r   that  f-r a  tn usn!fita-  t'h i h
hf ft  hitr  -; c ,l ui  s he  heard'  ht i m +etlot -  t w
fisrntdo or;  ndll  lt he  sh  l  all  use1-'  s  t tlw
flor .

t             ImIo  a  tix :  "' ,M  'i God hir lah ;  hit  l'  hin'  yon?
i     '\u I  52 'm  h    a' ci'  10 hon: M 1  r1' n  a; hi'  enerl f  o .
!I'  "i  '  '  t' ''  }t7 'u  r.1a' '  4ai  '  11  (iiiu  '  ob a;; tI et1\ \ x  ''IFlt
1n' t isi-£"4,''w of', ( a ndun  itM a   up n  t helr,,ithi  t o d 
fth  un       ich  a        i 'tI   t  r: f'1 I i i l m i'' o''i  ndi m u-h.
un..T 'h\ 'h.~rii:J,'i'
.                        e r'tn it  ,ic  t;f r'wl:'iwh " rn iittpv v idet  I  hi u!"  hai;
Y;                                  ; t''  t  It
th latx  La!I  e tee e ,wt  niiite t nhrm  -a  he
fi          . :  ,  T  , ra  , itt'h. r  i i ' the t'i ii.an t p d he  o
n      1aill. f  1h   'hip  1 1 .11 " !''   fittn  h rf1..
t      t  [a. 0  I  1i I'V'511tin i.+,to"  '
It  i  .'  {'.,,, .._h timS  _ i  :  hs thes s',iti ,i wit tru l iS  'the  hn  i  riff u, b1 itt
i    nl 'dtni   b  ;'i'Mrwn  wo ldiltveical't a!'r  n   ti '
'ilnI'aiwiul a' r i w c'uld.'
a.m                    hav4FL. 1nIt .  itm.rt at  Srr!"-(1!
4     1 r 1*   i'.i V " I  isi  -' '  t'i o  3! ltr n .  "  W  d ts°2i'v m w t  h.  wny   y
t,.,  t  ' t'  '  '  t  4ais t  ,I   1  vc 'in tierab l e '.wne: md ' an .b "
.,, [bt      r  'H  w i  t  an  it'sfi r t von, '' a n ']it }  ! the
,. '1  t 5  '  Y  ;,'',  .:~i  I sk t \?' 11t -1fily ' ('r Ii1-ti.  _  it
I  t°,' ,Y'             bu.  thr '  ':ht  .r  ! t'.'nitl.,,:  n  !'
'1;n ,m  td           ="  i2 met ''.g 1n,]1mi . nto
i  '  'i t'S  i  r  t  '  '  t  is ith .,  i' r. '': - - -'st'" ihirei,  I x.':1  dink  hIii
hR  a  ota           i n he  rvn ut_,  loo !"

i
is
i
f
i   ,
t
tt
64c
C
.r

THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.
"Will, study ota how you wish the thin; i  Thus soliloquized irs. Delorme, some days
don. and I wilt never fail you. I have fifteen  after the incidents last related, concernini4
or tweniitv men left, who turn for vengeance  her, while she walked in the pleaure-grounds
on twli'woii) killed thiur' Compionliis."  which aidjoiiin'd her husband's nusion.
" 1 will arringe somie plan as soon as my   And while she spoke, ter eyei--antline eyes
raun ceols. It is hot nOw, YCV hot."     ,were tiey-\     benti upon hoim as 'walattin
" V4,)p ()rir'- see it is. «  will o0ow 'airof  a 1dIness and thought, he Slowly approach-
and(1 Isee iov in, aiid keep a look-out u poa  ed her along the sameil  avenue, nit, tppeariing
.ia ter 1a1. Were hle not my own son, I'd to see her, hor his eves were upon the ground.
liii w       e' foir I slipt. uLit I shall Since his gallantry in the defence ag'amns the
ha1e u'  f( liim, and he may cole to reason  robbers, Mr. Ielorin  hadun isal dTIno more
afte r tia ri Iisiut of tIlie way. lie may y :t ta'slks upon him, lint had rather treated im as
bie 'our.s, and a's fond a s ever.'        a brother and a favorite gust.
i ' ver-w:rrtr ' cie'dt Ala. wildly. I have'  Whlien Lagrona. had approaclhed clEsly to,
love-l 1im an  n' r womn loved befre-but and ohirved he r, hle stepted 1a1 ile. il wouldd
vor. wi' imV nit tell how  Il)athie  ln hane  have piasted on, had not she addressedl him.
hh !    1 hi tnim too iuch to wish for his  "Why is there a cloud upon the face of
deat 1i   wanLrv rt liimi to liv'E, that I can aike  Lagona Y" she asked, iidopting thie Ii guaLive
ii iim  bil. 1; ut leave iie now, I wish to sty le which she had heard Iiim use, and knew
ban   tt  I ayii  grow c liii. Come again to he favorite with his people.
t:; :ah. I will he i   timie think of a plan  "Leaiuse the sun which mi irheart love
to .,(ri  mft(i urecoi'.'               does not shine upon it !l" he replied, quietly.
" Wmen t'e curious creatu;res,'' mnrnured  '' Then there i somre one whioui Lagona
the s 'erin n he wxnt uout.  "If they cant loves aoluing is peliple-sonei mid:len beauti-
u ve, ih' ha1 ite-if thy can't he honey, lt as the Blowers, who laughs Iihke thE waters,
Cih vi l   inpsiar-Ift li{ y can't whiser. and dances alike tie birds aiingsthe green
ii  1      utlr. U rious creatures are ' 'o- trots?"
ni''i."" No ! If there were, Lagnuna would not hie
Ti captain hatdj   ' just finished this soliloquy, her."'
wh-'l   e' iis in mving slowly long the   "What keeps Lagoiia here ?" asked thes
cx f. erfty woianii, nioticing that, fir aL wniider, hil
l ul, hlt1 on a bit," said he. "I've a  dark eves were fixed upon ier wih an aip-
I3' m  '1 for you.                            iar'iit' expresioi of interest, anll ttil for the
"  lit is it" '' said Paul, gloomil', for he first time lie lingered, and did not as usual
1    1 iat  ihe m anl' in nl ih h; le Ih a  parl, s\te p1aP  is   I ili h  w ii th-r 1':ea hnte ss.
from  ', to whom   at, one time tihe had beei  " 11is /iart !" said tie Indian ,dlly. " IHe
nt'eb an iin .i                          is master of his hifes, but not of that,"
I I wa t 'ix u '  lt Mrs, TLtie 1)li11m ile,  Mirs. Delmi';i tre'ilbled with Ii  tioini, for
?  :i h  t'i 4  !iher;tli, t lhat "I  amin   need flof  a in  lher blindneitss  shue  actually  1b gilm to  believe
it if 14u.in      tllarIs  andti  that it' lie that sthei ht:u( awa'Ikene feelings of  l ancmeincnt
s0 ,   ndt  i  11m1w yi' byev sli' wil savi' ii iin tie 111r11ast  f Itihe brave stil ofh tie forest
Lit :til  of 1-t'f  in Iii t iheii  iil, 1and11 arsk- And all too ras111siihlhy siihetdderunined to know i
l  uno is. iTt lier thni's sno use in ir Iit wasi s.
i°  i       t nin m'-  nlt have t''\iIitt' tgna ltioveog 1   , why diIesl  Iir to speak
" It'i   iivl'  11 your mI-eng, rnd aiire it-he nh fears no r mieTiiS, nxilim i, to biave
iei +tin. t' with coiLt'empt,' aitd Paul.  in hal he, ought not to ei a te'wr'd in love,"
" 'Win ilh ieewill  not do,"' said  the capitain,  she .sail.
pani on.        itntnd        t               " Tie tongue of Iaina is tid, and his
~~~~               h ndls are bound," sidt the lc ilf.
iA PT E: h NitXX. 'E"I/iw ? I ho not ungl'rand1 you.''
°  I I 't 01 1"'u th  X inunti s ever-brningpassini  I pomi'ii £1ise'd the pa h-fac'edchief I would
-or    an 1 yet Iy rst 'ain it! I h:id thuht''t, not try to cayI'i away hiis duihghte'r. I etin
wh. n 1 iii1marr 1'1iied lre-or-n, irtheri, whe'n Ionly look upn h ler' aS thus w ilogfliwer looksl
hnkl, td myv- 'i by r rl'iing''sbonds 'to lhis iwealt~h-- upotht ie sun-to 11p1 inead(die !"t  1'i  ni;0tlswtctwr  t  usei "~  kl  oehr  hogtsl;uein
h ui b1 wx ti pa11 n itwxhid; were myi~ cui e in  " You stil love I;er, though she scorns
vuhi ha 1   'it my -veins, ablandltonie1 my a- you ?'' cried Mrs. I)iodnr'i, ale wth iit'ngri.
ti:r'e 1'+ ve' h!iunintwier glows the fire now  " We love the  reat S3pirit inIo t when ho
then hi' n. I  nitiddens moe to think it, yet I sends death to take us away !" 'aid the Indian,
love tin ('a1 nu  huliiglht y savage eVOn to  CaLhnily.
ilolry'  I ' ow. l ut-mie ydv and liow gladly woutuld  " Why do ydu not love one un ho loves you-
I iy wit'    fioiarna  froVmuti telise scenes of who worships you mtior' etuhan ever' woiiin
luxurv and contort--from all of civilization, worshiped man " cried Mrs.Dl)elormne, passion
to ie h i s liils and1 ilihiTlhardshipis! IIe  atelc, ani te'ar's roiled dox'iv lier' face.
n     e li' riine-he cannot forever be senseless  "Who loves re sis ?" asked Lagina, qieictly
mj myp advances !"                           "I-I--uroud, wealthy, -educated-i lbv

I
14 3
Fi
rt
Z i

¢
Y'.
-r
F^r-':
F2
s'
r
+-i
. ,'Y

a
1
i
e
I
°9


_
-.
3
#       T
}     j x
{{
iyg
4   ?   .
f      }
s
t   4   °
S   "

i   "   2 h.   r lxxi!,  a  E ii ttnai  ent  at '  w r.
t                        !ae3a  olasic  o  ,tand "
-e' xI : i t r  ha.  ' r n -nt s - xii   mxiix liane
hfr '"  ( a - r ly . 1  t e si'  ems mt re-ha
'xlx x i  r xx { 5'xn I 111°f  1I b ;ix  t .i 'x 't
riii xi  i i  ill  iuxuxt F'i't t liil i''  t:i
tify  eachtn-   12 t-  i m, e lh   m
" Sh   ix  t-xr i \veI Itirl;tIn  iti  Iytr
xuWn  C fa ift . li ft n tiu \ w   y'ttr wtt'if.  Hj
goldcoud1.tfhiave  h..iad  great et, t  upon  I

CIA1PT ER XXI.
" \io are lox iti it hx 1lhr)m4piil1rmtt it-in,
are    iittI yx It-?(e 1 Axa 'tciiiut i John
ha~ cti.n. 1t o  Ii C  I.ICO  o o 'tii'  Vii  ither on  the  n  il to lM  ay
whe   sheiiili_ d! ion; 'dPaul iio  unperanitVii  -.
"I noutild  bx  if I wIV nit in  iy , ii: ,t  I   i
beufxre.  Itt, x- rit-  ol  I  amIurn  ay  ii xted to  dis-
'-eni~  as an tem t rss ;i mdth if youii ait iti to
ti-a,I lI rig up1   50 lithat mlty best friendaa.

r                            STELLA DELORME; OR,
yea, and wouhtl ly to the end of the world  him ; and I am confident he wil yield if yoo
with you !' to erned.                     can win her love. In truth, he has hiitd as
"'Ihat woold be a very long journey-you   much to me
are not ie maii s squaw, and I cannot ro,  " Well, good aunt, I will do ty Lost. I will
said the ei I'. as colt'y as it' he were talking  even try anl speak to her to-iiihit ii puon the
to a st m;alnl lie pased on, heedilss of her subject. But, aunt-changimgi tis pleuant
is as nI it s.                             suipet to a less agreeable nie- -liave a mis-
I wil lx - revecntred on lim--T will be rx-- saxto for you fro-ni the man who you say is my
v   e  ohimi ! i wii'-re the hri- t wouirds ahicli fittier; but, fr my life, I can't loot upon
dh- 'uttxter I. aiter the fire of anttr had lidrld  hitii as such.''
up her t -RN. " If he lives Stella, he shall  Mrs. )elorine turned pale when she heard
see hr im ii to another, adiil that wi I lie tit ai words.
w irse lt in  t h.t to l1 ii. lhlt itn ynutili-is.  What- me ent did Jhnulia M-iirson send
himi to i tl-I rati i, oil thn ihe Iwill tak  me ?' i-he i-kt, mIIIa Iusky ton'.
b i' iy force -firgettm  hi nproi  ' + she again  " A aill oln0, wlich t told liii you would
sail.                                      treat with Sctrn.''
The si 'ht of yon  Pail Maltr ni entr-  '' Naite it !name it !  Jidein- fromi his
iont the  teit, oi his rttiur from ((a lvi .un,I post. notniig  hiitiis future wsill tI)rise elt. '
caud t i t' e hIeli' solitqtuy, anud return I " lie ti l mei- to t-il yotos iiI him two
to the lwu'.                               Ithiaoal dItlltars ; and bail, thta if y 0  diti
-t lit--''
Paul ieisit ated.
('IAIWTIt XX                   " p' 1 on : What did h  threaten if I did
After til libiIr hal rt ttdIiii upon the afmLurs not ?'
witixchli  i I.I  lirm  ai till  set  's  l to   ut .  nd iiI  '' lie  said  he iiidr call oii  Mr. I l orie  fur
t. h nx, x- il C Ox- toji pahiixipart nlari re- it!''                               m
Li  it-  rtiii  It  i  ,Y141t'~"lt'1i^    i letc  It  " A a -wk, lta "  u s d 1 r 1 nd    ( " O  Ileaven ! I tmut vy ild  to liltde mand  :"
Hotr  a  -i  xl ii li Iii ii, im w xti' t bh it twl i t i-il  grnu ediI  t he' unha111 i-I'.yit w totiti, .
to bx in'i ,  itavor wt l r fa'h-r -  ion liii"tti  'diGMist, aunt ? Mut / !  Vt hat hIedl la; he
ft,-r  ,  i  xxi, uh- i tr i illx li-o ia-upiityoutiotxiiiilt yu i  .
rtt   :,iii rtm. hIi'  n ibtie it, eathi  "tinl, I eiot i-i    iyu , Ihint fir your
nt ct- F'n itout a track of Ite iecIt c sle as vt ll astymv n 1 muii-t it'  t ius
p     i  sui-i ! .. tmandtul.                       I imv  ' xto  -  t he  iut  vit   iit  ir.
' I  am  't'il}ti  5t! vm tlVar  P'mi,"  ear  li   litru-'  1-m11  t  ltheti it ,  u mti it, 1 do
sth, " 'xIwtii- tlin  -satwithvyi I lst  0   xk w; bxi iiit 11ust ail 'shaip ol  Iinex!
btir I   ft-i -I it thuin' 4xx s itntnoi IIn (it a  lIt Phxitau. wi n  xim ciri it ft uli. bx'g hinu
Si  ill ?"I to                                'xi lt  sm e llt' itir wn  landiti , and1nl, xi  t  i hiite  0me
" Viii, ail"I T!f-ar  7TEha1vt'  brc~  t a  p'oJt r  n' li m  r t'.  lith' di  otrit, ih{'wdil tforce  me eto
i  i  tre  hx  I-' 1l tii xily,         itc   t hat  l x-, l   x'ti u -l th rill liiii  in  of  an1
iPhl '     Ui et n fa' of that. Women's i' ove wit !  .     .     ,
hat-i sdnt ir k easil !""i''               Ant, yottu io not hint at seniele:
" S  ii tIt yo  at'e a  "wnntn,ny go "aol 1I Ioiaul ! Gd h1lp  i  tii  Iii !" mu t
w'omen     -' ra thu when 'tie  whl m thc-v  . 1  hi5a tltx li 5exx ah wtritbl' i Imi. nun-
t  Ill  it  xi  lm, ii  ! -  exix-I  Mrs. It'   lxri x ,  lrnw; thii-i' ' I ve  mi-,  andi  let  me  exlix  t  mn '
Ax    itl .  1  Pxli 'l t' xit xluci, in  trrri i '..-  1 "ith ht andx  fxri  ily'. 1li  5  t'i'tt iiure  ae-
mi  l .'                          .         t nii.
II H  ia' t ' aunt, whit ix cix  1 yxutoi ."1" lie  luixl tlubeyxl  and wn t. '.w itiin r al lit'
crid.  i  a m ltni tit.  "I  ixl  5 yo  a xtsintllx  iwhlil  it xtwit tl  at '1  i' l  lxuItt   i utixncxe i
lo 'itiin, tux  Vit yio xnxr' Vith trrble vei. w'h.c'hl his  relptild fatie'r hell over 'Mrs. _De-
n     .                                     lo rmi te.

TIE COMANC
tan hinmslf-won't know me - though th ere's
01e1 ther close  akin to the devil, that hates
and fears me enough to know me anywhere.
But if she were to recognize me, she'd be mum
for her own sake !"
"She! Do you mean Stella Delorne?"
"No - I mean her who calls hers ef Madam
D)elor me-"
'- With her I have nothing to do: it is the
hearts blood of Stella Delormue which I seek,
andI will have !" said Ada, bitterly. " She his
robbed me of Paul's love, which was ray life ;
and she must die I"
" Dear -siul ! how I do like your spunk!
But what sort iif a Ilian have you laid ? If
you're as good at plotting as you are at hat-
mng, you mut esueceed."
" YouI liit disguise yourself as a negro-
trader, aI sell  xto Mr..L'erlorme as a house-
se vait ; if p-unlsixlel, I must become the wait-
ing?-maid Iof aSti 1 ."
This lr ,xitixitn of Ada was received at
first with a nii lwhistle of surprise, and then
w th a peall oci it'xselaughter by the captain.
" Wli' yxn d -ir soul !-you little beauty I
x      -y-'otim Il 'i , hi xerxim: to think of such an idea.
_  1 should like itosee'ourigged up so that you
ould lie So iIfr anythi   but a white ga-
and one of the best tookin' that ever shook a
foot !"
"Stay i'l whirie you are, and you shall see."-
And, with tl-n awordxs, Ada left the room.
"I do wo itix-i'what the dear soul does
,.'em anea x"muitur d Malerson. wonderinglay. when
he was left tlon". " She's a thoughtful crea-
ture- -s/i is !" -a i hIi', as he glanced at a( dI-
canter of Iranhutit  wii ethe saw standing on the
l si-dehoardu, with' a voblet near it. " 1 wish I
was youngitii an I iantsomer," lie added, after
helping linueIt' Ia  tie beverage ; " she might
a     have taken a shiintu 1 tu me herself. Once I
took anotig ihe  irls like old rye amongst
Ketukiiey liIxmen. I was a kingin-boss
of the hixp. Iut ty day for that has gone
by.".
The oxl marin sighltd, as if' he regretted it,
anl thensmu ii r{ 'er another glass of branrly.
'This dn  lie abused himself looking at
the pictus -anI.1 furniture o tthe room-which,
as we have lfuoe said, though Frchciy, were
decided' rich.
" Nie trap." he mutLtred. " Must have
cost a pile of diiws!x'  What a fool Paul was
not to keep in with her I Such capital taste
she has in traiyi'"
And lie totok another nip to justify his last
opinion.
" She stays sat ihty long time !" continued
the captauiti" I wonderr what stue's a-doing !"
At that omotit-nt. a very bright andit pretty
quadrloion girt. arraiye i precisely as that clas
do in Ni' ll at , nteitt-rid the room.
"hirl, wit s /Mi-ss sda ?" asked the cap-
tain, afte-r looking at her intently for a too-
S meat-.

I

'I
hi

IeI

HE'S DREAM.                            3I
The girl made no reply, but stood still, and
looked at him.
"Maybe you don't belong here ?' he said,
inquiringly.
"Guess I does, Massa Malereon," said the
girl.
"So I suppose, since you know my name,
my flower ' tansy. But where is Miss Ada2"
"Never a great ways off when I'm around,
Massa Cap'n," said the girl, showing her white
teeth.
"But that isn't answering my question, my
yellow diamond."
"Well, Massa John, you answer me one
question, den i'll tell you whar to find Missy
Ada."
"Well, ask your question ; I'll take a nip
of brandy, and answer P," said Malerson, suit-
ing his actions to the word.
'" What d'ye think a nice yaller gal like me
is wuth in de Orleans market ?"
" Well, let's see. I reckon you're about
eighteen---well made up, clean rigged, and
tolerable good looking' for one o' your color.
Your hair isn't kinky, and shines like a black
horse's mane--teeth sound, and eyes as bright
as new pewter. I reckon you'd go close on
to fifteen hundred dollars-maybe sixteen to
an old chap like me."
"A pretty high price-yet not'half what I
set upon myself," said Ala (for it was she),
speaking now in her natural voice.
" Well, I'm willing to be swallowed by a
Frenchman for a fro, and spit up ag'iin," cx-
elaimoed the captain, in surprise. " Why, Miss
Ada, if your natural mother was here she
wouldn't'know you!"
" That is all I wished to know. Now, pre-
pare your disguise as well. I shall carry
money enough with me for all purposes."
The keen eyes of Malerson flashed as with a
new idea, and he said
"All right, Miss Ada; I will be ready by
morning. But it won't do for you to carry
money ; that would be so out o' fashion for
niggeikind, it might lead to the discovery that
you was a possumsin'."
Possibly so. I will therefore intrust my
funds to you ; but my weapons I will keep to
myself. And mark me, Captain Malerson-if
I see a sign of treachery in you, you will be
my first victim !"
"Bless your dear soul, Miss Ada! I'd
sooner .thiok of cutting my own throat than
that. You can depend on me to the last--to
the very last !"
"Interest leads the best of men," said Ada,
quietly. "Let it Teal you in this case ; for I
will make it voor interest to do my bidding.
But now I must beg you to leave inc for the
night ; I have much to arrange before morn-
ing. Call then, and ask my own'servant-
whom I shall leave here until I come back-
for ' Lena ;' and I will, under that name, be
ready to travel with you. ,You may have

a

'
k
i

r


"  2             S~TELL    LLOR MB; 011[
I             'gfl   o  tcrue  o  ii f  n  ;1L" r  i1  Mr. D 11)I'oI1  ;"   t lye  ci e
1         t      ii' a      1  ' :  0 lrout   be  I'il  o  y  intl  1 "a allls( , e  iCiil los
ti , lt. i  o 'i  )   ' . it 1"o'y routevto  ' "'ri  hrI o) IIit  to  k  hardy
t  1                    ' " iO ;  L '   £1 h i.'
,''' I-O't  1 ir'l ',i e t tP  P  r  ii' LI1X''o
lt            il  i 1  i t  ' x t)  I .  i i1  o  ,iiYii)   1   0"i i   '.
1 C w i   - -- - - - --  c i l'O u W g i  'L I 1  1  1  I * "   b l   1 ' I O
'   1 t til                          t            ,
I                i 'l 1  r '   ii I t   ),i  t  -    ;I", It1"
,t"'           'i i  i  u'Ti  '1   l l,"i  "  },. lt"'iltI  tt  ')lYi
) . 1     u ii  '1                      tlhl - (o'1 tt ,A  l't ) }I i 'i''''1- \  O U  I CL  l 1 1  'to
!' II                '      EltV'  IiP'.L          'I- . -  i', Wl
t i  #  !:' i  )  , _i.       t    t  r1 ,1,rit!  Lt,  I ' i  F  i  'ii .lK  i  )  ,,,  It.i't0
4ti'L           11        I   tvL on.tt.'  ttiLJ      iollit_ ,i
",I  I  ,t'  ,t'v  1  7 t              t
'    l t t i4l'i     L    t h e  t 1 ',t  ! ,"1! w i i    .  if i l l '   - 'ii  I t' l 1  y it )  L  m i
\ ,'   b :"   i t~ i t  '    i ' '   i 0        1 1;ti p   i   O j   n i   l L l )
fci+',t4lii:1,  1''   i  i  i '  :  l. }t tI   It7+ii iii t itl i     yiV  'lli'
1tli~     ' '" Ili'ii'       ii'  '1 li 'i'  )1  i i i  i,  li
°lit i1a;                    l .11y  It':iI  ,
.  'i         n'. ..i uo"'oii'     II1"  'l  IX
b ell  V t'  t  ' ~ t   t  s w '   i  i ' o t  lL' m  o+-i l    tti'I    'b o o ' -
jl   it  j  t:  : 't l  - i  V ' A'.l  (. "'A t~ t it  i'     t  t '  "    t  old  I  m ai' ,  l 1" l i  '
F'*t                in                Alat'1tll lox'  rooc
(   r~    '+ itiii I I 't i tiii"tlto lP iut:1"+)1 f  1tu " e,  ijic  ueroi; li'  xhsnt


TIlE COMANCIIE'S DREAM.

t
't
It

i
l
s
i
t
I

and the bill of sale for my girl, Lena, for six-
een IndI eeI doltars--signed by mie as John
tathbo(e, f St. Louis.  I had to wore Snomei
to get so iit a price, but I was afeared, if I
tyout gi low, tucy miight isspiiOn that al
win'it roht ! But Miss S ('lla took a likin' to
ou, Ciae you  imel so modest when I sent
e' xoi to eon' in the parlor and be looked
it, nidh I knew ftatall was right so long as
sec w,iutaeJvon !"
we a teriNet ordeal to be scrutinize I
by hhii who ies sworn to be mine forever !"
in Iimiid Ada. " T,'r'ibtle to be so near her
wihtmi II hit. in 1 ste the false traitor cast on
lher the hos of love which were mine-m ne
only.  lai it is pist, an,' hand is strong-
er, my wv   tre i dii'  fly, for it!"'
"i it red Idilian seemed to take at great
fancy to yoi-tis eves were on you all the
dune. 5
I nuotiCed his look, but there was more ofi
stusipicioni iii it ist   i ativaition for e. I aincv
he Iovet StS  la) 1 mei', i therefore must hate
1lt.  If he did not love her, he might be-
Com'7 myi0  iStit ; but as it is, he wonl be
the fiat to gual.t I her. I mut beware of
liiui. '
1"1' like to ha-e a dig at him-I know, now
wio it was that kilted San ly Spied' on the
night we  miale the at tick here
'"  o ii t not meie It towith iiim--iryou will
4         Itt5' ve 'ein h oi to (l+))to get me off, after my work
is Jdneot'"
Ti.i-an l I suppose" we had Iletter'
fay   ci lertoi I  ) ' lau nolw."
T'bi[o  wi it I tircte1 this meeting for.
Ilow mit  h ili if my itmoney have you  got
le ft "
Nih oni to twi  tlituandsu doll ws.''
i Iitt' s which arie left with your
fi'-ti Ioni ithi ttitni tick will be sife ?'
Then ini thn ioriiing go hack aod r -main
ti or' tonie I v.  (n the tenth night, from
i t';i'talyior, he witih both rii'tses in the
chn  ( of t rees oe iitle from here, which I
piel it to yu.    If I do io come to youn
woithmit t wo lours a'ter  idulighit-go away and!
eo   t hnextn iglt, anl so ateih night until I
o unt, tr y Ii ar fi'roni m"
W"ny do you put it o f so long, Miss
A al?"
To make all things sure -fir when I
tr 'e, I wil stritk home ! It will take me some
days  o    t licecon'iluce and learn hot'
wiy -lii the re t will hit easy !"
'to int so let trm ted as you, it will. You
thsiti to he at tin' h 'il of a hanl  You'd do
bir' ith    ihf h'e nmen we hear of!"
t'      '' 'tot u  n'w lkful  u d+'sfilre e--it  is  not
ri''"'  ir1'y to prolong the coifertnee. I will
st ;tial k to ti'' 'arter's-youm to or's ?"
A n Alh hurriied away with stealthy steps,
ar    te hote   to    liteiui
" l.1eackoa liI';?aoten I to a little business of

Y
E
'. R
f
}$
f
r
,
ro
a
E
s
a
i
y    N

my own, now !" said Malerson, to himself. " I
hardly know whether to slope with what funds
i've got from her, and leave this girl to her
luck or not! She's got so much spirit that I
like her-I wish she liked me as wll. She
should be my chief mate for life! I reckon I
eat get the note cashed somewhere with a fair
discount. And then with a couple of thousand
from Ilattie, which I'tm bound to have before
l sleep, I'd have over five thousand in hand---
quite a pile for me, if I had luck enough to
hol ; on to it."
White the ol man was thus running over
his dt ilish plans, he was retraciug his steps
toward the house. Pausing before one cornier,
lie regarded a light in an upper room, and
iiiutteried
She is there! I was lucky to lind out
that site slpt alone-it will make my job an
e sy one-lest she should get fig"ihtened and
scream. But if she does that, out will go her
tight foiever'. Old Jack Malerson has gone
too far to stick at trifles !"
So saying, lie crept quietly into the house.
CIIAPTEt XXIV.
Mrs. Delorme was in her sleeping apart.
meat, yet she had tot retired. Site wtS in her
itese, anI looked very beautitfutl, but yet
:a I was her expression. Site seemed to be
igrOsse(d iii thought, and verv often her v'o-
Intttuou  bosom  r:ose and fell with swelling
silhs. Suddenly site started from her seat by
the dressimg-table, nt wltict her lamp stood,
for sie distinctly hear I a light tap at her
'loo'.  She rose, then pausel, trembling,
tliiniking that her ear might live been d-
eeived.
V Ito can wish to see me at this late hour?"
she turmtured ti) herself.
'lie knock was repeated, louder, and with
impitoitice.
 Who is there ?" she asked, in a low tone,
is she approached the door.
"  pn quickly for your own sake-it is i~n.
portanut to you !" said some oie, in a low whisk.
per.
Startled so mtuch that she thought neither
of danger nor impropriety, she opened the
ioor.
To her terror, the supposed negro trader
entered, aind she would have sereamied aloud,
ha l not Malersoii cautioned her in his natural
voice,
"0 Heaven! John Malerseon, why do you
seek me here-will nothing short of my ruin
satisty your malice ?" site groaned.
" Yes, money-' IHat'-mone y ! That is all
I want, old girl! I sent by Paul for two thott,
saud dollars, and then thought l' come and
get it myself !" replied the brute, coarsely.
"I was received so badly when I c imc as tg
self, by all 'harids, that I thought I'd rit up a
little illf'ere:tt, so as tt be received better. It
sees to me I pass better as a nigger4radet

t'

-_


TELL A DELORME ; OIL,
thin I dii oyr or brother. The ol cove her bed, not to Bleep, 1ut to weep the night
-  anlt + 1 ot b bhrandy and igars like a gem- away.
mrtf1, to  . ii.'C                                   r  rl   1   .
"Ftr i .   ' 's:ka speak lower--f you        CHAPTER XXV.
are dl-o0vr d here it would be my ruin, your  " You are woilerfulyI handy mi aiisi sng in
death '                               my tOiltte, Lena,'' sai:t stella to her 11iW
' '1f fi4 V rv probable-the bast excee- waitittnlmud, some tiay s aftei she had got lioi.
in dyI+ +1';tlI s I 1ou  onl ha1ive to tel " I can never thank Iaul enoul1 for having
; a1  1-  w. r.-  l :O why I camehellr1e-"  l)r)e d1'i  YoU f"r "lot
'n.  -hu  ! L-ay what You have to say,  lI Steila D)elorie n1o1iced tih flashg of
in  a whi  .- and 1that q 'ikly, for  we  kn lO tlle  digmlsel  girl's  eyes, wheon  thi e  11nn1  of
not w his l, fI in tis 11)Use !" groanoIIi I Paul\ was mIt eno1nd, she would have been te'r-
the terril  1 41   tt unhappy aly.  rifled.
"\ Wi. e : 1)11' not (1il)OSedl'for a  litt   utl Lena's  he d  was tol rn+l't  away, an tlio
lov e-eIat aIbo ilu  obl  tim e 10s,  Ill  make  m y  buh1i-  + 11e ,It  tt 1   uIsyll'  ill i  gdi inLg  tile  tlonl tnt'r
net  4 hIoIr , I want that m1onlly. ."  vines  whieh  were  trin dl up  o er the winloW
1G 'o'1 shl'1h1:n t  to-morrouw  !"  easemnit.                 ..
" \h niot  niiht ?""ou see1 so readily to anhicipate niy
"1  1  011  , . i no  iln  mercy  leav  me,  ve'r  wi  tih at  I  live  I)thing  to  ao k " '.
an L 'O  0 "  ''101' 1 11111 ltIlt2otling   to biid vo1 1 t .  Xoti liim t lha lve lwait
i i.1'1c.  ut, mark iou, that money ons seinel ve'r1 )11 0 and+raicula' lady to have
pit b i im alni t+)-nmtlrrott before I av 1 earv, oined so wil.
- or i ii       1n frtwi'' ce the  1um1.''  Lena merely bowed 1her head, bt did iot
" (it1    'Let  ll lii  have  it.  If  there  is  speak.
merv  m1 y ur  , t', leav'e,  me!"|      "   01'Wer  di.1 you learn ?  otIltlned  Stoe la'.
N  t r-C n 0  +1 ld'1 the  door  to  lteave, lbut | "litNew  tOrleanis  li t -''eni."
attr ibialk l11 i ror, for thCre1if h't iill  " What 1n11e your ntrLi. 1Iart with soch a
0t' 1 1 i  1 I1 i a tomahawk 0u1 d inl  .asure15 asO Ill l e
hi  i a 1 hl                          111",sf  iins  I  a1      1101
+                                         )t )1''1 1  I Ianitk  a I Ix'nb  1  ttoI' 0)   'll til
S       n  t  n, ilfu re s  ort1Ie   1r11, 1 and   tunh  l,-"A hshte b1 Can p
a'"l 011 .'o, mist res     ! Vh iho a   id s  lo t :"t{
r,   i;  t z.M rs.   D Iilm , tuho ':w  want.dto) f 1lo  imti  o  puI:l om 12 - so). -
Wha:t  t   om  i 1  s1  ry - yout1musnt  t 11
akIlle I . . t   i i'  i  t I i t1 ' pal1f11:)eIsn1 )ll:in 'likt a  tiito Iii', ' ) It -  1  til  1111e'
t t  1  1  . , )' 1 1 .        :          4 t'tni'i-Il'+
.h      b   . t'l I  cile tobin i m I if "  1 ' 11,,0  1 f  t
I "rt                        1 tl   Veila yf  r11a11  1 11 -1111 .  1
i  I I '  no5ltt tI   -mae-t nCno .i t he -t  ha "till'1 tl ForIIn'S.  inM r 11 1!" 1)0   r' n! l 10  1an1 a Iltlh
1 t'          1+'            u l n -s to llwa s er  i ill h l s  nr+  n  s-h'  art  wf  a  lady
-1 ,01 P'   I clo k S e dor, laan e  itf    "*,.lt'f' tstil i r 1 l t i   l11
Uis  I II c ' 1  +  it wh o 1   of  e ns  tllmet hes I fal , ufo  "  s \\ ha dot os than  m m ? aato lii
1lt  +t'  t  A  4  .. 11ll  ks  or the armes  of Lthe  surptri -
I +  i  ! ,  tatV  one  rmoment whils' I  rntk -IFti l Sap n:--1led'IapS  t  I1"a  " :t
it i ulisera  ' tr lady1 , asts ht'' ie' saw  i th  tsr  i  tl ty.  lI
n'yt    a    'ra ', a  polt[r  h i  o (Tt  tit_  tl.rp  pitII +n  i lt11a  11b 1 h  n e tie  tlt
l)It  h  t.  , -  t.ai  i  iot a riht  fttr himt to  '  t blood  1s  dr"N1  n'"  iit" 10 i  et  I'""  t
b t)  i+tt - u  i- lk e of another  I1nn-  Vt i' l oo I;kini'; 2t1 n 'u t  ,r,  and  unen t ti
1t;It   I sI '1111the )yount  C  mn chet'it,  Caim  + of wht  appear'i   1 to  lne Such  ita sngliir
"Gi))not t h  eethat I called hhnmlhere !  I  "+1  -it umay have' h  niifatlso to  O  s ate
at       A h',ad f rhm osegt d         ndl Go1I has l iltr Ihed11,"sud ~the di4 9 IO.'
T lw  -l   onld ' t 11know  no fear !" sil a o-  girb
gone~~~~ W"Ihat t  fr in, c reature you are, Lena 1so
"  ,  °           ftem r ' in l  ! 1",A d' Pl  bl.i  frill f"1sinpular  ide e n--i11hil'  Iike  your  lan-l"
h n    he  rat Spirit I Ibeg'youinot to  g'i+ ,-r  are su5 wner I t io y .e  d ottn'  . ,
'      r    -++    t is i"  ,yFr            ci tlil  nk ysar+god n'     '
"tI~iva 0  + 'itie-harvI r . ')ThatSyiraftheimi'ress  My  kra  n ,  2t Cgiwas  titan1 e!t tt)4
tsIit 'r+      theId   a ha  tHy;    e,  dI  ean   a     d dof
i                     loweletoul  thea the la    o a   7
D'  l trmti, closl  her  door11, locked _ it v,  wherol t hereid   arn  i; th itFlnds t 1crit'r."  er
{ ~~t ik n ta.ony of tears threw hors. If upon wotrdls and looks and actions I"

THE COMANCH1'S DREAM.                                    7
" True ! You have had a good teacher, some very singular ideas! I asked in jest,
Lena. Your own skill and grace prove t11t. what kind of a dress wo sid suit me for i
Your figure is fine, your hand and foot smaller bridal. What do you think her answer was a
than myr  11y own, your voice musical, your eyes  " I am  not good at guessing-pray, tell
beautiful-oh ! if you were not colored, I me 1"
Shoulhl suffr in ConIlplirison with you."    " She said, ' 3lackP  I asked her why-
" A gl/et -"                             she seemed confused, and hesitated. I pressed
Tie ee's of Lena fished wildly as she com- her for an. answer, and she r, plied, ' Because
meee1to sTeak, but in ia secoill she checked  in marriage I would lose my freedono!'
herself. and tie thtuht she had been about   " Not so singular an idea, after all-per-
to uter reilaeilelei unspokeil.        haps she is becoming tired of her bondage,
"1et /hat, LIt 11 D1o not lie afraid to  and sighing for freedom, she uttered that ex-
r2101 r011y utiought:. I 11alw the ftlllil i-ity, Iression as a hint of her feelings."
hI'eau't I fel tht y'ou will 11ot abuse it.  " Noo-I think not; for when, a short time
Wlatiere you gwo:ing To sty i'  -before, I asked her if she was contented with
I 11have forgitltin. liii-tress. There is Mas- her place, she said yes, and hoped that only
ter Pa:ul in tie orange watlk, beckoning to DJeathwould cause her to be separated from
\1!' ' 12                                 me!',
" Ah y(s. 1 \ e I l&amp;Ohimret me--  mLe 11y hat and  " Iknow another who echoes the same
scarf-- will go anisil jin hunti."        wish!"
f. Lii-oh, y te d thle c 'rer. Ste'la p~ut on the    " ' Another?''
'11'1   and 104 11  r ou:"l 1 t.   'iten the pent up  " Yes, dear Stella, and that other is my-
Pa ii 1of Ada MeAl in l11urst forth-then, self! Until lately I have had no hope innmy
th miomIi 111h11n. sh1111t-Ie wa'l 1alon1'.  heart, and I tried and succeeded in feeling in-
SIts, IoI to ii-'t liull !' she11 1hissed betw t en  different toward you. But hope has entered
br I h:l 1    p 1t'. " T+s "lat sh sweet words to m1y bosom, and 1lhave dared to love you-
hiilt wiil  vonu 1111y. fit' your time is short! you who so far, so very far my superior in
One day miore, nd! red-banldedi: death will everything-in beauty, in intelligence, in for-
clu vII o1 flor a vitim. 11ha1k heaven for tunel!' '
t hIto'n tof I;111s day1-t1e lird and11 the flower  " Love is the most powerful democrat on
-ir bv it I kumvwI shall succeed!   And  earth-an utter leveler!" sail Stella with at
4          t e- u shall I li IAnlith 01011irevenge N? N.o--no smile. "Ite knows no rank, title, or power
--o  ! -1 [is iehery will not he half punish- but his own. Hle ends the heart of the prince
e I il her lie ah. i . imtst he poor, wretched, down at the feet of the peasant maid-he lifts
iin evry wy wet itl~able- so mi trale that hie the cottage angel to the throne!"
wit ;h hte'f:, nd yet n1ott r1e to die. Then,  " And you will bid me hope, Stella, dear
t'u i iom1  t kn iw w111 lto brought his miser', Stella ?"
and ftl'or wh it was don1'Ie. When that hour  " I did not say so, Paul. This matter is
ar1' + 5I "   - ci 0l+"1on1ni'l.      new to me, and requires consideration. I
" ti! . '1    lok+ n t  +, ;eth lem, thuts! lHe imutst study my own Heart--ask it what it
1111' +e" l-us : i--h  tPes it---they walk feels, before I can reply to you. But I ca11
cd I 11 '   It fI orte11ft   rb'i or1, tl'hI" 'Iwhere they uwill say at toC', that off late I have learned to aid
si 11-o Ito't's.  ly brahintii is ont fire-ily heart Ir1e and respect your good qualities."
wr    Is"urst- Il nut wi! Un111it yes-pa-  " Admiration andiil respot are surely the
', to iim+o'OW wil l b111111 tile tt01111 lniglt-  heralds of approaching love," said Paul.
till- mIn wd1 be1 ) 11111out., and so will the/y / Pa-  " You a e growing verypl)oeteil," said
ti+netrt, Adat-p'atjice, one day more an-1 ven- Stelia, smiinig.
g      a0 1istin''                          " Vith such a subject rts you'oelf before
Wit h' a ureat effortt, A da erhnedl the tumult-  mer, how Could I hie else ?"
n    I ot 0a t If her passills ti turned w iv from  " Arid flattering, also," she said, more
th+ "sii1het w 1 1ib so maidenel her, al'ibusied  grav-ly.
ltrseiiil noe' little oelenpattont Vhicth her  " I(Iltimeat 1no flattery, dear Stella."
un1ilres 1hadl1a a-ignild her." We1---weh, Paul, P11 not accurse you of it
butI lt us drop this subject of love until
CIHA PTEt XXVI.               to-morrow night--a day's thought will teach
:llow do vou  lle your new' attenid11nt, 11e how my heart feels towa'tlyou, and you
St la '' 1 .ask+l Pall, wnh:, enI Miss Delorie10 shall not accuse me of a lack of canlor !"
joti': I him 1iiith ol lirange-grove.         I accede to your, wish, dear Stella--of
Oth, very, veriy iici, Paul. I never 'tn  1wht shall we speak ?"
th nik youto nOiloutd for the present. She re-  " Of that poor Lagona. I pity him from
qimres no comand1is, anticipates  all my I my soul! IlIe has a wild idea, born from a
wh-}it-ini truth, seems to know better what'I dream, that I am destined to be his bride-a,
retire than I do myself. IIer taste in dress , thought which from my very soul I ahulddes,
is emIuIisIte-vou see how well she dresses rmy  at, though he is brave and noble, and ba
oair and1 arranges my toilet. Yet she has saved my life. 'I cannot forget that by nature

:i
.
;$ ,
;  $ f .

111
I    -

f

i


.
°z   =
;#
.a
,
e
t _-
°
_
 r
tp
}
4
Tc  t  '
k
3    n  ,
d
4 _
'g
M

b8                       STELLA DELORME; OR,
he is a bloE-stained, blood-loving heathen Stella rit in a closc-twined bowe"r borlered a
ttd ~ avi~. !                around  by l' the  ttlick-g'On'li orngul r- ove, at-
' I z 'love you, dear Stella, that I w. uld though during the eal lurs of exemnig tho
b. w iy lwad ti anyxttig w hi ch woul1 acet1 - soigs of :ieg'oes it thr quarter,, i iid the
rit' 2/oCur hp1i111neSi , 110n at te' how  it Itflectid  muicll  of  the  rude  lIljo  to  ntlijehi  they
aI  wn- buXI  it ml tiut Ii, rith ' tlan s yu h3 0i 1 ,3 dantlc'd, aitd  bee.n 1ttatrd  di1ind'V.
'idl«, I woIul see you deked for the grave.  And the faceof utiliig MI-rIIn goSd
ILow cunt '1lpttuiVd he spiak; of iy auut, with a pullr a1d her1' light talii n4 o ive
Lw sonfouly of nil eqiuaWs, asli he trsevii C si' een ojiIm it lore, as hlie sat tere, In-
t)                             I rt.  l- -- rbuked--oneH ii  I wied  iroumel ert    'elmei'
Yet never in word or look has lie shown waist, the other hand cisle i ' her one, and
ern, or a'iv other fe:.-ing but the ,h e'gtt.  bis e yes cooking fondly don in het urnued
revr 'ne', f1 min.  Aheiver  Cain  1 for  t  fice.-
how.' noblle  andlh ivatlric, how  utte'rly  dea hi-  " U  Stel1a, to  hat~r you  say  that yen nll
1t1  len  m i  :iCtIOU n n eseuing  mno'trom  hie  he my own--my 'fond  tand lhoc iu  wh', is to
L  's (n  1.oth  oedeCCeCi .  And, wli hen  I wia' s  uhllll  llIll si .  It seems as IS iI  1 iL  es ie n
ln   w  th  bIii on tile rlairiI, not  n \l~1t'nyour-  i  ain'ti hll.  Sj1)til atloec  dI X  II word  agino,
self. Pattiu  could be  rie r11 . epjtful th:ui he:'"  dear. dear Stel a
"A i  , tela:"'  sai I  I il it mo 1 Iuinfulh  tiwh lnl"' ub  ai  yournow andlfore
he  n  ,'t   l '  ''lntluia   llalv  sh 11 i . l l i h.   m urmi'  ri I'n I X '1 1 ' ' i
', i't .                       'iillie1  lit lg  te IiS  i' andoitilt 'sprai i s
i , aof  L 'l la 4 r l l y1ar, iit''t i .   Ihat t  b n td s t t ,
) a X                  iii  u i m r y d it liti   ul 4r m-.tie h;n  a  ru ,  lia   f a  i t   weefi t    tudi
Ipr.  te'e::, t  --i  p,;ace  there  fttr  h lta)e  ,t:'."  cautsedit hot Ibto sOtrt to  t heir it' t
Pa '"ul  you  do  rme  vwronel' " i   a lIia,  " iur v there' can  1Ie'no  se'rlpents  here -
q id.uk v.  1 i10 r  fail I[himt- no iim1 l,'." n e! a   r s n  "-li'ni i
11t ' 4 44   i i 1 I 1  1 1   '  " d.'         '.
'(/itude 0 a una brot .(r to Love," said  ha;n tint lt'1 itll 1"b1t:sof if, thugl ~y?~i  r'tii  ln  h  ie  n  i  h taii-I'
oPa'l, you  ton'rr r ly  in itiI  i  said  St' 'a-
TF ,-   ir  :,.)  t.1 tt"' tuune  bhtot,1  G'rO  fl  '« t "  i rl . sitnifty lihave '''i n t a t  , -- ]  u~
14u  .m 2 i  IX ra 4 y  1' If,  II or  r1  I r   1f /s"  1   ""111 X  ' ilI I. II14  -  Ii'.  1 ' Ii i
t.11      "I          h i 'u      "i  ta Ia   a        sa d"  "a "  --
,        m ,i  n i"               IIi.It""'  4.1 tt' f'"I')l1i  I a. i '   rtni l i " i t'g   e lin
('                                                               l"
I ,n                 dt t.       ,   '   l    ri  l ' --  hi t  ,1   I  ' i f
1.ti t h+'t ilt I'+ '  '  4  1 44.       4  ji  o  ii  t  '  )ii : "  o ' o  ' -:XI 1111i 1t1'ht'   I-';t  4l11 1t'  n
iZ m . 1.. t  ,   :"  'ii  t nt  I  t  -1;  , Is1 I'.i 1-0 '' 1  i-  tt'  so tiXli '   11 mih11 1-
'  i     "ti   '   1 d  . 1  I S 11 1  1'  t1 1a' 1) '  1:d :  if l l ' it)'  io il l SO
h  b  e   b ',' .n3.b-:t t' as  t, Irt'a'  -i till!  n" I.U tt.,ii p.ltt.' .1hilrl e  ort, tIo  I+b  e  a  n
p a  ,  t          b'w t'b+            z ' aii  itl  .  t. rand  wm truck he phiias  a  a
t.,            iie a d t  e  _1- t Ar  t "    e i  ;i'ia m:'
1. 1  '  .  ,  i0'jt  t."            A li, a - s te"'sp"itt l't  c ;u-'l ;;2Ilt   il
l  "  l"  t. i  S t:t.,1if m l tt it  b  a  y  ed ai  i' n ri  em' 'ttt. s ii  Il n iiM 1  'itin  ttin
i1     w ri t'to -:"  r            k r. m' i  h   n  nun  ngatlto: t  tm  u 'td it'tl  t
t' t' th":e i  'i " l  it  ''tr 1la  t  ,  1 b t t  t Inot  i' lit tun tl  h
:  :r  . t "  , t t"'' l a
he  t .kand ptr- ti,' ed  dstta-o,-ihiiiit .t's"   a" I  tt' """  o  .di  n
l    ;w a"'tl-b ta : In ,e  1 }   '   .', 1b r'ih-     hhlt  t  .td a u  \ t-t.  .  .) ,
r  n       e d l  "  y. .     "  "           n.   1"-'"  " c  .'"-
b't d  w  1i+ t      ;e1 ."~t,   t  o iithe  s '    tti  t a  lot' ,iiw"--e
lets' lb tn: bLof  the', reezeiio          'en' fmtit+' iii'\i"'  "tt""t '  ""
.h  n                       - nen' thyt werIit ' l r,  htl  it  ua tt   ontrwIlnhith a ic
t . , 'i .:  u  erePl  Malerson . tt  S and  a warn ior  t  lt''t' . e n "  ad lginafamdtty.  hic

TIlE COMANCh E'S DREA.                                89
then, in spite of his aissutiied strengtli, he sunk  than two males, if so fcn', from  the plantatior
to the gIlroiun.                            of Virian D)elorme. Two splendid horse-
Nei 1.1'"did i woman over a lover, or sister one with a side-saddle uptlon it-stood tied
over a dying iothir, bend imore tearfully, close at hand. Ite carried a rifle,'and a knife
nxiuvii\uJ a111d t eideri'ly than did Stella De- and pistols were in his belt. Taking a watch
hilm' iIX'or hagola th'n. She tore an azure  froni his j ock.et, he looked at it, and imuttered
scarf fromi hIII 11wn fair nieck and with it "It is only twelve ; twXo hours to wait yeti 11
soug1illt, nIt valiyi to steli tli ebliiig tide wish I was closer, so t-hat, if there was a fuss,
of life-to cek the tei'iiile flow froin the  I might hear it ! I'm more than half inclined
ghastly    wound.                           to go and leave the girl to get out of her own
" i1t 14 til, anll go to the lhalpiy hunting- scrapes. I'e a full pocket now. If it wasn't
jirouinis wtliile the siIle of thie 'iite Flower is for one thing, I would. I've been just fool
on IIy 1fac'.,1 n my heat is wari under iher  enough to fall in love with the beauty myself.
to'" 1i a':i  il baIriLgtigoimfiitlyil.  Whew 1Time goes awful slow-I'll see if I
Lut it waI ii 't s' to et  Pa.ul aided first can't grease his wingsa a hit,"
iU slh Ij ei wou 11410 tid. and t hen ihurried to  To do so, the old villain drew a pask of
the houeill an111 io 'rlit help to bear the brave, brandy from his pocket, and took a lengthy
'tR'-harte11  uo'r1X i"P1'n.               draught therefromn.
Aftthitis w 414s- lone anid Paul had told how  "'Them are the drafts I'm always enpable of
.nd byX h mtt i he w.11'tXilouid.wasg ghIen, search  honoring," lie inutteied, as he replaced the
wai11'I' l'lv elr fi tdll''I(isUisei'd "Lena"  flask in his pocket. " No one can liquidate
-Ada~ Mc .Xlp.in. I1i t the sea'ehlic  1 irmade  them with a letter grace thanold Jack Maler,
in vaini1 -not even a trace of her could be  son, if he does say it himself."
found.                                        This sage conclusion delivered, the captain
.'   oo aiti ii ,tSti was dienigaged, Paul took a pipe from b pocket, filled and lighted
dr1w hltier asidI and, witloiiut concealing a  it; .then, sitting down with his back against
sillI'. fact. rev, - althalt hthad ever occured  the trunk of a tree, resigned himself to eons-
1t uI CtItie n  11 i i t'lull A d ia--told  of a cuiinection  fort.
ftniled up11iio1'  foolih paion, aid ilot upon  Fiii' so lon' as the toluacco in his ipe lasted,
lti ', whliich I e had  on' to h'r  d broken he did not riove, but watched the lazy clouds
t   1h' m niii  t at hillie feltil aitce onm ft ' lherself. of sioke which curled and whirled up between
teli li-Iene-I' tI h4 iiin quietly,  I ihe had  him and the sky. But when the pipae; trvi
toild ilt.  WIhen 1( hesaid, geitiv:    out, he rose and again took ott his 1u  to
".iish  411 hadl told till this before, Taul." inosten the wings of Time. He nac iust ras
" Wi. Xub'liil 1you lave i ittiheld the love ed( it to his lips, when he :eurd a rIstlirnu  .
frion aIl Xiii  c i  ilon havengivent '" he asked, the htsies, antt c next moment. Ada MAl.
ii I tle'I'1i d for irai' ni - wer1pin. pmO, ai14st Litatle with the rapidity ' cr5-
No, diar Patul--I should tinot-ut there  ihgti'. stiiggered imto the circle of 1ilit "rae
should bei n Iocii'ealtiiii ['Isween those who by &amp;ne fire.
love.   I   ev'' X' ' ' itll1144 1'of )istrust, and  (ive me that--Iam faintir.g she gasped,
i         1t44u.,t 1 'I- lu  t 414o1n of love!"  Stitchinag the task from .s hand, and apply.
lin futur'. ei Ial hav1a no o'ccasion to lag it to her 'Wv Ep.
b li'n in Ili;it, ;ht," lisl 10a1l.        She fit- a draught of the fiery liquor,
iin(  . .y 4   1.e iin uh'I wII be ihe case, Whilc, soeied  revive her, and then she hand-
itar' i L'   I i t '    e tie subect-do    ed the flisk back to Malerson, who re-linked
yinu' uik tiha+ ,"' ' v :'swoun iti  mid~ral :?"  the drink that her appearance had interrupted.
") ill n'e'r+  Lu, I  miiortal, tlhe pianctation  After doing so, he asked:
1   a41'. vs" '"Whatnews, my little lady-what news?
o' illvi !    iT  is thibird time that the  have you fixed the job for the lily-faeod
nilbb-. fl h l i-kIl his life to save mine. datuglit r of DIilirme ?'
I)-n't 1   uis, 11i11'',Paul- I ye't'rlay p'int'd  "' No-accui'se 1 fortune, no ! My blow was
out the .11 if.'n~' bv+' 1 ' n g11rai'iltituide aiid love  well aimed for itir heart, my arm  full o:
-I .ii ''r.ieful, o'uindi iinr.eila limt were it in  strength, Lit that 11Im an, Lagona, who must
my1' It+1e'. buit nit wit iiiiy love. That, Paul, have watched and ifollowld me so silently that
is yin'-ur ali VimiI only."               I heard hit not, threw himself before ler, aid
1       lhl ul, 'elh blss--115 you ! I  1111ou Itshal berecei'eihcd the blow which woldti have killed her..
the 'lInt 1f a life-time in ie to be worthy if I would have shot her, but Paul wrenched the
you.                                        pistol from ry hand, and I was forced to fly."
There' '-'-L kis, dear Paul, andI will retire  " Did you kill the Indian?"
to rest, if I can s1lfep atr such i a fearful night  " I neither know nor care ;lie was not my
of event." .                               gamie."
"I hope you did, j1 st to avenge Sandy Spi.
CII AiTEIR XXVII.               cr l'1ie was the best nman I had - ;m  ' right
JIn Malerson stood by a stiiall fire, which  bower' in everything. But what will you de
he had lighted in a close thicket, not more  now, Miss Ada~?"

I

I

If

1'


1"

it,
}
3{
2
r      ,
Y
L
a
s
S
a

TIIE COMANCIIE'S DREAM,

11
i
ta
is
81
t
ii
rf

41

STELLA DELORME , OTt,
"First remo ve thos e stans from  my face and  the ha nrsoi. hBaf-u i htI . eleZ nti -rrv
nir, reni  my n: e  and station, an  itt  to  oftineIt itigar -.But thes baulit clatle-ioo-
at ,  lv d   e   .   w 1 :1'tl l  i t  (   m y t   s i i flev a 'n i h I  t h e  i i r  ' w  f rt e  a  d(   t o - -  l l u   i n  a  w a v y  n s  
ti n  t y n .,.''   to   e,  a sl  u i r  ci id is-  dow n  about  the  neck  and  shou ldirs,  p o i m eii d
Ii') ; ib Ie  C to I t  a-Irp 'c 'ns  me  linge  tthe rtier to be a woman, ant d a very beaulitfil
restnd  iti  have clo1d' ted  that in which  I  one
oI o  m i ti   li h v mt t hat  m wh e E ve n if   ins   " H ave  w e  m et  before,  L taoiia,  C hief  of  the
di  it  mn thi.   hr e  nis h  a  babe  at  her  in-  C on an hti s  ''   a skecd  t h  rtran '  r.
a  n  i e  m  h  '"  , t b e      'I I h  littian  re gi ard ed t h er  w ith  a  enha ,  c lo se
t   A  ;?. if  t)1il  li oten  to me, I'll put  scrutiny foir a few  momntof, and then sl d:
0   i   (i   fttiti n 'jolsoure "   'V \ehave !  L  a iever  frg is aneye
u i t  a   w '"u  'f t  a ta d bh e y quick ,  f ir  w e  th at  l w' h1s  lo aked  ti on." ti.'
"ttt Stwt1+;l rt  lan m  me ,ot r.  .onik       teot e,
m t  on  a v  h ' ..'  'ltiyt   in  " Ihe'e,  -said  the  Inmid n, p1int iI  toward
' art  o  a yr uo u'   yti n on  the  land  i f  La  LI)  duet  FII lor s.  V W hy  dines  t  e  qulatY
gard  t pr r  iy: t  jot '1itiot,1)0  tinie ,an l lt ii':-  of i  a1ri'r
ict  I am ' ca t-n, whih  ytnume s  f =  t Fr tie  prpoc  of restie.  Can I not
id wegilld i'  or m i  t t- -  come m yv xvwi  ,  sik 1he bl w at ith lwarir - '"r+'pi  A  Idea i Al ,li
on  e  is  C i i  v  r.   t lat  tlv t'   ,'iV,  M iss  for  h'  it  w ts.
o ur-s  is  c ari ' n  a l i ii  h  cu r ' s ' o,"n  ai d   L g tnia,   aiirin t  his i b r ast  an dl
da-11'm.,an  +t '  :itti--vmy  +  t h llmin shmts  1 in th  e  ar 1of Ih s woundt   vett  i etntirely
ir r I'  i ..m itt  ix r 1'   h   it  I  will  e  no  hn -l' .  "  on  sti ti k  Lagoon ,  an l  yet  ho
tan'ti+ " t-ti I}' It ' ii-'t' t  i  i'  ithi ~i)
n.  t ' it I  t y  r 21   " "Tiii h-ttiit.''H itt 1 t1  c1 d  a n o t  strike e  at  yo u -- y o u  th rew
i  t.A  - i tin  l' a t i i i,,tl in  I l I 0eV. h
ati t  iti  'ii   't ota, oi aan  is' allt  NV V ' n Ati   -'\Vhit F W ' F  w e,"  sa  cLa
tON  lo l iI   1'i  oti   hul t  ti  ii t  n- i+iit'(f  t it'Ir ii  h
o twns  it  t i  :   hoW
t  r  wit -         lr i        a         u si. i  ' i  li  '-  il h htil i ha   a  by  ei
4u  orsI n  i 1      "I  "".                     ','ribra1i    wasi
1lltc - i  --   'i a   li t on  il  i ih    m .  t   I  i a t  tol  they
t  atf it; '       lei              lit '   Ii  iii'so,  liutl 1   ('1  t lddolo-
T h i ie lt W  'l tti  n          htj1lati elf; i tttVa iit iasf' c a  poe ( hr t ey'sti h d , o herC -
E k st_  n' i'ttft 't,  '  .I-t,1an.niar+u nii - +i' ned  unit+i  i  her whohi - t~lt'figure t'seeomed t to
a  ine                       I     ',t'' 'Pm nt. 'Ther was'atlook'of'
i  'f "=t dax m'- ! i t 't i  Ii   i ne11 (00' 1 0 ,i'ti  tint ' ti lt 11 l'CI'  i  'S ii  1, ati  (' sa id io   a
1      tr'td-L',n ; a  +.hesaid                            -
a They th  rei   tip'' i. 'a  d  an w  tr  e 'irt'-Yi  un  t  'tilt het'art (of a  warri'or  in  the
w  t nad w 1 re  M Ih tll '' t- 'i" .   t ll'r in1 'Ih t   iooiiie d
fr~i ohI i!li. .t.
hadt been'.t'                      ntil hn111t. the  W hit F1-'ower.  If
-iin  tii'ti C  ttZt t I -  agaiI hroiinIhd  ple   ivth  Lotg  aucki
i OI  tb     fa '  " t  ,a.,l- ta til   r x  ix i  bit oL o i  d o   h .1  -Ii I   n oiII'   ha r m  ;iii'   I  i  aliei l i a  i m" ail
nur1C 1  mif'  - to tis td+'  ttd  lvI.   tli Dr lam slom  fri m  the  Gr. iadit
hand hid br iiie i  wtt in ti   wet'li  pthe a tndeheit'
de jJt p v l  hun a rt           '  'l l.in      ourh a-a nd they
11  uti  '+' tt.t    'ta  Ie r  t a  a t  ihia;f t  'l  tvm !rt  me  n ht a ttthile  an  el told  her
a t ~ f  i h.-                      ,-n
rite whtfo 't+'--  h.lbe b  lt  ok- 1  tl1ti,  'i  Itlthhade  m notoham t heIn lomh
t't  llt3isV  ii .:t.'  i "ti f l  hans d'f Saman  vw t-fi""t ts "  etnatSpir  i a t o n or ered.
Oce  lnwre.l 1lli  ttie  n n  t l('  I  -'' t''t wo'  1  rdls 11pon11Lagopna was
OnetdaLc"oesa n',T.                                b~dmom   d
b.r  it tL  t v  ."  r 3 ,  1} and tt w s lln  1  -- +l  not  i  i 't11hd  aled  w ith  long stek-
forte  h i t l  :++'.at degsre f  3ltt'((t' r'~t o ;iti for s me  on  ndins in re'-ardl to dreams5isi
'it l Ti.  !'  1=t u   1 wh c Io  teat  (n51ride 'of  ne .f at' rsom  1iia  icadm: itC t'nL or
'e rsatiton.1118    1h\' i   u l  rmed ,  't t   enee ' It w~v the  a   a e tt  )1i  'lti  lnu'ln-
ins l i ngiii; n' i ch  trt t'4was''..--   wbodos not hEedl, de    ra rdtLtt  S  °.tt-
R  t  h   -"'tban]ev lv g, trao            hn   be  vr  t eGra  p:
SuC n o lou, t I t - It  :!'  t iund oubitced !y reliablle  rn  t '  : '. sewith them  (htethien, as they are termed'
"tyjon lat tue t' : ,- -im costuuen  urem   i Icantos  b;,

ness ; his  'e flashed as if it looked upon a
hnhild  his noistrits dilated, and his framec
Sw, Le-. as :f nit i new vigor.
h  e'  yiv sisterI hi p tue ?" he asked,
'li taNe't brave men at my hack, and
plti" of iotie\," sid Ala, proudly,
" Wiire vu' Iitcount one warrior, Lago-
ia e itt cuinitl half a thousand," said the chief,
rily:  .  "ip  But I have promised the ptale-
l e'i fi n ot, to  .steal  his titrght'-r  while  I
(iwi'll i (it iin is I lodge. lie has promised to
give    t its nephew for a wife, and in two
aysiLuist see it, or go away," he added,
Iiumrnli  l y."
"You ne~ited not while you are under his
roof," said tle w   rilygirl. " Leave there, now;
say to-day that vrit heart is too heavy to stay,
n ti i [11 t , i  il not go tick to your tribe.
Itflits ; linii, Iwhen ntllight comes, with my
4          luav-s Itii Iwiiake ian attack at the gate, which
xini dran- to ' ae tcntioin of the men from the
honi-; then'i yon cani takc her from her chamn-
hetr, an.1 d te with her to voori own land, and
the w il of t he (Great  Spirit will lbe done."
T1' '  io; -hief list-ned to her woids. and
lood it' i-euniest eyes if he would read
lit'ey  'il. Sie semtied so calh0, so good
miiherti' niiut, ts. andiheraduice Sowell ac-
co"il- i iiifits oidiie'isires, that he said
- My si ri' 'rpla ':t wordss of wisdoii ; they
e #ctru minthlie t re'at Spirit, intd LIgoa will
give  i'l to, h  m."
" It i i el -it my irate -brother go to the
eni nyiof hit:: id er and itlsee her braves, thtenhle
eii go ani Itaki-e leax e of his friends at the
iPi: '0 a ttIi"'ti   here, and to-ight he
an is Ihe rI-t, Spirit wills it should be
(11110t'.-
'I' -  "l e y  ":1 wi  thlout  hesitation ; and
Sti 'ni:ig  -bi'-', followed her into the dense
gt', c'.  b'tt' aT iinu -cr of a tunle or  tmre, they
i'i I' - ,iti briigit  the  underbrlu sh  whieii
rtu'b ioiing thgiltrgeat trees, ind thea
y li- v    ne mitltivmi'' etl into a small grassy
ar 'teint'ti'i  clea:' of i tlabher, where the camp-
lir-s of A la's friiitVt'ere seen, ittd where some
tlhit' im  eri  oi'iie1a-d, with their horses
icketel nai-. As Al waivis seen, they sprang
ti iiir f -ot, al J:l: Malerson;with an angry
Cuht'  m iskidd Ijupon Lagona-"whom he at once
rIlegilabiii,--as if lit' meatit to attack  Itii.
SNot t  wl. or  ian ill look," said Ada,
ste-ry.    Lagona is ty friend and brother-
r+ec-bt  hun a-i su--h."
Th1e n eii'altie-I Isilky, but Maleison in-
sttiniN ain l his loks tiand tone, and said
"A itn f' 'rii [I tofth' ulo-hle iof 111nr' hand is
our frwi-inh.  \t itare I'lcome, Chief of the
CuoniiCites. If you wi'i eat, here is good
tw'i-hef, that c'st us only the ki'iin  ; as
til cu-rn-b o-hgr-t as ever were bakel in the
lsi  ;a iiI if yiu ate thiusty, whly, here im
mgy lt in tisonic brandy that would wake up
,, la) in.

And lie oltere I his flask to prove his last as
section.
I an not Ii ngrv. When I am thirsty, I
drink that which the Great Spirit sends down
to me from heaven, not the accursed fire-wa-
ter of the pale-faces," said Lagona, haughtily;
fair he rtecogiized Malerson, even though not
now disgosed as before, and he hated hilm.
" Wed, every one to their taste-some like
water. but I go brandy whenever I can get it,"
said the captain, suiting the action to the word,
taking a hearty pull.
I will go to the lodge of the pale-faced chief,
and tell him I am going back to my people-
then I'll return lre," said Lagona, addressing
himself to Ada.
" And mind, no treachery, Mr. Comanche1"
said Maler'son.
'" 'it is the trade of the rale-factes ; I have
mot learned it," said Lagota, haughtily, as he
turned and rode away,
" You hail better he cautioushow you offend
thit man, Malerson," said Ada to the captain.
" Imibans never forgive."
"I know some white men who don't, either
but let us kno w what 15 ahead, NMiss Ada-for
by his actions I suppose you've formed some
" Yes, a plan is formed, or partially so-will
be entirely when he returns. Their you and
the mien shall know it'"
Thus saving, Ada dismounted ; and while
one of the Imen respectfully m1p)roached and
took charge of her horse, she walked to a
smal tent set apart from the main camp, and
entered it.
here'ss a girl for you, lads-a girl of spir-
it-knows how to ltlthfirst and execute af.er-
ward--is no imi ir afraid of blood than she is
of water. Iiere's ti he-a hialttLioi ADA,
Tai  QUiENor 'tF -iT  Frass Ri.sins! "  And
IMalerson atn iiikissed his constant tt icopijian-
ion, the brnditly-ihsk.
'Ie meni hv' their looks ani actions in imi.
tat imii  his  ltIIbhc ex-omipe, showed theirai -
preciattion of ha seinti iieit ;tid very likely
would have cheered, had not a noise been
strictly forbidden.
They were a rude-looking,- but well-armed,
band, 'well supplied with 'saddle and pack
horses, and, in their caiimp, made quite a mili-
tarys a'ppear~ance.
But we are wanted elsewhere.
CIIAPTER XXX.
" You surely do not mean what you-say-
you wilt not leave us now, when a clay of fes-
tivity is approaching ! " said Mr. Delormne to
Lagona, when the latter tol him, in the pres-
once of his family, that he was going back to
his tribe.
"I never eat my words ! I am  going hach
to my people I" said   Lagona, quietly but
firmly.
"Has t anVthing been done to offend you?'

t
ii g
gI,


yi
ri
-i Ia
z

TIHE COMANCHE'S DREAM.

S*                         STELLA DELORME; OR,
', "                                }lorme to Paul, as he sprung for nis weapons'
"    liyon not rem( n  if Ia-k y(u to stay ?" In a few monnts, the tower at the gate was
i 1 : t  irs, anx i   v.              fully rantnel, al a  shai )r tir  it ione  upint
- I h' 'l   :,rud 1Inihin's hlip  quive'"ed, nd  helit the ro r,i t N,  o had  cont~verted lsont,e  wagons
" tr    s    ihel   when  be smJ, m2a lor  an fu'1  inb -c, t w ~l i  l l t 'b n  1lef t   ls'1e  iI
t o -"  w                               t"n' .  'i  'i j't  iv in  bid   ci  ii   i ' ,  i
"' I1 iou i wi'  i to, 1t leao iveausti me                                 s pre-  con !h le security.  The  irin  wis  con-
Ilr  ' w  p .I '  fi-   r i~s  vfi i  n  Y iu inu t int  amned f onl mcr some thune, aipan ufttlg, wsih  i ivoy
i l' '111,1 [ Lan.'  i  tfr yi  r m  li 1 t . sii'3it tin tl Itontt'  riote time,  a itei  '  at v
imi, npty ianl Ie tioyour peopleIi !  aij  eI IW taniie ou tntbt r il if aue' 8nddtin
Mr.I' 11rt.                            lv, di'ii  a lull in  the iiin , a liee  ig  sei'vaitt
"I  h' run t  nithii:nT ;[ will  taet' nothing  wa t heart in file direction of ti  toUti ', an a
a,  a   , "r   1p id L ,:ian bmhe tt d to t '.  ni'ut itatr, a lond  and  tnidle   Tll fronm
"y tithi   y, at lhad"tsai .SlLa; ith ly il of anli indin-ftie Comiiancihe's wioop
an 1   t  k a g I  i aciiin  f:on  hr  nek,  of tra mi itda-voiefrmth"
andl o  3 it t  h'ii.                                                      .  -1  i !' itiuteia voieE' from  the
I will Ip it fir the Whit' Fl w+r-I viii rilbe' haul a het he to wel atn 'fins is
w -ar' 1U f.,rwit t'r,"  sti I h'.     tin isecoi1 stroke' from  Ada  JAt:l]n  lBe  oi
\    jit fii  i ntiin'," sa i i ttiaul  v one-  yeur qu it fir lnoltr-it nt  i e  !
ini '  a' dI  tifr  hint  a  h ai   mely  inhaf  !   ( I  rtella---it  is  St ifLs  cry!'
tjll,.                          -        tat~ rotaned  Paul  nt bl otlh h'  ant Mr. Deloiiet
pi t                                   ,,.                  .,
"' 0                       -,'r'ii  Ti' S' t -  a'.hi !' 1' d 01n ti the  iue, with  their at aumuo spiel.
S   . ilv ir]ii- ia liib urn  lipin hl hn h h e,  Niieitn y a rived  ie, ,t l' awas no-
'iii -         r  i   ft  ' tieiii mt  wh  r  to  le seen, anid  Mi'. 1ielori' lay  sense
, 1,  wi:. .t  tan"  h. r  non , ic  p  i .1
:oiit till o lu i.  M ()ln t:t i ts i n'bor ,  wt' b les  111+m11the  flour-.   . ,
(ii y tih  mr it-which l ieIiii-f a '  nr eit  t  it t e  Irntmit a  few  terurot' ttrnel n t deneties, they
l.i: . h  ri i l  a+ a yt i  at fuil  .  -  liartel, that whii- th  fin' ni-a-- tva i'o n ont at
S .       Iati° -   i '  h  t  " i-i M+ - ti' t' e in a',na  hahtm , almi ts  wi th  wii-paint,
i  Iin   t  ttI titlht Ii  ii'  Ie,  e t nt 1 ; :i ') ti+'iwith  hti'r, as  if  +ll"' 1  a f-cit  ontly 'a
g la  an  -no it  ii : i-   itu  dt  eN  1 it -t  iX'  i'm'p  -t hi  -  ,ie
t' t:' t  lo  i   l , is c  i Ito i w it l  iit  !l  ti o  iit- I itt' I ty I 1:i'  e  it  i ttI i-n ,tiN alt  th
t   r  ii a.t  tieg etfu , t s  it yu  a ' ' utthe oi il h i' ti tti't a lit' the
ti  '" , laa' ; s ~l dh re's  to  the dr untn':f 'r+eya  u
a  Ce hlie   t  h i  iim   vt o  it'r, r te in t  ' n   I he twit'  Iti het  and  li-ft   i' flit'' ii, iii  it ittret
I  th  a o i   I,(  i   nt  r  e n h ancod  iyhe  t t   the  I nit antt  h:    nit', i  a  rw ' t-
r t   '    4i l n  "          t  ,Ij  "  +it  ' t  I  ali 5.watt   it ' iii- litttd
w    a-'h  ,   t1  t  if 1,i n   lijip-irt'  aft' titI  hia a  'ichfIIth a r ut' t l t'   fi  m  t o  kt it r '  l er i
it1t+  "t':I.  a''  t';v  r I('t tstil(l  e rit,  Pau  i l M r  D  ' rme  horrid  N ek  to  the
to 't i w     ,i it   he r a '110  t to p  roaway ind  -li "ate ': but the  roileir, the mit O eti   h aliil  htl
hi'    ri ie  ' frt  , l i tlto ' w i m ti uthe  ha  ri '' i-  i 11 1 h   eni   h rti  l   lii t  byif l t   l iyt n ',  i n  iii'ttt'.
the ir  hatrts n fittallt tes,  and  r ide  away  at  fa ll  ) s ec  '
i ti i  oine .in itois rway,l nt  I  ould  lnesat r T   i fiattack Had's evident  V  nlyl bt flttt atwr e tof
1r   B it '  ile- t it en ioutgh  ihet i  a ts 'l+ a v le y i ft  i arnet  attenti i wfromn t h   l lt  ti etitic.   ct' a
t r i  i , i I  ai srl  iPal wi w ltii  ai wvt aif   tabnlieted-
a. te a t  mhtif the  opportumtyli d a ibeIci  a -  Thil  iax  ny'ofthef ' it r n loverwasi
1o o h n,                         tterly  111,1 eibab11l'.  Neither  oftut hemti  wou t
t 1  I, u.  t woll  reeneteyou, or perish  with  tt se  that the  nobleIL. gonta  hadlb)een hinm
,  i i 't1 ,Afltwnre m peri t," aii   mtPaut  Iilu  -   if e dFt'  hhir;the  sIrvn tsil had-not  ft t g
m     hiai r I  i y    t he  n bit ' flw a nid]itit    ri  mt t i'.s ei 1i hi -  nttiim i hefin am tt  :t ittt'hat'   s ; I it
ti h ii tI or ttto  mt  mren    ort cnate self. "Io  i I atras'tint'r fo rhiutii a
A                               il that Paul flt, all that It   re aded'l---all that
('IIAPITilt XXXT.t          was worse than the agonyt\ of dlethl to lilt--
It wi; nightnice  more, and a :llatsteil at was fjhse ~tthoght  t ith  he ws in  tit' power of
Lt ii 'hidecFlo1res.  It w.t  , iart the retninlg  A la McAlpmit, who would do anyttluntg, every-
horur of Mr'. Delormne  and  his  famtily, wht'en a  thinlg, to  hter, to  be' re'veng'ed on htimi, the' or.
s ti o1, or ltotk-ot~ir., hurried in fromr  te  w r  sworn  a fnd  fattihle'ss lover-.,
. v. r thef'  at", at l s ida ~i~l tha t at rmed  hand  otf  ," Lt a  to  htors', at oince, and follow them,"
who  ta  t- n 1I'. iovminuth br  rmth r u n it.  eraed Pail, swhen gall search ablout the 1prenu  a t
tenlLet'and 'the iu- iia1 d'ttnmu   led ahnilmot11. r,'snlted  m11 not  fitding even a trace of Stella
s t thep  te  a ind be~in  i'refug;d, were end avor-  cand  her aloctor- .
l  inen,! tArewt never to  be }l1at peat',-  im lt,  ij'+tt!  Wt  itie  n in  endag~r u .r  tle
n otcr  to1  r, ^t ? "  momed :,'iMr's. lornw+ftt(, iw  o  th' ve  and figenetrouts  Mcflllouigh ; his  skl
laIterly,  from at unr lilIi'VtISi  ,btan  se  h i  altone l    serve  tus.  lHt'can  abn ost  tr'ae  a
he  iilv wharintgr(tdown and l~  .,waspawnay. Isr'1.ntto speak of a b~auni of rolbbers ; an t
",  Toa  ,m  b a eh y-I can  ti'  't   iu aa It'md  fre  'tilt)'are nt'tet' ary'. to  nlettan
now !  Ilurry to  tlthe  et+', nd 'lI will  felitw  p mi,h  then  m' tal d Mi'  Delorme, .  I  will
iihl ill tfoCe I call brmg !" cried Mr. De-"-sendl a mieasenger for han."

i

it.                                         biting his lip, remained silent.
Upon ti' it'hrie  itr side was a snow-white horse,  "' My sister ean ride with me---no others.''
w      - too at ki i  auni, for ti' he  t'  said tIgail. Fonr days from now, strike the
tiwIt', u-h t t ha h.i' was iii Lagona's hand1111s. foiks of the Rio Peco; folloiv the right fork to
let it itn th to ri('t':tin ort itr'nategany  its source in thp iountains, and you will all
mlore ; for hoi pt'ha~t, alt the waird, lhe would not find Lagona th ere, with wari'ors enough to
harm hii', 0:u ii aiii ni instailit to ier hit.  dfend yt from a thousand pale-faces, if they
till c'las . g her in his  p e'rful- arm, he foil tw you so far
lagite- :Iiil) lIgii slift hor's'ei untdoie ita' at  I10i iai n uto uiore, but rode on with Ada-
its fill iI'll. In a lhout tiie, i reito'wl imtle, under the direction of Malersou, the
the searf tr1 0l overi eri iouth, minud gave her rest began to dive'ge.
more)10 fr''lom  to) br'+'' be.-                                   -
" Iot   i. aomi.L ai, wltitert' oll) ytmtoucarrv ue ?'TCIAPTEI XN XTiIl'
Wlit tb1i I ' iime finfrom my faither's h'use ?' Althoughi hurried by his ownlll ambitious
ihlt- uliuai.                               and noble nature, as well as by the waiirmtest
'". It tht' WhItite F V ltiw'rIt knows ine," ite eentreaties of Paul Malerson, it was aftem oon
mu    e. Thin he' Ita Ilded : "' No uttihairshill of the next day btfre Major McCullough
'it tb It  Aite FweI', Ilt tsthe musitt1lt he rehtitlued La  olIsai do Floreus ith his Rangers.
rti. \Wo'    enet' u-mi-metlt s  tint  mi ner.'' lart:tkin hastily of refrestt unents which Mr.
AutI, at  eint teir, sli  tmned thetr.iu  iuelormtiad provided, and killing their haver-
!if ii2iig hlie's jioiuiig thim, and hue r  a sacks with a cooked supply of food to last
rhtvo   t-iebs      touiifht hat 1amilen  three or four days, they mounted fresh horses,
upn 1hr tar hle--sat :                   atud dashed away ipoun the main trail of the
A trht, itms Ada ; ie's got ti 'girl."  rot)betrs-whlieh was easily found  tuvery dis-
Tllent 'i  i'tiiilh trle  -uf' be new tint Ada  tinet, After little more tbt ua oliit'sthard
Im' . wtit ha ltI alrtd s'41 otght l'r lif'e, was 'idhing, ther came to the forest whence Ada
conet-ried iii tits trai-osetitn. Ani s  ('tlsd  Meir Aipin had first rildien to utmeet Lagona.
hri 'a ,ti' mhie It-it I imany rt'iang  volices  uinto this, upon the broad track of many
Iir' it Iheri', it itt she ii'.a led t iook utioii the  horses, they uode, and soon came to where th'e
tpl vaer '1; andll, st-tautngei as it w1as, she felt a  baitd who mthicalled themselves the "Free Rin-
trueii-  in t-' l-ive hteart wht-ochi Ito 0oulil feel gers" hadi becu enencamped.
, iii1 0 iu0ut i irt nr tr ai1m n miiitt   t'h 'rong  "About thirty of them, and all white men
ai tht 0, he I-I thi-r, ta I tuoly feared those ----not an Indin sign about 1t camp," said
wito w a'ro't:'imun I  r'4i'.        . .  Majou' Melhull migh, afti r he hutd ridden arotuind,
Th pi liart r'od o  itfat full sp l fsior a disa- :I carefully looked at every mark which
tie, ti  then hatted in a foi'cst lo' consulta- t Iy hauld mode. "It must have been one o'
tioi.                                       tiem disguised as an Iudiatn, who carrietl the
" Whe the day comes, aiid our track can  lady off, while the rest were at the gate  that

" ivili be the messenger," said P aul.  " I
know the ourse to hs stiton ; rest 1 cannot
until Onee  ore I have found nit poor Stella,
dead or alive.''
t bless you, umty brave bovy.  A  father's
hope -a diears   with yon. llastn to bring
ti   imuers hetre ; reireshmetnts nand fresh
imrv-s tw ut thit:n. Go, Gd bless you, go !
Paul nee edt no urgian. It less thain ten
iits, l ttWa riding the swiftest horse, at
its full speedt' , upon his errand11,
(l 1APTERt XX XIU.
While' St -li nut i her step-mother were is-
t'ti  - '   ii m ni     1y of f a',  to  the  'fi g  it
thle gt e, uin poor girl was terror'-st ricken at
it eitpetlince of thie warrior described so
brimly ith l  rii ill'r\lotus eblailteri'. Ie tgavei er
Io  inae0t o te, or to   mk a juestitim ; but
boon hi lng to hier side, htted hecr, ilke a feather,
wah his left armi, aidtti' ted to th. uior,
wtoit h ire ae at a bound.
Lhe uts1r1d0a pieren e rei n  11; bu0)11,  i o11-
munt, lip  un l e.r seatrt across her mouth,
ii ith  hr fli-r, with rapid stridtes, to a1ispott
toy  ie  wa1'li.  '  neatii  a  trs-,-I to ,tI li ,y  a  r n oit
of this, hi.atded lu1s ;f tothe wattd ooer

';
I -.
i$i
{I
_I

be seenthe pale-faced chief will put the Rang
ers on our trail," said Lagona.
" Wlat had we best (lo? " asked Malerson,
T" Them Rangers are not to be trilled with s
They're born devils in a fight!"
"'We ought to scatter into many parties,
and go different ways. Then they must scat-
te', too, and will not know where we willmeet,"
said Lagona.
"'The words of the chief are wise,'' said
Adda. "Let his advice be followed. With
only one man, I will go with him; the rest
can scatter so as to meet at such point as ho
seems bestt"
"Leagona has heard his sister's words, but
lie vats no one to go with him. lie is most
safe alone,"-said the chief, quietly but firmly.
I will not take a tman with me, but will go
alone with yon," said Ada.
No ; our queen must not go alone," said
Malermon.
"She goes as she pleases, and when she
hpleases, Sr, tsaid Ada, sternlv. "If she i
vouri' queen, as you say, she requires no0 dicta-
-itn ; if she is not, she willleave you and bear
Malereon saw that he had gone toto fa', and

48

I
it
EI
I]

ja


STELLA DEL ORME; OR,
iP, unksF La "nmu  dii it hpiisgIf.  Ill Iswar MeAlpin, upon one almost as good, nid fat
th i    bai i  iCalm ped here-thre isn't a  lhislisbuv) miIirltICd. (in, mliig al (if the
n ix  I'C Cin  k uIk ii thI aid or alies, nor any  Ii r-t oiiglit-on, during all the succetdiog day,
ot!i .r                I''over the ocean-like prairie, dotted onli twre
a woluId ntbr11 VeCdonit 1" enidland there with i cluimps of trees--oni Lu:itl t Ec
lotli Mr.I D) Iiiiieand Piiml.          second night dreiw on, anl poor Stl'.a w:- si
i' is i n tl hefpmver of white wr'otehc i'ls, who  fiiit ain'd w'ea'y from being liefd in one psi..
wivilhe l-s- imere-iful than tihe  va- '!" graiied iion before the'untiring warioir, ihat shemur.alitin
the t:ir.                                 !ir+d faintly, if he did not iauie, that hiie
"TlhIn iwe've no timie t+ low,' si-itI the  muiist lie.
Iiarriti'i  tnr. "'It is so ling since      \Whet we get to water we vill hat,'' said
Ia-- e  en  loi riiii, that I've iot forgotten  Lagonai; and he pointed to a friniie of timelit'
it s cldr.'                               it far alhad, and urged his hrse to griter
iut iiY tiu ir nrt  oiitrule Ieatn. Upon i-p ed.
leavi tih i c I   e mp, they ftou ii li i ihe whole  Many timiiues during:.t the dv, Ada hul striven
Land had scattret til iintoi twos ln thli'ri-, to einaie the  o i' el it mn coivrationi,
tal diluiiri it co-ur s, (hveirt in every  mit miii naii.  carel . rept uin io l 'tci
tiieeion, the loni hIiapis of tlu-ir horses show-  tioiis in a rionosyllahe ihe   ol pere-s on,
iiig thait tiyv wer o btIi swift nil fie-h.  nor even turn to look upon her, as she follow-
lhi reals wire lhre at hat th:ee or ed minii is tail.
for days re-tmuig ad getting ri1ady- for tliheir  At last they re-ached the timber, and heard
work ,"imuttcredMcCuitl.u'li. They wouldn't  te genlle flow of riinniug watr-like child-
hav'Iii+ lai r.- that loitrn inl iscoiCclvre if any  hoolns stilkd naughiten, when the young play
of miV box  had b een acouol itng romuiil i this hidle-anl-seek in plaeiiit glrovs.
reion. 'There  iiit ha. lnii an old hanI  Aid there, in a tilock growth of tre(', by
with 'ei to imakve ' ciscatter so, to fool tleir the side of a siahl istreanm, Litgiun (iewt op his
piurstutrs. . Thits  Indian, iuit and out!'  hors-,manlmnsprmnmiIg to t le griounn, laid  ella
V liat shall we do, how tin1 which  artpar  gietiy upon a ti owery bank leteath a large
have ear ried ,ir Stilta away y" asked 'aimiL  tree a Inlmwhile the twoiI oires wire iimnem i
We must hvile and ttilow caci trail. their thirst and coming their limbis iii the
They 've protiably aereeidini onii  mee iti . stnream i , I roghit Sitetla water in Ihis  I nlho-
lace -and liy fillowinig up their trails, well  rn iuntitig-cup - u lii-li  nd axvr hen
overhaul  the iin titn .  1it. i  my  linioni,  fill I  with  i ore  imi aef u   l  liid.
tlis5 going to be a   u lon-eiai,. Thie x     h. i( unha the red-ien- toiii u-iay ony drank
woretd toio syvi-teiittie for greii i:id !"  thei  f ci gift of their (reat  at t r froiim t-ha-
\W il litas on -each iimiiment of our delav  ve-ii di they only drank tlt wiich 11i
is a ein to ti-m ":' asa ai 'aul, irgu Iitliv.  txives to the Ilowxer, tie itree, to iinii astiii11
\-e  iuii t lie  cool till ie  are start- , a i+I  I:-hi  tmixheynever tateil th 'ae Hcrs. d  fire-wat r
lfti-rwarI, ti, or we'll lie thie trail alto- oft tie pale faces, they wouli inot niow lie a
thr" s:i Itii; and tihen ih bean ito ivide  shaldeiow  if hvI at once they wire ; it wi wiinl
ol hi-s  itv so uit toil-ic siine  uiniachnli ot ii,01 now a shatterdil r iemn:imit if a  tillt
trail. lIe iti , partiu:ar di ri hie tsi iii-  milit tide. wanierinr far trfim  i wth ea vs of
ran ' tliat Iiul and 'Mr. hI"lorlil w t  i)their irei f-xroi their atmeint heri a e. No-
r-ni  in  with  ui n;i i an I : lithx, ihk   lut-?if,  n, i - oi   NotN courage, iiot,   i n  l  m ,it  1ght t a I
were splnthidt tiunti-l it was vi-ent that h, lped tihe  ale-face to drive te i- miiai
they would i apt t, i' cl in  whiii   lit--.  hack -it Iia lien treiachierx wrotuiht i' the
Nw ox-ridi, iin,t ast if ltd Ntick was after us, diion-aill of fire-water. That acuril i4iisin
an vI xur s-aivition dileI on votr ipee! hasi lrnedi un thm ici ties, lni d tip th ir
If iii ivxeriuilainy of thcf   eleilti li1, i,-ive veim", Iibslas their race forever'!
veni hi-ald i lt h I udrit isiirii-ir , Hint le care-  A t hind i :snoitteil, but to tii Lae(gona
ol Iit ti hi iit ladv. 1 Ii ut dtrats' a reii didi nt piy th ieighitest at teni n, e-xiiitly
Ut' i-ant ll so  I ita' iiVotii' irii's ii n iistand  oii  denunig  her a i  e to  take en -c  wrf i-e lf. .
ou cati sie a treak ! Itemmibi ' anildoi do your  HIe tnw  mnilt a satull fir'e, amil talking a
duty as ni-n, anl as tmieers of thi- 'Lo  li in ful of meal from a bag wlich hiiad live
Star'%Stiae ften;i                               ied to his saddle, tiixed it within wates'
iv will, nte len  w,'ais tie avelir-mv- mi it a i tid of cake, winchi hie seeydi y  k'
sihout, it 1 thefnot y pair iftispurs Ilt':l a in the saes. 'this. with somxe drii d  mntf-hiu-
n   ytmv flanks, ind away II wx ti'  - aug  mnca heinli 'ff red to Stella an i Aia.
ban.!I1I hi- keen-s-ented hcoiun is tpnili ti - tract ' 'flue firmi'r ate leetnuse si wa very faint
tttand-weak, antil reiquircd sIr-inth-.intb  litr,
of- uiiie.                probilly because she was ung Aft. AfJer t/
CIIAPITR XXXIV.                  womn it'had partaken of fool, bigona ate-a
()o, like tw  clouds+ +fire t- wid-oit, thing which he would not have nile c bei'e'
like leaves    tor e upon the  last, rile Lagoin lie wioeited with the  liites, for a tru t1wiat'
UDo his tirelsz steed, close foll'w'd by Ada  nor would acora to gat with or aftr his women

Ii
i ti
i
ifs
I

I

TIlE COMANCHE'S DREAM.

Hs " lordship" 'must be first served : then.
comes the squaw's turn: she only is allowed
to be the first in matters of labor.
Meaitimte, the hungry horses were feasting
in the long, tenler grass which grew high and
thick by the water-side.      .
Ala die inot speak to the unhappy girl who
sat near lier-once iiiuring the day she had
made a taunting remark to her, aid then La-
gona had rebuked her so fiercely, that she did
not dare to tempt his auger again. But once
ini a while she would cast uion her a look,
which spoke the deadly intensity of her hate
full as forcibly as words could have done.
A   1y, more so!
Lago^una saw this, and saw it with a watchful
eye -but he said notIing.
After_ a rest of two hours, or perhaps a little
mwre,, JEagina caled his horses, with a low
whistle, anil prepared to renew his journey.
Lhi, where --where ate yu ecarrymig im0,
brave, good Laxgona:' ' asked Sitella, tearful-
.
Ligonaisi nittr Iam nrwl goi.      e is
a luiitf, aid iast-aling the White Flower from
her father.  he would iiot have di c it, but
li-er flt' xold hav e gigvin her to atotiher
agat the  reat S1r's wil!       od tihe In-
tl iini glooln .lx, as if he telt that hie was domng
5 wroniugchii riqmred{ aim ecuise-
\V lucre wil Lagiinoa take  o ? 'she asked,
tear iilly.
"o 1  ntibiI-, whre La'oa cani show the
\ lht- -  virru hxow  rent he is--his horses
cover the phllisa a thick as trees in the i rest,
nilh tu+nl xlvrix hurn-' ii an arhwd warit.
'{t'  iuuino  i- lis iitigs diarethec hei.
iLtn is a gneat eh .ft
hitiin b a- d ail hi lii is ircas, and take
in'euah It imy   heiiil~lr.'l' I lIreit Spirit is
nomiv. bt Ile hoes nit strike the flowiier with
li is lihitliiiW-i -it  s  t inie  sL'g,  toid  oak
whmth lie humbles. The e igi- iith unt harm
the dove, bit strikes at fiere' gniuie. Why
SunhI laungt Iharu a hlhpiss irl iwho never
S  did him wrong t
St- iws iords an hlwr ti-a hit c ful earnestness
se1m - t., hiave a poiwi-rf i+f et upotn i-Lagona -
Il hie  n io t  I. andl  iurne-:1m1i  mlls h ut away, as  if
h i t 8 .i4  Iliii  v'ali  Fm'  a  ri-l il.  AlA ,  whit
cau i hut hi cye, 'made a ii -ialnigt gsnr-, and
1)Ikohl niardi. I-le  ieuirrsto d iheriea, and
sa.l..
" It is lime wxiii of the t--at Spirit that the
Wheii  lower shall Ie the wife of Ltgona.
' V i tim- ,t --rut pitit uitwsis, iiisti, bedonemi
-- t-1i h -unt Slt-prit nrui' wvdi-d it!' ed h
Sm 'laim.  '' No, nxver!  Vud'il wait in'mix wit ii
oil y  Wihl thiei Itihb lie down within the wolf ."
x'Ys   5 i i ti - m-Gr-ut Shmirit boik, which
yo ndt t-i' ned me-, tsaid.1' repthelI1 /oni~ia,
tr-;uniihu liii ly, axluditg to the hiiuey' of the
inihtl-nninum, which Mi. ,lorine had read to
thun,
toot' Stella said no moaxrc, but allowed hin

45

to replace her upoxlhis horse-not, however,
until unobserved either by him  or Ada, she
had left a trace by which her friends, if os
that tril, might know  that she had beef
there.
There was a look of triumph upon the face
of Ada, as they once more dashed away ; for at
one time she had greatly feared that Lagona
wias about to relent and turn back with Stella.
But now, dashing through the narrow skirt of
timber which bordered the stream, he struck
across IJic prairie, in a course neary west-
keeping it as steadily as if lie followed a cos-
pass-laid route. TIhe horses, refreshed by rest
and food, darted on with renewed speed ; ad
poo' Steha's heart sunk sadly ti, as sie
filt that' every boundIi bone her further ani
further from her home and friends. She hop-
ed, prayed that there might be following to
her rescue -- but she little dreamed hown ear
they even then were.
CHAPTER XXXV.
Not another tle, with our horses, till
they re rested andI fyi-not another tile, or
when we do overtake aity one, they   lie so
ntlsit for action, that wel be crippled out and
out.'' saud Major Bei, in answer to his two
companions, laul ind Delorime, as he1( unam--
ed the very range ofI inih-'r f-urn which IL-
gona had unit Inbeu gioneimre than three or
tvu' hours-for thei' raids of his little fire
wir' vet smokin  'r theiy were urgiigmintu
to keep uniit the evidently ftreshmiing trail,
without whaling.
-   'ire',  mi in ui--hre's rfite yet .' crild hue,
is heI hi atdi fotni ns horse, which, loosened,
Went at inc  I-i the water.
- 1ihe his been hen--sie has been here .
shoutied iul, as lie picked up from the banik
a shied o, hi' lacefrimged dress, which she
hia h torn oft' andlef Iltere.
"ies, and another womitan, and an In-
dian. iere is a bonea fde iim(oC'i-in trackI"
siiil Loii, wlisw li-tRn eye- Was rluittug over
the ground as iif it e'e a picture.  .".t
though there te three of thteti----there are the
tricks of ounly two I'se-. I see--one carrit
dubl-, his track sutis Itwic' as deepI i (t
gi ouiitii as the olIler, am  i'ere is s lof liis
hir io this musinuito huhi-it is white !
Lagoita hat gut d'' he- a   both  lir. lDe-
lot-mt' uil Paul, mms th- I tr these words.
Yes - lik-h , fii' thsft- trail talttis now
straight for th It o Pecos, a t hi-re thme Co--
nlummiahe  g'rtailt:  hte  miii ti'- gil-nieatest minuim-
Shirs. Somie of thrit' mostiiiptreginalsitr'i oug-
hohis are i  the  harrae Iitus. if hei gets
there, it wil be next to impossible to do any-
thming with my small force."
Let us press on without delay-they can
only be a few niles ahead of its I" tugd lPaul.
" Young man, whenyou've hlved is  ng as
I have, and traded as many reil-skins as my
mothers otily son has doue, you'll learn that

I
4
I
I

4

i


4t0                    STELLA DELO11E ; OR,
s---
sometimes the grc'ate t haste go-s the least ! any from the start, as far as I can see ; but their
distance C)Ir horses need re.}-t and food - )1shrst tjmp shorter as they go on. 'he horso
Wer iwei t"  fat O)   o,1 tii'h' y wonbl be IiW kuoeked  tlit c a rries double most ihe good one, but he
Upj, aitL e it in four orti nemiles  firtlei'   is tired.  I have  s en  three  or  four  places
Lunt ve themii txwo hour' rest cud feed, and whire he hass stuimbhled. Noting liut k-
thre ri' er for a run of thirty or forty ns ni s wll ever make a prairie horse stumil e I"
yet      t T  orexapiijil=, iff .bns frm i-tyour  " \\ ht is that blue streak, far, far away to
}', t- ih i i+. t  i u i l aid snoke the pipe  the  X W t  "  srke-d Mr. Delorine.
oJf pl~tccice ftir a  xx Inniii.     T tI I  Charratte  1ills, sir"' r'pliwi thIre mjo.
"   i   lh  t   n k- thm-a  ubaich I IT  i  nt' t  " if ft Itl  ws w;r  after ri' ; in    r. 1r   t t
got, lit  tit  know trrbt, iiijoir-Of  goes  toy  tue  I ci"s yteh i , a111d  on'C  get  thter'e,  our
a ll  "id P1Ii1                   an i   tfor a tgo1 i  it are  tip-top.  As to
i  At l 11 m i  - eht  as  I desire  to pni  ss  on.  ia  mo It('111-'ritifii s anotti  'ir stirt I
jliif)  xpi+  i  c  of tit.'e in  ot ~" i' (tl' UiV  sta,  I  it o lf  1 ii ot ne i0a\1*  Itlado themn
Th apr     eo u   ao sour olstay,
adh t 1Mr. I). formet.Ii                    of i t ail  all.
Th Irliii   i  ire  o"r If artmgis  ai i  iii -ti erif a int in' chiauteter-nev-
gra- . and  Xi dililoi ' ht Ii n iii'  tit-cl p ' l 'i'  l ix  1  it i' e it   ix life, an Ito h t  xawr
int-' oi mal 1  I , xi aiei o ha otin flr L Ii Iti  h mtmlis'i- titIlI'll  say a n
lir  f  i' 1 a tv liy t w.stit iw if-i I i P         h atdfi  'i :' l tli'tiiit ini his
T h- i" pi.Et:'  t'ua t  't  , ut td I to  flow  l'h s (:ii't 'b  t, n Ii  tn- E  ti'"y.  f  ll , o
x  n ip , i    E mi  I i i i=i 'ii frm a dir t  Is'   d  iii  d t i   a i  i  t i ii i l vi e i l,:ttti. i f   ury  i rrx'd
t1r 't  '  ii  Itr ti I iih t fr lma ny -/r - riltwic  ti Or "'i r it  tidl'f iclars  or  like a  Aeorgia
t  x  I it :  .r  'ii r_  and  iii ty di xtoy.  erak r-
i   ,  t                              Th  tinir d horo  lihe trdihd on-
And ii i  tttroll I    iill-t   Clii fof  liii fMuod-  tteti ll i t' ti t ,, ix if ti l  a--i  Bill  groiw-
r  k     r q  tv  h' ti  untit' fl  a  I  o i thy  aIdvancieI  anl  the
ant'                           ti i a  to  rtniwihi chat,  an liti p  i a ri eii  .0  uni r  al'o he  ung to
w  -Ii  1i h n0   athiy fld, ti  wri  xxni   ihow.,
SI            ut    if if retorni  v  "i t t   it t titit   oi in  the  'ciis  river,'  sail
uo'    t't-ff            th, m -.   h i         u :""iii  rt -  0  tit!  t~ it. " l  I  slinintiit't
i t ) .1 :iii li ti -1 i + il1 l  t h kiiI ti it   i y
S     i   I           .' i                                        -  i
ii   -       -1+ if1-     , t   n   n           "u   wholi i t  0i1  L   a  asl   xi WO that  sent
e          b      ii n  ii                      u, adi  inin  eiiu
i     ' 1  t .   (t a i1' , i            r   n o l ix   iiin   rlb yx etsy   in  th e
fiiii il,' i.i    It l  iiil i9ii,.  , ii  t  fn-Io ''t i  i"m iiIfto tholc i'  lutill"
C O  s  ''1. I , '.,  i, '  i1 li t -  P l'  t i e li  I  mli i   orlO ,  t li'I t ' rV. Ant it i   xt irig
ti'i_'  ;  {  '  '0 t riiip+0 x  ii'i, +li' r  1  ii  l  i  i   iIt, ('fir it .li i n  ithe,
Irh                  p ,  i               I n   -         '
I-1.li i 'I ',t . ;,i till,*"i, l d I il i"i I'ttit t} itt ~'iitt~
I   r ia       b     hr  , w-j itI an, w"t  I   mtiliOve,  Iiorse  or  mtani, till
at' 1  ..k~t  t'        t o  ii 'I  ar i ''0 i  ii   "i   ii r, n i e li.  A n hlI   t n-
a  ,  f  ,h I ihiuii       i 'l                        - - i i ii :1 0 t 11 , i '1(1ii. it o xI il t i ,
i         i   , s.  c  }    -  '  .:  i t i   P   . :i  j t- 1'  l,  l i )  ix   i  tc  i  I . t i  s i gu ,
t° ih' ?"t upknri
I' Ii              Xi   ttil5   i 1 i1 + '. i°,  iii '  C i i i E+T  --ii p t,  i m- r  {' I- ii  u
Ot_"i  ii  'ifI  oUi~t iEi'  t.i'    1r  "  i - - i   e i  it  I ti. i'iitidr -  liC  x 'iilii r-i\n-ihitia,
ii~~ I'ttaIln     m  t           I il  t rit Oli t  it t -x  rIO. fli '11
tin  -,i"+i1(  :t+l-,Ii,  + a ilP- tit 1  'c tifi ' Il ii t  i  n ' ,  tt lt i - is-- i itto f-lit' f iif .. stdt t
noI  i°  ix' "Iiit iq                      :hinly i'rit-i'ihi ttan
I   .ii I ,j  t I i t't 1.i  It'a' , il00 i'  i 0 ~t  rr'Itttii'  i  "tliii  '  ' t ilex ', t l ptO tt  'il ilon,
It  ;  '  s  t*,; , i 't  ,  ot 44 *i'itI 'r ti '.i  io t I t -l  i -l i ii 'xii..t tt V i t   rii t, il',  jun   1  ln,
l  e  t    i. \    . ul'' o -  tl i ii  1  ' 1 ''i  '  t i t-  1  ,,n'  i  '  t    ii Ii'  Io ' t hat
/1  ,E lit.it"firtIl  ti'I  ,c ,l              titX' h.hit  i'm is   t l u
i  '   i   o              b I  '  I              nli it ' i i - i t , ,'t o' " l i-il yro  o  pia sIi  rt e i t
i          i  r ' t'  I r  i  iI t  "i tri - 1', . 2'lttit'Iti l , ti  I  lev  xi) irt   noxx
tit '  t  'iii  f  ii  t  xi :i E.  a It  1  i V  xlt i e"I '.-  t   it  i l It'- }'y iri :itit'.  t  Iftio p i -yml dn'i t
ti     -r   ti  xxix  .s \'  three  r e '           wI'tlretil ritu e1 scit ot   ,nt e o
ii ..           w ,snith e -  I li ' ' -ii i  i ' I t i d t i o li ' l 'tn i ii tc o st ep tra il c  on ,,
i., i '   ?- t   A   a   r i"t o  ofry  lii a  d  t r  itt and  ilt  0it n1   i h its i tei tthe  otlii
or  it l  1. t b:Eal  ' b - h e  ,,' ., th  t t  i n.I'  i°butt1m  m   o f t, ire  thani
i  i  ii  ii~ ;  \' f'ri,   ,ii - , 1f si l " al'  f   4'1iiIte I'ied.,ton e  pit  tomy t 1dthe  m -
r          e    o    e  n   c a s , r '  ' :iti.-:  lf,     f  ' j '  '.  t  i ' i n. rini-  it, the Impj 'r  id emei t t  i
L'it  r iit t  V)\  'ti  t't' teor tl-r Iit ."'  it'l. a:,   0i tthlt huts tment.tand  tsent(t  tso me dof
I'P  rhe hta          } ";l  'tI Pa  '  ItitieN e m u -'I  to cross  the  trails  to  tit:
tiL  i...fl  i-  .i +  h to su  nuv  nay 'inenit~ as d  rI t   autol le-ft, andf  thuts  it cep'jt  this  other

TIE COMANCIIE'S DREAM               47

who Were coming up. Ily the main trail
where they w're, they eoultl see that a large
proportion of those whons they were pursuing
hiad iuits dj
C'IAPTEiI XXXVL           t
They were on the Rio Pecos at last-Lago-
nit al his hapless captive-Ada and her en-
tie hand.  A grannrd o ld forest was that which
giardied the hiinks of the bright and rushing
wai'r'-aunl gtad were tlt' exhausted riders and
tleir atnItiost worn-out horses, when they halt-
ed Wii htit.
" re'll cmnp here, will we not, Misa Ada?"
isked Malers.on, as they drew up, after their
lung anl fttiguitg iole.
'I'Tht till he a-s Lagona advises " said she.
I lott care what lie says--t-our horss are
ci-iiiphtelv' sre up, and can't tudge another
nile.  If tve't'e f. Howei'd, uI ready for ight--
butt as to iraveing further till we've ate, antd
drntti. aii -1lilpt, tial otir hoirs htal a b.te,
I'll inot rio it for aix Ithltheti that uirus! As
I ay,. -o .a  all  [ mrtL you, htys'?"'
.''110-   a IIin Jack,yeCS !" was the general
rej3
.. 'y gio l ,1t-o  sleeplx. eat-get drunk, if
)'ti ke''. \ii-  n '  Itl ret,  ti then  go  oit  lsoili
I.-r- 'riot, withi a Ilok of oeittmiipt ott those iio
gi i uxiit sor iendly.                '
\A-iht' r+ode a:way' a little futrthter, ipairt
frit  i  t'r '  t.,  llie'Che diii otnted  and  pre-
dl', itei'tfrihots fi'orStela anull Ada, while
-i ii,txI' wr 'feLng.
t        yl~~ta e'on  a :10s umn, without tlhe least
(Iin  fi p;l cei , b'.  ui lt  up   l their  eam -fiei' -s,
ii'-'ed   l'hti  r s, 0 50addled  tte' ir  orse ,
triniethitt in iiito fetid, arid ithen hasteu".1d to
I'ttrut ilt n i'i- I x's.
e'' rioewarut oli dtanr1 noW, oroys-olil lien
i'iiilogii hii -neIf, nei-x\lver would follow 1s
) oi:r', let iloeti' the htaiiter, and snehli a seurvi
' i lii tmoromri  his rtlhe .-we're site,
lts itake' a  i fLui  it X. We've lots  rmt nuii
it,     rml o wie'l utik' a -ash liifor some
Ii d' xI twri wi e can  gmnitmore , IIcre's to
r' nobile seives!" I
AII i hislilt iiuture lfask did honor (t) to lis
1ii wis now livly ili lie irlier caip. The
litn wie Qciintiig, r(atiiig, unil drinking to
tlii -hearta'lconitn.
Aer' L d    y e-lio0f lit Itmore than an hoir,
La iiria calel in his horse, and that of Ada ;
ninit hmut i\'ing a  't'wordi tn)   cI1 arousing
c ir wi', 'rod' a:i-y' u hili  streatii, with hin prize.
l "y-Ibye, Mes Alit.  We' he along alter
oun wliei th iisun's up !  shouted, Maleron,
mifirun, ias' hesaw them go ioi.  Ad then
hi't e t  nthler' str~or,5'pallat his flaskt,nd,
w'rar plihim liit'ielf in ins lanke't, lay dowu to
A  -rsrlst camp that for nen in danjer-----not
: seittinel posted-h--ot '1 mrasawhoI W  dI int, r'^
soon as he wrs dune .isatxig and drinkig, fol-

low the example of their leader in crime and
iduiquity
CHAPTER XXXVI.
"Don-don't be in such a deuce of a hurry,
brs ! Who is that a kicking' me, their law-
fully 'lected captain?" grunted Jack Mailerson,
some hours after he had laid down to sleep.
Aroused by somie uninercifully severe kicks,
he now learned two facts-on e of thoin of as-
tounding importance, so fa' as he was con-
cerned. It was broad dad light, first; and next,
every man of his band was secured, and tied,
and his greatest dread, Ben McCulough, was
stealing over hitn, with the ropes ready, to
fix htim iin the same way, as soon as he gained
a sitting posture.
" Lot d! don't kick Si) hard, old fellowI
Remember, you wear boots 1" said Malerson,
as an expression of stupidd terror, mingled
with pa:in , camtecout upon. his sottishi counite-
nanilce.
" Get up, you infernal scoundrel, and let
me r'pe you, then!" said the major.
You miighit have done it while I was asleep,
without nakimg such a fuss about iti" growled
Malersoit.  " IIere, don't tie my hanls till l've
taken my morning hittersl" he added, raising
his flask'to his lip s.
" Murder !  It's all gone -I must have
eliptied it last night !" ie groaned, dropping
the now useless friend upon the ground , and
siuliuttitng his amis to the rope, which was
uased to tie them .hinihis hack.
"Alhi! you here, Paul, my boy-you here,
anI see your por old father treated this 'ere
way--kicked, cuffed, and tied ip like a pig to
e carted to market ?'' said he, recognizing his
Son.
"I nu  here : but in a robber anti villain
like yourself, recognize no relationship 1" said
thle 'm-tu mguntan, buterly.
' low unnatural ! What a wicked boy !
ut you'll do your poor old dad one favor
won't you ?  See if sote of the bows haven't
got a li tI 'l ii left, and give te a noistener,
to drix e away the blue-devils. Now do, boy;
and ill forgiv' the rest of your conduct!""
Paul turned away in utter disgust from him,
without attending to liis request.
Wiiere    my m  daughter, you dotubi.-d yed
villain-----where is my daugliter  " asked Mr.
hc o"rmue.
" Vhein I ask questions cur 'want 'erm an-
swe'red, I generally use a civil tongue !" -said
the captain, coolyn .
"Ftr learIvenir' sake, tell rue where my
daughter is "''' gaul the wretlted father.
" Ah, tor1W V'otu tallk !Ive a irespect for
laven, though I nevte'  xeet to git there,
Give me a driik of liquor, and III teil, to the
best of mty lnowlege-, whcr't your daughter
is" 1epi"i d hMalerson.
A larik was brought, and applied to the old

V

t  ;
En
}l

/1


TELLA P ET OT ME ; ORZ,

48

lra  d' 1t   i  rh '  "  t;" 1- that  he Could  attribute, without the' falin g  emmon to  90g
yi  l h,  - it.  Aft r  'walloning  until  be  called  better mcl.
w  a in  t ,i1  .ln ' eof chlhin '.he  pausd ;
a'ts  i  ir.  1I ,02'11'em te   1t  r peatt   it  i  (i ti onl.
, V  . a jfr a l°1 ta~  o(f  t,\ii  ag,  ('11 PTEVI  XXXVIII.
--VGu.a  ir  sI n  apbe  n I  Wh t iimagnifici nt see !  The sun  was
old            :titmI, al l,'las nia-tin  the giCat blctk  anid  oray  elif s  of
t  l  . t  ('lt '11i ""i  " f  t erA Chi t, upioinw l-  i~e arfy
n i n a i, ji t ct  I- a  whit' irI asg ver  seitinlll, stood a f'  w  nrled01 a1  i eurmusly-
S61 ."=   ci+'.. 'd " tti, a  fr i r  hape l trees.  And  d v t ho h  . "ar "'
t n      b e '  -  gorg.-deep, dark, al  trriew   uiits  vry
nt    rt ,  1rtly after    we  ildnaC, lhed a it ry a  of ftoinng  ll ni '
14  1  1  ' 1  'l t   i :1 +is P   s1i  c1 x  ''  S e1v e n i  r o a r n g  w  a t e r .  A n d l  m t  ii  t   h i  n v e r o sgtrt+'  ' ti X i '  l   .t
L  anp  i- n l .  p+ .rt uiikil  fortli :2   ci  a  ;atih  i-io  nasirrow  that  thee c i wa-  onoly  dli-
' afi                   cr rIt ' iO  e  t   a n d  e a rce  td IIab l   i oti i  fi r  a  u n
ft ° t r  f i 1 I 0 =-it'i  I  atit l  1 i0'a' 1ilthie  i  ll was]  s ld l  nid  dank  eN 0r1111,ii ery
Ja   il  It r, I ''  -i i #t-i so to '  da'llwilsut  ' 1 Hie  liisu   o n 1  l a  saf hlidI .i  -plae-, and
J  Ia   it . r   n           that  i ' h ' w i:t   i h  the  whole  ragtet "'
(+   Walt            lt its,  l oll- i t hS lidh e  la ilt ed  a t  ih e  h ead  of  liis  n i cn  l w fo re  t hie
trii  b-r1 a':1 - l1:iii'lve       you  center  it  b -fore ?"' aked  D -
tr  ud11 1 t  L   r   t ++ii-t i t-' I l ' at as lon ',1aftin'tet t lo
i             fa  i 10011' ni i, 1I1l1froto iillCo o  tog' itiilet oool  lot .  ftl  a
u                              r:I   m f : " tl i i  t h  it  w i   -e  l l b I  n
i for  1 a lo ior an I li 1 00',r0fllolriI t ll  p still 1  i l- n i   I  Ibload
I1- 1ii in  l''0'- i o0't n m o the o ily a  thi  ml untm 11,thersllm opr-
anv  11111   i  111 i:+I2i t I  l t0t1)0I 'l - I'
It1  11hialOyou Itoeviirthit Iri''WtSoll It i n
do I    tio   h '  I   i   i :    I " l ie -t   lie   Is   t h e hia l sa t   le i   o f  h e:l  ca a l "   'a d
'                thatl.t ii  lit I  o li  it  i ' 1:0t  ll  hfi  a
1   0   1   Ii   ' l  i K .Ii   II   I X   I1 1 1 1 i 'j  i'=    '   ttll   i l    aI i o  '  ii   l  i 1i 1  tO I i  t' l d   t iu) '
11'ie1lii:.i!Ii'~iiiil f Ii             (lii 1.'ill
I 0    Illr 1          uite I toll I   a' ill i \15 li a i tivt ie a rdhi n!" f et
1  i   0'.  ' i   II1:  0 11' o '    l I 'il tl ' ifg fi0 lil i-'t1lt'.s n v  m 01  ii i s'l '
t nr, j ril'  y       0il  "iu:ar'tryy hut nth ro'ii  I'  :  a nt'r'ad)'
n           tIs-I  it   ul t  'r blc  liilt i  ever ille  lwI thu tI,  u a o n
t   I hia +1 + t I1 til n.our         lie w ai uo  i d n anc , i   1111
rt  f                                        Iadhewaty"' '  ill'r Ilidlo ill '  a
.1 iii' I  hI illI  s  l p -. 111 1'  Irtn  t l iii \ 'S-_i e' all.  e  o d 1  s  oa ly 1:
t). 1..I- .ht1a +.;tlPaul t.  1  r'y.'
f.,0  ' t+  i' +'hi 1 .  intly A nd'+ li  f rtllo   Itr o 1 i I '   fa  hlit i s  oou   f a r   e n11 17   ci1 at
is+  i .  .  . I-i' ,0it .0 idilil o l ' 0 '  1.  11' jr tlilt 1 '  1rik''l  ie prod ; nheqf, i  ii
t' i l i d1  l iitit fl'Y  t ill 11 11"'tl' i 'i ' s   o ' a ie l t ' I h a uIt t   t '. 0 l i l l l°  i e '' 1  i ' i 1 , I o h
s1t lf      t a lltli t    t' t i n - f e  L m e  ptfar   da t r s ' ' 1 f l h
t +  sli .        ''Xtiif  oil.ige  hotior' +n0-1 ii iin,  weioe'  w oarh tn   n  h e to loo .c5y(I L
-tathaa o r o   1rn -  tll her hadoo ot  rlden1t ot y i: m  N 1
i n  t- 1'        010 ,'0'app-10 11ared,11  :0.1 an11' d 0 a10'h'lo t'ba 0kra odinano
\1 npe                                     11"Th  p lefceha 1cmefaie' n  h t
h    f b1o "be              dosh  wn?,akdth)rudc   ifm a
0)  l.Ck  ima ,  t1 1  I/o't1eeth  '+ , 0ce Y"ithel l e- ac pl antr  i  w epig0or}a
i  '  ,1up   dyt ,':na 1ar ran evr iany duhewo yo hae tlna ay  L -
.x r   +.o ' 0  1   0 1  '' 1  '1  1+  II- c  ''86t   t 1  1 1t#'1''  o  t  +' i °  ol

'I

'1h L i OMAXXCII'S DIIEAM.

gtuni is s')itolut  ief a igihity bralve, anid  S vfty It', at odd snels, it is truie--hnt if
'amd McCulugh, tr Ito take the rmirnin thii v or forty i
pd1 t ii'it IItit-  uni itshtotucilh tiu t:tis pass, I'd be very apt t lose iy life befoi
ll lid  ii. I-t IIof  : I t +1 11ii il--h)ll iv  ISV , i (), to  I 'Iol i  1  ~   1(1C  o itik te
bos n', (t)l'   X yOn my score. To iltt:-l'kthemiI
,.    l                                 frot wionit p's ;to take'elm in the rear would
Svi. T t I1tii" " thechief',redirea                le fr  theslves, if there is
d1miptr ofetwpas-which I doubt, for we coulldi't find ou
i    hti l' bei)  lie In  '                         iert    i(' liis  lOtiQ it.  ii I  i'ts  h e  elfoIre.~ And  uch  a guid
rae  '.ictlita ci f  ffi'iiiitCic' of' flt couhibot be 1ond easilyIhie IIbteedl of Arnol
"                                       I~iCf m  -nv'ier got mixedl with the redskins. I knoi
l)i'v  tt  ':n eIiiti,  -ivoli   to  re,  or  just what  t  abiut  ii ; and if you expect ever t
fd '  si 'l li  iIliilIh til(rt0'bt      see y ou' love agtino, letive maittters to me. I'N
ihie ' 5t'lI  h' I )'hI~'iile.   nit given up1 lope yet ; but I'll not let sn
t                                                                               v II  t'1i0ll o i n vIl' l' are  closed  rashness  spoil  all  the  chances,"  said  U i
tc)  ut n  t ; I'  - - I  'aolililt  tigt  v ~on I"  Std  Iiutjyoi'.
It'' ol-n  il.(od less you, mynoble friend ! Forgiv
e   id It 'lipfI lii n1.t l-fight me ! you  ie, aind think  ily how I feel when she whoi
-                 I value more thtin lift is in the power of tha
iv,        .   o an u' i fl!hi ii, oilsfind another savage," said Piul.
E it in 51 1 1 It i  (ti ll h  iii1tiiotisI .  " I  feel  f'oryolil, ba--i el fry u;ai
r sep' hr                           mo ,at               I feel for ypu ; ofd
,'s tfill' i S     pilijpr inttedl !"more thainuthat, 1'llisk mylir ii'to get Mist
eli-li AlaMiIi tan ttliiei nito the side of Stella back for you; but I  hite  y  '
oufr           buIlusthvmyotl  ,,iiitlt 'it.waly to do it mn."
ilt                 e(pturel, and     ewill not inter'ere with any of your
s                                 r.   plans, major," said Mr. )elorme. "'Couinand
'''',"t,,:.ci n  i -l  i '~i s  fl,   i ie?  PW -Il, lluPno 1usiii uall ftlings, atil we obey.''
Sue                         e        It ise    1 will give  orders that wil
rn It'lI A- o takfi   u e     in vveyouin perils where I do not lead,"
tiv  t  i ltnii11vi itiko for your dap  saidaMrunlot id t s             ta
tir:.' iol n1tii1t ihieci fit  wingP haul and  his in wire colio'tablyI bsto'ed.
M'.I)uelol.\liit to lilt iieell itlier wihis  " Will there be no dll'c  of the Tndians
I   f i  tii ln   r lstallyig out               udd.   " ttacking"s?" asked Paul
11    t.  llt I  ti ,  tg l-d  Io t o "willnt   Nalerso i l
wyou lm-i' hwhr, c en II  i - tir '            .      Igon iswd is passed, and
i' t it  backhiault -e ta  it   hd   m   flag is lyingg" sailhe Ranger. '" I would
''i  ie' ist'~i-to Ili it- theiousaiid  not trust a yellow-skinneI Meican, if he had
lIdtoriefr, akS a 1      en i w   h   wori to a trile h;ut 1an Iniilian, as bravo and
1 ih  o  nti ;  iio', like a fi'ieliil's w '- pr'ouid us L,1iatr ui  ittilale'
ing, nd g be.,          un-In o    as agon, wii not tell ia lie."
t., ,il agm,Iaind                       'lie stile lilt' iligfite', after he had prom-
"\Vtiih:'- '  !-  I tisle  it, ifti'it a ps 0111d i'ed  not to," s iii! l)loii ,
°i it ii ill if it I"iCe...the coed      "loot untili   tm hit  1'your roof, refiusim
. h  c I Ii   yoatempttoa               issititshand favors fromi your Patil," said
fN° -i t -it'll 1 oil  10  1 iffiunipt  to   iti'i  thiet the  major.
gIl ;i  N  1111 d1  i. you  hviibloo   i iis ours  ni  not
s   w till i( 'ii , ' ditil  i-  th fl t (; n
the sh,'jat                 i)I'itifa lepyt X.
It- 'lil   I'i  it'l l. lt' ill Ir' 'tillt  t  iho~h  Lal, l~ti jltl -(7:'til'  of  Ia  olil( h eyondl  Its
re his te  nd  vd i    an I as lienhit-dtiid yawinig lonth, that narrow and
S(It I s  IlI i  ut        o I, his  aclif's fitiol liss f155open(d lito a very lap of para-.i
full hiN    an1 5i! 11 li r thi:  hot 11ul  beocks, iac .emiled in upu every side, thee lay
itb rI te  dn   g'            beseen avaleyof many mhiin-heel ace' jin extent, f-"
f ' l -ti n'   a knii t  Illi i  mull,   ti e  a o a - t  b-y ou   I  c o n 'e ptio n c ily  bo .
thetoh i c bk iii  fru o'F i-ti',iwhet  yoaadequate description. 'l'herc w(re bron1
tmjof   utilI      itheh srvadijrae, upon lhielm great herds of hiorcses
i-inemop. 'Inmetin tthit-  olcl'(Il Ibs  ironi to  an i ca  the  were  fell f edm o ;t  ielh , also, of  grain
'Fo Go  sk, wy t  dear ir     ciii! a  frout, fenced in with hi-dg's of thuorny caeQ-
l'oti' (hi 1 s ..-};(, ,  t ll~  Is ei', sit ?" oslk-il  til  and  the  smioke' t  liui' eilst of try uiqfle
Paul. a     .d   e00atc          ndastlisadtesoeo. lumreds of unique
"ne     Wiy do iv itItick feh ils at lodges rose in the othertise trnsparent and
O yi.- . "      - ibal atmosphere.
1.u 1ima,  le is  worth  s omtethina g to  Ulli'et--ti.
others, ift'lit-i 1 , vli"l  t 'u  oIihl-  to - hi n--lthie Pdy scions of the Lipan and
heen iotd f  n ery to     rhave Ileve theCoiamnehle--coubtll bemseen playing around
.1bu teIlo fm Tw n  et n  i io Nmy (wli     the pl easant avenues ;li united warriors,
h co-mm   m-se w.r' at ei'I   ne uNow  armed catp-a-pie,' 10de to andI fi, xerCJ isinl
f tos     re    i   atnr Ii 1, i' hitilre  tluomselves, and trailnln theiiri vild steeds; an
if thluoc reil nt'gflrs. I  e anl out sixty or ' groups of women, here and there, wer' usiig

f

I
it
-e
0
1,
(I

sei

'  -f
-j  _
F,     t
-},
CC   "i
f
._
a  Y $
f  'w
4 fy  '
'
_  ,
= t
-
* a,
,E
_
;r  .
E   5
3_
t
f,
_
_
°
: 5
- = .

i
3
Y
i
i
!'
1
t
1'

49_

4
s


STELLA l)ELOIRMi; Ol,

A0
tliv '-h 't  w'a, i of offence and1 defaee so  thius eruely  awakened drew  tearui fromt he
that t                ~~~~~~~~eyes.  -'-date orhah  ite
ravm. i r pb, from  its inner end  to  'i lhy  iu drh't at er lour It sthee ay't
A  e  the  ' :;de, a strong guarl Iof watch-  while ag   oti  ve d i  glad  ompny
-  tlt't e  a  me dt -l; and  it would seet  L  ni'ti e t~ilI em  ''u ic nt nuedrt   d Cuinjtiliy
u ," t11:11  camII p should be surprised,  d urng 11 the lmt)e iit  oon, Cthe I natl  " oAda.
~  it~  o   *o descended  from  the  On, Ii a ~   senr mliy f aer  Do o t 
StteHa.                        Ili e  -Y°l   i  vr hattr  a  oIiot
r thneamp, or village,   as a  de  do ori   e meyOU!'  tre l ynod  hur
h       r than  the  ret, arranged  wiron i  hot t1(C)ot dIeei  11inc.  Is my lather
St  ItI c ii'"tments1 .  ih e  sluelds  and  neal r
out      d.1 upton top of this, denotnd bh ca ue hcould no   d
hot it'I :' 1 o te i efit, and to this Ligo-  ria i ev  +o 'h  au m ki h smioule. ot   se
t    i i    t ' truce flaO.n.    "    o
Bforc 'a ti th-i. .'  .ti11 '1  t ti t~ jd f  l ~ttWOt ee Ing aa -h o'
bhE ; o       t  -tI i to~...   t ; oa  b'tt  t dlt  'I wouldn't take the
hf absent, wouId  i pre-  trtuble tohle t hno
i-ithl  r ntt,atinan attitude,  tilntt see  di  w se n  Te ark  od
riw f  ' hiit "Ilf  i r  1adep , was  they  t'tst la itil"  i edt1 itei a  ahott iu ios wilkwit  e-
ap  hrgl a  Li i1i  a and' Ada MeAl pin re-  tioank (to  .' c ii  ,elxams  idwt
pto id. I'   o, waith  hr lar , tear-  C ttnwnt.  t matter with therWhit,
a irn et i i ' I     '    t  of  ' What  ds La mnatterny,  ton  ite
tati t'    t  r-wet d e'   far  Fower  ' ased L a,
t         j    th mrt b atr  t  t'  f th  re  is m reV in your hiart, in thet
efliret thin 'm rk11,  d)ebukto"'tit'l re  h r nne d-t    tl 11 toIdt i tlure you  to
tW"  i1  t t   iut:t: che  - hi  ent s  lake  itm' to  oy  'itIti ried  ~te   tinowong
41 '  4 1tt   '  ''   i i' ;F7t1t f m an l vto I e  t I il t tn 1' "
Swi ute             fahoa  a  iufnwol  ateie-'  t nai'  t-' tg hice  thiait we h ave
s'tt
wt v e  r  nd .                  } hhe    nit;)l h
fri                       stunhIagonyfit It  - ked Lagtuii, wtli a frown,1
i f 1 t'  t I' F d '  o   a, i u w til 11)1 to( \
(If       ri s dosnteatShe isuroi  to   quti stions, and  I could not
fhir  !   t u h  t I  n " Ii.  iu'ttti1 tAllM  "'in i '.11111 ttat i "ai at id the an gr  chief' anti
I to g it     l a, mour'nf d         i  heel nod  itt the toL ie,
di.       ptnoaway.ilaitndis t        .it atnew  r to  the  re iuest o
If i h  Whn'  Flt  w n  iw' r, in  the  I'o t a t a xi
,i'trt'te, -t  : rit+ i l;t'1' t  it  s elt' tih  tttt  t \'
'~a  '~'   he-  i  ehh o  lerl     o~''m  X
,tl ttlt if~   fir,     t 1t1ver ' 7It wts   V  - I t e-  m tt''. 4t'ie e-oiip of the
(ir a  ~  i al  a liiiL  it   it te  lttn  ah"   oi''   nd  titlugh  they genetrally
h        L   am   e      ' d     httttd'peril, ore ani ap''
G'l  ii  I  iIltit       lilt l'eterdr  little,  tt  dii not now-'fttir thity
detli t , t i?1ii t",' , emi itt  Ste-i'vl=uamwhii x'  kue+ O , iittri  lim i it ight, iti would  lie with
de  t  ahl 1ti1ft4jty to trii iii  t'a'iy  nto   h  it e  sition  and  probably,
bfoinIIrelyai h m  ,141  mattimtitma h
hbtiaii',F- i  n 'i'i ng to g ie he-u to  I  Xti htt'i'ate  darkntess set in, the nmajo~r
I      rA          ertt  a:, 1t.  i'  'lt   I t   su'er c' -tit't  rniilto'tohe tlit ' ci't of horse-h kinets,
l a- Iit'' t ' , ta.  ga ne c n si t  r-  w  tt h re lit' l u  t  to  ie  rasetd  s t hiiig
mrif'ii,          h  ete e d a s  h iit .tt tile  f himself Mr.  dorm
nd t hii,+ft coutrt, was  a  t  1to u  utt r a tenishenit of
toeI'1- e'   u  , so  fir as sht~ecoub I  t   t  ttu'eiml  dnt,1'gu odvat
tit's '- '   as h1  r d  light, if  I ''heit'd \i Di lie- rmn e  lin  asitonish--
rld h t        ; to torture the a-e       r D 'li, infon
If 'a t: "i + s  ntlca like  to  see lier~'tt l  i"i rzi  sahit  au .
..(if etit i a :t 'er._   at ult'   whi lersIuini o  '  )1 i  t''t tiatt wife tf yt our s, that is to
Vo f't   a ut l't'I, alt  tt onew et La'gioahIl Comane  camp  to-night, or
d  f  l  ne  d-' o riutte- SW? ar, ut  the  thogit  o"t lii iI"ad'' c

e

P

THE COMANCIIE'S DREAM.
aitd he produced a bag, from wh'eh he took  A mosquito fork, cahrancb, hai&amp; been affixec,
sole black paint, and bt'gan t cover himself like horns, to his head ; and this, too, was
with it, from head to foot,                rubbed with phosphorus, until it looked lIk
"l'ur in ind help me, gentlemen ;Pve got prongs of fire
to prstate the devd-aind, like sonie women  Shaking both Paul and Delormte by the
wt'hoidav tlme devil in paint, require consider- haud, and uttering a' Low, but firm, farewell,
all' clot," said MctCutlough.         -   the noble-hearted and daring Ranger com-
iti alssistts as anti aOs he saw what was mienced the ascent of the almost inaccessible
reqluiretdt; :antut sool tlhe Mtjtor wts as black as nountainm. Although the place where he
the aee of sptat's, froti heiad to foot. having  commenced to climb could not be sen front
 i     t' lie wit. lriucedi a quantity of phos- the mouth of the gorge, where he had ta
itums, with wie   he caused Paul to draw  guard stationed, it was visible to all of hip
t"}0 11"5 ltis'uot nthm full serablauce of a skele- camp. And silently the men looked upon
t"f, deatl's-httr and -all---tmaking. when fin- that skeleton of fire, as it appeared, slowly
ish,eu ai hgle that, abemui mnthe uark, would scrambling up among the rocky cliffs-now
htte apt to sItkle the neres of the grongest ,half hidden among the scraggy bushes, then
tnad 'trvet'st muie'n.                  coiuing out bolder, when it stood upon a har-
Whit nothtintlug but a 'tlrtig bandage about rel spot.
i watikt. and liTe, mn which a brace of revolv-  lowly, but steadily, on it moved, until it
it    a  kti ewe conealed, lie was nearly sterned to have reached the top, where it
r     r t  tiei'tli h ot ii ielnch lie hi tlannedl. ingered for a moment, and then disappeared
'ut'   xt tthotig wicht 1e tottk wastseveral of  The planter and Paul now had their horses,
t t St ttitg it-e alwtimany a irtied it the saddle as well as that of the Major, brought in ready
1to"  tft te= titfner'. These lie knotted to- for use, and the Rangers lso prepared to fly
t hr in h e t'uiultsttlt rle, aid uthen an- mor fight, as necessity should determine. Thus,
t tixted hituseI' rt'tdv for his work.  they waited in a suspense almost as terrible as
If it is noft a aint your wishes, I should the adventure.
r+  y  kime to knlioutw ihat you intetd to do,           ......
:ljKt r"' h. x'd -iI)tloirme, as he gazed upon the
'iful , scrce luiiai-looking it figure before    CIIAPTER    XLI.
At the same hour when the major was pej
2 '    0 =i 'ttitt' en cale the mountain, by a kind  paring for his wild and dangerous adventures,
a itt-s It I eI-member having seem whenL n on was pacing to ani fro, restlessly, ia
a% tt''rtie  rt'etiuit-or a kdit of opening on  the front compartment of his lodge, listening
byi' w' icamn get to it-s top, and to the heart-breaking sobs of poor'tttaa,
1. !,,la  .ioi thu vale, whi're the red devils whoie anguish only increased  wiesn she
e-C p.- (11t4" our scoots went up when W thought how near her father and lover were,
lit i itr ie "lt tere ; anml iii that way we found  ylt how powerless to help her ; for shetknew
il ft e' etr' bit four Indians in the what an immense force the chief had at his
nm' .t    ittwe;a--   le-thu me-uhItown men to take conniinti, also how impregnable was his posi-.
i it i- r"; at  I mi that way tanned 'em  tion. These. he hid, iii his pride of ower,
-,  i  to t htati tul out nearly halt:f of our shown to her when lie was received by his
4c, tt' A ir e' i get to the top, I'm going  people, amnd hopedlt thait, seeing this, the would
- miuu   'f 'wyt.'ito the Calmp;manil it the more readily vield to the fate which he
-~   it r twhin they stee a fiery sk-lettn really believed was her destiny by the will of
tnt ilt-if itomaulovte, on 'em, they're the Great Spirit.
ix''i th dit tlit rot'men. If they ron--aM In  'The Con-uche camp was very still-lie li
ti' '  :itt't i-u-will--I'll spirit your Shla so ordered it, an the usual camp-lit's turned
,  fe f   i  n  yiiour arms ; atl, my men dimly - but n1ow and then the gutard-irms
t" t  it hietha thoue--s, daylight will find  down the ravine blazed up brightly as the
c.=a  it - ixwaysfrotsmlucr-"           watchful sentimels threw on fresh fuel. Ae-.
h't ' linct  x.celeit, yet full of danger to cordiig to the usual custom, every warrior's
-" 'if. It it uisearie's, yon tire lost."  horse was picketed by his lodge, antI his
Sre'ng mte--thtat is all th tt I ask."  weapons were ready to be seized at a mo-
t''ui"t I g t  hit onm ?" r asked Puttl.  mnit's notice, in cease of an alarn in the
o     vd  enithis ough at a tinmt-. Stay  the night. It is an Indiani's prile and care
i-"',tiI he-ti I t' to run or fight, as neel di- never to be eaughit napping, ont any occasion,
'tt t'rhetait' Ilttutcomtes. Fresihemn up the or inder any ercnastanices.
phoishtltrie marks again. Wet the stuff a lit-  Ala MeAlpin, with a heartlessness which
t-I mutt haie out all that I can."       only hate had frozen her into--for iatturally
'I'e limt rs ---having been cautioned, and shte was neither cruel nor wickedly inclined-.
Itt im'tm'h  f   at uf  and  per-itlus feut ithichi  had  cast  herself down  to  rest near the snour-
tee tu't~r mwi4atouta tu hiliutlrtake-iimatde no immg child of Delorme, and paid no attention to
r''mm'ts whin le came otit, ready for his heeasorrows.
Weil.l~e lotiketi the diend, inided, all over. Lagona felt badly. His hearti was ea-

°-


THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.

i.:.                       STELLA i)LLORME      OR,
Ii lovd the  Whidte Flower " too we'lnot to the pro trate body of the Itolion, nod emter1
feel for ler slferiings. Yet, h. belevedl he IEthe lodge, wi hich was doly light  with ie
h1i I only dbved the will of the Great Sirit, I hnli;l.th -- -
dn cirrx in Ifther off- le1 even ieardithi  Aiuiost .ituitively, it s'eemied to  iow tile
dutyalie del'd it, more than his own feel- spot w, here  te1a liy, and lt(uuh I So hl
iti s (If  1' .                          sle. hthe sclalled finytly, for it was Ierrible
If t e White Flower dis, like a bird in its to look uphon' , -
cr-, itw. i ih be the fault of La'Iua!" he .1} " Ilush, gr-! Im a fiuiid-your f
ir '1. " I if ihe blts her go bIk ti friend -yid yourseIf to ils, dily oil me-
he  pllel thoen the G reat Spirit will be saved I" sail a low voit', i o     ii",; 1ll i
angry , heI e CCthe dream whieh he gave  the nit itiomint, she foldher-ilf10 be  i
Slot tlidl 1.  liThe p Ith1 befor Lagoona i, dirk  strong arms11 .1 iiihrine oit fromo l the illge.
....e dI. i;nIt know which way to travel,  1it aniodwlr ear hoard those wsr i; a o1 al
The 'ni11v iof the youni clif ais ud. though it irt struck limh ith Ii ri n' i
d(~v inite r1pd byl1Ae'l 1) a yel, 1 o whaI, si fari. she saw the lt'shieusb bingtt 11h( (ii n r id, A It
fl,  unearihy, that it did rot seem to have M i miii iiti ('iiI iol I      -i a
Co 01' from  mi ti tail iips , 1veil  lie,  l liian  as  neas some  plaii r  rese ;l  nu h 3'o Illa  sh eIt
i''     t   s '  h a.d  trem 1.  A ":ii  it  ',ie:ui ii".,  of anglr  all1 of warnmii   upon  hr i i ,  i'
-  1                            h-IIo--ikeu t111  t ti i  hit,  -  rii1htd  to  tue  froiit of  the leli.e, jita  o ll  t nii
i i ere.s f alarmi reoullel through evdil - to see him, wlii hhad hoil' Sitilout, lift hir
ti the back (If Laigoi's bior, ls' i(s las,:
1. !ma , r':nto th11  inin: f h's1lor-e, fomt l  rl~~    1;t h  a sr  s1U itn d tt'l,,02n1
wh.lhe   (is  '  whit chhot''  ebir  r  1s1t0od, ipm\  r-  w ith the' dooei   burdin,  tur  the  hi '' t'n '
ill.U 1Ii- i -)'iis heh t't  o''ai' lth  ' S1 C ' -V i hia'  toward  tIhe  orge, and to tn
iA  - n  -'I. i  ar   I: t i O h  n '  ut,   an 'hI  c " '  '  il.
Ai.1, :t  h'    ilu'-' 1  t  w-a-t t netO wo1: m)n110000 praos b11)i  1nd.  T
in , at of hin' hie saw a ht t   wi v I    n111wo1 th're wre to  ay' the 1111 of
t , ' -   '.   1 . m oa il o 11  "ii rivr ihan  t- 1  illy '  i l  n: i   yet lt ok d bl  11 11
t   '         ia   -a i ( thel i frE  th dr  in'ei  n11 re p  -aI 'i z  wl  t orl'
1)1.)  i'7}   iIvl0u'ihd iet11  + 1   1t1n t01 tel i I l ,t) ---ilt  0(' 01  liii  T~ y  1'I0us' ttilL Il
thl         .                           \"                     are'I  Il 5   iIis i  on  aSueo   I  i
A  :  )r   ;th  to  b eh f .n o  1  of fire   n ,  I ; T'r h'l 0t   i a "  in 1
dan     l I .a th  cr ?t of a c1Iflb   i, wlwr 1 he  iid  n  d i r  tolt aili'l  'till I1t) 1. 0 00  IIIII nIi01
S,   " r i,; hm ant i t tu ri:l. adm!  r.  :h o.  iw  '  t 'i5 r e   li'  uir't '  0 ,1
C:lune fro  a a'i  itlml  tll'hr''t. Thel 'warvoc   i 'Iii."  lh  1 i tprll't has0 cime
ilO  tver  i i2l  i  u iroi  a  mortal 1,.  t ui1t ..
il 11d W.  kiidit Is  h lll'.  11'1t),  tt, "1"1  I m11  the  shape  io  a  pale-facte i and
111  If, l h i'Ii frth f111  iheir  ho'  , yVu 1h t h re iald your cQatp v  is gone  A
w'.  they  lio d  this  1n011ter  0If the'  nim 0  I  ' .  .h'l   ,' ou,  . 1 s  khill  -0,10 hI 'iS
it 'l0s101,  i t it it ii1( 11 11' ion:ai t oo tk i;lr  tU il'11( tllli'O:e1  lii"  i' .\ i,  Ct iul e i ItVa
tai  ii  Io  ,p  i'h1  at'1  mnionh.  ib  e  e  yoIm i n ,  ii   hills  g-i  iiI ,'' it  I " i'i
a l     .  fn' -  n'hI i   o h'11')',thatodo,or  w'  tr  I T it i" I.   A ,  tal O  ' u  l ad, t lthe l-" mu
l t i .    1  i-  U .  w sI  t -e l E  gdin i  t o ot   ' on.  jii-  n I  te  u i''1a -  u dl u,
g't'ti intK irt llhl                       Diiu1(b1.11k+t'it iiSt'i hI  a  I0t  a  1l11'illi"'
p 1  '1i -m11 1I  .1  fe it 'l e  o ti t hi '  bI e k  rO'l lO ,le o  kuh t '  e r  a n   o t  i t0 (1 o t ri   (' lit  ut i.'
f7n  ' 1e 1ttt ila ntit ont  could,. bor  1a  momet'is,  Lag0(1O (1un 1eo ered  h1115 he'ad, 11u11  cautghta
fin  Shell f t  raborl. r l""tl              '   hose   o t ers  w hitui s  by  liy m g tit like  tlhe
W , h  nh  I  o  ri i a  of t ert r. t op arri'- e -wmdo1thros 1) 011 11,1 n. d  tie  go'111'tr iot a0 0   , g  I (lt:1path
wLi. 1. ai I-I  ws aa ieand triealrn---f  w' m  whictIt .  kn111h, w 1 f a we11 it iout d hwh li.str n
tinr    us  ii,' or  mid'awa  mnI t he rle,'rtI h   u'1i   AS1 0 t,  hn  gon111   e rili(   not ' ab  ' thier'i  hu
a   i - l' .---forIt''\'l it"  th'i ved  that aa51 au sirit  o t11  3 -  1  wt   i  dt hd it le  l1k1 ld, tbhe l'I  o
dt p  i'Ie I  1 u   w   u II  th0,1em .  err 11iigel 's h oi il  of11  t '111  1 an eitt til l  (1 I  the n i lililt
ps '  .y   1 'm u ne,  Larna  suno  k o t'  ert  ltto I hreolv  cat m hist a  upe l lon hisIa-
groi ni wrappedd is boMlkt about If I  a', hiitoh' ai - i,.':05i h
Ai1 a   t   ht  lhe nioihe eved luib' s cito b   331(hi1sfate ti.'  n    u t ,  t, i 'ii0  ""l'jl ' .   'Vol bh ' le   ll
bio  th iht  fr   omteint  entrid his t0'rod r- r  "I l1 h   t ite'r'is rto  y nst e. twowhole
fdlh  b r Iol, that it 1human11 being col I have cou and nu.111'o0r1ho00.1In-an105 have 1been on'0
de'retled  f tomlIthat mountain-stopt-he deloo'nrn~d  v''iii hit',"..:uled to dealot hby inothing buit one1
b1.t:W+.t  t t,  a.td  ,1s  tribe a  doonwitd  1 t olde.  1ttctrt r':n alt of :a  pa.l a -l ;  s tlMa.  ,.
Th1 tirv figure  rea'ch-1d  thue  ground, and l At inst  La(00n11i(g11111not ireali:t; that t lil
I li  ino tl  Ite(rrih e and nearth ly yVi 1,  wa' w'.  1He1ru0hed t1  o ( the  1inne"-1lod g '.:   '
t ot' 11,  .10  11(  it11.; ,  No Outs  a tt an 'tl and  pemedt vit  otsisy  war-ery11', loud  and
S~i,  ils  t  '0 '0  t  t e  0l17dge1'of  1 l  'i'n;  lo1)11.  111nI never befottrel'e  llu,  nrdos a'i
k   ,,  1     hi, 15stsnow-white t eet'd, (w.  'ht  low :and' ial ut 0intheir repily-netver before  so
ad w   m soted in fear-it leojaed o r 'dtoriy iw ga',teringto Its  alc

Whn they did gather, he knew not what to
SiV - lie could not rebuke them  for a fear
wdheieh had taken possession of his own breast.
Nor dii le like t" acknowledge how he had
bei doped    t iog; at tigh he tully comprehended
how it owic, after Adt hal further explained,
nod idt  I liiui the precise words used by the
0o wvho bore Stelia of. lie had sent a war-
vi   Li the mtnnain side, where the fiery
ii ure lha1 deCe jenl, and a iece of the lasso
ha I shmvn lima how the descent had been
mda 1.
 The White Flower which the Great Spirit
bae I n(e taka, has been carried off by an Evil
Spii i t-h  i in the hands of her friends!
lut Li goa vill not give her up. We must
ho nhf l them, and take their scalps, and bring
her back. Lan has0 115spoken!"''
Thi inso erin shout of his warriors was
feble, foiith wit ere not yet relieved of their
terror -but thyr b gao to gather in an i
tlit  tll{r  ltie  s  anll  souln,  Lagioma  was5
u11on :e1ot ier steld -hut not such a one as his
f i t ,ifor ts equln had not been seen luo)00
tih p  ais.

e

t  lT'lI:ht XLII.
Wiene   i te i r' aed hfted IStellha upon the
iik of the lliiigiu 'steed of Lagona, and
io.I'nel  1 s rin'i, ani Ihimself mounted, he
w11spIi' .I an  thiier  ' d r  h  Ii' two  of h e ill iiiI
Iii'oir.- -10at ii lieu' eaer, ntil thten healed
thefrh  wd.uIia iifor he goig'. Wildly
it  I l."t.1  in -i' guard-tires narking an'd
a           Y!;; 1li ya Ii b'- wi°t   v  wl   t  heintertried senin els
ei hir'unk  ilk frmi Itii' hepitli or fell uponJ
then-1  L-ES,,  hE ' -S  If'romt rii  r .  '
'i ia pa   (ich, nwit a hire mm1d3 to the
S'iious p   .I h  i'' r wubil hlote  armed to
ki,.      i   p    thudirilled  thohuiiighi the
Ir'l  ti, imt' n - this pitols is 0 signal when
lie i' e1 ui  spil.. w here' hie kmewv elit would
iiiet  ii  .1n  ii  i:an I   i s little tiuie--as,
less   mi iu hie t n to desci'ihe it, lie was
outi  ipi i tii  - i  ' rit'airi , and  hounding  to-
rI lii  o n  li e 1E' p.
'li n lxi monit'r, 1 la I:was in the arms of
tim fiohll'ur and tPill.wu lw'in  and sobbing for
ji  ; whi' the 111rijr. without pausing to re-
inIve  thle itii   f oiii his prison, wats hiirrielly
p t    oI hle g wawtmeis wnhihi lhe hadl laid ei'f
w  en hi   nrliii t ik   aiii  dvintiire,
. 'O, uinii', wh it do wte not one von ? My
lii, ti wi' l h1lliitat iou, s1hall be yours "
crie  l1 ir. DJehlrme.
"bu'1 lhose the first, and never reach the
last it' io stptl h efine for talking," said the
m'jor;'an 1 I he orltired one of his iien to biing
1sown1 horse. "' Vu can still ride the white,
11s S1tela, ' he said. "lie must he tired with
his loIng jitulty ; hiutv yo  aire light wiglilt,
ani h Ot it111. eiarry ylom. I will keep athand
on his r'in."                    a'a
'i'die fli ir 's now  nickly gathered to the
aid of hii ii' lhider.         -

"Mount, men, mount, and away! We must
put many a league between this spot and where
we are at daylight; for we'll have thousands
upon oar trail. Loose reins and busy-spurs
-keep close, and follow me. Pt"he eried.
With Stella on the swift horse of Lagoni,
the major s hand upon its rein, and her father
and Paul riding close by her side, the gallant
bnd now swept away swiftly, and in silence-
uttering lo shouts, speaking no ''ors---ds-the
hoofs of their horses scarce making a sound
upon the grassy earth. On, on-like a black
shadow sweeping over the face of the earth-
they passed, leaving the rushing Rio Pecos
and the gloomy hills of the Charrate far in
their rear.
The rescue had been effected. And never
in tale of anelent chiivalry, never in record of
helted knighthood, never in history of modern
bravery, had the story of a more daring deed
been found-never greater iernl met, or more
gallantry overcome, than there and then.
It was a long time before Lagoua could get
his terrified warriors ready for service  and
when, at last, he led themOirough the gorge,
the day was dawnini. lie rode to the spot
where the Rangers had encamnlil (1; but only
the smouldering embers of their fires were left
to show that they lhd been there, and had
been gone, also, foir hours.
With a bitter look of augerin and disppoint-
itnt, Lagona, at the he-ad of ver' a thousand
warriors, took their trail. 11is hoi s were
llbet and fresh. and he felt' uo doubt utt that
he would overtake thein.
Therefore, urging his horse to i isutmost
speed, he led the wav, followed by his now re-
assured warriors-who, as they rode on, seem-
ed to forget the trrors of the night in the
hope of the e -alps which the trail thy follow
ed promised to so large a body.
CHAPTER XLIII.
The Ran gers, and those whmii they (scort-
ed, kept on until the hi oof dawi iegan to
lighten the blackness of night, without for a
inom ent lessening their speel; but whenlight
came, and they could see about them, the maw
jir began to spare his horses, so as not utterly
to break their wind, and render them useless,
in case of a forced encounter on the prtirio.
In their rear, far away, could still be seen
the black, rouirgh hills of the Clhuate, and in
the distant eastern horizon the frin ge.of trees
could be distinguished which market the spot
where they had captured Malerson and his
gang.
" )o you think that we will ho pursued 2
asked Mr. i)eiorme of the major.
"Yes," was the reply-" probably not till
daylight; but surely then would such a was'.
nor as Lagona take our tr (it. lIe probabl
has by this time seen tine lasso wnii helped
n e down the mountain, and found tio a fo


STELLA DELORME ; OR,

which I dropped when I cut his horse loose
from the picket, and understands what kind of
devil he had in his camp last night. I cant
help  lauiuin  when I reineniber how the red
wretches roppe. .and scattered, and hid their
he as wheni  I dahed in among them     five
hin iru 4'I my rangers with their six-sho{t-
ers ii alo Ionever woid have begun to terrivy
I theil i).  1;ven Lagona, whom  we all well
know to be as brave as a lion, fell to the
earth, an, wrappig his ha I in his blanket,
lay and ltrr iiuiel when I pissed over him.
lienI role through the gortre, Soie of the
sen iii pjiipe mIito the witer--siome drip-
ped as if they were shot. A more frightened
a 't if cur-  I inever saw before, anl never ex-
pect t) se ea in while I live. I shall laugh
aho it it tid I11 m  ite-headed with age, if Ill
so unfirtiui its as to live that long. Laginia
wil nEv r fr i e me for b' s fright. If lie
were ouri p r:ion', he woud kint hiinelf in very
tSnit,"-
Aid the ',- v, n blhartn    iumjr laught
loud an.l Ian  as he thought of thile ludierus
trror of th In linns.
I shoal I have been as nmch terrifed as
they Wer h,-lit1ettedu  a loIoklig figure cOie 1p-1
on mi ii h i  ii 'it, 1111 i 1not aware of whit it
was, ii .ir. I)lormns.
t.o r  igihtc r wals nut territied min the
kas',' I       mtiijor. " She mad1Ic scarce a
braili if n iry wlhen she satiw m11e, lau1 WiS as
silb it it a ii i  telin 1 took  Iher up t i tii
hirr ti' t
il ht() ho  si iare ijead to terror, I believe,
sail SN' I.n«i; I a smile.  "I felt that 1 was
in L Li   4 1' w1or, and int vven death woulib
hare all 1 iitity terror,,
"A few mo n,' adIvetituris like this will  t
you used to tint' luila . 1 liii bem atliiost to
ouvy youyour   r n- mianl escapes. 'on I miily
aS Itiii°r cOijieteli ii the Laekgroni,
sai t it. matJ r.
Al. ir.us rn' it not for you, nix aiveinturi's
ha-l bel nd i biliefired now. I etii never fr-
got lv' i m I have been reIscued.'
iii  a e t', fiurr laiy, or your compli-
in11's - iI    e h t r I't aIs jeliniy," sail
the i tjr wih a snil'. " I Ic is terribly joel-
on    it Il  i I to fit I igona single-h anded-
woull i ti nirust moe to go alone attr you.'
Al ti    jilouisy which I ever feel wihre
you eare' ne rineid, major, cim ibe put in your
pipe and sid  o du out, said -iul.
")Oh, ho . I see . You tiihk that 1ii like
* liar-s  nirugh and ug'y, that I en't w k i
Up the Ia, -ier passion.  lnuniItmarkyou, Master
IPaul-a-  r i great on luging."
" If i- alewa'.s hug to so good a purpose
as vi ill lit might, you will wmi applause-
not hliie,'' sai I Paul, with a laugh.
And Ii r Ic up by the side of Stella, and,
ArItl htil h1 1 ii time at leat, ti n   lediher
M'i 1, andsltto ed the love and jy which nid
wt-rds could then express.

CITAPTER XLIT
By the time the sun had reached its menu-
ian, McCullouh and his party had nearly got
to the fringe of timber before spol:en of, where
lie had left his gang of prisoners under guaruL
lint, while they were vet a mile or more dis-
tant, the keen ees of the Rang-r clief deteet-
el a long in  of dark speceks f  ixaway in the
r 'ar-a black and swiftly-risng mass - ant, as
he pointed to it, he said
S'Iiier   ill ie hair lost beforesu nset."
" Are we pursued ?" asked Mr. Delormnc.
" Vtes ; the whole horde of Coniches and
Lipalns is after us. 'hey probably number
tllhousanIs ; and, if we can't keep olit of their
waty, they '11 run us doIwi by the mere w ilht
of nilubrs. liui they've got to eat lead first "
said the aItngier, gratimg tils teeth.
".Our horses are alred h- tired with min y
days travel: to e capi thenm liv flight will Ih
unpilii obi !1 1" d Paul.  " Their hores are all
" itit's so," said the najr- " but Ill tell
Volt Whaut yiiui canl de, Mitirn Pat -  ioutr
tiore is a geool One, and the o e liss Sola I
rid s cait he caught by any four legs on tln
Ipr~lrie. \1on ridle on, steer'.in  u :f, hf r dtr
lif, with ir ald her fatheritI, snd we I lidI
trick an fight the red devils, and cheek the
Pursuit, till  on get i start which yon can
keep".
"Majord ue(uliougi, you do not  tn  0'me'
sail Pat, hastily, wid 11the r- ii ild imouint~-
ed tI broug ;his cheek, anduilip lItol  very t"-i
ples. ' I love 3iss )loruimi, andi  I k lw  i t.
she luve3 me-but sie woleuesp     il at
ll as I wx my1+iiluIf, ift left yut to  ht
it tie I triiI to ieo scal  I  o, 5r-1 do eat
blave you, butsillilit 111m  f hixvtlwhtevexr it i ''
SOil atie rigt, lai i; tht is no anser
whwih mceoun more dlear to mle than evr " I
iart s telI:, it a low til.
" \Vltlerhilap it wil  b ie all th better fir
ins to kiljp -toelhirl,'' ad lIIhI mIaijr.  "-pur
tup, miens--Iri~'ve onr ntgge tof he a'tte'rmotst ;
wl  hIt gilia  horses agamn when 1e get to th
wotls I'
I li ltint n-s  yi d il  andul i -l'prty, keep~
ig Ont it theire tpIsiiist sliced, solun  'rnehI-
the sjuot where JackMi halers i and his gang
ha I I eleuft.
I it xxorthy xandls 11an1 were  i  a pr
eiiu il-hi iii-un-r--stil and  llt xre wittithue bIods
thit clbi t  hiol tlelin nbut a.1 isafe-
i i&amp;llrry&amp;li an  g gtin thu- ctrlt horses, an)
chane your sadf      I'eruibdMo ltulouighi, to
his mIn '; "  yve no tile to lose here' !
 So you 'e get th' girl, have yon ?   I
Ione you'll It us go ma, won t you:'" a-ked
Nlaleurson.
'" No -Cursi yOu, i no!Wil leave vol here
for the is'Ptm miehts So pla with !" said the
tmiaji r, itterhil.  ISeir, all the arm  and
aiiiiiiiiitutm, iien ; We shill need every ounce
before night, I'm thinking I"

TIE COMANCIIE'S DREAM.                                55
as For Iheaven's sake, untie us before you  may save us, for she had the chief all right on
go !"  groaiied  the captain. "I m  almost her side ; but if she isn't, heaven help us-~
dead !'                                     for nobody else will I"
Wiein you re quite so, the world wil be no  " Tihere they core-Jerusal um Bob, what a
los.r, aw I hell one devil richer !"' said the nn- gang. cried one of the men.
'r, as he innted  a fresh hurse, which one of  " A half-hour longer will show what's to e-
uls i+ i1 led iipi to himil            come of us !"groaned Maleron,'" We might
If you wn t let me loose, do let one of about as well be dead as tied up here, a suffer-
yourinme  give me a sip of rum - do it, if in' this way.! Nothing to uriuk-not even a
yii' ve a sin1   towel of comliassionU left I" ehaw of tobacco i"
said Malerson, teouslV.      -                - My top-knot begins to feel uneasy, cap'a
McCullounh padi n atteriti i to this ap- --I'm woiully feared them yelpin' fiends will
peal, but rndtl around, and seeing that his want our hair ." said the man nearest to Mal-
men were all rea I! fir a start, and nil mounted  person.
upon frehilihirss hut Stella, whose tireless  " I shouldn't wonder,' said the latter, with
steed was still inure than a iideh for any in  a sympathetic sigi.
the party. I Ic g tVe tie woeI to move on,   The immense body of Comanehes were now
anl one    min re, at tolpo', they dashed  in full view, tearing along over tic prairie, at
away, hoiiiri abiost ia 'L ) hope to distance  the utmost speed of their horses. Riding fore-
tillhi bId-nia l n tuir r ar, an 1 to reach  most of all came Lagona- and though he paid
the sttiuiou  iil . :  r, 'iOe Ill, liefore  little heed to her, Ada MeAlpin-probably
tiuy Celi b'eI overx i i                    deeming it her safest position-kept close by
AWar   awI 'str.-  e sin ito ianee be-hisiside. He rode up to the spot where Mal-
hil dthom, t tie ily, ai    i ei e'a. l:e  ersou  d his g-ng lay huddled up in a heap,
a buli     u 'iio;f un 'ed wlvte,, pr sel  1nd1 a grin smile of's it-isfaetion flitted over
ti r tire    "   .' h                        face, as hte saw their situation.
T!-iUgh ! iGt drunk and go to sleep another
CI L\        Vi   ..       time, cli ? hei utt 'ete.
"  it, iltlh i at. 0 e+  ii x to b les1ft in  Good Mr. Lagona, tell your braves not to
-  iI      fii ' huI it fu  a lit If ma CIo- kill and scatlp us" 'sail inalerson, trembling
lnil ilt rl iV'ii -it ' w,"i't' 1os -, our for his life, us the ferocious braves of the tribe
h 'S i   1  I   .i ai it itl Iv r li   IliC   to  dashed up) I Itheir wir-pail int.
ru1 ! T'                   Lii b;lto  c eant C i v-  " They've better work tihin to scalp squaws,
f ro             1 e a   ii' 1.aI i . e - !  h fire them!" siid Laoaii, conteinmpttously.
1e  hliii ;'   ' I0I a inuI  righto the Then turniin to Ada, he iud
dci o1 i               yiir'ai, i Ie!" "Mv sister has traveled w ith- ngona long
TI  o- t1."''liIieri 117Siion, as he saw  enough--she will staii with her own braves
t 1 lii ri It    .nowandltic                           fttu. 'lhey are chmild-
" \  t'              l   ill  lrt'u',  v ilf,  I n nl a  a  lotli i ''  '
cap'0 !Y    i.        w :' ni sani us, and   leaving so spokenamtl that in a tone and
li-  t LI-ii' it1r qi I '" sl 1 one of with a look which aitlnlled of no reply, the
his meun.                                   Co manchle Chief waved his nen onward, and
a That's'      .     anoiithir. "if we'd  soon the vellilg warrior's were again seen
mi'll   11111  Ii  1   it 11   uilw-s, ani! seoiing over the piriiite uion tlhe trail of the
eraie'e eller1       ,     111+i.an  cthroiails lRangerIs -- heir horses refreshed with watet
d cen11 xt at, : u. .  n'  I 1n bi'he li this frino the streaii just crossed.
cirsid lrci w11c " For haven's sake, do dtismnount, Miss Ada,
"  iknow I amn-Ii  i , n- Iii nut deny. an icut us loose I' cried Mderson ;"we are
in* i' s  +  ,  t       I - .' but i   1   .lck  almost den  1!"
Malerin   i't             tof t ic . lipe, if  Ada did as he desirel,'ainl soon the ban
you itchl liii          ,her, v   my litiry  wi re al free. But they h bieen so harshly
him i ii Siia   vIi    I -  Ci'isi ti  an11 ibond, and confinled in one position so long,
to) be in tie ) 1   .i itr a mvi  woft goo  that at first they could scarcely'move. But
pilh atiit   i      +   i! I ieVIr vs so  mhe captaun huirrm d t overhiaulithe few stores
dlry in all m  wlil''chIel were left, and to Ii s inftinite joy found
t captliitn sil h5--a d'ep, long sih'l of a bottle of mm left, which he lessened in
miseirvn '' hi der without the pow r of ai  quantity as hastily as he cilil.
levintag his pneuli-tur first, was to il the  The party wa lIow in a truly pitiahIe con-
try 'L1iuz) of 'eetiiebdns.              dition.  They were for foim the settlement,
I wunelnr how they got their girl ?" he  their horses not fit for travel, their provisions
conitiioniel, after a pause. " They didn't look  almost gone, in the region were the Indians
as if they'd been fighting. tinl just as many   were all hostile to the xwhitth, and idha thus far
eamell  hekl tas xi lit. I council '11e  I I iwon- been re trained from slaying them, ohly by
ier' whlts eiiiile of Miss Ala ? If shie's'ivitlhi the influence of a single cief, who might be
the Comianchs that are after the Rangers, she  killed when the Rtan'ers were overtaken ; and


STIELLA DELC RME ; OR,

ti of their arms anl ananrnition had been 
I kenr away fri i tiemi i  tieanigers. On'y
Ada was in a stta.oa to defend herself-sie
ly had arms.
What shall wet ho u nw, Miss Ada ?" aslh.i
Ma leisn, as soon as ite feit a little comforted
with is bottle-ctoink a r.
"Get t atek ti a cliiize 1 r 'iot:, whire te
eta do better tlia Wu  avettm  dntte,'' e Ill Ala,
Irlmpthv.  i Menr," ri sihe, tiadidresint Iie
and ; "~von hnts. si-rut-h erieel atd iniconi-
venierncein my   trt ix, but ii soaball lbe ri'-
warded. You elected III. your qieeni, and you
shall not regret it. In rtv wisi to earryout
roy private'desigi:, I  Ialu t2nut forget Your
jiterCt'. As Siruias our ller es are r steel
atd fed, we will maIk  fr the stfLitiecttt ts-I
hive yet meansto    . y o I rei motr'i'  Ohd armsiait Ina-
t :'rats, and we WI!i minne a  en l into somie
of the rich Mexicat towtn on hte lo GItrandt,
atl relieve themti otf thr stutrt iltus welthI"'
Tis s-peecli (it bi ti la eiv-cnu limn I  ta-
er was received wit itid elice is by thie ilm t
ott 1 their sourt .s  e irk;c I(asin ut i eily is
Apird weather, frE. elon I itinto sunLine.
C'IIAP im  XLVI.
The spirits of the 1 tm irs rather r , '.wden
they houndd anI iupnmitl ther fmi ri i;
au  the gallant i tj i hilt  to  et so gi a:
attrt, that by  trio m e hrm I l  i  , ih''  uniht+be
al Ii Vet to tesenge Cw 'inuniiim ;fm' rl sh h
was lehiid Iilun.  'it, kitinmme.  the tir Ib
nature of tihe C'i,,. m to he nt ii rI ii i r, nib, ci
1  hei  forced, wii iti i-cr i -to  fri i  nt1r mi.i   tr
!:hoirs, he knewrLi t I an Ith  watmh himtt
umust keep uiligtr ti'  n omutt!. Iiii. rtehred
the settle menmcts  tit if they h dt t  I to it
even for two or tiii e hronts, tihe sli- ph o fe
would be upon ttin .  Iii a  hiil whtil their
ajpirits rose ; bet s-ni thit tw the lom J-dli:v
lime of their foe r  ,r'   t  out fn+r m thr  IE ma0  tr
timber whichtihe-', hia rx--ti  lft.  nd I
then many a glainte was threiowit b:k, frio
titne to time, ly the timiri', ii t:iiI ti Ir-
eover whether tii-' th t  e tun d,   i if las
party yet held t+hir. Fn'trhloiurt' lu', thus
ttty role on, an i thr  l t  dci-  anI e wic'xraw
that,  as  the  Iinr'  t  I  a :ti~  si-t v  hvtr  I
horses of lis tro phi' l mt t fit i, the Int Liis
were steadily and er Ia hutdl emngaitg omnhittlm.
Obseryint a smiatl i ittIori' watch i1 tial er
in the praiiia. isott  tilh aie:, heit' t i  c
his men to push tiii  ' rt  s to their t  itt
speed, determiniting thiere t tmile a i-tI-
Iis only chance mii-.l, It is.at ah a ho-t as
fo!lowei him. fit'mori ir civer of the trees,
eaoh of Iis well atmited ii- it was good for it
least a doren lI hin.
It Wts nearly dark-flth stl was just sinh-
in' biehindt a~ icbak mi swmift-risitig sttrmtt-
,ttrtd it Wi-'t sn, tilt rte Inlitnusa ic taimn-
kg very rapidly.
Do you thimm'i twe atm reich i' titimhir lie-
r they overutke us ?   aked Mr. Delormei,

o, ii axotianusly hack, anti slut1idering-for
the witi Iyeils of the fierce antd exultantt idi-
ants, who blieveil that the iners were in
tii'r power, coul le plainly iedI.
A uIth1 as ever, but I hope so," said the
Rain ger. .
1 tIow  like  fi.s' "t they  yeil'"  stail  Stlia,
lo kit.1 Ink, mmith ant txious tye.
" Lt ott 1Six-shottoters open on 'm once,an i
they'll yIl to a Lter putpca il the lani-
ger', liltrlv.
The ret wats now fearfitly exciting. One.
half inhil toie, an the tigers would reach
ec'er.-not a iatLer of' a tile In L.eir rear
e .m  It lest Lto it li+t itti  y-hlitn   iatige.
'eli11an1 t,'rr, as wi ell  ts  (lier' lender, saw
that it wol l e ei.'cltiii i  i   and, while  they
ur ;.-3 on tltlreir aboof,per s bor t, 1 i ht began
to  link  t1 tt (h -it  n'iaitn   d, at ti ilit  the
chantii'es fi o  a first sht.
Three ir tour ituit s mrelt, anl the fore-
ifth    ie clmp       tilti ofwood-dhinot tie i
Mnoll  it't  ii' t It  I i  Ing  ;it  t  lid iish
1h '  t  iii t, i  w1   t  -'i r' i, t th  ir 1 r   hntr-hl to I+
i)   i  e ti h  kni i itt-of d(1  1 1At h.  iii lien
id  it
mitt ,  tnd ite ie n:r  w I   i l ,I ovrI , an '
th    n i' tho iti - from ciii hdo t iha
tii I    o  r  h  i. -i  I  ti  I   i
A  yelia-tl-O li l 1t1 e y  car-p n  xre in  iit5
t       ,lt  i 4 , e(.1in ,il a tf t i 'hi t ,  1')!, the
.a  i of tti ttt-h at  at Ii'1  to I  i i h ore  I  of
tM r. L  iorme anih  i eu n .:m, Ihe'whe:
+1  w  w ivt{ h a  i  so g  d'a t  iy  e ,r,'i'+  ; edaf  o  ,h !1vf  o n "  11  1'1  vtl
h r  itinti i  in  ittitr  ii Ii-  lito tund  hie
of  ii t mi t  ni h oins tl ntd- n1 5t, y !sk 12 Mr
rt n;ls'   s1it  car.  A n  l .-  it ri:whl b1..1  iii,,he
s   l . Lhe  us  form  of'2Ithi fiu t iog  girl  ini  thi
n1!'1 cw1,  uth ai ii h,.12+1 of  wari s  errebnii  ;u
in1  :m!1  b oti;r l+'.  h ' t  taroi ll huni,  11u1+,
be'fo'e tthe g u1 rs colnslid  omo11010 tat  fir
bared a an l ;I1sea'-t.ringverleyV, waOS 12wyone
"~ t  OI 1 of ery t  pme!t'wlr  en1h.
01 li '  ,a  1''  i: ' 1  to,1 '';ii1;a~ i2'  t 'i iw  ' i  i tinli- )
ans.' Ut   t'=1  tu  1)  . in d  n Illt a;1 ii  w;
aiem  hi   it  't      e.    'ii .+
It i3 1Itois 114.no -- - we caniido If loig  at
pre~~~~ .t  -roa m'  M I;  r o t "
onil  ! I liisb' ,  istht l , l!h'  h i d i4  he
". Wt t  dillhlitti  all ith it n',camldo  to  4 -fn il
oulrse'lvest, if they  du tl~l  o  at ek  us htl erei ] ; if
tht y do lnt, it 142b11 b 1  aot  -,  worse
t hoan  ma ;n :11 -  o at na  1 a n'ii on  1 hi  nl:l ,
tta ' lii nUabert s  and 2121  iill n e  i ndun  of tt'ir
"' llow  is it that  t i  ,'thei h 'rEschwa stood  the13
rnot -i1 mu10h b,,Ltr thanou 01W?"asked Mrt
Delo'se.

TIlE COMANCHE'S DREAM.                                   5i
" Because they have s pare horses, one to tion, could the party preserve their arms and
Llch man, an hve banged on the route, ammunition in a state fit for ne.  T heir gar.
lroi tine to tune. It is ans old trick of ments were I.terally    soaked   through  and
thirs," replied lcCulloughl.                through.
What ean we do-walt can we do ? Stall    All the night long, the storm  contiuned,
must be rescued, or I shall die 1" groaned  without cessation ; but, itpon the approach of
Pal. -day, it brlke, and the sun arose in a eloudiles
"The)e is but one way to do," snid the sky iBut in vain did the laity look for a
R inur chief. " Wei must get back to the set- trace of the red men who had appeared in such
tomits, it these dcvtIs wFitt let us., anlget countless numbers the night before. Not one
I   In ien,andi Ithen cute nd tan them out of1 was in sight, They lad passed away in the
e''"tnce ! They nee1   a lesnt, ad 1by the darkness, and the storm, most likely, had
ar1, they siil have it, or IDen McCuilougli washed awsy every mark of their trail.
va   hi  up rating;, and turn tailor"       Fires were now lighted in the It:Ie grove,
And1 io tih mtieatitme', wnac will Ieomoe of the horses turned out to feed, and the inen al-
Stla?  La1ona, now that the is in his power lWetd to dry their clothing, and to prepare
a-tnit will hat e to nterey upopn ,lie"     food--for the major announced his detcrmina-
"   ke vonur itd eaiiisy atbotthat," said tion to return to the settlements for reitnforce-
tite mjotr.  ' 1ron the way in whie: he has inents, as soon as his horses were rested enough
1e I, so fnr, wt' I I tler when shte was in his for travel.
pwr, yut h:ive tin  rsotn t tilnk that lie  11oth Paul and Mr. Delorme were  readfttlly
vi 1   an.tti v otiu-' otiteO itan to retaiina her dowt-Ihearted.  To them it now seemed that
a capti. L t it ony get a cotlulte f hun- poor  te.ha was inevitably lost.
dIiedl vtttth is to,;t"t t', and  iil St)Otnmare
hli en iito   ch lt ut,"
N  i it was to tfast thawing on-the stnit         CHAPTER XIVI.
wasi.:'her s t, or Iihhhu    tl t;lhind the ogh ion-timc, the horses had rested an fed
cllnd-, whai, swl  yvrismng, threatened a ter-  eoutghi to be fit again for travel. The grass,
r'l1lytit ,tortiai-ithoughrud;lm                       nf1at the roots, was diry above, with
Thini     s?.h1ad retrated a mile or so, an itfeet of wtid and sun ; and the imen,
i t  sm5 1(111to t hoiitma ctouniltto her, though suffering for want of sleep, were con-
i ains em ittosntt in a I it  whaIiieIt, a iiithe silerattly refreshed with their rest an tifood.
utor coilld it t   wheti tnilt r the Itlattis mto- The tjtor now ordered thtem to saddle up, and
i Ld  t   telk In it  the ioil i   not, make teady ftir a start.  While this was being
Wh    tr it i itit.ens m:hit be,  ltunli  done, Paul, whose eyes were cotitintaly glinc-
it lie +t bet' oud, lb wy ii',  pireparanit ii  intg n.way in the direction whie  he stlposet
ti ottet lit.  1hhornes, uIlirmly togeht- had len taken by the Indianis, suldeily cried
tr, 1', l htiet fastettid I a rit a  ting to ti  tetsi. out tat lie saw mna on the prairie-tount.ed
o tels wi re onail;ill aroutin I the I ttie w oh i1en.
--nIV e1101nodvt-cn     oe  nit a auv or nT ejinsmtlysprung into a small tree
tVi ygr+ound 1 --l1 e'tivryl man11was5on guard. With his spyv-glass, to take i observation,
.i'  i    ln' 'nieht, no11 ;5e raW  di not  "  Put ot thoseires--,dto't let t laticle of
!t   ad     d, excep t' -p1111inii of the tried  molei he seen,'' lie cried, in a momirent after
.t}+m'sandie'lathivyry     ungoftauiouS       ms glance ha1 reached the party which Paul
nih ou' p    d -i th apsmo'c-a nl, cx-  " What are they ?-Indians or nt ?' a"sed
e   l nt i  i:otlt tie, ntt nitgcuti  le hteiard  Paul.
l    t(1 1tin :110. lue ~ikii55, now grrowi        " Whiite men --tlhat rascal, Mail r'on, Cai11 b1a
',asIiieioI'or°Irtet                                   lliiis, aiio ' gang, I tink,"said themao   " 'hive all tbe
l:;"lie:   iln lycon1Ctleal ; and .hrseS 1led t thetback of the grove, and fio
"t t.  "c I  i iwait their actions in  an anbuscade on this side, nun. Ifit is them,
tnt ,atn     ens itiacV ti      soi    we'll not go tack to the setti ments empty-
+Idone, a        e t vy  rimbl g tt isond Itnied.  We'll take them ias prisoners, atnl see
ui  :I , adil': 1lnadPl(l, who!if there isn't some law in Texas. It; would ie
1    byI Vtie 1ij+e, Sotoel it t.o c tIe no  me i  than justice to soI-sot t item, like
r111   t lit lotft  Ini l  Ints.bttt the clii wthiolvs, on the prairie -hut jistict isn't law,
ani     un't'1 1h i  bitt ini  a omtentt.  now-ta-lays, hyia htng odtls.''
Srisasn    said 1hie.  let e erv tan look  Th'1'e oilers of the Oiijor were speedily
5th itr is rist atnl antmitiutttion-it's going to i olteyed. Tie fires were extiished, the
it   yoi'uott ign~tgtit'aa."                horses sereted, and the rimen with trealyV wear-
It Soot ent ; ai it-did pour 'otmng Ni- otns, posted behind trees, prepared to unt whea
a     vei a' i u mi a 1t:ijir itl c r tc .  Fr hours, their constnander gave the word.
S    tdti+ seeild to yhelli th ir torrents, wit h  IIn a short time, the new  comers could be
a"mIe ieiite'e that tas fat' fromni Coml itb'ile to  very plainly dis inguishel, even by thanked
nitler lman or beiast.  Only by exeedilg Cau-. eye, and they proved indeed to be the robbed

I


58                           ETELLA DELORME; OR,
bane. Thir hofs had become efficiently  Delorme, to see what effect her o:d  ,1do
rbnes to enable them to move along at a fir have on him.
rate  an en a  they  expected  soon  toreach  tle  ' " ou  ha11 not  e bLound  like    re s ;  wt
ettemets, their ill-humor and discontent had  a special guard will be lilacd oir you," said
anbihe, and they seemed as gay as if they  theajor. "And," he addi, " you will do
hal pripered, rather than suffered.    -me it favor by not a     ringeoinugr.h
In a car,.les and jovial way, they aip- sin with a,, y remarks--he i uftering enough
proachel the little grove, Ada ridinir a little  now.P
apart from the rest. Mulerson, full of his   " Poor fellowr, how f pity him !" said Ada,
uual C arm jokes and careless levity, rode at mockingly. " But, major, as a favor to you,
the heal of the mainbd hy. As they entered  I will curb my feelings and bridle my tongue ;
the ede of the woo and dimounted it ap- for once I will be a silent ". man."
peredo, by their conversations, tht th y in- If you can," nuttered the major, with a
tended to rst here for two or three hours. half repressed smile, turning away to superin-
t n dt,   e fo re th a t e  f oru  wor  o   f i iees  h a i  ta'i l ith e  arr an g em en t  o f  7 ei   o t h   r  pris o n  'r s
elap sed,  tr  a  L r i  l istle  frot  their  leader,  lie  eo ld1 ot  ut  nni e  'tae  cooless  and
the Rangers steppe-l out from their ambusi, s ioit of the tr1.
andi the entire gang found themselves sur-   "Youncaeilut tin me.In i l givTe you my
rond e et                                word of honor I won't offr to ruin" sad Mal-
r e d.a  -was   tsd   th   p e eofchance,  erson,  as  one  of  the i Raner3  appirOIhieil  to
e  en,san c it s to  ht'  thought  of.  he y  were  binI him, as oth rs were  o'g  to the rest.
nia n I -ti n it  t loalc tsfo lly armed.  "  You  d  better  give' so.0u  thing  that  you
unt t  l  p   's asidAdm, quietly, n  have or once had," said the Major.  "Put
lcC it  ,  ta -' thian  Indoso.  "'\V e -will have  d'utIle  la things  on  the  w etlch.  He  is  tie
M  L  '-atd.  th mthe  S  t   Io ti nts,1now--  that  is  all.  wor'  devil  of  ie  gang."
on   t e  -  a   t o-  -  f t he   fot s, .- "  T h.ml k  you  for  the  {  om pl im ent.  C an't
«« Vu :be m as d ifr ti Wtreiiiniai.l, ttV  you let mue have a little rui to drink your
littletil t  it,' .s  ,l hl edn  iii  b.  n at  iii Et t  health  in ?" ILid Malerson, coollI. 1
rl i t nte   i g  t i  -   o f  t h e  " a  hal r - - fo r  l e  " If  I  h a d ,  a n d  I  th o uig h t  it ' w o ul  h i e
hrl e   rn m   t e i   i a  oi f   er  e py ou  y o u  shou ld  have  it  w ith  plc a u re,"  sai
h Ia' ever et nl this3iitent.  wn. von as- tile, tjr.
s"    " d  it'   1i , e t ' I,  n ti. n ien h en  io u  a tv i " T i n k y o u  na g ain .  W h en  I iaret  th e  ch an ee
P a l rt t .   .  I , l a " "  i :',   t l i li ne t to  C ihok +  o tt,  r e s t i t tti t h e  w ill  w o n t
w aet l  a n  I . d h ine,tttail  no   -sic n of  atel  -I-lie-w -tin g ."'  e pli- il t M -i I reo ti bite rel y.
ttire'te.i   a '  o n  e it,,ou   and t that.  l iof I  bai,  he ti angnioi  will  dio  your  choking,'  said
iii  t e e   i a n t it   u   pt'   V I t t 'rlat   t ',  a   i l  a  M r . ) - rtit e .  w i tl h  a  lo o k  o f  s c t't   no d  h a t e .
mi"    t     t    ti"n tnlaitnli t' o u t  tip w n   eer   '" A lt,  you  th ere,  o ldl  _  elet tan  ? Y ou  i md
h a mi o t e fs i de. d  h e a h  n   : n e  o utP i  t i  li t h  ta a in -t  mt e  ?  It  is  lia rd  iwh en  o n e 's
bandomef  ic, a  ltit   itIe a e. on p nthe  relations  wott  st nmbi up  fjor hin i nor  en
(,es s  o , i r  t  bi t e   uuit 's  t i   a  o e   t i t  a  d r i n k   o f  r a   to   r at e l h t  s p i r i te .
Oal t s  o yLuin   oa - iIf  tl i  oti t  .ieit  I  am I ut  ni ver  m inii  ol f1e n,  w hi Wn it te t  to
h r  r   mt  o,  a e li   f i a t  l  ' n  -th e  i in t vi  io n  th e'  ta ll 's  w ill  till  tu rn e d.  I
h pp  'tha  i i  iih a'i t i -fI  Patti.  reei~ii  v rii "it  oil  lady  will  teachi  y"ou  b -'tt'r
"   . {   -r   r Al. i S. u life,  out t in to - rat me in this wn. It ehi dii'
Iii'  y       r  tthin tit  i t i in 'ir i o u  th e n  s p ell  t y  a miei  b ic k n aisa 'l l rua nd  w a te r  m y
,   a  tr   .  tiet - i r   t   ny to  t+1 - l -e  g rog
St  i   !   st ere  oAltny oe he                mn  rit ly  for  a  start  t w, the  rier
"""{) yt          -lt r   it  w it   I  ises, Pusiil.  tre  given  - anti  t e  R i oie   w' 1'it  th ei in' cap-
ot   vnt It ii  tI It t   it   wi    i hiig  iintidse s .  -  iV i   a in  li n ,  a  nl d  u n d e r  s tr ic t  g u a r d ,  h e a d e d
S 1  ir ' g it  ry  o  d i i n  ns  . tii h- t   ii a o . ntt- o n e e  m o e  to  tlih'  c a s t.
t'    ' r t -  -  o' r hit t"hi- s, oind  fatti  t hilt-seC TiIT-
S   nItito-iti oii lictthii-  rSso that they e can--lAI l        . ,
i. i     - itfi l ' I  i '  t tl i ni l  -  "  iWhen  the  l ttse  upon  w ith  Stella  r id e
U  1 t t  o  I nt it ta ke  a: y  piretcations in  it'-  ttix  i--I at thIlo  .ofL (II titu, S in i aia 11
gato  t, c'.  v.  I  I1i' -hi--  \  in  the  ;sind  tin" t"inll t t  'y hiv  Siitii,  tualvso   mo   (tthe  Ly
nt    ol  a .   i ii .    ti a  t   nat' '   ti   t i   s i in te n a   in s  1s e f lore  s h e  f it u lly  re a l iz e t  he r p s i  i -'
at ile t, not  (  are  itttel t i mt  , yiu   per il.1 Il   tthoulit  kept  its  tastery,  she
tntn  I  hil i  i     xid ml t  ie. e,    otou t.d have  e-tot  her -Ilf  front  the  hore'b before
u  h    r       t wi-Ada MAl- it hti Ittswd fsrom the cover if the Itatwers'
'    ts'i;  lit'nir ir i n s p'r  ttt e.  rtt s, b itt  thought  only  tite  to  h-  when  it
ithYotithatet outl  hty'il\ henri of was too late.
miirut' t   taltil.   le use  to  he  ryt"I'  fond of  There  tas  no  look  of  triumpl, nor  even
i- '-Itr i - ia tt lit'  'o -ti  it  so tII  i  t  o tn  of  an -le'  upon  the  face  of  -lt nttna, w ten
lot etn hn -ess,1 d d Alt, glaoeiii; at Mr. he cleehed her horse and drew it up by the

TTT COMANCHE'S DREAM                 59

a
zz
A
r
4

side of his own, and supported her, half-fain
ing as she was ; nor even an accent of displea
us~,or a word lacking kindness whets lie spoke
' TteGreat S~pirit has sent the Whit
Flower back to Lagoni" he said, with
proud, bat mournful dLnity.
She madite no reply. 11cr heart was too fu
of wild, hopeless gri{:f now for utterance. Thi
last peril, so unlocked for, and so sudden, tool
all of be. tourage away.
The chief, as we said before, sent back
shot of triumph and defiance to the langers
and then retired a mile o ' so from the posi
tions of the party ; and there, while Stella wa
heft under a giuard of is Choseinatid favoi'itt
braes, ie hell a com nil with his sub-chiek
to decide whether or not, they shouhl attack
the ittngers, or retire satisfied with the recov
cry of the prast wi cli their leader valtel s
highly, an-I for wi Ib he hat dated, and suf
ferel so much.
The argun iitt for ahtitk was, that the pale
faees, and the han iser espleiiy, Ire their
deadly enetmii; aid thtr a alps, ail ils.
tieirr arms, a'nmittitb'a, and horses, woild be
a v-alialie an I dii iable nequ-it ott.  The
argument a t.aiust it wi-i, tIis Itl i'ti which
the langi's hadntiLalttd, he dieillltws iof their
teriile  six-sltooter, anJ  -esi t es,tiI t h alt'uitl
c rtuinty, that ite e wory iw's wi h hi In-
(hnts, it would be tiounditt with u mit nett seiC
'0t  of life.  To  stir  -ir  the   st    1':S   tall
nowt e tinpo)1 bie  ; t h ie  .nny that niterror 1'li
Cboul driv e them to surr1cnder'---tht'eouldi only
'oiutl ut'ee  in di.iltil.
So"me of t t e osit :trdt'tt, yomtg Wrriors and
lurastJes 'werc f or I{ih ;ie fnual~ck, witthout J
taitiii to contt the cost bitt Ligoia, an.1 the
citef who Ihadti  i t ,o   xp erince, advised a
C0 trary  cours, ".  li o  Iiim'bi-, t   Uwtttey sought
hid en gt'enLi  iw, as they argud't, by
thul C at tint, " att')it the loti5 of a hrop of
.'Jtiw1 it  oil tt   t ilt)y t ool  w rb ft u i l the
ii--'li   oftin  se5 10 l  e . I ttvi11ii t
it- l oi'tun oe a'Iftli aid 'htst htio argued
fit i  attack, the struorm t : st  utt' titntit  it
al-tiiipsiiilhe sil.l t' Wrl}i ehitti' Poo
itoo  se-it  ai t'i an l t utitl g othd e  e e -
ib  oilf theover-zmantts- it1I twas.eeto
a the trate',,t lnd . on, in hgh 'colanu,
to un g+tu  r  toatiu to-d,u t  te whoe l.bt oe
,wh{eeFkd and r'ode bathk ~tvar'd their mo0luntaia
Wrilpped ingroat binits n an suptrted
mitt  more  iii the  p .et -fitatin  fi  j  t'i
5hWaIS bot"rnoaw a   h ,'lvth {t, almost in
sat    iii\lher utt'rwretclhedness. lPoor
tii t t'nt t as if death only could be the
end-;of her many peJr s an tat rals.  .
Vas,! tiiiEsea 'l~iM ~iliitigh a Riangers
took upon their return to La Bolsa de Fltlore~s,

I

t- from the appearance they exhibited when, full
e. of hope and eagerness, they had dashed awty
to from the Santelplace at feW days before, On the
trail of the vile abductors of Stella Delorme.
e  They had ridden over any leagues of ground
with scarcely any rest, hardly taking time to
eat food enough to sustain their strength
11 Their horses, like themselves, we'e nearly
s worn out, and they were glad once more to get
k  where their old favorites, refreshed with long
rest, were again ready for the saddle.
a    The retnrt to the plantation was Ileasant to
s, them, but poor Mr. 1)elorme and PTul, corning
.- back as they did, without Stella, were more
s  wretched, even iore miserable, than they had
e beet when they vent away. Eve-ythiingthey
staw only reminitded theft of lier, antI thirtstud
k  fancies painted lier fate in the darkest colors.
-    Mrs. D 3lort-e - sad-fiaced, nervous  imd
o  i'wretched as theiiiselves--awaited their coming,
- and looked anxiously fir Stella, as the lonr
and~ weary train ied ini throughAl the gate, an+I
, halted beIore the house. But if her ehuk was
r pile at first, it reddened sutlicienutly, when her
eye fell uponMalerson, who hound with the
crest, came up unler guard. His eye met hers,
and with a quick glace at his bonds, lie iado,
a sign, as ii drawing a knife over them, iand
I'gave ter a look at, once iipioring andi threat-
ittic, which lie iulerstood hut too well.
-      V here st 1i IIStowthiese villains,utim
men are suetiitty cit tel to il  thii to
 -pristt for trial" tset the major of Mir. Dc-
-  torn'
" I till have   tttore-liouse cleared out for
thlir use !" said the phlan r.
" tIther's y- rub and rutm there, yon needn't
ti   el'  rit it; itiout--we hal tathl itr oac'py it
as it t: !" sailtiiersoit, witt.lti an impudeu, air.
"All that you'll get from meti, wal be bread
tutuI tai, f i t you are rt mtoved to a stronger
iesuni  said Mr Dr -lorime, hbitterly.
" I don'tbehve the it'stress will be so hard.
ieatel 'l  muiiitittered Maieron, in an itudttler-
tone.  " If  she  it,  h'Pi  nistikeii,' itt  sthe'-l
niake a'grteactr mitaet than she lint fora ong
time !"
ithe pris netrs, wt - i the exception of Ad,
were now rtitivel to a biinilitig which Mr.
I) hiuriiiunedt  fitob-r their isc, were a guard
was still k-pt over them.
1 ttu tany ia eille otinie me, sir," said
Ata, to the maiiijor, " I whilraw my paile,
ant will no longer promise not to attem ,t to
escape.3
" I at under the opinion t ht vot can with-
draw yourself, Miss Ada,"svail the 3  oj', with
a swti. " I'ii not used to warring vithi iw
titn, or making captives of them ; antwih the
Cloneurri'ente of Mater Paul and M'. Delormte,
haveii atd up my minitidl that your ftnt iem' come~
painy can be dipensed with. Amnd  ut mie ad-
vse you not to agaii assoc rte with such a set
of rascally cut-throats as those who were just
marched of with the guard. A greater act of

lilt
It;
Si

't;


Go

STELLA DLLOI.ME ; ORi,

villain  netver  e'1pio  nahIing, under thet  n'd iie  asdl 1: " have you influence enough
hanuai's tr  '                   to tak'.e them out of the State, iwereI  to release
T hey w1e~vW rt'notit t m '.Ysat)" l's, lbut rmytoo?.s,  thfn  ?
eir !"  d  MiAli, hait iy.  " My toots, w: h "I have !'' Said  A lit.  " When  yin  cap-
which I souiht to r' e ,o e myx ucf pon t Paul  ted t  us, it was my  itetnton to have l1i'turt'ed
Mih-rson, ;or i  pnI y  t , ro'  I have Iye e-  nun  i tttei to have led t t ii ver!' Ii tor-
ch.id, an ioi tco tn I  t1far!  iris ito  1e tro, wirI I  won  avi''  xeid
S\e   u1tt'  l  y'  iv   hae  ti g  to  t  u pin'iiI th  s' who  vtai'iid th  i  w   hthe no-
with  vy  ir  '. ,r 'i,and  itvy 't'. s i n:  aI t- t t ini   t attii  e   i' d  ir ii  inon "ii,
Vi i s', 'h i n  v 1) ha1.'1ht'r ,  r!  hi  01 oranit nitini  L ei'.  e anii( tt   i  t. s  i
whi h  I i : r  ! i et ' I 'a i' br v ',  '    itn ,  iIIci lon. Ir I e a  w tn -,1  wonna,'
atl in   ple of' ar  upp r' : nI l thi  ae n  i h t b'n er ht  aottof myth, rt.  1J
tore,  i sI'-.t V u  w  iinhave m  id a  brml0  0 :t ave  "  \\r 1 \  '1 s oci   I  giveyoun'r  non
nml  a ° ssiaot'  syt''              frit  lt't s i n l e'h arms ?" cske 1 3Met ul-
Tl,                     l t h t  t ion--   10' .h-  Ii  'ix+t ,t  Il'm''I'
of  ,\ , t  a I,,it ,, I ''  I i x'   i iii:s  ii i  t'i,!;:Fi:'ns
tr  .  :a.''7-t  it   i    'i'i  t  t1 r  t  °i .t Ii  '''' , -  i i~t{'  i'.  D ivineo
cIf' .  t. ' mt        ,r  "      lii t " 1 hd           r     m
''IIs'tt                                               I Ii+,' I 1s nMa'.  "'{
x"    i n: i    I   i s "   'Is'se                     cnId  e
It .  t'  :         Pt  'i  s "4 vb' '  V n  ',w' t::'l  s 't wm'hrst r i  tm  mye a  s ?
'F  k  I i t'  'I,  i  it ' ' It .C ..t'i .'s'{i{  i  I ' 1i s '   ti' i   t ' a r li Is ii  Ii v i t'i-.
t+ '.i   't'i l    i " ' tt I)tEL"'it't  I t   'i   . . .1   ii ty u ii+)r t
lilt site                  x:si tt , ti
it 3' si 1 ' +' b ti t:tec t1 t'. " hi i ' '  1  1'n,", tI \ l ii i t 0's'. - ? 't'I  r
"t    .'1ii5g1,1 trv
ti  i  r  ,  , '  t ~s~ .  t  t  .  , is  i  ' i  i '   t  ., til  if  I la e  o  e -
e   i  '''n  at    ' it  i  's {  ,  'o       oa t'  t :i" tV  i it -n " r a  it " t i
sit,  t    aS''                    th's  .,  j:t fest'dl  1anc  1t  I mt,  "-''t
..  I + t ' r ~ + '' i ' a i i L 1. P t r f s ' , I ,, 1 Is '' t , 3 "t ! ii Ii , t \ t O l  t  I i i' -
t'                 udo   nr  o  ep
I r ,t' a ,a         n.  t'un  ' 1tu ta      s'    ni  on1i't'';  tl  w' ist i
t.t t t't  t .,       b t'  ss  i  t ts  s  t'o  , '  t t  til  sttyou'll  n n o 'r ont-
t'i  a  I  . ' . . ' t t  , t t i  'i  '  ' i t t : , ' t  ,
b   t  , nii   'Iiii :li' t+.l  istt s t  s  )  P --s:    n a f t y  i c''.  , t  b:ti
fr' ~         ;  i: 1 i  '"  v,  t',' " '' th:nit'  'i',.iy' '- 'ion t'c " St  iit ri"f'i'ts  n'- eis etit nii'
k  I  , :'s t  bti's  , s' t  'i'i :i  'm..  s}Ii 'se ta ,t  slm  iIt :  i , an  1.the  ;glor'ingS "  lun-
fa ' a  t ;i ', ' t 1  1 :tta '\ '1" tt'si ni  t!t i  ls '.t th lan er
Ct' e ' iiit '  ,s'a  t' .\' r"'  'sms ti  - ' so'  .  "  uutmtnt  1t'i'  major , "  rmy  men  arc'
t          i    c t      t '  .s ,' I :am  u .E nto   we'-,   t's h  an i°!I'e "  jmiln1 cir ii i s ( t'ers t  IIit: .   s d'ter-
Iae  Ild  'r j:.:asdai a  s  t t,'tt; ughuIh,  mttitine i as yo u tanibe, to) resiCUe your imdughtr

TiLE COMANChE'S DRlEAM.

61

from the Comtanches. It never yet was said of             CIHAPTER LI.
Bin ietMtuluhil that he turned batck from ;n  Lagona did not go back to thetsameI Iace
uitetrain, urn hali that charge be ever + in the Siet'rra Charrate to which McCiuttmgb
lult' :" 'had first ttalod him, but sending directions
I l a'vin blss VOt, iajotr !leaven bless I by a sub-ehief for the entire vilhotte to move,
ytt  '  rt' eltilet 'planter, griaspii . the true 'he lail his course away to the south-w'ist, tt-
solhiir's iiiil. "' I ht  nt.. anoth  or'hd to  ward thte Rio i urande,strikiiig for the "t 'Wili
Sat-ti , as on lthitt hbt in tV trytling i"   Rose Pass " of the Si'rra 1 iabtolos-or
'I xi  lintitlin that cani result tt your . Devil's hills, as they are n .t moisaptly named.
i   -iutv  "  d the mitijotr. '' t xxili order sume  Alt of that stormy ui]ht, anda during all of
eiinn!,;s lnt it he pitt's, andthen  the next hiy, witionit. hialtiiirit amoilent, hs
liii av',eLi iiiuerd, and i. oilmlke themit a bit aind his ti'eess warriors kept on. lint they
of a        Ipeh.  'im lii !raIr, but I've a way of hilLlted on the secoiid night by a water-course,
ceI ixdtill'i'e. whiiiitti nist men1 cianun- nil resttedl xtutit the  'xt day, giving their
dti     whtut1 hithy are t'iltiy l I", 1'' horses a choice to recruit. Lagona, who, as
'Th   jri nwi , wlhttlitiit the ll 'iih consent of Mr. lie had ever done before, still treated Stella
DeItli' 'a it a l1 er :3U suply of fiit, and i a  with the most chivalric respect, had a small
littrateuit ila iii!;of liilur to' the ga  t  iii the  tent, iiade from iblank'ts, raised especially for
s5tiri'hoii'i Ia l u ung  il:\a of x'iiat lie in- ie, and he brought her the most delicate
ttene it ii loI p u'tutu  n ih tiler to take somie  fod to temlpt tier to eat. Beriecs and fruits,
it'll' shmet , mi i rtom lx hilrlself.    anid birds, as xwell as buffalo miat and dri.ed
I   r ;.   milititi IUi11: Il hin  allow edh  sutlicieiit  fet.nisnti, were  lai tefioie IIr  hil; t lin  vit--
tile ito rI'1 inh  n xhm'v, s, ti'h Mijr orerht'dt'  sil' ve.pt an1 oititbed, lnt wouil not ('at.
tlmii to Ie :tiltr'i'ed iniii' m nt itof the house. This trtouh'l the young chief greatly. lie
N1thr irit.I) Ihnw'i  itr  li ti.+'weretpre t, ix'iit;,  xreauiv and truly loved the pool' girl-loved
lon tie mhij It1, w1 dhila by is side, stood  her as well as his wiiil, but noble na'tnrti woukt
up i ta    ic-I.-± 1rmt-and lwr 'grit' went to his hear(;. 11ad
T. x  li  beenut itted ; al  being of that  hei enot in liis very sut believed that her des-
iat u i ch ei i is':l tn y  'a'tiidh, Ihtel  ui e i'0'i' tlin\y hal  bett   lke  it to  hiis l n,  I  the will of
1w1thir. is aptett, loked very orlet', the (Great Spirit, lie would not have detainedi
as they IooIlisi itre redy to he'ai' Lie major's  her, but would have taikei ier hack in safety
pee1h.                                     to those who mourned her absence.
"i 'i," said he---" iall xoument, thnt hl a  Ab! how unlike some cilized tyrants did
n- '.'aixvt . t eurm oit-ilt cross a imii's did tihe act, while she was utterly in'his power
tri' ack tfw'r th Il iii emne;)i r-meni, this lady  a--see-king not to force hier love, bit to win it
helii s bein itp-ing whmforyoure-by kimilss nl1 ty tedni'iess    Ini'oe than
1eae.Ilhave tcontse~:'l, i tupo lo: tetunditionu, tiOes.avu breast--or rther, in tih breast of
at ftr' y' r e iiho leas': i 'icp Iii-1i. it is thar lmoet'ihan one savage, I would sax--have ,
yii tire to let ite Id' xi' ii o; it viou m't1st found honor wx lhic itotiuld hive d(lone credit to
'ah tl y .id fI'. ttoh :it'' 1lp.ic:ainsinot friithe noblest pale-tae in the land.
is,wh a   ei I=.  hlIt hmhimlia.itlItl Teell to give  Ona the next lay, Lagona antd his party
yo51! \h   ol iltluyou say--do you tieitdorset her started early, n irotle taxit, 'litftire night
lta-                                       tii'r entered the wild, but lonely pass, winch
-- W        theyy shouted, as with a single t 1aptoke of in the opeirig o'~this chttllr1c'i',
Voice                                       nailed like the cjouin of stern and lugged
-   'Vy wa1-thi=ii guarid xil telort ou t  to  a outoa mountains, not inaptiv, for it was carpeted
capill.t ial-,  mde toil  tt o um doftit' tI1ilt it onitlined with Ilowr's, while, on either hand,
Itimti  w rtie yovu nit dk. ay intit 1  pc- h great lack ant grey cliffs, toiw'eruing up
p omne tt,"pr', sotins for ti , and redore yourviiit the  ter'loids, looked as they  wero
ns. Aul Idia'k you. it' tin  tit' ytoiu exiv'  uieiticl-'' devilish!i'
tihis to rIhiet ':r i'eretlor ei mn wiithi tie IbiolIrd-  The sun wassom three hours high when they
1.i's t T1 i' ro;i ts ':ini ligaust anyi'' min na  came to an opening to the cast, which ledl i-
Wotintui lri iie liM,  lt  oi'r abuseiiiin any thiaiip  to a valley fa'rmore beautifil and all as ruit.
tn ma'tiittt'r,, x'ot:t iiangiu, m'or I'-l at frti's fiul,t 's that 'hiih we deserhet in tme sierras
an.1 tin t.ihr.iii'  Now + ytuii e Itaird mx--li iim  ha'rrate, thoughith not so iitlicult of access nor
tiit iui:c tt a t illk, ht! I eaniii' eiv'i'r' will I so wehI gTituardei I as the other, by the hand of
tai- liit nliven mlrak a pmutist' ttotiltiinI'or the gr'eattest nliiitaury enineei' that exists-
to'.  I Iw lx'gve yo'ti i ebairge oi'f this th;lv, Damie Nature.  Down thri'oumgh this valley
n  ip1eii itte evii  iltl get utii, in due  r'ush'td, not ense roa'inmg, dashing st'earn, as in
tim i!                                    I tht other, but ill'  ' iumgrling mnusitalrmivuets,
[.T' tmjt' pc'i' 'h aOs x trnlved wiiithiaf- winitg anmil tiwititg in  xilvely 'brightmies,
i ng'ii  chii  'iiai    is t ii  tl s wer itb''sill'o tti, i through  thi' txlowda   I, (ir' Iteaping  frtm 't above
itclir, it 'i I.t U   ltt ' wthre 'nitthey were  liii'poor Stela bt'ten in a muood or situa-
to :ht Iti' their winI.                  Itio to adimlire at.uthiitg, she could not hnv9

it
F=
I'

tjr
e ,
i
{
I
i
,
f
}I
d
u
. 3
_
3.


G2

STELLA DELORME; OR,

fIt uthtt a ll 14wlt' ',t the kit] in  ( apd Jack, by management, c Uld g
hoot fe-   r 0t  ani i'i1  ' h et '  r et'  1 1n un  ai i w  eibi-  enou ti  (If  the  ardent  to  keep  U )  his  spirits,
ith  e- 1' ire  tVO  irs  hla  ra  d t  sin'e  La-  for  thr  were  ioeic  in  the  hLand  who il Id it
K ud  5F t1  1 1i'  lit+°   a  !l01, 1 ill(l' s  t'  otli  car r'i  tie ir allowance, and hllared  wit  han.
n1 it iltl il tiir  L ~ % ir' e bter' lte   t   ti  r  M  Lanttiie, all was e'xitetent at the  aita,
L .  ,  a h i  1   1i  t   a ,  a rl li.itiii 1414 + 1 tIi"  'V ' tv Ii i ,  fu r  M ajo r  M c C uIllo u g h  h ad  e n  i . .
r111  t+l  I IL  "I  I t at 1 i  . iil F  r' l'i   l y  t  '   rI's  Ill  every  direction  to  gather  vo Y   l uIt 's
hi l mI  I   tI  r  a'' ui .  Its 11 1  I r+'  iii lIII' aI  f -- a  gi a ti l e 'xt 'eriiiiu at. g  foray  in 0  t  e.
n a ntIl r  c.  t   ril('i' int   11(. he and  ipan  country ; h  be' 114 g (e-
w.'  L  01,11 II' I  "  t  s  i't' bEI   i - ind tI m3l I inliedi i t  only  to  rescue 5t 1, l la, it u tt
X1 1 '1. S a  dt',  " i#''1V  4 14  '  '1 ' 1  tR h t I  ithe  re  maliraiders a lesin  which  w  nid
0 '   . i i11 1 's  a l  l 1 11 c a r   0   -ii t I t L 't   - c v a st  t h 1115 fo r  a ll  tim e ,  a n d  m a k e  ti n  m1 m o 111 r e1 '
i te1til fi -1'  t 0' thll  i rpl' p rfnili+ 1  e1.1i11s to  remain  at 11ome.
r  ti.  e t' i' ' If  wadt  ""I  + bt  i   ei'l4 '1   itht  A  1  f  io m  every  qlarti r  i  i   I ey  cam e, som e
t.  14.10  1,  - I t'l i '  as'c  '  I'  'ia  ttill Ito.  M i  3 s iiIiv  oth i's  i  laLrie's t o.f  six,  ci  ht,  or  a
t  e  1110   .  r e n I er  I sil ih i ILL  i  i1 1 1 Ii Iw'i t do' 11 n1 ; h r il dy  ro n  a r li e d ,  t it h  t h c  u e 'i g
I'l    1n 1 . r ant  i L  ean   i 1  a  ri-CII t a  c uch   tihe   l Cd d  si S o  atr,  id  the  heavy'
1en'iiLit  Iftan a n''  fIm r ai.  e in; ' I  u. e i1112,1  Iifl' n-.1 n1  who4 I OW 11ch !super'i'iori' to
'l  OttIL  t ' i' I i of'1(Ift.1  t ' r '"   1 1'a    1' of 11i '   uI lt  g r1   h'  il  n r icr its -
1  1.I   -'i ihei             t      icith i a-ta1   'tl a'51 i  a r   mi o tIl'  e(rfri  offt fII  5 i  I birth,
1  2'e n '  -  ft;+ i i l  tr (If t i' ' l ilt   11l 'e,  11141'n  i  &amp; t 'C i I  t ',i thi i   t  l w han d p o o ya
14    It  i~ti. '-i iit   J el hel  bI  t  b u t '4c u l d itoi ll its;l o n.oie 1   4t   it il l :1 + 1 i t t  i  4r,  e   ti e r  i i   t im es
uta lc it"  't 1:1.         f war or iat".+' - buot  remly V as  too  mailny of
of ' Slit I   ill" 11 i e  r  fsoa'} 1  i.  fo   III  1's 0111('it  w a i' li tin   e N iocn  w ar  to  desrrit l it,
t  d i   1 1 ti l  "Ili 1-'t'  a   dl S ' t ~  t i dLI  a n Illtri   11~   III' zt.ill  a  ii  i to  t Ii 1t a g a iI 0t  it.
IL, L  ir   fC'' ii 11m n  inr n 1'.1 h iitltt'e " i ltre, m thlite ittwhatloe  ad t
u.'  i d I  f ir  -   re tli  t L n  t  ,I i. i l i Lo tiii rt t e galant m jor's
f    a n d 4   f   "  t n V l e r'I - ,  v i W e n  1.1  t   a'   Iie ' o 1   t it i ' L l  hI   hi   i l a d   t t i e  evi e u e   bV e el'u r   i n g   o c -
1+  I 'or  1  I- = '   I  11  f  C  I.1 11  t 24  tt;,1 'h l t'  1  1 C.ti'  '(1t  tin itt n of h i  li i. t  } \
f 1  I II h.t' i iim-h  w l  Ltuch  nt 1bn id                    11oter1rlatvs,bthe11nce,'r-1
at oth 10 ', +do1" n3t'ibt p  er h        i.  o t he etrd muatnt,'fi ed who;' o
'it+Ptii ~tr;a'ill '[i'     l ptt,'0 .  i  ed tI 0,hi e a cha('1nce01'to take h lft fin' hfe-a
o uin ttsii itrr irhe,.oiri       atitSactio   hyet one ver onatf  iII
oft  ' wa tihronut.n ,ii  il  W teiivi1aw  .t'+ u 'i fr 10 t  f  t  Stis th  Se  men011ca i ni, theimtajor put
l   (t r tw h lt t  B itwI  f1a1i t i liiit  1 4 h   a slolit  tthee hIt cou ld,a i d als  ,
i'iat e f e'1 il ting tL '4'''III   ill  0111s in  a  tin  I   I io e  i  out  a tr a  n'ollthhfile ient  q uant  t y
Sit'll i frcl' tut o f a   Lf it             -pc'k-im'ulst'fell1l  fis  lbjli i' c ve in!ideto airi  t he ii tac
;  s  i   Cih I   t  uh a  f om t         ( i i' 1-r -'i i 0 1 s i ii-11 1 1   I I   h e'l l   e mS;' 1r l i lt i td e d  t o  g o  a r l   a nd
I I '  f i, a  in h i  1 1 4 1a i i t o 1a c   cril ini ttll ' t   ti l  1 1 1 ,t , t o  i  ' I t  I i I l t l i l  h ri hjer t i  ha t   a  ei e n t i r e -
fit   I,,   11 _  i l : 1  it4 444  it  lii'  "I''  .lil''i  jk ,  le  ill Mt o11.0214,  TIlttltll
ui i   i i   itl 1Si, a at    au t h e y   s'  t'C e  ent 1 ' i n  I   0   1 :tits 4 I M r.i P tD lo r m e 'e f lly  o c -
El ,   I  a' e, n a  C    I         d  tl  t  n  the l tnrt  ay aednot for
;5 1 11, iO l' lilt  hx   hl   I .1'1111'II tie h 'aol.isrll'rr m ,t  41)i  h x  V 2
C i ilst. w 5 vrsi wiii'r  fli  i'il  i lo ' firI  ' is  ll1( r I ln' s e tf hn  l  t
e i p. r1 Oil,' nai  ft h i  . ar "to atl 0 Itart  i;tk   c nsidrab.le t e togetso n
n,   iii ril+"li'-~      41 twki;tt :ui  oonemt -w'11 e h.c 1r, andl proivision tthet, and t1 wits
til a Oj  ilth..r -  I now, iit.li  1 mi itnts-' n  ou,'-Il e e im t!of the  tenthit dai't' i'efore  the l
atd~ti ootdgathtered 1a sufficient ~force, im  his
uin 91, Ito  invZa'e thte  countryv  of the'  em myt.
C11AI'' llt 1,1.   At t it time he hadt(  about three hiitrundrediat=I
The"   1.\1  I tigt is  i' , i  - - li  n cty i (,  t and  to  ia  Eurlopean  general, such
B~The " ree , ihmgeft  w -re nt i' eampedon a . ureewoul s(eem very inadequate to anack
Eun lf'0 ,grov  'l.ilitiit  l  ",, ab ut  ha  -iiurn  o  i chetcoldlassemltileten  or  fift en
.'1ri , s t f dattt Me!  o  payt hi v L mg 't' I v o ,ud mc~ii1  iouted ~warritors  at  a  very  bI. f
pernass ,'nlt for1 th, mii  to iennun f  lth" rein1 quI t   -t ~i'';but w  th that class ofImen'i, who tink
tiptn etnitmt h 1'it nonGiie f ti  m  ni  t  uit   ~t to o  tein  t an overmattch aga~iinst them i
kt; m bi.'w  i she   attt'        -a t    +.n'y ev 'ti e often proved in NM'xico, Texas,
a oc hu, n 1e 11 tl lre t;0 , '   '  Ii'  Ci' Utl, a vc: _ r a ,n t ud on i lhe "o Plains "-t 1br(e
"l'm1. ket, t hen  mot~t r eItll occa it t lon' m  o "utni tRn t  1f + r h 1e 11111 me n uo posearmty  enough
~ ii  th.a'rh dwnb e,         n
mh ,  it'itn, lth  ogh  they an] we tr plen 'Sc  . tt  . lt'tuyt i ttli of the  tenth  Cday  aft~r (his
pwdohw  i t  pr  w  ms an  mv  att,+i'i !r ' ,  l)lwii. the  maj  r  mutstered  Is  menh,  all1
itr '  dow  c  such  asth- , "  flnt, t te  t o'r ed  Iand  under arms, to see if they 1v' ye
it   a ino  1  orr  ,i~'  n1'1i'to'.ttte  t'tin  epa ,'t1)'red  for service ; for he inteuti t o tt
them l iquor, andi they'll a arve to deatu. I start ont the next da".

t
4

Pa i went ; and poor 'telha, scarce touch.
1 I",a nui liounimgall the time, faded
naiy, a1  11 t ed lii a erushed flower. In
1 LI I1,ofttan Sld tiheleatifl maidens of
h0 t be, nI io haI mI nto the new location,
Swait upii her, n1 to sing and dance for
Thr.  111  could not dry her tears ; they
could nit hush her sighs ; they could not
b1n smi1      l :o her pale an sior'ow-stricken
fi. It. Iw evidenit that the Master of Life
woul soon tale hr to his bosom, unless
s1110ehs nge came- to render her less miser-
sble'

Thy male a unique but powerful Siow,
d Limiiii every style of dress, armed variously,
 li  1101 m Lit  po1 ni jil  horses  of  ail  sizes  and
 Clrisi'.  luI1t 0 1111 teir what their garh was:a
4o lV ha {1 1 t   o 4 to lok at their sinewy  frames,
rou ia te-.a amt feairle ey  , to know that
tll were eadly a itet for the work before
Ilt'  to  L'
Thiel in-im')tion of the major wais close
e'' Ill\'inl o 11 n1d horsee wats examini ;
an   0 id  I the least thing was wrong, the delin-
qi oilto ia i eutioned to Iecif  it. For thosI
who         I wee ri 'lyf'or' the field, the old soldier
hadl a kind and h1  leartj' wor.1, which trebly en-
dra:d thetl  old  " war'-horse"--as they ectlled
hunt--to themIt.
.1'1)0 inspC1) tit11On ve ,th'  w r  is ise ,
With I)t deiS tobICei redy ijfoi' the addle when
S  th iiI - 1 n0 te mornthe  1111 oing, and with 'eiecS-
. son to enjv~oytemstelvss be{lst they mlighit
111 n ii  Licr sli'tih aslt ,--1   indeti d, it might ihe,
for lman~y of lnihm-in the settlements..
"4 1,+ vir. t ii ug 1readyt now for a startt ?" ask-
ed.1 E-lN)  me as the major stood upon the
11'a,I  ii0th metin ed ofi to their respet-
,n     e 0Tq ilrte.t''
"111 ready, sir. To-morr':ow will see US~in
, the ti d Oite e imorie -, and I ntever will eat
t  i1ih  !ek, and-tatned  out  the  rodtskins  so0
Oiieily t hatIt iy'll rem01berl Ben McCil-
iiLilw'"rve ', and ieiscr their pal)ooses with
li    n 11 -1 tn   ullndreId year's froiu  now 1''
STie iI tliat girt, riding this -way," said
1':au turniin1 pate, and EolinL: into the house.
it 11a ii :e1d Ada MeA lpin  who was seen
inl Llthrolih atthe gate, dtresse'd in her
11'a lttLi g rh, a1 deis clt' rI'eldl Ibefore, well-arm-
e  nr10  iliLO 111110eiitly  iiolLuted.
I cwii. ior," sail she to the major, a to
r'L rt i  I vii iii  coiLCiilled   my  business at
+ G  tI  t'1  1ti h ve 1'turnedl)', and :am  now' ready
1-a ! In d11511 awayV, aiCor(ding to the cU.-
t ut'   of))4  l) t 1 en'- i t  a''.'
" i l. 'Ithey shall have their arms in
t t   r    , ' sail their  ajor.
l   t how,l, gave him the m(il tary salute,
al ri i'ode away to thecmnp of her Free ianr.
tt     l
FIrT..T.TTT

Lagona saw and felt this; and it rendered
h in more miserable thin she was. He bore
it f' r a time ; but when lie saw no change in
her-that she looked upon him still with aver.
sion-lis noble nature took supremacy, and he
determined to restore her to her relatives.
One eveniin, before the darkness had come
on, while the still gray of twilight lay iream-
iily on hill and lowland-on roek, and tiee,
and water---he entered the pretty room assign-
ed to her, and said, very low and gently :
"The White Flower must weep no moure11
Lagona will take her hack to those who love
her, and he wil ldie ; for he cannot live with-
out the White Floweri!"
Stella looked up in wonder, but did not re-
ply : foe she had Ibecome so hopeless, that she
did not realize that he leant, indeed, to give
her freedom.
 Does the White oiuwer hear the words of
Lagonai i  ' he asked. " le aill hike her back
to her father s lodge, that she may smile
again, and make glad the hearts that love
her!
Lagona does not nean what lie says," she
nurmuired : ' lie mocksIC mein my n isery!"
"Lagona never cats his words ! lie loves
the White Flower: ilhe does not love himu
lhre ; but in the land of spirits she' will love
him, for he will die fir her ! To-rnorrow, she
slhal start for the lodhe of he father. To-
night, Lagona hegs her to cat and drink, so
that may tie s rog for the journey.''
Lagona said thli  iin a low, firm toile, and
looked so noble, thoLugh so very sad, when he
uttered it, that StIia felt sureti e was not di-
ceiving her.' Tai's rolled down her cheeks
again ; but now th'e were tears of joy.
" Noble, gfool, gede'rous Lagnila 1" she cried,
grasping his hanl, tiil kisslin it roany times
"I. wil never-never tiriget  on!Icannot
love you; but I will respect you always-will
ever call you fr'in .--a great, good, honorable
man!
Tie laladewhie she held an kissed, trem-
bled like an apehn leaf, nl is whole frame
shook with ain agit1atin 1lwhich showed how
great was the convict in his bosom-.-with what
a struggle he conquered his desires and pas-
sion15.
At last lie said, in a low and husky tone
" Let the White Flower eat and grow strong,
so that she can ride a treat ways to-morrow."
"Cannot I go to-night, Lagona ?"she asked.
"it will be very' dark ; and the White
Flower lust have food anl mst, to make her.
strong !" replied the chief.
" Lagona may dream, and alter his mind,"
said Stella, sadly.
"No sleep will come to Lagona's'eyes;
therefore, he cannot dream. The Whiw. J.low-
er shall turn her face toward her father's lodge,
and commence her journey when the great orb
of day begins his walk across the sky !"
The chief said no more, but turned away

I
3
z:
'
i
-
a.

THE COMANCHES DREAM.

:.
f"
3;
§ y4
i
f
4a
i

s
r,
i
,
;;
±
,

i


and went out. So~on o ter, gr
tolile # cr teri d, beir nlfol of
kutid-i-bleats, hi ri t, lisiilti, aid1
they plate before "' 4 'n asnail~s
tie 111)1 pritnre1 i in5itiii  . yiVll
to give ior strcnth.
Noble, gent-Puos  rtel g 1~    t , , ad l i l  I icLt
550~1+i1 be  1 is,  '  lit 4I  StIaIt.5
10e \V-is In ai-n' g iss  t li--t,
dcI ro\ tie iiineatlit iii-at5.
his nature o il tiiat otfr lty .1
niil tyrat it i!whim 1 les  a In-
glory of tIhe cf tft twas lii811i
Ecde.

TELL A DELORME; 01R,
recefnl Iania  alone in nw glory. I     tiitt~f njltiiil 'tOri
fatntost every  quick $some fe'lows lkeeilrip when 1liev 'reii ' it
rrtltt3. 'Tltfe ie 1?  A quait ln s 'cot oott; as  till a
w  tr11o , wtI ltj hil t nhu t I iit i  don't  hniock  llit  Ort  i O 11 t lt fi
1 n o o   i1l, iaet iv:it Oilililikinc re itt i t t' tuiv'OWl t
Ittw i su l   tliatt's  till  1 fcti) jit like  tlot
tn   i   ire e  utu' ~ll  ull nail  atic t e.t I rlit.
C i t o  l 'Irdi 1t, i1elit st' 111  i) il  i sit l t11  rti  101htv row  fn
11We nit liothot-titI tn 0"s'oit it.iioil i!trl.''
3  iC  iiiih lt,  \tik the e  t': toi. a  lid  i   'ii i t t, : 111 -
i1 t  l lct-.ls n i lie  i 1meli :t-tli-   'p t r  t  I yr ot e, tle1'4't rp!  di
Iif~~  1i1ed Itop I  I ti 1U:tri  't nd titrlCI tiyai ill the
te red ti tntsi .  tll oh Ut 1, 0  to i ~~l~t elese niote tani
lii 1: ul on i r1St t'ue.

('I I APTE.R ItTV'.
cIIXP'fl P  I IV"        It t":i'  1I tf~'  i   ii 'l i{t-- \ti:ri I + a± r ttn   in  tIlt
T lie'  lit fSti lt i 1 .i i ill to tie  t  -ofIto51i4titil I  ito   tinn--toltiivtt M  it  I  li  -iI I
tth  -1Ia  1: I '1 it- t ll i tiln-p t+.i  s qii11 t' i V t  It t ore.'tti t  i'h llh 'O ti  ilioi
V-itt  tf  i +_ it it' ltl h  ue S t ~ ~   -t ' r-i  fh   t-tli  ttlt1
ttt  Ik  nrtw t  \'tI+  r ti  t  ill  S it ?Olt'  it--hll i re  rl to  ir e  ifttii
l  ttlt t t Iii llt etDltooi  ly to  be D lis%t iit'   et  i  '+l.t II'  -dire 1.  (l't  1  Mv. Ifttii ti't
tiii   f io   t  ng  e  i tt ltt1r' I s t he noe ) t eitie i i' l't ii i  iitcl trttleto ilt ( I
t                               lt l       ii   .  11h !t 1111li~I   115  11  (ii.  a t lt'i5  tht s"ti  ilio~   i  tw -'i  h  ri  itI'ntnttr  ole  ite
'I  rll aitio  ii  ou td t !!1('-  tirlittlto   Ott  " tl  ri~ t' t  't  1 1111 in
Ittta l I  do vi  t  Io t  rli'' t.i  i  sllfu-retntii. il~l  tl"
I lt ittrtll   i  o i i t t , riv i l  a lie;  he-  iit Ii AsI 1,  't tl t1e 111t tilt  i ' !Y+' t"t ir 'l ; t I-
tilS ot-  Sli'  itiOl-iiit  t  i s(-Ul :Si'Siall i lPlICi-l i tto-I  thulit Oit oe+.   .Int  -4
p  go  wlat  tl etr +lites  fttriit itl  l tltlitt'i. l't'.t  il-- trO 1itit  tSltlti
-ii  gr irt' ll4lls''-ltl llt\.\ ti  U ,in l liii  Vyi littill- i 10  1rt~  tli t'v nti's' I in  l rI' tnr
liS er'ti's'tb  taotitg ll'i  i   t r rtl11e1,-1lhl/tI  tlltM t"-tt,+ini ~lit
if        t lie  liputo    li t'riirtit t'ue1irttti1i01s-fn Ittie  }tPtdpi-n  -aIt ti-piti9
5115  it ti lt;sttut  n- rnftrI-n- i t  t-v ti tiliklg  ttl- t1  hutt  ittti  nc
j  li 1 i                          ttit  rtib iiIt -. orhiyS'tI-I'
S t t   Ii" .   li'  , UItilltY  itriIan, h5 il- s Cil  ise\il  ittI' l   i.

'V
I

K
I-

4
i
t
t


G5                         THE COMANCHE'S DREAM.
in the thick, husky tone which always indi- hear yonu !" said the villain, growing sobi
eates itoxiention. "You see I'm a goin' off wtlh fear.
in the iornii', and I wanted to say good-bye   ' They shall hear me if you don't leave soon"
to ye, just i' old-time's sake. Lordee, how  "But Hattie, if I breathe one word -tell
'ou did love inc oce ! Come, give 's a kiss  who and what you are, it will be your ruin !"
on the strength o' that! Come, old girl-no    " Well, let ruin come ! Better that at once,
Ifln-ui''back  -than a lng life of misery aid suspense! I
And he staggered toward her.             de y you! do your worst! Ielp-here, uE I'
anid hlck, John Malerson-stand back,       11cr last words were uttered in her loudest
or your life is not worth a straw ! I wil and shrillest scream.
sere no, and bring those here who will not wait  " Woman, you vill ruin me and yourself l"
to Ia k why you caime, before they punish your said Malerson, furiously. "llush, you fool-
aud ateits "hush?"
Tih attitude of the lady, as she sprung to  And he seized her by the throat, dud tried
1,her feet, du the low, determined tone in which            to choke her into silence.
she spoke, for a umomnent abashed the ruffian,  At first, she threw him back from from her,
and he pauised.                             and uttered another wild and piercing serean;
" Sit ye down, old girl !" said he, -after a  but lie, thoroughly maddened, seized her by
iilomenit's ieitatiOm---" Sit ye down, and have  the throat with both hands, and crushed her
Fa talk with youir old lack. ie won't trouble  down to the tior with all his might. In vain
;you if you'lI be uit :"'                 sie gasped for hreatlh -;her eyes seemed to bt
.And he took a seat, and seemed iore sober  ra rating from her head, her tongue llled out
than vhten ie entered the room. Mrs. De- iron ier mouth ; her face griev black-a ma-
lorme also sait down ; for she was too weak to  llmit more, and there wild lav ben no life
remin upon h er feet.                   - left for-her. But a crash was heard-the door
Sayi what yn atiive to say quickly, and be-  hew opeu. and a dozen men, with lights in their
geie' sihe w!iispeied again.             hands, anid turms, also, rushed in. The first
"1 at so dey. I muis wet miiy whistle before  was Mclulloough, with a rifle in Ils hands.
I try to talk "stithe rulian, taking his flask One glance told him what halerson was
from his poeket, aind applying it to his lips. doing, and before the villain could do more
After tako si o   tIarty a lraught, he ollered  than release his intended victim, and turn to-
the 11is. to Ior, -aymg: "hIt't you better  wed the window to make his ealsc, the butt
take a swt, IIit., iut t osteadv 4 jour nerves  of the llanger's rifle erashed  own iiuon his
ouil'ohk p Ie ;l' reckon thetold gent don't tead, and he fell, like a bullock stricken down
feet you i-VrIy and above coiiUioii well !"  hby the but-her's hn1d.
Ves ;         0ive me(the liquor !" shesaid, hoarse-  " is Ihe witch dead, or will be live to grace
ly, ashe eint ehe i flthsk. ' I need strengtlh; the h:it'er' ' asked or. 1)elormne, who recog-
for there is a roug11, wild path before mie, and  nized the fallenn man.
I knoiw that I amLst tread it   .              "I lout think t've quite kill( d him; but
Mnie drmnied the flahk to the very bottom, you hal hitbie; look to your wr'e, sir !' said
while ii looke oil iii stupid wonder,     the uilijol'. T''he rascally robbi i hasn't left
"T ihat'l muike you as drunk as the boys I life ill hir, I fear l '
jist left !" suihe, as ie ea-t the empty tlsk  Mrs. )elormie was not quite g one, but she
uponi the d oor.                           was sens-less when the terrified woruen-serv-
It will  v  e scirength to defy you, you  ants took her up and ea ried  her to bed,
heartless V1iai :---to tell you that I will no  while the plaitation surgeon was speedily sent
longer he the slave of terror-no longer fear for.
to cal lily soul my own : I hend to you no   Meantibe, old Malerson was dragged away
h    ger !hi , do yur worst ! You amrc not with liss care than a dog would have received,
my l  a er, niow !"1 sue cried, while the color  and pitched into a guard-room, where a senti-
lity to her lchks ; her form seemed to swell frel was. puit over him, in case he should rt
with strength ad passion, and iher eyes dashed  cover so far  . to try to escape.
furiousle.                                     After this was done, a thorough search was
Jack ~Malirson was a hold. had man. sober male alt over the premsisci, to see- if there
oi' d1u1k ; but the very desperation of Mr, were not more of the gang about ; for it did
Delormie intibiiilated hiMin, and he fairly shrunk  not seeni possible that he would have had the
from her' angry gaze.                        halrdiiood to venture alone noon such an en--
" Leave mri, ewaril !-leave me before I call terprise. especially when there was sueh a large
help, an give you into the hangs in's hands." force on and ahou the place, and so much
site cried, in a reckless, fearless tone.   danger of detection.
-II at e, latdie, don't get excited !" he  But no sign of any other person eouineCted
at-ituiuei'ehd.  "oii't - that's a good  girl, n ith his ganiz could be s(en.
o 1V!"                                         "I do not believe that Ada Mc Alpin was
" G'o ! Do you hear mc ? Go !" she cried. -icognizant of the foo 's intend visit here 1"
"ion't nke so munch noise, or they will i said the major, is le prepared t retire to rest


STELLA DELOPRME; OR,

.agam ; " nt I will fin I out before she receives
r ar'ms and permission to got"
What saill we do with the wretch, Mater-
son .a o, d Mr. Dclorime.
"I harl iv hnow-lie ought to hang; but-if
ho is' Pan' father, bad as he is, tiat would
hair'v do"'-
tI     n a it  esnot betivce he is, nor do  It !   et,
f t  iue 0te say sie is, an hi aacknowleed huil iit
t ic her ioth i'! If sine i suhtlitiently I'e-
c' eret in tI mtornin 'shi f must ftdy xplin
all. If ic is not ir brother, and nit Paals
ftwer, t ln, au sure as tin re is a(hodyhe shall
hug . If I never see my poor Stella agaii, it
woub l esit m  satifactimn to see thee su'r
whi    -         dw e  et', f'd in hi  r aiduet on.'
iOn w et'e hr a tlu1''said the major,
Coil l 1 l'n iv.  e I Ic 'lit im myI  iiear't-haiv e it t
it maitiie t.me-- tt u4  wo,  I g t hi'r hick
for si.a :. an f   soon 1.
ulit'tdi0'.11it it  Iet nme prt'-s h er one'
111 /ltt " to  Ii  If  '  a  no'l I  can  tile  co t  t tl' II
I the  p  it r.
-iouti    -I " bcit- r ;and ltin youti'l1 imt
titni  If oi  i( i a tong  siait.  siltmdli the t-
,ar,         Du -t ''  ii  gLoodt-night ;  I  tnmst
ni v   itto   Ie l it  Ip  ti-Ini  lit, I i' 1 C  e Ii
t il i  11i hate  an tb r  antii/e. I
e  s  t    m'°  rtt1 e 1 haiI n,  a w i l1 n1 hI mii oif on
ItCitt
lie In j.r I'a' I  l; au onCmibire all was
8t11i  in  111/:  itt'a .
. 'ITA [ I-I  L VI.
: tr  '-itel  t  itt  it, hto' .i  a n ry
dl  y ittan e1  itsy  rkit n ' " ii  tud t( h  4 mj o., ,1
It tilit I I  it  i ent  n r1/ ei't aI i  tie  It  ba1-(
te r.
.I  do  into1//I t  i-trsi  yIuti, ti!' ''sheu i -/.
'W   i I't ireI mast whliit, You lii n
c'tilpnt to ki otltf tt iltn- ty wit  : I
h Itr ' m     uIchd the e-tnp  anil as I Itt
w 't  Iv  i ,  I  i  . t  lit  rd i t  in n. , known n1ti -
-t(        1 "    ne re isJ ns Jatr/oa a '  kedthe ma-
jor.
"In the Caitt, I presume - hie wat tiiirte
win t1I ricr nnilt.  Call um,' said she, to Ott'
of her in.
. htil liae to call ltuti int lung i tfhis
Cong11, 1a1d/1 C a;}  uthou t rm,''said the omitjosr,
'    t h, 1sti la liol-a ie Flttr s with a bn'ttlenu
h itl, aittiloittitmh ebaite of rteovery. lie
t'   en i ,t t, aiind nearh- murdered 31r MS.,
1n1 a me11 1n t lt  wastilt5ItS 8ouniding the alarm
lie is ihlttlt dead, you iiy ?" asiy I Atia.
X as ; he was still senseless wihn I came1
awav-
"I wish he was quite dead! ie has not a

particle of honor in his bast !" snMt Ad,
a 1 hope, sir,'' she adilled, tithe majir, " that
lyou will dot e the justiciti liehit that 1
did not hate anyttitg to do wit h tis imt tcr
-tliat I dii not dreait of is it tend i atctiisa
-fir if I had, it shouhldhave1 bech 1'enretvet,,
S lie liii  e,  ou t  si:d  thie  ailtjrit.  ''  \ i
iinv 'S wl rle back with me, i st itrwhat
ii  ttr''niined  m irgard  to  his fate  ntdl iti
tht , I  ll  foriIh your in n  withii b ii tie ii aims,
and'' is -ithiir start t i wird  ht Mexiiiicn t bolrd..
i  t n lii ' t to ii y miftyouitleatlie,tma
j  ', ia  i  i ti b  e   tt o  ot   i"thyouli  no
t 1 in i it  I hai l edii itti itti  A+1ilttr. i1
SItt  t ''-i't,tfi t Ii,  tl  i -t  ie t lot  ['ciii  lint1
t li'tili~ -lt ,lt'tl);i(ii  iitt; l iI  i h lt1'i  o r
ilnst' Ithe.  Ih-  til -t  o ait  i  witl  o
he, r' tolyft)h  l.vt'flth e aliny  and  go L  1)1 our111
 t ,i i it  had ito il inot  I' i i'  a  t ie  i i -s f
voil Lti'-r hli , rJhni + atI llrson. I  H t m to
li'rk   ui  ciomlpiet wit .' tisg lmn, andt
Ih ii tuienc'   i, thith c ant siii e h ei   ciii t'
it n'l  I  rit ttt  l'it hue  ouI t  lo  ii c i'.t ~ I  c
l I; tl  iei  its tttiitt  '  i  t i it  i i ' tit i  lt ii
-'+ id -lit'  n t i tol  oraItId,   -  aut 3
:it  I t  V ih yit  tht't It' tI mu'ii fiitt  t+ iet m  ens
ite  hit bii iit't t)!it  ul to Si '  hi' i ,and
'il itna jtt u n t oai  fo  h  e  y u -
I ii I ii  t lri i  it 1 111o   1 and  I litv  'i t
ti  1ur ~ti l,  heyin e 'lt, a l  I  '-ill :1  n to
It'Iii   i t'" it'V tlt', il tt u ,  it ilIttill i  tt "' i)t
elittVrs an-I to  we ihh !  .I
lti' h'ia p' i. t i  f - thi'it'i w canwt m'  a  :it.  f rtty
S   r   t hi- , :itiitilttE    r'  r  iii 'itf  to hid
my tnanyer itj 'r :a lt'    .
1 o l i   were b o,  it   r t hrdI + 'itin si
I, nes  hv lht rsi le ; and tl i t h ns lletn b:'ex a "iiii
i .1, as  it  I h iil l'ti  tti~~  ls-ii r li   t''lrti tliya  e lu l:. "  Vo l. .tn s  h
wht it a piy !"
"" \\liho do yViiisoidp---f whaintwt reyu
fiihii   i Lk  ' 1sk d bl.
" (ti  i  A u so , ila : o  br1'aVu', isi  honrtli let+1, it)
la~~~~ a'+:10.-ontatoben-ead
wit ht su'.t-h  of  uni'i a  edI   wot'- u-nt!r't  !"
'. I  s  si   ':iin, asi- toh'll  yon  onciie  Ib1for) ---
l it tmnandii, them'n, btiJo not ass/a/,'rvwh hi
t1i'tm.  i scrt ho t~i  u as  non - as you',, al
1  only rI'+m11in1With t  tt ih' wa, tin-citaSeI should
be w~iihotilixycht'iment, land h~teeause lkow  I[
c'an rt'e  in  tl  i r i'  t i  Sst:.  1  slthal  sa tara l
S ti' ~ 'i1ri;Itspn' Veihemiti, if!I haveIti shoot
onet  douWni mi lo  trLiai's  now  a  a# iithen'i.  1ifiany
hesit  andi suret, tand  ieh ais iwiil deteot' th-
my  1htanters !"     . .    .      .
"I would I were ; for it is their ha1'ppmess

THE COMANCHE' DItEAM.

a'
i
(          9
9

and pride to pr'tet the helpless, and to pan-
ish the cruel and lawless. But I ant lost--wst
' No; do not say that. It is never too late
to turn over a new leaf. Leave this bansd, re-
sutit the dress of your sex, go where you are
not known, and-andl----"
The tiajor hesittated, and then came to a full
£top.
4 ltnd what ?" asked Ada, fixing her large,
ieautittl eves bull upn hi.
° \You sltonunevear wnt a dollar for y'our
support 't while I lived !" said the major ; then
fetr itng that site tmiight inisunderst:tid  ie, he
Itastii aid : "'httglh 1 might never see
Yo, I 'ottld act as a brother should toward a
once 'rrin it tpinttnt sister!
" Itulvet ibs vonu' said Alt, in a voice
wrlieb  strat'itgttt lti'tiru h  a  i hie'ket  of  stip-
p-taed si s  "have as you, but it can-
not he ! M1 +1m ti is tol, i fa:ite is written,
adt mev pati is it tat'k ettntd nid'nds in blood I"'
Theii'plitatui in gate was near, an1 the' now
rode o il silence.
('ifAPTIm LVII.
The n iijior tnI Ada soot arrive''d at the
rtatniton. MrI lortoe, hvio appeared dread
fully taitatti, was walking wildly to antd ft'o,
ipnt h it zn''
it it i- itt' matter, deta sir: atny had
tnewev totn von' utitglhter ?" asked the major,
t he ;tapru~a hled the planter.
"N N  ttttttfr tt'r - not from her1" said the
tattl min, a httie his fit., daily pale, and
il faem utivr'tin  as with an aile, told of
s tit' -e 'ilhiltruggle going ott within his
St hat scotundre~l Malerson, dead?"' asked
tlte mit ', mrir' tt a loss to know what it
a   s ''i-li afitlI t n'mw tir'tole to tih heavy
ft i eadV INor'    yhvMr. De lormte.
.   t-li I Gtod lie was---I wish you had
lkiih-dlim ai t a blow, before he could have
blenthi+ lElann!t-p)iece of my shamne-thte her.
ii i fit tirt adabtiotnt" groaned the tliater.
In t)'otni unerstand you-whatlt toies this
tttltis iddtt  agitation, this new agony
wiceh so tinmans you?"
"   mei' it '-  eHaven Itrue friend as you
ar', ant taive ntproved yourself, Major Mc-
CuitLough, I cannot tell you1"
A i tain tihe planter paced to and fro,
Wrtming bis httili, while great dropls of sweat
emti tutiliupn his face antd foreheati.
allut I i-pre the men for a start, sir ?"
askid titthoier next'in commanl.
.N , sir-let temiti test for tii present ; I
wi lI Sio  know whin to souid the saddle
col '"said the mitajor to the odicer, who sa-
luteo ln ret ired.
" N:jir', for yetrs I have been hugging
shaute to any hil m '" sail Mi. D1)brute, ha t'
iwg suddenly, it front of the RIangei'.
Tn latter looked litm in the face with won-

der ; for he really believed hint to be insane-
that he had become crazed with trouble.
" Yes, I have been worshiping till serpent
whhin has fed upon my vitals - have been
blessing the hand that was de ling mite ," eoa-
tinued thme planiter.
" All that you say to me, sir, is as incona.
prehtsible as a riddle."
" True, major, true ! You have not heard
the confession of the villain Malerson-he is
beyond recovery, and in his ravings has told
a tale that les set my very bran o:m fire I
Poor Paul-he is coinig this way--he will
tell you all; must go and see the woman who
has borne my name"
The platter hastened away, as Paul, with
eyes downast, but in a state-of agitatmin fully
as great as that of Mr. Delorme, came from
the direction of the guard-house, and ap-
proachied the spot where McCullough stood.
The young man passed so close to Ada, that
she could have reached out her hai    and
touched him, had she so desired. He looked
so utterly miserable, that an expression of pity
came over her face, in spite of her openly ex-
piessed hatred of him.
" bhat is the matter, Master Paul--you and
Mr. Delormie act as if you seen a ghost, or
beenI bukin' old Death in the fice I What is
the matter with ouaboth ?"
")o not ask 'me, major-do not ask me1"
said Paul, with a shudder ; and when he rais-
ed- his e1s to the viewof the major, the latter
started he looked so utterly miserable.
S Wel, I'd like to know what is the natttr
-I don't think a friend, such ais 1 have p'ov-
ed myself, should'be treated in this way 1" said
the itiajor imptittntily.
Forgive o, sir-it is hard to be the ier.
ald of my own shame  - ask Mr. Delorme I"
sail Paul, anl he passed into the house.
\Vel, this heats tall that I've heard of,
lately-they must he crazy, by the way they
tet !" said the niltjor. " Mr. Delormne haes
ever held the beist of characters, yet he talks
of shame nil dis!irace, and iere the young
one is running on the same trail, I hate mys-
terie,, and one there is here which I can't sic
into, no way. I believe I'll go and see the
old rascal MIlerson-he may have sotiethiing
to do with tihe matter! Will you go along,
Miss Ada?"
"Yes, major."
CHAPTER LVIII.R
When Mr. Delorme left the major, he pro.
needed directly to the apartmeist where Mrs.
Delorme lay, very ill. He looked upon lier
pale face, so written over with the lines of
misery, for a few moments, ttud then turning
to the attendants, bade then leave the room,
saying thutl he would sit with his lady fort
a little while. Ilis tone was very quiet, and
cairn when he spoke to them; but his pale

6

}
f


a It

?hB OMA tCIU'S DR1tAMi.

race, sunken eyes, and quivering lips did not'
denote a  utiet mind by  ny means.
Mrs. Deht't,rme saw, evilently, that there was
a storm wit tin his breast ; anitl, plle as snow,
an! cailt as death, she waited for it,
Madam, Johmit Malersion is dyimg-he will
not lih e an tot longer, the surgeon says !
sai Mr. l)elormne, looking her fixedly in the
eye
I am ela i to hear it ." she replied, tuiitly.
" Von t ke the news very coolly, madatmt,
considering the relation in which he stands to-
waril you t.
Ith'iiy colored slightly, butt made no re-
plv.-
'Tads I known of it before, his visit to you
last night should not harve been itinterrupted,"
said t hue later, in a sareastitm wa '.
"You forget, sir, that I called'for help to
arrest the auiatcious intruds'r.''
"' 'ii' ie trtiu of a buishatdt shoitiuld ntot he
consah-rI auda ciots,' small Mr. l)lorile, witll
a sneer,
'lih' rim' tt n color fli fr'n tit' face of the
wretched la ilv, anid she stnik hack with a low
groai '1)i1 lit' hpillow.
" \'«u   o that I ktow, ail, iabam -all -
that John Male«r on it  youtr brwful husbandi,
and~ i'aui--pI=. r iul !-youer cilubb."
"N]  , I rtin  1  t  n  knowtt 11 a111lilt you
shltli knmo it.'it Johgn Male'r~tU,aIberoatghit
her','anh. iit he dtar;,+ dby ihat you muson it nitil
stailh ii in. I have' is -rv it it oiifti a yioluly.
+              far hiart  ,  tnd  futii.i  sui'1 tiblt'  grt
won awa.sy' frotm  ta hirhstin hooluu ni it a tut-
aw ay N'r. itt citV, it 'IT'y, bytl te' h-it
andtI fltt'rs.of a villaii-nl-mar'r'it'ti ti hint it
a fit wok- tthn s-he foun  that fte swas, in-
stead of tie ntohe, won ethily, and giate I ttrt
whot hl i --ii tlh ilol of her votnigdrrants,
a gather, a iief, alh iS vihi i  Froiti htiii
shei II-4 aray within 'ttltuIt -itt I io1ror-ti' i
fat' asway's' tiiortamhtnt huhlt nti. tl~ilg nett' er0' ttr
hear frotmii tnt agat:, feartmitt  ete tut  let etr
own rebthusm- kro yiwhere shit' was .ii a f-t
tontithI- s acbiblitas born.  I twai ill tiat -ihi
Lad i i airth to love, andi she nitg tI it with
a  ntiit'r's  uiatritug  a etionr ,  tilt  it  its  t
an aie s't't it she feared it wtlu  i  inutir after
Its fabierihtt ; an  then shtie set it to a s'mitinat'
as heri nlht w, where she proctrl for it es -
er' care tat a either's hiritt could tduite.
In the mt-anmile, site heari tbit iith  ''wr'tch
woo l' lit'  eivle h'er so hrely hul ''itt r-
derd iii a lirtnken affrasv, andit  si t'' t isitlt
Joy that shas fiee frititihuuitt at least.  Ardh
alte Ith  ti t 'ereheuerfaii l v is-it it' l t. Ii if
itsit-tec itiitg wit itnew nerva 'for site worth-
ed  for  tt  htitest sutlimt't Lfir htri'-+'1f,  Intl  to
edeit tt' hir- v. No i ni e  could  re i iit i t I ca
kunotn bIeath ' 'fu'on.t he'r ' - 'ei, e' 'I
tinee in mu~rar  a vlilain whom t shit ditnot
kiuoI. h ner t     hertiht' kinuildte, err-t
ru  n I.t  t ''-..r-e  li- 5 ,' rioi' it  w  old eii ld cae-t
to retain! upon her fooet. : it was spotiiess. Shet

68

' was called beautiful ; she was accomplished'.
and to a degree attractive. Many were drawn
to her side, aldshe had more than ote other
of niarriare from the young, the gay, the gift-
ed, the wealthy.  For a long tine, she r'epel-
led al adaces, refused every oler.  hut ut8
last one came who seented to posses's every
attribute that could win a wo  nti's lairt.  She
tied not to love lim ; for she feit ii ilr heart
tiat she had been dishonored by hter marrmuge,
i nocent thugh she had beein.    Shte refused
this suitor, even though she loved llhisi. But
he pressed his suit ; and then a mott her's love
anid reason coiultiered all hlr l'iuIices, all
her scrup-les. 11er suitor was wealthy, lived
far away from   the place of her hirth, woull
never know her sad lhistory,; anti, if she wed-
dod himn, lier soni--situposed to be tr nplw
--would have a hote, heeotme edtttea b   nti, 'ent
pe'irits, inl time, sucet'ed ti w aith, an tlfill a
plroudtnd tinle statint. 'the tm'tpiatito wes
too great ; sle told not resist it t;and she
narr'iedl him ltwho would not le reiu l. For
yertus tilEy wire l:ll' - tuti hatlpy ; fot' a
ltre teiiter, affectiteiate hushiatl iver lived.
But, alai ! in anie'iil houtr, through her' son--
wha m its  had, iii lit foly, perm t i  t' tiar
his f'attt' taert', is thei hdttl do' ' (i''to sihe
ais not io ptrtnentt itt critic as tto kn ttihtow
toni titeitt tie an ) -t h'rst hursbatidh,w  tad
nrot ien sihou, tnitde his aippiea:r: ter'.  Te't'ri,
fled to death, instead urf conitfm'taitig till, aidi
ttrwirig th'reif u O  the eeitrtio ity of her
nile Iutithatittl, 'h ' 'tltorzt 1d aich the wrielel,
wht ntt  e:ntrne hkeit' tiagihotl t i feed upon her
ver   I fe-itave hlimi 'uonei, i iiiplemitl with
init to go''ay, an1d lr'va''e hrutl secret for
te ske i  tr' snu.  I;itt the viiliiu, after're.
etis ig is  i lies, continued his ti'secetions,
madt' one vist too manyt, reeen hui  S ratto-
w'iunl as you sty, , anrtI ro: atiI ti et'trt.
tiow1l, sir', you kumv arll. Mnt'  3 t' ue tiwretch,
or go to it imt, ani a'k htiitn fy whitt tarts n:tt
flis 'prietenti  ihe toi tae h iud olfI larriet
hIi ihplt;Ujpy' wmvrian cease sp'akintg. For
a i'tei'it, sit t'e i'eittii'd.  lit a siiippres.-
s1 si was hoa;l and, as she ,t looki up, she
saw lti istrling on t ih thteshiold of the boor,
whie hie had b Itened to her sad an  uourinful
tale."
" Mystont " shte tasped.
" My nhit'e, trio-;-hearteil mother ! though
:lt fthe wrttil itenti itt, I will tot !" cied
tie Vout  riutman.  Attilhe t' shed to hr silo,
atd tt'ts'ti't til1 artis taroudt tier tteek, arn- u
eI b i It i sr ! a knd :iss's rrjupn hI ' it'de ftet'.
bt lunfbteiei thltiy put t itintol sIn''. reTgfreu
both of t  temSterly m;iid at niiivily. \When
Ihe  itt ptti'"  im oif 'ihl it ti  over, he
ltt':"' i P1au!I irt fit'  'e,  iiid  a  ld
i i von know aright of tis rrma'ter sir,
h'tt're r  iard the cotf stutn of Jonlt  Ma}'
nt   h      h't
" No, sir; as Heaves hosts me. I did noh

STELLA DELORME ; OR,

if I had', I should not have thus long been a
recipient of your bounty, but should have
gone forth alo~ie into the world to carve out a
name and a fortune for myself. As it is, I
shall, after I have done my duty, and aided
you in recovering your daughter-not for my-
self, sir, but for vou ; for I renounce all claim
to her hand-I hall, after that, sir, trouble
you no mure with my presence. I only hope
that I shall b so happy as to fall in the con-
ing contlet with the Indians. Mother, 'von
must stiy no longer lire ; I will provide for
you elsew hore-if I live."
The fee-g of the planter were deeply
touched , his sternness melted away, and tears
came out upon his pale and rigid  heek.
"Neither of you shall ever leas toy roof
with toy consent," lie said, in a 'von  half sti-
fled with eiotioti. " Ilarriet, I do not blame
you. Paul, I love you as if you were-my own
son. Your father, if I' must call lin such,
will soon be dead  and with him shah the se-
cret be forever buried. I never will allude to
it again."
A wild and fearful shout was heard outside
the door at that moment, and the next instant
Malerso n--who, a raving maniac, had burst
away fromt his guard-rushed into the room.
Who says old Jack Malerson is going to
die ?" he yelled. ' Who says old Jack will
die?  its a bloody lie!   hell never die !
lie's too gamne to die !"
With his head anu1 face covered with blood,
ghastly pale where it was not stated, his eyes
wild anisi garin ghis haii mattesd and torn, he
was a terrible object to look upon. Bolh the
planter and Paul stoodailiast as be staggered
to the centre of the room; and Mrs. Delorme
shrieked in speechless horror, and hid her
head beneath time bed-clothes.
That was lIat Fontleroy's scream  " he
cried. " Hat Fontleroy !--oh, but she was a
pretty gal when'I found her ii'Troy ! Have
you tunrderd ' hmliar, you old devil ?"
AnId, as he ,eaid this, he bounded toward
Mr. lelotrme, wit, sprang aside ; and the mis-
erald  wreich fell to the floor, just as Major
McCullough, Ada McAlpin, and several oth-
ers, entered the room in pursuit of him.
' Size him, men, and take him back to the
gnarl-house !" said the major to a couple of
the Rangers who had entered with him.
"I He'll not require a guard any more, sir,"
said one of the men, who took h ld of him to
raise him up. " lie is as dead as a log."
It was true: inthe fury of that last struggle
life haid left him.
"'Take himn up gently, and bear him out.
He was a had man, but he shall have decent
burial," said Mr. Delorme, with a trembling
voice.
'he Rangers obeyed, and the remains of the
w-etched man were taken froms the room.
Major McCullough and Ada also went out,
leaving only Mr. Delormse and Paul in the room,

"fHarriet," sal tne pianter, in a more kind
and gentle tone than he had used toward lies
for weeks, " Harriet, death has freed you from
him at last. Look up; we will yet be hap-
y!"
There was no reply-not even a motion of
the snowy counterpane, which, in her terror,
she had drawn over her head. Both Paul
and himself seemed at the same instant to di.
vine what caused her silence; and a low cry
of horror broke from their lips as they raised
the sheets from over her face.
She was indeed free-free from all the ills
and persecutions of this world-free from hfe
and its miseries I
CHAPTER LIX,
Of course, under these terrible circuni-
stances, the march of McCougi and his
Rangers was delayed. The, dead were to be
buried-the bereaved to have time to calm
their feelings.
The body of Malerson was put in a coffin
and buried decently ;hut no mourner follow-
ed it to the grave. lut it was different with
Mrs. Delorme : her renitins were interred with
all the show which- persons of her position
generally receive,; and two there were who
followed her coffin with sad and sorrowful
hearts.
Although Paul had never for a moment
supposed that she was other than his aunt un-
til the recent denouement, he had always re.
ceived more than a mother's care from her;
he had never had cause to miss a mother's
love.
The sad ceremonies of the day were over,
and Mr. Delorme and Paul were alone in the
deserted chamber so lately occupied by the
wife and mother.
"Do not griee, Pan, my sonI" said Mr.
Delorme.' " This hereavenent only renders
you more dear to me! In future, whether we
recover poor Stella or not, I shsll regard you
as a son. Do not grieve for the loss of your
mother ; she will be happier in another world
than she was in this, or would have been had
she lived."
"I know that it is weak and unmanly in se
to grieve, sir," said Paul, in reply; " but if 1
lived her so much whil 1 believed her to be
only my aunt, how much more would I have
loved her as a motherr"
"True, my good boy; but it is useless to
weep for the dead-tears will not recall them,
sighs will not reach their ears!"
The conversation was interrupted by themn-
trance of Mijor McCullough.
"'Well, the 'Free Rangers,' as they tErm
themselves, are offl' sail he, as ho tame in.
"I have just left thi'm all in high glee, and a
careless about their late captain's death s
such wretches generally are."

i
.
#.
'
4
#3

r
'  .


r

I

STELLA DEl
I am glad they are gone-that is, if they'll
stay away !" said Mr. Delornae.
"There is no danger but what they will,"
said the major. " They- know what walk .e the
penalty if they return, ant that I will as surely
execute it as I live, if I see one of their faces
on my range again. Wiat thaey do among the
Mexicans 1 care not. I owe the whole coward-
ly nation a grudge, and wish the angel of death
would sweep over it every day  iBut, Master
Paul, I had in early forgotten that I have a let-
ter for you'
"Fron whom ?" asked Paul, as he took the
letter.
" irom c ane who has some good left in her
heart, in soe' of har 1oeition anal recen: con-
duct! 1  ls   al the nojur. " lleadl the latter-I
do not know its contents; but front her eon-
versaition, I dot li  i bk Ia she has wrilen any-
thing to wound    ar ft ahaus, far she  '-al]
to feel dlee1)ly when I xpItned all your last
trouble anda your I riaavmtI."'
Paul openada the latter nda read its con-
betwhich belong to the readr :
"Paul Malersn, you are nw if a anh raep sorrow,
such overwhelana i raub't, that i pt I  ity yiu, atl feet
that  I  can  f-ia a-. sa  cy  iitast at I!Ir t t '
You  haveat a taaga-s:   na- art  aaeh Wutitlhave
beat to death c-ar ' i  ahtalti  a n rmur  itt  to tat.
no more. I d1  ot white to rere _.achl.2-rawm tu
reproach  .out  f it  e itt iy   tahef tt in al y
desiter iotn, ay aui4 -, unhalply future.  I t  ut t tmy
peta onilytaiv aae;exc. 11aaaaa oaOna ora
I forg tyou,t Italy i yet 12e hapay ! Fatle ! i
The yaung nn aareal it and ti heda, ianl lt
it in his pt'cktt, Ibut ale no reanak wlhat-
e ver.
SWhaena wll yoaa lie ready- to taia thea fielal-
or would at nit bl prtferalde far you an i
Pni tt stay at hmne, a ita a I of unn  l this
expeition '" said th ml jor to Mr. Ititm.
" We wil go to-aa orrow'al  mrnia e . !" -oil IM.
Delori e, lrtly, " liaa ,w s for a b ltt aia  fr
a daughter; we wid  iiiI   Ied-aas tat
stay at htome- ,w ,ilet' d h-a 14rdd the r liveS
utpon busiet-s which so neaiv anal Idaarly in-
terests us!  We wil lie fully prepared for the
march when thoet new day dawnit t. It wit helpa
to take our thaotgatts away from sail memories
here. The exciteiaeant tof the field is needed
i' hoth of us, anwl trill be our best  etlicine!"
"I am   glad to hear you say so, sir; for
those who give way to grief only hurt theam-
selves anal do no g oodl. My men are all pro-
pared, and eagerly anxious to see work, ani a
sur ly a I live=, thy shall not be disaptointed."
a Do von think that you can find their trail,
or tat least follow it frot the spot where we
hart saw Stella ?'
" Yes. if thaer went in a body--as with their
nutabers they prohahly did fea'rless:y."
" A p}ackae for Major McCullough," paid a
strangers messentger, with the dust and sweat of
travel on his brow, and he handed a sealed
packet to the Ranger.
The latter opened it, and a splendid dia-

LOI ME ; OR,                              70
mond ring met his eye. Upon a slip of Pais
were written these words:
"1'lense wear this in mneuory of one who wn nevm
forget you, tugh she ay sea you no mlorae ; for 'e
have stkee kindtbrave words to her, and they ar
planted in her hieart.
The major put the ring upon his inger anti
placed the paper carefully away i an old andl
well-worn pocket-book, then turned to speak
to the muesocenger, but he was gone.
" T-re is a good heart in that girl, no'aat-
ter wat she has been, or is, or ny ie 1"  id'
the major, in a tone which trebtldi with ftel-
mg. "nIi a good clause, sie would he a star-
in a had onac she wiL bhe the devil It aiaraad ;
for sie is loll in her courage, cool, full of ex-
pedients, as the has alreaiy Proven, an1 has a
power of coilunta whib  it sladir s  ess'
Shte keejps that giang ocut-broats5a as ohe hc-st
as wlappel dogs. 'l lay fear her ; and with
th it c-hie-,to far -" to respect:
'I t nitjor hal sal lis manuch aloud, with-
out tiinki g that MI r. I elorane and Paul were
stan liug yiv  atnd listening to the thoughts
which lah' only oittered to hit111lf.  hgBlnsliitg
lke a girl coaght ml the acet of returning a
liv er's Li-, i eased to speak, 111nd turning
oat I;c   lael.   i i .
"l-e 4 a lle-ea will t F e sounded at day-
light il tla morning, gedemntlenea.'"
CM A PTER LX.
ft Was thel dlian of another lay; the rosy
heral'-ra vo-a f lite riing sun Were shooting up
i4e cobl, la tiesidel' of the  astern sky ; and1
thet hoets o tiwii i'  u a igers were soinlg thu
ever-cering call 01 " itst lad SadtllI.''
Ana I tlh'a e eia.e a rinmiralaa of many voices,
a tr.iialag :aaid ne tighingt of fiery tseds, a
e' ar o iwe if 11rms 14ndt1 sliteel-shodi ltofs, and
al   te  ads of a atrinaag farce of' maea at
ara-.
theso   ~cmeft1  t  oip, t rd and round in thi
rel dh . sky, anl in 1baright rays fell upo)in the
hntg lile of auntala -v aoluntite -rs, wtichl was
ar aw ii bIilfor' th 114man ion of ra. Delotrue
to ben in1et.ed, ere' tie reeaived the orders
to ricoi nfroa their b.ave and cxperiiened
-le'ad.
lie, accompanied by Mr. Deloame and Pa"l,
was rillian alttaag the ai, aall of themsplendid-
lv mouted1it 111pu1 blohodel horses, when asht
frem  tlea' extremeao left of the line attracted
their ntttentan toward the gate.
" ltIlvens ! it is Lagons ; and a female is
w:th hima! It must be Ste la !" cried Mr.
)atelormiae, as be recgnrz ad the famous white
Ia hose of L iagana., and the same coal-black
steed upon which Stella had been rescued at
first from the Lipauns.
"It is ahim, as sure as twice ten snakes
twenty !" said the nssjor, reining in his horse.
"Stella-my StehlltaI" murmured Paul, and
he turned pale, and seemed hardly able to at
upon his hrs.

71                         THE COMANCI
It was but a moment beft7re Lagona and
Stella hal re aciha  the front of th laouse.
Leaping f'oi his horse, he lifted Stella from
hers, and1 pl acl hier ipon)01 the piazza, where, in
a ioment aml'ore, she was in the arms of her
fath r atl I.ai, wio, with tear of joy and a
thou    d tilkisses, ani alaiaot incoherent exela-
m-itioas, va-lcoOed C'her as one who had sprung
fromium the ae.
\leaiiw ila, stern, ciai, with a sad dignity,
which ande him look am1or'e than mortal, La-
goana vestood:ad looked ipon her joy aini that
of those t whose arms he hlad restored her.
Never lefore,.since in these pages we have
SCeen and described him, had he looked so no-
ble. his dress was plaini--only the eagle
feathl ers ina the circlet above his loty lrow
procmiiled liaa to be a chief auad a warrior-
for he bar ii weapona1s abuat his person . his
Slace arbl aeda beona east asa'ide--ils knife,
even, had:I b1ieen take fromaa his girdle.
A   lai. aa- esfirt ta.ver o f jov over, Mr. De-
lormn i rniedX0to iuspeak ti Lategona. The latter
look-I Ima 0ubamaiv in the eye, anl spoke first.
"I live     , iatiu-4-a i e llbtwe' of his heart
back to the p:ahfacedchief" a said lhe.
" Ye, tandl for tihe joy wiiclh you give me
this Hour, I forgive the o1'row that yui have
110:111. t 11al 11ll1till !a nd sthe hlao lppy f'atiaer.
' l:ol vou at bro htt her bacl, we should
hlave maeala aer I' iaher wramali niliy men101, iad btloodul
would Ilhv in ! h' lileeand he ioiited to
the voluniteir aray'.,
"Yutr maienl aiia-lat have sought for death and
fml if i--they cold nl ot have hadl the White
Flower wimithait te consent of Lagorna! '' sai
the ciaef, ha htily, while a scoraful smile
wreathed lhis1 r'a10l 1.
I low c'al I rewaa'd La:gona?" asked the
planater, nit ha1eding  be words or tone of his
re 0.;.
L red le iv/  ' said the chief, touching
the hilt of Mr. I)elaorne's keen and heavy
bowie-knaife, a it rest l in hi belt.

IE'S DREAM.
"aAccept 'it, and wear it for my sake !"
said the planter, handing it to himt in it4
sheath.
Lagona took it, examined its point and
edge, then desceidiig from the piazza, ap-
proached his two noble, iaiticent horses.
Before any one coill 1Idiiie his intentions,
with two iah -y lons he had driven ithe
ktunt to the hit tin the hearts of each of them,
anld, with a sobbing groan, the noble animals
sinak dead at his feet.
"Gied of [leaven ! what didl you do that
for?" cried a ijar Mcullough, who thought
lost as much of a good horse as he did of a
brave man.
"aLoagoa  wants to ride them, when he
reaches the happy hunting-grounds of the
at Spirit. lie is going tiere to build a
lodge antd lay tap prodITh'atit for the White
Flower, wl , wl soon comae tire, fie' the
Great   plirit will send her up to him I" said
the chief.
"U    m aaaeans to kill hilmseIlf-- take the
knife  o at him  " cried the niajor', leaping from
his horse.
" W iauce Flower, farewell - Lagona goes
home !" said the brave, and before any one
could attempt to staop hi, he hal driven the
balooudy kraiia ee thrloaugh his bave, noble,
generous heart.
For a moaeatt .he stiodaI still alnl erect, with
his eyes fixedta tal n pon Sella; then, while
her shriek of tetri, pain, and anguish rantalg
upon the air, he smiled, and fell dead upon the
earth!?
McCullough took off his cal, as he bent
over the oiitia, awl said : " IIe was too noble
and too brave to die in that way t If he was
a 'rd-skin, le was also a man !"
aeader, my story i told. You can finish
it it' son want to follow Paul and Stella to
church and see them married, with the usual
et-ceteras.

I P,
q
b
1
.f             c
M
A
S
r
a
-          e
p

II

:1


CHAPTER      1.
The Foot Traveller and his Dog
Fr was at the close of one of those gor -
geous days peculiar to the autumnal In-
dian siumer. that a young man, with a
small travelling hag in one hand, a stout
staff grasped in the other, and foUowed
by a small bliek. intelligent-looking ter-
ricr, was traversing a wildly roinntic
foot-path on the banks of the Iludsn --
The road along which he was walking.
was shaded by overhanging forest trees,
ut at intervals, he got glimpses of the
river flowing past at the foot of the cliff.
with a noble view of the columnar Pali-
aadoes on the opposi'e shore. The broad
stream flowed n:jatically onward toj
I ngle with the blue sea six leaguesI

southward, its bosom reflecting the gold
en, orange. and purple hues of the ena-
melled skies, and lively with craft of ev-
ery description.
The foot traveller on reaching a more
elevated point in his path where the trees
were less dense and from which the view
was more open and extensive to the far
reaching gaze of the eyes, he turned aside
to a proj eting spur of the eminence and
stood leaning upon his stick contempla-
ting, with the air of one who could feel
and enjoy the beauties of natural scene-
ry, the wide prospect above, below him,
and before him. On his right, in the di-
rection from which he had came, a mile
I distant, slept at the water side a picture-
I like little hamlet, composed of a cluster

4.

f

TUE FLYING CLOUD.

I

a

of half a score of houses, with an inn, a let us move on!'  As the young may
small pier built a little ways out into the spoke he threw his travelling bag over
river. At this pier he had landed an hour his shoulder and once more pursued his
before from an Albany sloop, which was way, occasionally pausing at intervals to
now nearly opposite to where he stood, admire some new aspect of the scenery
slowly continuing its way towards the which opened upon hing as'he advanced,
metropolis  His eyes lingered upon the   In appearance the traveller was about
little vessel's deck, as he saw the re~w three and twenty, of a genteel person, tall
moving about upon it, and he watched its and well formed, and a face remarkable
progress as it receded from his view, with for a rare combination of manlv strength
the\looks of one taking leave of a friend, and womanly delicacy. His complexion
dn his left, just visible through a vista   was fair, but ruddy, and bhis eyes though
in the trees half a mile distant, was an of a soft hazel, were ;arge and intellectual
imposing looking mansion of gothic ar- and formed to express in the liveliest de-
ahitecture, its numerous turrets here and gree the deepest emotions of the soul.
there peering with fine effect above the  His mouth was like a young girl's for
foliage of the noble oaks which surround- beauty and mellowness, yet at times an
ed it.  After he had for some moments expression moved upon it that indicated
enjoyed in silence the beauty of the river the possession of all that decision and
which looked like liquid opal, the tower- firmness which became his sex. Ilis air
ing wall of pillared rock opposite to him. was free and fearless as he walked, his
the selling green hills beyond, and the tread bold and retiolute, and his motions
glorious skies canopying all like some vast free and unaffected, yet all graceful and
painted dome, he let his eyes rest upon striking. He bore the impress of a gentle-
the roof of toe villa with an expression of man in form and face. His dress was a
peculiar interest. ' Well, S'piegle,' he plain suit of blue, fashioned very plainly;
sail, addressing the little Scotch terrier, upon his head he wore a brown cloth cap
'our jurnuey is nearly at an end with the which had seen service, and his bands
day.  There lies its termination.'     were without gloves. Altogether with his
Spiegle made no other response than anely intellectual face, and modest cost-
by a wag of his tail, and a sparkling look ume, he looked like some poor, hand
out of his small round eyes, as if he some-student, who with all his capital
understood every word his master had ut- stored in his brain, was now abroad for
tercd. 'I wonder how I shall be received the first tidie in the world in quest of his
and if I shall be happy there!' continued fortunes.  IHe had proceeded about a
the young wayfarer speaking with him- quarter of a mile further along the piclas-
self.-' But happiness lies in duty, and ant bridlepath, which he had turned into
if I faithfully perform that, I shall not' soon after quitting the vilbige, when he
be unhappy' This is a lovely region for came upon a large gate way. It was con-
a student'of nature, and fortunate I am  strueted of two massive stone pillarsjoin.
in having my lot east here. How often I ed by an arch beneath which a carriage
shall visit these woods and extend my could easily drive. The gate itself was of
evening walks along the banks of this iron; on either side extenlcd a wall of
aautiful river! Come, Spiegle, my friend, masonry enclosing an extensive park.

TIE FLYING CLOUD:

8


THE FLYING CLOUD.

I

9

The y'urnmainiE ilend a Side- gaie,
and followed by his little dog, whi-h trot-
ted close at his heels, entered an avenue
as hard and smooth as a granite terrace.
It wound among the trees for soein di-
tance, and fllosing it he at length came
in full view of one of the finest mansions
Le had ever seen. It was a very elegant
structure of the purest Gotbie, placed in
the midst ofa lawn which was as soft as
a velvet carpet. The lawn sloped grad-
ually to the Hudson of which, and its
shores through an opening in the trees
of the park, it commanded an extensive
view.
The young man paused a moment to
survey the beauty of the place upon
which he had so suddenly conic, and then
with an embarrassed air and a hesitating
step lie moved with a slower pace to-
wards the stately front. Hie had to pass
around an oval plat of the deepest ver-
dure, encircling a marble fountain, which
catching the dyes of the western heaven,
seemed to be showering gold into the
broad Parian basin beneath. Gold and
silver fishes playing about in it turned
their glittering scales to ihe light, and
singing-birds in the branches of an aca-
cia above it, increased the enchantment
of the lovely scenes which met his eyes.I
Upon walking round the oval became
in full sight of the portico, which consist-.
ed of a trehised gallery, half hidden by
wreaths and festoons of the delicate
mountain fringe. A group of persons
was seated upon the gallery enjoying the
twilight. His eye at a glance embraced
the individuals composing it. One of
them was a large stout gentleman, about
fifty, with an air of pride and self-con-'
sideration that was repulsive. He had
been reading a gazette that lay upon his

l;,p, but now lifted his eyes from it y
fix them upon the stranger.
Near him were two beautiful children
riding together upon a rocking horse
and making the gothic arches of the
hall ring with their glee. Farther off. at
the extremity of the gallery, lounged an
elegant looking young man upon a settee,
engaged in smoking a cigar, and playing
with a young grey-hound.
The young traveller approached the
portico, and catching the eye of the el-
derly gentleman, raised'his hat and bow-
ing. advanced and said,
'I believe this is the residence of Dr.
Sheridine? '
'Yes. Who do you wish to see?' de-
manded Dr. Sheridine in a cold tone,
surveying him from head to foot.
'Dr. Sheridine. sir,' answered the
young man respectfully.
'Well, what have you to say?'
'I have a letter for you, sir, if you are
that gentleman,' answered the student,
and taking it from his pocket he handed
it to him.
The Dctor glanced at the sup erserip
tion with an umoph, and a second look at
the bearer of a more favorable charac-
ter, and saying,
'Be seated, sir, while I read the letter'
IThe student, however, merely slightly
bowed in acknowledgment of his atten.
tion, and remained standing.  The ele
gant young man was all the while re-
garding him with a look of delicate in-
spection that carried with it a certain
expression of haughty contempt that
caused the object of it to color, and to
feel for him a sudden and strong preju-
dice or dislike; and this was not de-
creased by seeing him endeavor to sct
his greyhound to worrying Spiegle. The
letter was as follows:

0THE FLYING CLOUD.

'Sir,
'In reply to your letter desiring me
to send you some young gentleman of
the graduating class, who is well quali-
fied to instruct your son and daughter
in patin, Greek, French, and other
braulhes of a thorough education, I ean-
not 4o better than by making such a
person the bearer of my answer. This
will le handed you by Charles Winder,
asyoung gentleman of poor, but highly
respectable parentage; his grandfather
having once been go} ernor of this State.
Ie ht   taken the first honors in his
class, tnd is destined for the-law, but
as he has not the means to enable him
to pursue his studies without some re-
sources, he has gladly embraced the
proposition I have made to him, and
consents forthwith to proceed to Laurel
Park, and enter at once upon [is duties
He is a young man of unblemished re-
putation, and one whom you will find
worthy of the contidece you place in
him   Trusting that he will give you
satisfaction. I remain your former friend
and classmate,
( ElRGE PLAYFAIR,
Professor of Ure k and Lrtin,
in ---College.
To,
Dr. Lawton Shieridfine, M,.D,,,
Laurel Park.'
After Dr. Sheiline, who had been
formerly a c lebr ated practitioner of
miicine in New York and had now re-
tired on a fortune. hal finished the pcru-
sal of the letter written to him by his
friend at the university, he slowly fold-
ed the letter, regarding closely as he did
so, the features of the applicant for the
tutorship in, his family. At length, with
a more hospitable and friendly look than
ho had hitherto worn, he said, though

still in the pompous tone characteristic
of the man,
' Well, Mr. Winder, I have read your
Professor's letter. lie speaks favorably
of you. .I am glad to see you! I like
your promptness. Walk in and take a
seat. Edgar, this young man is Mr.
Winder our tutor. This is my son, Mr.
Winder.'
Edgar Sheridine bowed haughtily
without rising from his lounging position,
and then began to caress his greyhound
as if no Mr. Charles Winder was in ex-
isten cc.
' When did you leave the University ?'
asked Dr. Sheridine of the young stu-
dent,
'Five days since. I stopped a day at
my mother's in a village in Vermont
and proceeded to Albany and took a
51001) to the village above. 1 was two
days on the river.'
'You should have come in a steamer.
You would have been here yesterday
morning,' said Dr. Sheridine, bluntly.
My resources are not very great, sir,'
answered Charles, smiling, 'and it be-
hoves me to husband my li tie funds.'
' Economy is a great virtue. You
hear that, Edgar. 1 wish you would
take a lesson from Mr. Winder.'
'Mr. Winder has not come here to be
my tutor, nor do I think I shall conde-
scend to be his pupil. Economy is very
well in leer students; but in a rich
young man like myself it is absurd.'
'lRic, you spendthrift,' repeated the
doctor, with a chuckle, as if quite grati-
fied to know that he had a rich son, this
fact implying wealth in himself: 'you
wouldn't have a penny but for me, you
dog.'
'And so long as you have a penny I

Iv

I

10

s
{
{

z
L


THE FLYING CLOUD.

I.

shall be assured, sir,' responded the himself.  J. seems to be a well-bred
young gentleman with an indolent air. animal, ant are say might teach An-
'Well, so you behave yourself and telope and my hounds some lessons of
don't buy any more horses and bounds, value.'
I'll not talk to you about economy, Ed.'  'You are a funny dog yourself, Ed-
' It will do no good, sir,' responded gar. I don't want any Scotch terriers ;
the fashionable young heir, in a cavalier nor Mr. Winder, I suppose. Is that I t-
tone.  'Spring upon him, Antelope ! tle black animal yours, Mr Winder V
That's right. Roll him over, my beau-  'Yes, sir, I have had him five years.
tiful 'Telly,' he cried, as the greyhound, ie is my best friend. We have lived
after long watching his opportunity, so long together that we are much at-
sprung at the shrinking little terrier tacked to each other. In college he
and turned him over and over half a was constantly with ne.'
dozen times with the rapidity of thought.  'Exactly my remark, Doctor.  The
Speigle alarmed sprung up from the dog .has-been through collage, lilre his
ground, and ran, crying, to conceal him- master. Suppose you yut him on a sal-
self under the chair on which his mas- ary too.'
ter was seated ; while the latter patted  ' No dogs shall stay here but yours
him, spoke a few soothing words to him. We have enough of them. Mr. Wider,
and then wi'h l eculty restrained him- you will send away your dog, if you ro-
self from sending an indignant glance main here. Edgar doest.'t like him. I
at tie young man ; for Speigle, though see, and what he doesn't like can't stay
small and far from  comely, was very here.'
dear to him, having been with him dur-  As the young student was about to
ing his four years in college, andt a part- yield to the quick aipulse of his outrag-
ncr in all his walks and pastimes M ucl ed feelings, and promptly say that -he
rather would he have had the greyhound would not remain without his dog, and
sprirng upon his own neck than thus tlh-at if he was to be subjected to such
rudely serve his helpless little compan- insults as be had met with already, he
ion. He felt indignant at the conduct did iot desire to remain at all, and
of the young man. and nothing but the hauzhtily to hid them 'good evening,'
reflection that giving vent to his feelings the apptroaeh if a carriage and two or
of anger would lose him his place as tu- three persis on horse back up the ave-
tor, prevented hint from showing by his nue, -c(-he'd the words that were strug-
flashing eyes the strong resentment off gling on hi lips for utterance.
his bosom.
 I should like to know, Doctor,' said
Edgar Sheidime, discovering that the         CLIAP PRU
tutor was annoyed,' I should like to       The Phaeton and heroine.
know if you have engaged the Scotch
terrier as well as his master 'r       A LIGHT and elegant phaeton, drawn
'Why,bless you, no; what a question' by two bay horses, after whirling swiftly
' Pro'bahly the gentleman would like round the green oval, drew up in front
to have a place for bis dog as well as for of the ba.cony. Behind it cantered.side

1I1

NG CLOUD.

a

12                      THE FLYI]
by ide, a youth about fourteen years of
age and a beautiful cherry-checked maid-
en of sixteen. The phaeton contained
afine-loeking old gentleman about three
score, and a brilliant, spirited girl of
nineteen, with dark eyes, and a head and
figure like a Juno.
' Ah, General, good evening.  Very
glad to see you at Laurel Park ' cried
Dr. Sheridine, rising and approaching
the carriage: 'and you, Miss Rosabel.
are welcome too. Bright eyes and beau-
ty always find favor in my eyes, albeit I
am on the other side of fifty?'
'We thought we would take advan-
tage of the fine twilight, Doctor, and
take a drive over in company with your
young people,' answered General Liffing-
well.
'The doctor, I dare say, compliments
himself I came expressly to see him
that he being a gay widower,'-said Miss
Liffingwcll, smiling archly,
'No, I don't go quite so far; Edgar
here would be stepping across my path,
and steal all my honors.'
Young Sheridine had thrown away
his segar and hastened to the phaeton
with- a beaming smile upon his truly
fine features, and had passed round on
the opposite side where Miss Liflingwell
was seated.
' You will alight, Rosabel,' he said,
fixing upon her his eyes with an expres-
sion that betrayed a deep regard for her.
'You really honored us by coming. Al-
low me to assist you i'
'You are very kind, Mr. Sheridine,'
answered the young lady in a quiet in-
different tone that contrasted strangely
with the warmth with which he had
made his offer of aid; 'but I can alight
without assistance if father intends
stopping: besides, there is your "sister

Clara waiting for a cavalier to assist bet,
from her horse!'
'O, Clara has Frank to help her!l' re-
plied Edgar Sheridine, slightly knitting
his brow, and biting his lip.
I think we shall hardly get out, it is
so late,' answered the young lady.
'That can't be allowed, Miss Rosa,'
cried the Doctor,' you visit us so seldom
that now we have you we must keep you.
One would suppose you lived at least
five leagues instead of five miles.'
'It is as Rosa says,' answered the
General.
'Then I believe we will return, dear
father.'
'You would have alighted if you had
not found me at home, Miss Lefflingwell,'
said Edgar, with a displeased look.
She turned away her face and seemed
not to hear him In the direction which
her gaze took her eye fell upon the no-
ble figure and frank intelligent counte-
nance of the handsome student. She let
her gaze rest for full a minute upon his
fair face with surprise and interest. As
he was not looking towards her, she re-
arded him without being observed. She
was struck with his appearance and be-
came inspired by a desire to learn who
he was.
'Pray, Mr. Sheridine, who is your
young friend in the gallery?' she asked
in an undertone, and addressing Edgar,
as if he had not just spoken to her in a
voice of angry emotion.
'That young man is some poor stu-
dent, I believe, whom the doctor has en
gaged to teach Frank and Clara;' an.
swered the young man with as much
civility as he could command towards -
herself, but with a tone of contempt in
reference to Charles Winder.
'Ho looks like a very intelleotua:


THE FLYING CLOUD.

young man. I think from his appear- that General Leflingwell, whose aristoe-
ance you must fid him a valuable ad- racy was of the first water, should make
dition to your family.'             such a proposition.  le, however, bow-
Who did you understand the gentle- ed and turned to our hero, who had
man wasT asked General Leffiigwell of been with his eye watching the play of
his daughter.                       the fountain, but thinking in his heart
'Dr. Sheridine's tutor.'          about leaving, and refusing to remain at
'Ah, then you have one at last, Doe- Laurel Park, where his feelings as a
tor. I like his looks. Call him up and man and a gentleman were so little re-
present him. I should like to give him speeted as they had been.
an invitation to ride over and see us  'Mr. Winder, will you walk up to the
some leisure afternoon. I have, as you carriage,' said Dr. Sheridine.
are aware, a very large librar y and he Charles approached, and lifting his
might like to look over the books.'  hat, as his eyes rested on the beautiful
Dr. Sheridine looked a little surpris- face of Miss Leffingwell, he bowed with
ed; for he had no idea of making a native courtesy, and then looked at Dr.
companion or equal of a tutor. So that Sheridine. as if to enquire why he had
ha gave him a room, the use of a horse called to him.
when he wishcd to ride, and regularly   'general Leflingwell does you the
paid him his salary, he did not conceive honor, to desire to have you presented
aut hle had any thing more to do with to him,' said Edgar. in a baugh ty, slight-
hin than with his gardener. Indeed he ly sneering tone. ' Your name, I think,
ihad been deliberating whether he should is Winslow.'
Pt him eat at his owt table or have his  ' Charles made no reply.  his check
tmesis with the house-keeper and nurse- burned. le knew not that he had mis-
ry maid; for the retired physician had called his name purposely,  lie was
high and ultra notions of aristocratic about to make a stern reply, when he
exclusiveness. He had learned that thme'tct Rosabcl Lmflingwell's eyes.  In
nobility in England regarded a tutor as them was a look that spoke as eloquent.
merely a bred dependent, and never ly as words 'forbear!.'  is fiery spirit
thought of letting him associate with yielded to the power of that glance, and
the family. le had about made up his he answered calmly,
mind before Charles' arrival, to treat  'Winder is my name, sir.'
him in the same manner. 'We have no    Yes, Window. It is sQtransparent
nobility in this country, it is true,' ar- a name I wonder I did not see through
gued the self-enriched doctor,'but all it at once. Miss Lefngwell, allow me
wealthy retired  gentlemen stand in the distinguished honor of introducing
t lace of it, and what they want in title to your notice Mr. Charles Winslow, tu-
and rank they must make up in exelu- tor to Dr. Sheridine. This little dog is
$iefless.'                      -  his also. Mr. Window, if you will give
These sentiments were precisely those me his name, I will do myself the honor
of Edgar,though a little more thorough- of presenting him also. I dare say Miss
ly systematised in practical application. Leffingwell would like to know  the
Dr. Bheridine was therefore surprised whole family.'

13

I
I


                                          
             
         
       
   
