
    ----CITATION----
        Hanaford, Joseph H., Mrs. (1829-1921). Lucretia, the Quakeress, or, Principle Triumphant .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6613
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Lucretia, the Quakeress, or, Principle triumphant
             
                 LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS, OR PRINCIPLE TRIUMPHANT. BT MRS. JOSEPH H. HANAFORD, AUTHORESS OF "MY BROTHER," ETC. "' He who permits oppression, shares the orime I "--Darwht "'Ti. not victory to win the field, Unless we make our enemies to yield Mtlore to our ustice than our force; and so As well instruct as overoome our foe."-Gomersbal, BOSTON: PUBLISHED BY J. BUFFUM. 1858.     Entered according to Act of Congress in the year 1853, by J. BUFFUM, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Dis. of Massachusetts.  ANDOVeR: J. D. PLAGO,  Stereot. per aud Printer.    CONTENT S. PAGE. . CHAP. I. THE QUIET HOME,.......l ....  5 II. THE CONVERSATION,............ 19 "I. THE READING SOCIETY,... .... 34 IV. THE QUARTERLY MEETING, ..... 48 V. A STRANGER,   ...........  59 VI. A QUAKER MARRIAGE, ......... 70 VII. THE AVOWAL,............   83 VIII. THE REFUSAL, ............. . 96 IX. THE MONITRESS,...... ...... 107 X. VISIT TO THE SIC,........ 116 XI. THE TRUTH RECEIVED,    ... 131 XII. THE RE-UNION...  ,....   146 XIII. A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE,... 155       "UCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. CHAPTER I. THE  QUIET HOME. "THE first sure symptoms of a mind in health, Are rest of heart, and pleasure felt at home." Young's Night Thoughts. Give me my home, to quiet dear, Where hours untold and peaceful move." -Mrs. Opie. "Home is the sphere of harmony and peace, The spot where angels find a resting-place, When, bearing blessings, they descend to earth." Mrs. Hale. How rich a blessing home may prove, If Christian duty there Be daily taught by word and act, To young immortals fair! No happier home was to be found on the fair island which was Lucretia's birth-place, than her own.  Friend Obed Barnard, her father, and his gentle wife, whose name "Love" was poetry itself, had, from their birth, been members of " the sect called Quakers," (as Sewell's History hath it,) and the principles of peace inculcated by the preacher     6    LUCRErIA, THE QUAKERESS. and writers among that peaceful and peace-loving people, ruled in the household of Obed, and united with the temporal blessings Providence had be- stowed upon them, to make Lucretia's home avery happy one. The liouse which was their residence was situ- ated on a grassy eminence, overlooking the harbor of the island, its wlarves and shipping, and beyond the long point of land, a far-stretching sandy cape, on which was reared a light-house, always gladly hailed by the home-bound seaman, and from which the outward-bound sadly parted, lay the broad ocean, blue as the azure sky above it, and to the eye of every islander, most beautiful. "The sea, the sea, the open sea, The ever fresh, and ever free " By old Ocean's side Lucretia often wandered with her careful mother, in her childhood's holi- days, gathering shells and pebbles, or watching the ever-restless waves as they rolled in, and graceful- ly curving, dashed upon the beach, with a loud, con- tinuous roar. Visits to the sea-side formed a part of Lucretia's recreation in her early days, and, me- thinks, those visits were of benefit to her spirit. Nowhere may one feel so entirely alone, as on the sea-shore, with the boundless, and fathomless ocean stretching far out in front, the hills rising from the   THE QUIET HOME,       7 beach behind, and the blue arch of heaven above. And since many a lesson is learned in the solitude of Nature, which is beneficial to the nascent spirit, perhaps the quietness of the sea-side which Lu- cretia enjoyed at her early home, assisted in form- ing her mild and lovely character. Certain it is, however, that the influences around her, beneath the roof of her parents, were excel- lent and salutary. Morning and evening, Obed or Love read a portion of the Holy Word, and both endeavored, frequently, to explain that which they read to the young immortal whom God had given them to instruct, and who looked up to them with the confidence, filial love, and reverence, which such parents deserve to receive, and which they invariably inspire into the hearts of the young. All was peaceful around Lucretia in her early years - those years in which the deepest impres- sions are made- and as a consequence, she grew up peaceful in spirit likewise. The Everlasting I  Za Law of Love was the rule of her parents' conduct, and while Lucretia daily saw them endeavoring to live in strict accordance with the teachings of the "Inward Monitor," she learned like them to seek assistance from above, and grew up in the practice of charity, and the possession of a " clean heart and a right spirit." Although an pnly child, she had been saved from that excessive indulgence which is ilI     8    1,CFIL :CRETIA, TIIE QUAKEL'ESS. so frequently ruinous to tie bodies and souls of on- ly children. For her parents sought from the Book of wisdom how to ," train up their child in the way she should go, that when she was old she might not depart fromn it." To this end they watched every footstep, that they might save her fromr wandering into evil paths. Her young associates were few and select, and her most frequent companion was her mother, who was not only Love in name, but lovely in character, and fitted to win the afiection of her little daughter. Together they spent tie long summer days, read- ing, writing, studying, or sewing. While her moth- er was engaged in domestic employments, Lucre. tia studied the lessons her mother assigned; for she was not suftfred to mingle with the children who attended the schools in her native town, her parents considering that the best method of pre- serving their daughter's purity was to keep her from temptation during those years when impres- sions, " good, bad, or indifferent," are most easily made. There may be meany who could not consis- tently pursue the same course with a child, deem- ing it best for children to mingle in juvenile society, and there gain the energy and endurance they may have to practise in future life. Whether we in- cline to the latter opinion or not, it is needless to say, as Lucretia deserves to be presented to the   THE QUIET HOME.        9 reader as she really was, regardless of conflicting opinions on any point. Sometimes Lucretia assisted in household labors, for her mother rightfully concluded that such em- ployment was both healthful and beneficial. Her opinion coincided with that of Mrs. Sigourney, where she says, "Since the domestic sphere is in- trusted to our sex, and the proper arrangement and government of a household are so closely con- nected with our enjoyments and virtues, nothing that involves the rational comfort of home is un- worthy of attention. The science of housekeeping affords exercise for the judgment and energy, ready recollection, and patient self-possession, that are the characteristics of a superior mind. Its elements should be acquired in early life; at least, its cor- respondent tastes and habits should never be over- looked in female education." Whether Love had ever conned the pages of the " Frugal Housewife," we cannot say; but her views were like those of its authoress, Mrs. Child, who Q remarks, "A knowledge of domestic duties is be- q  yond all price to a woman. Every one of our sex ought to know how to sew, and knit, and mend, and cook, and superintend a household.  In every situation of life, high or low, this sort of knowledge is of great advantage. There is no ne- cessity that the gaining of such information should ;i.      10   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. interfere with intellectual acquirement, or even with elegant accomplishment. A well-regulated mind can find time to attend to all. When a girl is nine or ten years old, she should be accustomed to take some regular share in household duties, and to feel responsible for the manner in which i her part is performed-such as her own mending washing the cups and putting them in place, clean- ing silver, or dusting and arranging the parlor. To learn effectually -they should actually do these  things themselves, not stand by, and see others do them." And again, sometimes, when her mother sewed, Lucretia would read aloud from some book ap- proved by her kind guardians, after careful exam-  ination, for they thought it their duty to acquaint. themselves with the character of the literature . which would form and foster a taste in their daugh- ! ter's soul for good or evil. During many a long winter evening did she read to them from the books which they valued next to the blessed Bible, and which explained and enforced the doctrines of "the sect called Quakers." George Fox, William Penn, and John Woolman, were to Obed and his   family what "the Fathers," Augustine, Jerome, and others of the primitive church, are to many -or what the writings of Wesley, Bunyan, and Edwards are to others-i. e., assistants in the   THE QUIET HOM.       " study of the Sacred Word, though not exactly its exponents. And thus in this quiet home were nurtured the virtues which alone make woman truly lovely. --Lucretia's tastes were simple, and her deport- nent staid. Why should they not be, with such Companions as her upright parents were, and dwell- ng under the roof of such an edifice as their old amily mansion! It was gray with age, and its walls vere moss-grown. Time's finger had touched it in nany places, but Quaker-like neatness had striven o repair its ravages, yet left sufficient evidence of ts many years. It had been built of the wood which grew upon that island, in days when a lofty brest growth covered the land, even to the sea- side, so that a wrecked vessel was once fastened by a rope to a tree upon the beach, as Obed often affirmed greatly to the amazement of Lucretia, in whose days the island appeared barren and stripped of its lordly oaks, and towering pines, and'therefore the house must have been erected many, many long years before. Its back roof was so far ex- tended that Lucretia, in a girlish freak rather un- usual for her, ventured to mount upon it from the hogshead, which was placed beneath the spout to catch the falling rain-drops. Lucretia loved this old mansion, and learned from her father, who valued it as his own childhood's home, to look     12    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. upon it and think of its former inhabitants, with veneration, almost, if not quite, equal to that which Byron felt for Newstead Abbey, when he wrote his poem commencing, "Through thy battlements, Newstead, the hollow winds whistle, Thou, the hall of my fathers, art gone to decay, In thy once smiling garden, the hemlock and thistle Have choked up the rose that late bloomed in the way." The front roof of the Barnard mansion was shorter than the other, but under both eaves were placed a spout, which descended from the front roof diagonally along one side of the house to the spout of the back roof. In the front spout suf- ficient sand had graduallyaccumulated to afford a soil in which various seeds, probably borne thither by the breezes, took root, and grew luxuriantly un- til the scorching sun of summer bade them wither. Often until the mystery was explained, had Lu- cretia wondered how those ephemeral plants found a home there, and queried in her mind whether the hanging gardens on that once beautiful, but now ruined city, Babylon, of which she had read, were not similar, thoughl on a larger scale. Over the apex of the roof was reared a platform with a slight railing around it. This was called "the walk" in the familiar dialect of the islanders,   THE QUIET HOME.       13 and was used as a promenade merely, or, as was more general in the early season of its erection, as a place of observation from whence a homeward bound vessel, long-looked fbr and welcome, or the spout of that ocean leviathan the whale - which was also a welcome visitor-might be descried. Land was not so scarce in that vicinity as to cause "the walk" to be used for the more ignoble, but also more useful purpose, of a place upon which to dry clothing, as they are sometimes used in the cities. Many a time did Lucretia go alone to the top of the house, and there sit upon the little benches placed there for the purpose, and read or study, ever and anon glancing upon the streets be- low, or gazing far-off upon the ocean-prospect be- fore her. So deeply, intensely, truly, did Lucre- tia learn to love the view from the roof of her ear- ly home, that no prospect was ever after complete to her without the ocean; so that when she stood in after years upon the summit of a far inland mountain, her emotions were similar to those of the Greek Islander who was taken to the Vale of Tempe, and from the depths of her spirit could she echo the words which the sainted Hemans at- tributed to him, "Where is the sea? - I languish here- Where is my own blue sea;     "   LUJCRETIA, tH QjIAfKtCEIESS. With all its barks in fleet career And flags and breezes free? I miss that voice of waves, which first Awoke my childhood's glee! The measured chime - the thundering burst- Where is my own blue sea?" Those who have removed from   the Eastert coast'.of the United States, to find a home amid the waving forests and grassy prairies of the "Far West," will appreciate Lucretia's sentiments and emotions, while the song of England's sweetest poetess will call forth an answering echo from a Bister-chord in their own bosoms. With the peculiar influences around Lucretia, it is not strange that, while she grew up into an ex- cellent woman, she should also become a confirmed Quakeress.  One of her father's favorite topics was the heinousness of war, and another the wick- edness and evil results of slavery; two of the great- est curses that ever smote like a withering simoom upon the face of human society, or blast as with the fire of perdition, the holiest hopes and highest happiness of the human race on earth! And such was the influence which her father's words of holy indignation excited, that Lucretia would often say, in her earlier years, that she was certain soldiers and slaveholders must be frightful-looking beings. It was reserved for after years to reveal to her the   THE QUIET HOME.  fact that the soul which advocates war and slavery does not always, in this world, wear its appropriate dress. Would that it were otherwise!  Then- might the hideous ones be shunned instead of imitated. It is a blessed thought, that in the future world, toward which we are all hastening, and for which we should all be making preparation, there will be no disguises. Hypocrisy will find no mantle there. Deception will be unmasked. We shall seem what we are, and the various stages of our eternal pror gress be so clearly defined, that none of a holier sphere can be deceived into selecting as comr panions, those of a less' advanced position, and thus be contaminated by them. Perhaps the im- passable gulf, of which we read, may be figurative of that knowledge which the disembodied Christian may possess, by which he is led to perceive, and forsake the evil influence, and the society of the really vicious, whatever may have been their out- side character, on earth, befbre the eyes of men. There we shall "know as we are known, and see as we are seen,"- and, blessed truth! - "O'er all those wide, extended plains, X:1 i      The songs of love resound, And there our Saviour ever reigns, And scatters light around!" Quietly, yet happily, glided away the early days i                       '     16    LUCRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. of our heroine. The child accustomed from infancy to dress, fashion, and a bustling, noisy round of pastimes and amusements, might have deemed Lucretia's pleasures insipid, and her years mo- notonous; but not thus with her. On the Sabbath, or "First-Day," as the Friends call Sunday, and also on the fifth-day of the week, Lucretia walked by the side of her father and mother to the unadorned, but neat, edifice,--for Quakers are always and everywhere neat and orderly, -where her parents worshipped, attired in the plain garb befitting the child of those who taught and believed, witl the Apostle, that " good works are the proper ornament of woman. Per- haps Lucretia's mother might have approached the Apostle Peter's ideal, when he taught that the female ornament should chiefly be " a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price." Lucretia seldom left her home without that ever- faithful friend, her mother; and the children of the neighborhood called her the "Still, Little Quaker," though all those children who were permitted to play and converse with her, loved her. As she approached womanhood, she was permitted to re- ceive the instruction of teachers in "the higher branches ;" but a mother's watchful eye was bent upon all their intercourse, and well was that moth.   THE QUIET HOME.        17 er repaid, when her daughter exhibited such a lovely character, for all her care and watchfulness, and anxious labor. Yes, mother of a youthful im- mortal, thy fidelity shall have its reward! The ceaseless anxieties and earnest efforts of maternal. affection shall be appreciated in future years by the infant of your love, until, in the fulness of its gratitude, it shall give back a love so pure, and  true, that the mother's heart shall leap for very joy, and the mother's hands be strengthened for their toil. What a thrill of gratified emotion will fill your bosom, faithful mother, when the darling of your heart shall exclaim from the fresh spring of his earliest affections, in the words of another: - My mother! at that holy name, Within my bosom there's a gush Of feeling which no time can tame, A feeling which for years of fame I would not, could not crush!"-G. P. Morris. "And while my soul retains the power To think upon each faded year, In every bright or shadowed hour, My heart shall hold my mother dear. The hills may tower - the wadves may rise, And roll between my home and me; Yet shall my quenchless memories Turn with undying love to thee." [Willis Gaylord Clark. The quiet home of which we have been speak-    18    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. ing, moulded the mind of Lucretia with its happy influences, until she became an amiable, well- informed, and worthy young woman. Personal beauty she possessed in no slight degree; but the beauty of her spirit outshone the lustre of her eyes, and rendered her society invaluable to those kind parents, and to the circle with whom she associated. Happy the child whose early years are spent be- neath the parental roof, with parents whose influ- ence is exerted for its everlasting good!   CHAPTER II. THE CONVERSATION. "It may be glorious to write Thoughts that shall glad the two or three High souls, like those far stars that come in sight Once in a century; - But better far it is to speak One simple word, which now and then Shall waken their f'ee nature in the weak And fiiendless sons of men."-J. R. Lowell. "ET us lirnger for a moment on a single season in Lucretia's life which, on account of the influ- ences then exerted, is worthy to be regarded as a memorable occasion. It was a summer's day- a day in June, sunny, yet not too warm; and Lu- cretia with her mother strolled forth for a wasi upon the sea-shore. The low murmuring plash seemed an inviting welcome, and the delicious cool- ness of the breeze which gently swept over the waters, scarcely ruffling them, was indeed refresh- ing. The beautiful placidity ofthe ocean in its calmness then, was an emblem metre of the spirits clothed in mortal form which were wandering near it. Lucretia's mother had learned how to "gather into the stillness," as worship is sometimes spoken     20    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. of in Quaker phraseology, and from that lone beach had her soul often been raised in adoration, while she sought to draw near to her God, and worship him "in spirit and in truth." What a glorious truth did Jesus reveal when he taught that neither in Mount Gerizim, nor yet at Jerusalem alone, must men worship their heavenly Father; but that over all the earth might be reared acceptable al- tars, and prayer ascend with equal fervor and ac- ceptance, whether uttered upon the mountain-peak, or in the depth of some shady valley, - whether amid the forest-monarchs, or far away upon the billowy-sea,- in lowly cottage, or beneath a palace- dome. The 'All-Father" is everywhere present, and ever the same, so that His children may al- ways have ready access to Him when they bow in penitence and faith. While her mother was thus engaged in devotion, Lucretia sought amusement in her quiet way, gathering smooth and shining pebbles, whose vari- ous colors and rainbow-tints reminded her of the precious stones which beautify the New Jerusalem, and of which she had recently read, -for so fre- quently was she taught to study the Scriptures, like young Timothy, that she scarcely saw anything in the material world around her, but it rehminded her of something mentioned in that most spiritual of all volumes. Thus was the warp of Divmew   THE CONVERSATION.      21 revelation daily woven into the web of her young life, adding strength as well as beauty to her moral nature. Many a white and glistening sail dotted the broad face of the ocean, and as Lucretia gazed upon them, she longed to explore in them the world which lay beyond her vision. She longed to reach the verge of the horizon before her, and wondered what she would find beyond. She longed to see for herself the lands of which she studied in her geography, and by old Ocean's side, if nowhere else, she had a wild longing for freedom of passage beyond the waves which skirted her island-home; though without that desire of adventure which those children might possess whose chief study ras "Robinson Crusoe," rather than the Bible. In- stead of such a desire, was the wish to bear to the far-off heathen a knowledge of God, and Christ, and Heaven. Lucretia and her mother had been about an hour upon the beach, when, looking along the shore, Lucretia saw that they were not alone, and called her mother's attention to the fact, by exclaiming, :" there is Jim Blossom!" "Who? my daughter!" inquired the mother in a reproving tone. "Jim Blossom," repeated Lucretia, gazing in her mother's face, as if wondering at her unwonted tone of rebuke.     22   CLUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. "Thee should say James Blossom, not Jim, Lu- cretia," was the rejoinder. "Friends do not ap. prove of calling persons by any name but their proper one, thee knows." "Yes, mother," meekly replied Lucretia, " but every one else calls him Jim, so I thought that was his name." "Has thee ever heard his story, Lucretia, - the account of his fbrmer life and sufferings?" "No, mother; please tell me!" was the ani. mated reply, while the gentle eyes of that Quaker girl were lighted with an expression of intense cu- riosity. She had once overheard her father when he said that "James Blossom's story must some day be told to Lucretia," and had often wished to remind her mother of the remark. Curiosity is as common among Quaker females, as with all other women since the days of Eve, and happy is it for an individual when mere curiosity is changed into a laudable desire for knowledge, as was the case with Lucretia in after life. "Come to me, Lucretia," said Love, as she seated herself on a dry bank of sand in the shadow of the hill which rose somewhat abruptly from the beach. And there for a season they held high communion, with naught around save objects in unison with their feelings and their conversation. At a little distance along the beach was "Jim Blos- b "'V H\ICCIII WLij "Lln IfS1:S   THE CONVERSATION.       Z; som," engaged in collecting the sea-weed which a recent storm had caused to be thrown up by the troubled waters, in large quantities, and which Jim's employer used for agricultural purposes. Lucretia's mother related to her many incidents of Blossom's earlier days. He had been born a slave, and was nurtured amid the manifold moral evils of that wicked institution. Many and great had been his sufferings; but the saddest of all was, the final stroke from the hand of his master, which induced him to make desperate efforts for his es- cape, which finally proved successful. This sad- dest affliction was the separation of his beloved family from him. Various losses had so impover-. ished Blossom's master, that he conceived it to be for his interest to sell some of his slaves, and among the rest, he sold Blossom's wife and young- est child, who was an infant in its mother's arms. We may not relate the occurrence in Blossom's own style, nor yet in the emphatic language of Lu- cretia's mother; but, in our feeble way, we will place before the reader the events which dashed the cup of happiness from the lips of a fellow- being, and blighted the prospects of one who had as much right to "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness," as any others who dwell in this boasted land of freedom; and O may it arouse within the sympathizing bosom, emotions which will result in     24   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. actions calculated to alleviate the miseries of the oppressed, and worthy of the disciple of liberty. Fathers who may glance at these pages, a word with you. It is true, James Blossom's complexion was darker than your own, and true that his features denoted his African origin, while yours speak of the Anglo-Saxon race; but his soul is only of the hue his deeds have made it; and while it bespeaks the same origin as yours, it may be even of a lighter shade, because " washed in the fountain opened for sin and for uncleanness,"  while you may be still " in the gall of bitterness and the bonds of iniquity," and your soul dark'ened by unforgiven transgression. At all events, his feelings as a father were like your own. Say, is not your heart made glad as you lift your little one upon your knee, and listen to its innocent and playful prattle? Or, if it is too young to reply to your caresses, save by its dimpling smiles, do not the slight and gradually increasing developments you witness, give you much pleasure? As you dandle it upon your knee, and " chirrup " to attract its attention, and then behold its smile of recognition, say, would you at such a moment thank a person who should approach to take it from you, and tear it from your sigllt forever? Could you give a bill of sale of that child, with a clear conscience, or without a bursting heart? And would not all the man and   THE CONVERSATION.      25 the father arise in you, if another should Assert his prerogative, and use his power to separate you forever from your loved one? Ah yes! your lip quivers, though you may deem it weakness for a man to weep, as you think of the agony it would give your own spirit to part from your beautiful, your beloved child, and you involuntarily clench your hand, and raise it with untold energy, to ward off the attacks of one lwhom you would esteem your worst enemy, should he take from you the lamb of your flock. Such agony as I have mentioned, but which words cannot faithfully picture, James Blossom knew; and if your heart throbs in sympathy, fa- ther, do your best to blot the curse of slavery from the earth, and labor at the polls, as well as else- where, to banish it from your country's page. Mothers, whose eyes follow my pen, have you some sympathy with James, or with his wife? Nelly Blossom was a woman possessed of a woman's warm heart and ready hand, and she was a Chris- tian woman, too, striving to perform all her duty in the fear of God. She loved her children, all of them. The two little girls who first called her mother, and the youngest born, her only, darling boy; and, by your own experience, young mother, you can say, that she would rather have had a dagger plunged to her heart, than to be bereft of 3     L6 LUCRETIA, TH   QUAKtRESS. her children, by their becoming the property of an- other. She could have borne to see them laid in the grave, and have said in the spirit of a Chris- tian, "lThe Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, and blessed be the name of the Lord;" but Oh, she could not bear to see a single one of the beloved trio borne away to a far distant home, where maternal kindness might never meet it again. She could sing above its flower-crowned bier, "Go to thy rest, my child, Go to thy dreamless bed, Gentle and undefiled, With blessings on thy head." but Oh, she could not send it forth among strangers, where no parent's smile could greet it, without heartfelt agonya Nor could you, mothers, in these Northern States, bear the thought of thus parting with your loved ones, who nestle so closely to your bosoms, whose little hands stretch out so earnestly toward you, whose soft cheeks you so love to kiss, nor think calmly of the blows and curses which they may receive, or the hardslhips they may en. dure. Ah! my own eyes fill with tears, at the thought of a moment's suffering for, or a brief ab- sence from, my darling infant son; and shall I not sympa'hize with the mother whose youngest born is sold from her arms into the slave-service of a   TIlE CONVERSATION.      47 stranger? Mothers, let us teach our sons as they advance in years, the monstrous evil of slavery, that they may combat it fearlessly, and ever be the champions of the oppressed! It was the close of' a summer's day, when James Blossom, weary and ill, was returning to his home and family. He had been laboring in the fields throughout the burning heat of that sultry day, and was glad to reach a resting place once more. Once through the day he had felt inclined to mur? mur at his lot, when, as he was staggering from illness and faintness, caused by the heat, and hard, continuous labor, he was struck heavily by the brutal overseer; but now he hoped for a little rest and comfort. All was still as he drew near the little hovel which was called his own; the voices of' his elder children were not heard, nor the voice of his wife carolling some hymn of praise, as usual. At a little distance fromhis hut, he met the master of' the estate walking rapidly away. He entered. There lay his wife upon the floor, insensible. His little baby-boy was at her side, playing with a por- tion of her dress, all unconscious of her situation. As his father entered, the child looked at him with a crow of delight; but a sadness, such as he had never felt before, came over that father's heart, at such a sight; and heedless of his infant's smiles for the present, he endeavored to restore his wife.     28   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. With returning animation, came redoubled sorrow. "Are you sick, Nelly?" was the husband's query. But, alas! the sad answer was worse than his most fearful forebodings. Their master had just announced to her, that he had sold her to a man whose estate was not a dozen miles distant, and that her infant was to be sent to that man's daughter, who resided farther South, as soon as it was weaned. She had fondly hoped to spend her days with her husband and children, but all her hopes were now blasted. She knew that she might still occasionally see her hus- band and the children she should leave behind, and who had been sent for that afternoon, to go to the mansion of the owner, where they were hence- forth to reside, and be reared as house-servants; but the little darling in her arms, she felt she should never see again, after it had once left for its new, untried, far-off home. Oh, mother, who bend- est over thine infant's cradle, with a love stronger than death, and pressest again and again that lit- tte treasure in a fond embrace, thou wilt not won- der at Nelly Blossom's agony, but only sigh that she could not longer remain insensible, when her uwaking was so sad! How unrighteous must that system be, which, while it adds not to human en- joyment, is the source of so vast an amount of bocial misery! Every truly Christian heart should   THE CONVERSATION.      29 pray and toil for its destruction! Are they not ,very guilty who remain wilfully ignorant, or neg- ligent in this matter? All that night the stricken parents remained conversing in reference to their future course. James felt that he could no longer remain quietly a slave. He had always longed for freedom, and often had he and his wife regretted that they had not been born in a free state. But more than all, they regretted that their children were born slaves. They finally agreed that it would be right and best for James to escape, and when he had earned enough to purchase his wife and children, that they should all seek a home together. But all was so uncertain, and they knew that their little boy was to go so far away, that sadness still gathered about their spirits with the gloom of midnight. Tears fell from their eyes like rain-drops in a summer shower, and, for aught we know, the angels of heaven might have wept in sympathy for such a sad affliction to parental love-such a sundering of the strong bonds of Christian family affection. At last the fountain of tears seemed exhausted, and with aching heads and hearts they awaited the early arrival of the slave whose duty it was to con- vey Nelly Blossom away from her husband and home. Such as that home was, she had yet loved it, and it was hard to go. And oh! to go without 8^     30    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. a single parting word to her two little daughters, wh]om, she was coldly told by her master, " he would look after," it was terrible. They united in prayer for the last time be- neath their home-roof, and strove in Christian calmness to bid each other adieu; but the lip, quiv- ering from the agonyof the heart, the unspoken farewell with the convulsive grasp of the hand, all served to show how deep the wound inflicted on their peace. Days, weeks, and months passed, and still re- turned James every night to a desolate home, with a saddened heart. Occasionally he saw his daugh- ters at the mansion of his master, but as he was a "field-hand," he was seldom permitted there. At last a favorable opportunity occurred, and in the silence of midnight James made his escape from bondage. He found friends in a free State who employed him, and assisted him so that he was able to purchase his little one from the person designed as its future owner, and as his wife's present master was a humane man, she was allowed to keep it, and James was given to understand that both should be his when he should raise a certain amount of money and forward it to his wife's owner. Much sympathy was felt for James and his fam- ily in the town where Lucretia resided, and the wealthy had contributed liberally to enable him to   THE CONVERSATION.      81 purchase the freedom of his beloved ones, and therefobe he could now toil with hope and cheerful- ness. Through all his sufferings he had been a Christian, and Lucretia's mother failed not to im- press upon her youthful mind the fact that religion must be of no little value if it could thus cheer and encourage a man under such a cloud of sorrow. The tears flowed fast down Lucretia's rosy cheeks as she listened to the sad recital, and her mother felt assured that her sympathy was tho- roughly excited in behalf of the suffering and op- pressed slave. This was reward enough, she felt, for the little trouble it had been to her to sit upon that quiet beach and talk with her. Do not moth- ers perform a great and worthy deed when they awaken in their children sympathy for the suffer- in? The prudent mother now deemed it best for them to return, and Lucretia yielded obedience, though she would gladly have lingered to watch the glories of the sunset sky, and the beautiful hues of the waves, as they reflected the golden and crimson clouds so magnificent, above them. They passed near James on their way home- ward, and Lucretia gazed upon him with quiver- ing lip as she remembered his sorrows, while her mother addressed to him some kind and consol- atory remarks.     32    LUJCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. 4 Does thee expect to have thy wife with thee soon?" asked she, and Lucretia's heart bounded with joy as he replied, "please God, missis, she will be here next week; some friends here have lent me the rest of the money, and a kind white man has gone after her, and our little Tommy. I thank God, I thank God!7 " said he, and raised his hat reverently, while the tears of heartfelt grati- tude were in his eyes. "And more yet, missis," he resumed, " my old master is dead, I heard last night, and the man who has gone for my wife, is going to beg her master to buy my girls until we can buy their fieedom. SMy wife will help me earn the money, and how haplpy we will be!" Lucretia and her mother heartily rejoiced with James, and ere another week had come and gone, he, and his wife, and their youngest born were hap- py and contented in the enjoyment of freedom, and each other's society, far from those who would separate them for " filthy lucre." We would add here, that after a few years more of united and cheerful toil, and with th!e aid of kind friends, James and his wife realized their fondest wish in gathering their little fa:,miiy beneath one roof, freed forever from the galling yokle of' human bondage. Lucretia never forgot the afternoon %when she first heard such a sad account, with the hero of the story before her eyes, her gentle mother for   THE CONVYERSATION.      83 the sympathetic narrator, and the generous im- pulses of her own heart arising in opposition to the oppressive and cruel system of slavery. That conversation was not lost on her, but was a link in the chain of influences which made her a confirmed abolitionist.     CHAPTER     III. THE READING SOCIETY. "We blush with holy shame, that men Who bear thy sacred name, O God! Should dare one single man enslave, Or shed one drop of human blood."- Rowcd ill. As soon as Lucretia was considered of sufficient age by her parents, she was permitted to meet with a reading society, of which her mother was an in- telligent and zealous member, and which was com- posed of the female portion of the Society of Friends. The reading society met alternately at the residences of its members, and as its name irn. plies was a society for mutual improvement by the reading aloud of some instructive book. Lucretia, and several young ladies of about the same age, were generally the readers. One evening the So- ciety met at the house of Obed Barnard, and Lu- cretia was appointed reader. After proper atten- tion had been paid to the company, and the aged ladies especially, were comfortably seated, (for the Quakers, and indeed, true Christians of every de- nomination, are ever mindful of the comfort of the aged,) the reading commenced. The book which   THE READING SOCIETY.     35 had been selected for the evening was, "Bourre'a Picture of American Slavery." Lucretia read with elegance, and distinctness, displaying modesty without affectation. Her sym- pathies were all strongly enlisted in favor of the author's opinions, and those opinions were also held and endorsed by all present who had ever given any attention to the subject. The book had been selected by Love for the benefit of those who had read and heard little on the subject, and as she very pithily remarked, " it would not hurt the rest of us to be 'renewed in the spirit' of the matter of anti-slavery. From the portion read by Lucretia on that eve- ning, we extract the following: -"The Mosaiclaw declares every slave-holder a Thief: Paul the Apostle classes them among the vilest criminals; the Presbyterian confession of faith asserts, that he is the most guilty of all thieves; the Methodist book of discipline avows, that no man can have a sincere desire to 'flee from the wrath to come' un- less he refuses to enslave, buy, and sell humaft flesh; ' the supreme law of the land,' formally ptro nounces that this practice is totally irreconcilable with the principles of justice and humanity; and the bills of rights promulge, that the immunities of man, which are indispensable to the possession of life, the acquisition of property, and the enjoyment     36    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. of happiness, are natural, inherent, and inalienable. Therefore, every man who holds slaves, and who pretends to be a Christian or a Republican, is either an incurable idiot, who cannot distinguish good from evil, or an obdurate sinner, who resolutely defies every social, moral, and divine requisition." Lucretia read for some time, without interrup- tion, save that occasionally a word of assent was uttered by some one whose age and experience rendered such interruption allowable. At last an- other young lady offered to become the reader, and from the portion she read we would make the following extract: "Slavery is the climax of cru- elty. By it every affection of the soul is extermi- nated. It severs all natural ties, and separates all social relations. Matrimonial engagements, when it commands, are dissolved; the chain which links parents and children, by its touch, is shivered to atoms; and at its approach every domestic duty dies. Brothers and sisters mingle their fraternal sen- sibilities, not in futurity to bless each other by re- ciprocal aid, but to increase their unmitigated tor- ments. Seldom do they reside many years in the same habitation ; a transfer is necessary: and it is made not according to family or moral connections, but by the proportionate value in different mar- kets."   THE READING   SOCIETY.      37 The reading for the evening was finally conclu- ded by an extract from the pen of the poet Mont- gomery, which we subjoin, regretting that it is, alas! as truthful as it is vivid in its description. "Lives there a savage ruder than the slave? Cruel as death, insatiate as the grave Is he, who toils upon the wafting flood, A Christian broker in the trade of blood; Boisterous in speech, in action prompt and bold; He buys, he sells, he steals, he kills, for gold. Lives there a reptile baser than the slave? Loathsome as death, corrupted as the grave, See the dull man-thief at his pompous board, Attendant vassals cringing round their lord; He stalks abroad; through all his wonted rounds, The Negro trembles, and the lash resounds; This is the veriest wretch on nature's face, Owned by no country ; spurn'd by every race. His soul? has he a soul whose sensual breast Of selfish passions is a serpent's nest? Whose heart, mid scenes of suffering senseless grown, E'en in his mother's lap was chill'd to stone; Whose torpid soul no social feelings move; A stranger to the tenderness of love, His motley harem charms his gloating eye, Where ebon, brown, and olive beauties vie. His children, sprung alike from sloth and vice, Are born'his slaves, and loved at market price: Has he a soul? - with his departing breath, A form shall hail him at the gates of death, The spectre conscience, -shrieking through the gloom, Man, we shall meet again beyond the tomb." 4     38    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. As both readers and listeners became weary towards the close of the evening, the book was laid aside, and conversation on the subject of slavery ensued. James Blossom had been that day working with Obed Barnard; and during the intervals of mow- ing, had, in reply to Obed's questioning, related several incidents relative to the evils of slavery,- which, when the gentlemen joined the ladies, as they usually did toward the close of the evening, Obed related some of them, which added fuel, as it were, to the fire of their indignation against the laws which permit crimes to be committed, with- out detecting or punishing their perpetrators. One anecdote in reference to the infamous prac- tice of "kidnapping," as it is styled, or, in other words, stealing human beings, arrested the atten- tion of the entire company, who manifested the intensity of their interest by a listening silence, unbroken save by the sobs of the sympathizing ones, whose emotion became uncontrollable, and like the mountain torrents in their gushing fulness, their tears fell fast without restraint. A little white boy, the son of loving parents, the idol almost of a household, was at one twilight hour absent from his home, and to the inquiry of his fond mother, as to the cause of his unwonted absence, no reply could be presented. The ser-   THE READING SOCIETY.     39 vants sought him in his accustomed haunts, but without success. One ran hastily up the stairs leading to an attic chamber in which little Edgar was accustomed to hoard his playthings; but he was not there. Another sought the garden-bower, where he often spent his afternoons with his mo- ther; but no Edgar there. Search was made in the poultry-yard, where there were many attrac- tions for a boy of seven years; but the fowls were at rest for the night, and no sign or token was present to assure them that Edgar was in that vi- cinity. The anxious mother speedily apprised the father of the unaccountable absence of their dar- ling boy, and the entire neighborhood was soon aroused by the alarming intelligence of " a child lost." Hour after hour passed, and the morning dawned without bringing any intelligence of the absent boy. The mother laid her head upon her pillow only when nature was exhausted, and she became insensible to all outward objects. A fever raged in the afflicted father's bosom, which no kind voice of friends could assuage; and though the mother gradually recovered health and strength, and both parents attained a degree of calmness, yet, as week after week, month after month, yes, and year after year, rolled on, a gloom, solemn and sad as midnight darkness, settled about them. They believed-their child must have been drown-     40    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. ed in the river near them, and his body borne on beyond the reach of the sweeps, which were used to discover the fact; or else that he had been sto- len from them, -and the latter was tfle more hor- rible thought; for if any one was sinful enough to steal a child, they would be liable to treat that child with harshness, and perhaps cruelty. Oh! how sad the thoughts wlich came to that be- reaved mother's mind, in every hour of solitude! And for years was she compelled to bear them, -- while the lapse of time mitigated not the anguish which filled those parental bosoms. At length, one morning, a stranger arrived at the dwelling of' those afflicted parents, and solicited their hospitality. He did not ask in vain. All day he lingered with them, learned from them every circumstance connected with the loss of their never-forgotten Edgalr, ascertained several marks by which they could prove the identity of any one claiming to be their long-lost one, and at last, to their unspeakable astonilsment and agitation, he unfolded to them the cause of his presence among them,--which was notling less titan to assure them that their beloved child was still alive. The patriarch Jacob, when informed that his long-absent Josephl, for whlom he had mourned as for one departed from etartlh, was yet alive, and his aged eyes might once again behold him, was not   THE READING SOCIETY.      41 more surprised or delighted than these American parents, to know that their son was to be restored to them. The stranger, who was thus the messenger of good tidings, was a friend of freedom, and had con- certed, with others, a plan for the escape of this lad from his persecutors, which had proved suc- cessfil. The evidences of his being really the lost Ed- gar, were perfectly satisfactory; and ere many days, he was restored to the home and hearts of llis parents. He had never forgotten them; and through days of toil and nights of sorrow, he had dwelt in memory upon his mother's beaming coun- tenance, and longed for his father's smile. Once more he was at home. Once more he was free; and though an inhuman master had endeavored to thrust him into the pit of degradation, once more he was on the pinnacle of domestic felicity, within the charmed circle of a true and happy home. Twelve years had passed away since he was taken from his friends, and - blush! O, Southern States! and Southern slave-holders! was made a slave! Though born of Anglo-Saxon parents, and entitled to liberty even by the laws of the State in which he dwelt, an inhuman and merci- less slave-holder stole him from his parents, to add another to the long list of those immortal beings 4*     42    LUCIRETIA, THE QUAKIERESS. whom he numbered with his other "goods and chattels;" and because his fair complexion be- trayed his lineage, he soughlt, by detestable devi- ces, to change tlat complexion. Little Edgar, whose parents had almost doated upon his beauty, was tattooed, painted, and tanned, and every other method was adopted, which wickedness could de- vise, to change the exterior appearance of the un- fortunate boy into one uniform, dark tinge. The horrid details of such barbarity need not be pre- sented, - for the simple mention of such a fact is enough to prove it abhorrent to every benevolent heart. Edgar was driven, starved, scourged, and in every way treated as a wicked master would treat the colored people with whom Edgar was obliged to associate, and from whom, in their de- graded condition, le could learn little that was good, and much that was degrading and evil in its influence. Tlhe word of Divine truth declares that "Evil communications corruilt goodr manners," and Edgar could not renain so many years amid such cor- rupting influences end not feel their power, and so become, in a manner, like the semi-barbarians around him. Yet the memory of early instructions still remained. The seeds of truth and virtue sown in the childhood'of any, are seldom lost. Powerful for good or evil are the teachings of a   TIlE READING SOCIETY.     43 mother to the child at her knee, and almost om- nipotent is her sway then, over the infant spirit. Edgar had not. forgotten his mother's teachings in the garden-bower, and as one evidence of his identity, he told her how she had taught him one summer afternoon the verse, "I love them that love me, and they that seek me early shall find me." He had now returned to comfort his pa- rents in their declining years. With hearts which were relieved of an oppressive weight, they could now offer sincere thanksgivings to that God, who, though He had tried them in the furnace of affliction, was now again propitious, and had per- mitted them once more to embrace their loved one. There was no insincerity in their Te Deum lau- damnus. But curses loud and deep followed the noble friends of the captured boy, from the incensed slave-holder, whose conscience seemed never to re- proach him for his crimes, but whose iniquity we may be well assured was not always unpunished. No doubt exists, with many, that Indians, once the lords of this fair American heritage, have been captured by slave-holders, and tortured into sub- mission to their bonds. The truth of the incidents recorded on Slavery's mournful page," as Byron truthfully styles it, will not, perhaps, be fully ascertained till the day of     "   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. their retribution arrives, and the Deity with im- partial justice shall punish the offenders against His eternal code of mercy and love; but enough has been substantiated to prove the system in- famous, and abhorrent to every principle of human kindness. O, that the day of its abolition may soon arrive! The members of' the reading society remained some time beyond their usual hour, discussing this all-absorbing topic, and all agreed that, in the face of any and every human law, it was their duty in- dividually, and the duty of Quakers as a body, to bear unqualified and unwavering testimony against the system of purchasing and holding slaves. Gradually the company departed from the house of Obed Barnard, until, at last, only their neigh- bor, Solomon Swift, with his wife, and daughter Hannah, remained. Hannah Swift was a great favorite with Lucretia. Posssessed of a warm heart and affectionate spirit, she had won Lucre- tia's love by bestowing much love upon her, in the first place. The apostle says of Jesus, "We love Him, because He first loved us;" and it is no un- common thing for one friend to love another, merely from the fact that love was first bestowed upon him, by another. Hannah, like Lucretia, was nurtured in the principles and habits of the Quakers; but the seed   THE READING SOCIETY.     45 of Quakerism, as such, seemed with her, to be sown upon stony ground. While she received their Gospel instructions, and sought to be truly obedi- ent to Divine injunctions, she yet refused to bear meekly any yokes, as she deemed them, by way of precision in dress or address. "She 'll never make a Quaker," was the remark of her school- mates; and had they seen her antics on Sabbath- hoon, they would have believed themselves true prophets. On that day she had been presented by her mother with a new bonnet, and had worn it to the Friends' meeting for the first time. It was of spotless white, and composed of the finest silk; but, alas! it was formed after the most approved Quaker model, "looking," as she said, "more like a 'sugar-scoop,' than anything." She had long worn a similar one; but when the new one arrived she hoped it would be in more modern style. On her return from meeting, whither she had ac- companied her mother with ill-concealed dislike, she hastened up into the garret, and there proceeded to vent her feelings upon the unfortunate bonnet. Hastily untying it, she threw it upon the neatly swept-floor, exclaiming, "Away with thee, 'sugar- scoop!"' Then, with very unlady-like action, she proceeded to kick it about the floor, all the while exclaiming against the stern fates which com- pelled her to wear it.     "   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. The day was very warm, for it was the sweet rose-month of June, and such employment was soon too wearisome and heating to be pursued long. As she ceased, she heard her name repeated in a mild, calm voice. Its clear, though gentle tones, sounded very near her, and, with a start of sur- prise, she turned towards the direction from whence it proceeded, and saw, very near-her father. He had proceeded to the attic, on his return from meeting, in order to rest himself, in the enjoyment of a Sunday-nap, upon a spare bed there, and had been an interested witness of all Hannah's antics. She blushed deeply, when she perceived that he must have heard the whole, and stood, evidently expecting a severe reprimand. Butthe same clear, gentle voice arose again, "Hannah, thee had bet- ter put thy bonnet in its proper place, and try to be grateful to thy heavenly Father for all His gifts of food and clothing." Hannah waited not for further permission to depart, but speedily found a better place than the garret floor for the new, white bonnet, and wore it with as much patience as she could, until her mother, profiting by the father's suggestions after witnessing Hannah's demonstra- tions of dislike to it, gave her a bonnet of straw, trimmed with a white ribbon. As we intimated above, Hannah and Lucretia were great friends, and as they stood together that   THE , READING- SOCIETY.     47 night upon the door-step, they mutually expressed deep sympathy with the subject brought before them at their reading society, and closed by prom- ising each other  that they would never encourage slavery in any form or manner. "I do not wonder," said Hannah, " that Friends prefer to purchase their sugar of friend Crocker, since it is only there 'free-labor sugar' can be obtained." "Nor do I," replied Lucretia, "and I shall deal no more with those whose stock of goods is the product of hard and degrading slave-labor." $     CHAPTER IV. THE  QUARTERLY M EETIN G IT hath not been my use to pray With moving lips, or bended knees; But silently, by slow degrees, My spirit I to love compose; In humble trust my eyelids close, With reverential resignation; No wish conceived, no thought expressed, Only a sense of supplication."--Coleridge. ANY heart, turned Godward, feels more joy In one short hour of prayer, tlhan o'er lwas raised By all the feasts of earth since their foundation." Bailey's Festus. THE usual time for the Quarterly meeting of Friends, which was generally held on the island- home of our fair heroine, having arrived, notice to that effect was wide-extended among the inhabitants of the town, and a vast concourse assembled, till the seats, and even the aisles of the Quaker meet- ing house were filled, while a throng of tardy un- fortunates lingered labout the entrance, or crowded around the inner doors. These were not all Qua- kers, for, on this occasion, members of every de- nomination, and representatives of every sect upon   THE QUARTERLY MEETING.     49 the island were present. The Quarterly meetings were invariably attended by several of the promi- nent members of the Quaker Society from many parts of our own country, and sometimes by emi- nent ministers from the Society in Great Britain. Preaching was always to be expected during the morning session, before the hour for business ar- rived, and as it was of a higher order than usual in the Monthly meeting held upon that island, more persons were attracted as listeners. As the latter part of the forenoon, with the afternoon, was usu- ally devoted to business of a secular nature, these Quarterly meetings were always held upon a week- day, and never upon the "First Day," the gentle Quakers deeming it amiss even to read the secu- lar newspapers upon that day, which was set apart for rest and public worship. The meeting-house in which they were assem- bled, was large and commodious, though strikingly devoid of ornament. White paint had been used upon the outside, as some of the leading members had suggested that thus the house would be better preserved from the decay consequent upon expo- sure to Winter's storms, and Summer's heat. Up- on the long rows of wooden seats, not pew-like but open to any, there was no vestige of paint, but the yellow wood of the pine-tree lent its own hue to them. No. carpets covered the floors of the aisles. 5     30   3JLUCRETIA, TlE; QUAKERESS. Why should they? They were superfluous. Here and there some aged Friend had placed a cushion on a seat she was accustomed to take, and which was conceded in courtesy by all others henceforth, or a small piece of carpet where her feet would be during the long silent "sitting," but these were matters for health and comfort, not of taste or for show. BNear the stoves were placed several old- fashioned, low rush-seated chairs, for such of the elderly people as would prefer them, and for the accommodation of those who wish to warm them- selves on a cold day. The house was divided by a sort of fence about five feet high, separating the males from the fe- males, and there were sliding shutters which could be lowered from some invisible retreat above, and which, fitting into grooved pillars, when lowered, rendered the two divisions into two entirely sep- arate rooms, in one of which " men-friends" held their business-meeting, and in the other the "wo- men-friends," undisturbed by each other save when some movement required the concurrence of both bodies. Then a door, which was curiously made to open in the fence, and a shutter, would permit the ingress and egress of their respective committees. The three seats of the elders and ministers were very similar to the others, save that they rose one above the other, and faced the audc^-n-   THE QUARTERLY MEETING.     51 Lucretia's parents were in the habit of enter- taining as many of the Friends from abroad, as possible, and in company with their guests, the fam- ily proceeded to the meeting-house at the appoint- ed time. Lucretia was now a young woman, and there was no need of the sugar-plums with which her mother was once wont to keep her quiet dur- ing the long, wearisome business-meetings of Quar- terly meeting day, for now she was desirous of listening to the various speakers who were pres- ent on this almost-festival occasion. Indeed the Quarterly and Yearly Meetings of Friends are as much religious festivals as the various Associations, Anniversary meetings, Conventions and Conferen- ces of other denominations are seasons of pious re- freshment, and holy communion. For a half-hour, perhaps, after the congregation had assembled, unbroken silence reigned. The Quakers had "gathered into the stillness" for the sake of worship, and those of other denominations were hushed in expectation. At last a venerable man upon the highest seat arose, and reaching his hat into the hands of a Friend at his side, stepped forward, and with me- lodious yet solemn enunciation, invited the assem- bly to unite with him in prayer. He knelt with his face toward the audience, which arose, and stood in reverent, silence, the     52    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. men turning their backs upon the preacher, and for the first time removing their hats, remaining with uncovered heads until the prayer was ended. It was an excellent petition, if mortals may pre- sume to pass judgment upon that which is offered to Deity. Full of faith, and earnest zeal, it might well be supposed to rise with acceptance to the Throne of Grace, and in its pathos, and evident sincerity, it was calculated to win its way to the hearts of the hearers, gaining their cordial assent, and cooperation of desire. He failed not to remem- ber the bondman in his yoke, and prayed that " the oppressor's rod might be broken." Lucretia's young, generous heart, echoed the petition, for the influences which gathered about her at the reading society, and elsewhere, against slavery, were far from slumbering. Like volcanic fires, they might be concealed, but they were still living, and mighty within. Again all was so still in the meeting-house, that the buzzing of summer insects, and the rustle of a silken dress, would be deemed an interruption, and then, once more was the silence broken. A fe- male slowly rose, and offered, with earnest and im- pressive manner, a few thoughts to the audience. Her spirit had been deeply impressed by her minis- tering-brother's reference to the bondman, and she felt moved to enlarge upon the subject of slavery,   THE QUARTERLY MEETING.     53 and its sad train of kindred evils. The hour had come, she thought, when those who had so long borne testimony against War with all its horrors, should lift up their voices in one united cry against Slavery in all its forms. Other speakers, of both sexes, followed these, and other prayers were offered, but none which so much interested Lucretia as these. The subject of slavery was fast becoming a favorite and absorb- ing one to her, as it should be with all true and earnest hearts till the great evil is at an end. The meeting for worship having ended, that of busi- ness followed, attended only by the members of the Society of Friends, and when that was adjour- ned, Lucretia returned to her home with her-mind full of the subjects which had been presented, so that she could scarcely give proper attention to the guests who accompanied her parents to their home. Quarterly meetings were ever seasons of inter- est to Lucretia, and scarcely one such meeting passed without awakening within her the wish to occupy the "high seats" and proclaim there the truths of the Gospel. Usually, in her childhood, she stole away, by herself, to a chamber in the at- tic, and there repeated aloud, as if preaching, the substance of what she had just heard. On this occasion, after proper attention to her parents' guests, she took up a book and read the 5*     54   tLUCRETIA, TTIE QUAKERESS. following anecdote, which accorded sweetly with the high moral and religious tone of the emotions aroused in her bosom by the words to which she had listened. "A family of Quakers from Pennsylvania, set- tled at the west in a remote place, then exposed to savage incursions. They had not been there long before a party of Indians, panting for blood, started on one of their terrible excursions against the whites, and pressed in the direction of the Qua, ker's abode; but, though disposed at first to assail him and his family as enemies, they were received with such open hearted confidence, and treated with such cordiality and kindness, as completely disarmed them of their purpose. They caine forth, not against such persons, but against their enemies. They thirsted for the blood of those who had injured them ; but these children of peace, un- armed and entirely defenceless, met them only with accents of love, and deeds of kindness. It was not in the heart even of a savage to harm them; and on leaving the Quaker's house, the Indians took a white feather, and stuck it over the door, to desig- nate the place as a sanctuary not to be harmed by their brethren in arms. Nor was it harmed. The war raged all around it; the forest echoed of- ten to the Indian's yell, and many a white man's hearth was drenched in his own blood; but over   THE QUARTERLY MEETING.     55 the Quaker's humble abode gently waved the white feather of peace, and beneath it his family slept without harm or fear." For some time Lucretia pondered upon the moral of this anecdote, and remembering what she had read of the preservation of Quaker families in Ireland, during the persecution of dissenters in: th reign of James II, she came to the conclusion thal Friends' Principles in reference to peace and non resistance were wise, and worthy of adoption. Ther came a query in reference to their views on slave ry, and from her heart she felt that she coul( unite with them in truthful, uncompromising testi mony against the evil system. Soon after this, she began to converse with the lady-preacher of thi morning, and was shown by her a paper contain ing the following anecdote, which she regarded a eminently illustrative of the good qualities of color ed people, and thence she drew an argument ] favor of their emancipation. "A young lady, a visitor of a Bible Association in New York, found her way to an obscure cellai where she discovered a colored woman far gone i a consumption, with her aged husband sitting b her bed-side, and another colored woman, abou the age of forty, acting in the capacity of nurse an servant. The young lady told them her businesi Whon the sick woman heard that she came o     56    LUCRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. an errand of, mercy, her withered and sickly coun- tenance assumed an unwonted glow and brightness. After expressing- a steadfast hope of salvation through the merits of the Saviour, she gave the fol- ]owing epitome of her life. But a few years before, she was a slave in New Orleans: by industry and economy, she and her husband were enabled to purchase their freedom, and in the course of two or three years to lay up about four hundred dollars. Sitting at the door of a cottage one morning, she heard that a number of slaves were to be sold at auction that day. She determined to go and see the sale, and, if possible, to buy one of the female captives, and restore her to liberty. 'I have so much money,' said she, 'and if I can make it the instrument of redeeming one of my fel- low beings from slavery, then I can say to my soul, depart in peace.' She went and purchased one for two hundred and fifty dollars. ' But now,' said she' I must place her under the ministry of the Gospel.' She took a passage for herself, her husband, and her liberated friend, for New York. When they landed, she said, 'Now you are in a free State, wlere the privileges of the Gospel are enjoyed; all that I ask for my kindness to you is, that you endeavor to seek the favor of God. If you live with me, and with me   THE QUARTERLY MEETING.     57 work for your support, I shall be rejoiced; you are at liberty to do as you please.' The liberated woman accepted her invitation, and was found by the young lady, acting as her deliverer's nurse, and enjoying with her the privileges of that heav- enly citizenship in which there is neither bond nor free, but are all one in Christ Jesus. Let us cease to eulogize those who have contributed of their abundance for the relief of the wretched; here was an aged, illiterate, once degraded daughterof Af- rica, who gave her all to promote the salvation of one soul." Lucretia thought, and said, when the account was finished, that it proved the former slave pos- sessed of moral qualities which, of themselves, would establish her claim to freedom, in every truly virtuous mind, even if liberty were not her inalienable right, and God-given privilege. Alas! how sad the penalty which they incur who regard a slave as naturally the embodiment of all that is debasing and contemptible, even though his soul and deeds may be as snow beside the scarlet of his master's spirit and conduct. The celebrated lecturer and essayist; Henry Giles, most truthfully remarks, "Contempt, con- tempt of humanity in any form of man, is a great sin. This is the doctrine of Jesus. That man is of worth infinite and ineffable, is the spirit of his     58    LLCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. teaching, of his practice, of his life; the import of his mission, the significance of his passion and his death: and therefore, to trample this worth in scorn, is to count the blood of the covenant an un- holy thing; to commit one of the darkest offences known in the ethics of the Gospel." What, then, is their sin, who trample upon the sable sons and daughters of Africa, or their en- slaved descendants? Should we not all remem- ber, that the colored servant of Christ is as dear to Him as the disciple of lighter complexion? "Heir of the self-same heritage, Child of the self-same God!"    CHAPTER V. A STRANGER. "Afar from early scenes and friends, He sought the fair and true, And found that loving hearts have homes,  Which childhood never knew." ONE fair, bright Sabbath (or First-day,) morn- ing, Lucretia accompanied her parents, as usual, to the meeting-house we have described above. They started a little before the bells of the churches be- gan to ring; for Friends usually reach their wont- ed seats, and become quiet before the hour appoint- ed for the commencement of the sitting fairly ar- rives. Of course, Lucretia and her parents were not found deficient in that great virtue-- punctu- ality, which such celebrated personages as Melanc- thon, Washington, and William Penn, together with a host of other worthies, have recommended both by precept and example. "A woman, who always used to attend public worship with great punctuality, and took care always to be in time, was asked how it was that she could always come so early? She answered very wisely, 'It is a part of my religion not to disturb the religion of     60    LUCRETIA, THI QUAKEU1l.3S. others.'" Tilis was the principle upon which Lucretia and her parents acted. It would be well if the young ladies, especially of our day, were to remember the remark of a Quaker lady upon wasting others' time. "A com- mittee of eight ladies, in the neighborhood of Lon- don, was appointed to meet on a certain day at twelve 'o'clock. Seven of them were punctual; but the eighth came hurrying in, with many apolo- gies for being a quarter of an hour behind the time. The time hlad passed away without her being aware of it; sile had no idea of its being so late, etc. A Quaker lady present, said, 'Friend, I am not so clear that we should admit thine apology. It were matter of regret that thou shouldst have wasted thine own quarter of an hour; but here are seven besides thyself, whose time thou hast also consumed, amounting in the whole to two hours, and seven-eighths of it was not thine own property."' Lucretia had heard this anecdote, and endeavored to profit by it. On their way to meeting, Lucretia was joined by a young 'Friend,' dressed with rather more re- gard to the fashions of this world than was our gen- tle and obedient heroine. The reader will rightly judge that this Friend was none other than Han- nah, whose bonnet was now tasteful as well as neat. "How art thou?" was Lucretia's quiet salutation   A STRANGER.       61 as she reached forth her hand with a bright smile, and clasped that which was cordially extended to her. "O, I am well, Lucretia," responded Hannah, with an answering smile dimpling her rosy cheeks, "how art thou?" "Very well," was the reply, and ere Lucretia could add more, Hannah exclaimed, as she took Lucretia's arm familiarly, "Look on the other side!" Lucretia's eye rested, at her friend's request, on a young man who was walking on the opposite side of the street, and who, in a few moments, looked toward the young ladies, and bowed. "There," said Hannah, "I knew he would recognize me, though sister Mary said he would not! Is he not very, very handsome?" "Thy friend, Henry Wilson, would not like to have thee so enthusiastic in reference to him or any other gentleman, save himself," was Lucretia's reply, with an expression of the eye, which, added to her smile, conveyed to her friend's mind the im- pression that she thought Hannah in danger of be- stowing too much regard on this new acquaintance, for one who was already engaged to marry a worthy and estimable man. "Henry is not jealous," said Hannah, "and if he were, there is no cause. But I will tell thee how'I became acquainted with this stranger." 6     62    LLCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. "Do so," said Lucretia, "for I have a desire to know, and he is certainly very interesting in his appearance." Hannah looked at her companion with some sur- prise, and so steadily as to call the rose from Lu- cretia's cheeks to her fair brow, usually so like marble in its purity. She had never heard Lucre- tia say so much in favor of a young man before. Indeed, in the little circle of acquaintances and relatives, in whilch she now moved, she was re- markable for an entire absence of interest in the gentlemen, and although attractive to them, no less from her good sense and modesty, than for her per- sonal beauty, she was never attracted by them, and never, as far as Hannah remembered, spoke of any gentleman in even the usual terms of approbation. The quick apprehension, and intuitiye perception of woman's nature, perceived the change now, and she hastened to tell her, how she had met the gen- tleman mentioned, a few days previous, at a little farm-house of her father's, some few miles from the village, whither he had been carried by his com- panions, after having been thrown by his horse. Hannah, with her sister and mother, had minis- tered to him with usual Quaker kindness, and with her father's assistance, he had been conveyed to his place of residence. Since that time they had neither seen, nor heard from him directly, and this   A STRlNNGER.       63 had caused Hannah's sister to make the remark in reference to his pride. By the time the story of their interview was finished, and Hannah had warmly commented on the young stranger's personal beauty and interest- ing conversation, they had reached the meeting- house, and as they entered at what was known as the " women's door," they saw the young man en- tering at that of the men. It was not until Hannah and her friend reached their seats that Lucretia remembered that she had not yet learned the name of the young stranger; but a sense of propriety, and an emotion of rever- ence for holy time, and sacred place, (we may per- ceive that Lucretia possessed "a large organ of ven- eration," phrenologists might say) would not allow her to whisper during meeting-time, and she was obliged to be contented without the knowledge. Never had it been so difficult for Lucretia to maintain that calm and steady control over her own mind, which would enable her to meditate upon subjects suited to the place and the occasion: for in full view upon the opposite side of the house, sat the young stranger, and her eyes would sometimes wander away there, and rest upon his noble brow and fine features. "Is that expressive countenance an index of his spirit?" was the question which often arose in the     "   LUCRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. mind of Lucretia, regardless of the sentence of banishment which it as often received. And be- cause those large dark eyes were so often riveted upon her, was no reason why her interest in them should diminish. The time of sitting in meeting, seemed unusually irksome, and glad was Lucretia when the Elders stretched forth their hands to each other, and by friendly claspings announced that the season of worship was over, and that of mortal communion might commence. As Hannah and Lucretia passed out of the meeting-house, they saw the young man on the steps. He advanced toward them. "Morton Fitzroy, Lucretia Barnard," was Hannah's Quaker-like introduction of the two, to each other, and the blush on Lucretia's countenance was emulated by the flush, which, for a season pass- ed over the pale brow of the young man, now no longer a stranger. It is not true, as some affirm, that years are needed to develop in the heart the emotion of true, ardent affection. Enough of the magic power of love was felt by both Fitzroy and Lucretia on their way toward her home, to disprove the assertion, though their conversation was inter- rupted by frequent pauses, and both were slightly embarrassed at times. Ilannah had gone in an- other direction, after inquiries in reference to Fitz- roy's health, and learning that he had not called at her father's because forbidden by his physician to   A STRANGEI.       65o  go out until that day, and therefore Lucretia had  the pleasure of his company alone. The remark of Hannah's sister, arising from an idea that Fitzroy would consider himself superior to them, and there- fore would not condescend to cultivate their ac-  quaintance was soon found to be erroneous. Are  we not too often prone to misjudge the actions of  others; and should we not use the mantle of charity  more frequently, to cast over theiraults? Long-  fellow remarks in his Hyperion, that oftentimes we  may think a man cold when he is only sad. The opinion of Hannah and her sister of Fitzroy, soon  came to be highly complimentary to his social character, as natural reserve wore away, and the excellence of his conversational powers became ap- parent. He promised, at Hannah's invitation, to  call at her father's on that Sunday evening, and at parting with Lucretia, he expressed the hope that  she would be present also, to which she assented,  witIh no small degree of pleasure, which, however, with truly maiden modesty she endeavored to con- ceal. Lucretia retired immediately to her own neat lit- tle chamber, and sat down in the rocking-chair be- neath the window. There was unusual tumult in that usually quiet spirit, and the cool pillow did not cause the throbbings of her brow to cease, as she leaned her head against it. Beautiful in its neat- 6*ta     "    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. ness and simplicity was that little chamber, and one would readily imagine that if quiet was to be found at all, it was surely present there. By the way, I have a peculiar idea about the chamber,- the boudoir, -the private room of a young lady, though perhaps I am not alone in possessing such a fancy. It seems to me as if the spirit of the young lady lends its influence to the chamber in such a manner, that from the appearance of her chosen room, we may judge of the character she bears. The room of the "extra neat" will not have a chair out of its proper place, or a toilet cush- ion " wrong side up," while in the very hanging of a curtain may be seen the sentimental graces of another; and the literary lady (albeit her chamber, with its bits of paper, its magazines and other un- bound literature, may indeed be litter-ary) has in the arrangement of her own private apartment, much that bears the impress of her spirit, and will betray her character to a discerning eye. But to return to Lucretia. Gladly, yet softly were the sunbeams resting on the snowy bed-covering, and its rays were reflected from the gilded edges of the little Bible which lay open upon the toilet-table opposite. The birds were flitting ever and anon, near the window, and insects humming with their peculiar music, a song of the hours. The fragrance of the garden below stole sweetly in at the open window, and   A STRANGER.       67 from the wide ocean which bounded the view from thence, came the cool, refreshing breeze, which made the summer on Lucretia's native isle-so very, very desirable, as to win young Fitzroy from a Southern home. Lucretias thoughts, however, were not resting upon anything having reference to home. Infact, she was engaged in the unprofitable employment of constructing glorious air-castles, and indulging in those delightful reveries which are sometimes ignominiously termed "day-dreams." And why should she not? - Never, till that hour, had the deep fountain of her soul been stirred by the magi- cian - Love. Was it strange that she sat as one absorbed by mighty and overwhelming emotion? Reader, if you have ever felt the master-passion, you will answer - No. True, her intercourse with Fitzroy had been brief, but it was sufficient to awaken music in her heart which she knew not dwelt there, and which was most enchanting. Silently, and yet with usu- al alacrity, she moved about the house, when that sweet reverie was over; and her parents could not have judged from her replies to their questions in regard to Fitzroy, whom they perceived accom- ianying her, that she felt more than a common in- terest in him. Evening came, and the young Southerner, for     68    LUCRETIA, TIIE QUAKERESS. such was Fitzroy, met again the fair Quakeress, at the residence of her friend Hannah. Ardent in his temperament, Fitzroy was impressed by Lu- cretia's "soulful beauty" at first, and both were deeply interested in each other ere the hour of separation on that evening. Some of the company were reserved and silent; but Hannah's usual loquacity, Fitzroy's unrivalled conversational powers, and Lucretia's sensible re- marks, rendered the season tolerably social. Fred- erika Breiner has seldom written more sensibly than in the sentence, "I should not wonder if lac- ing up tight may not have something to do with our often being less agreeable in company; the soul never can move freely when the body is in fetters;" and perchance, tight dressing had some- thing to do with the silence of many of Hannah's company, giving them such ample leisure to ob- serve Lucretia's unusual interest in the remarks of one of the opposite sex, as to induce some of them to refer t1at interest to its proper source, the win- ning manner and address of the fascinating young Southerner. And when in the course of a few weeks it was apparent to all that Obed Barnard's house had be- come, as it were, a second home to Morton Fitzroy, many rightly judged that Lucretia was the sun   A STRANGER.         69 and centre of his heart's choicest affections; and he really felt to exclaim with the poet, "Tis home where'er the heart is, Where'er its loved ones dwell, In cities, or in cottages, Thronged haunts, or mossy dell!"     CHAPTER VI. A QUAKER MAR RIAGE. "To cheer thy sickness, watch thy health, Partake, but never waste thy wealth, Or stand with smile unmurmuring by, And lighten half thy povcrty."- Byron. Not for this span of life alone, Which as a blast doth fly, And like a transient flower of grass, Just blossom, droop, and die; But for a being without end, This vow of love we take; Grant us, O God! one home at last, For our Redeemer's sake."- Mrs. Sigourmey. A GLAD, bright Thursday came, and the Quak- ers once more assembled in their house of worship to hold a "Fifth-day meeting," the former part for worship and the latter part for business. A sol- emn ceremony was, however, to occur during the hour for worship. They did not deem it inconsis- tent with the reverence due to the God of all the earth, then and there to ratify the vows to loving hearts, in the institution which He designed to or- dain in Eden, and hallow by His own presence in the flesh at Cana of Galilee. Hannah, and her friend, Henry Wilson, had   A QUAKER MARRIAGE.      71 given notice, publicly, in Friend's meeting, accord- ing to the disciplinary arrangements of the So- ciety, of their intention to become husband and wife. And now, upon this pleasant morning, were assembled, not only the members of Friends' Soci- ety, but also a multitude called by different names, or owning no sectarian preferences. Affection and esteem for the parties about to become one in the holy bonds of matrimony, had induced many to be present, and curiosity to witness the somewhat singular ceremony, had gathered others there. As in all other meetings, Friends "gathered in- to the stillness," and soon all was hushed around, disturbed only by the hum of business, or passing carriages of those whose week-day duties per- chance forbade them to retire a while for worship. Then the silence of meditation gave place to echoing words, as Obed Barnard arose and deliver- ed an unpremeditated discourse adapted to the oc- casion. His address was brief, but impressive. A woman present then offered a prayer, in which the happy pair about to be united were affection- ately remembered. Then all was still again. These exercises were not a part of the marriage ceremony, as in many instances no address is given, or vocal prayer offered. At last the young couple arose together, and taking the right hand of his bride, Henry Wilson     72    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. spoke the magic words, which being uttered in that place and manner, were as a spell henceforth to unite his destinies with Hannah Swift. "Friends," said he, with becoming gravity, I take this my friend, Hannah Swift, to be my wife, promising, through Divine assistance, to be unto her an affectionate and faithful husband, until it shall please the Lord by death to separate us." Then spake the blushing bride in similar man- ner, and both sat down again. Perhaps I should have mentioned above, that the bride and bride- groom were seated on one of the rising seats, front- ing the audience. The bridegroom was dressed with regard to neatness, and Quaker propriety, in plain clothing, though of superfine texture and quality; but the bride had lost none of her love for display in dress, none of her taste for ornament, and the pure, white satin of her dress was not more spotless than it was appropriately and taste- fully arranghd, as near the prevailing mode as Hantrh tould prevail upon her parents to allow her to have it. The neat, but prettily wrought collar, was fastened by a small pearl breast-pin, the only ornament in the way of jewelry which she wore. Of course a bridegroom whose Quaker princi- ples would not allow him, any more than George Fox or William Penn, to uncover his head even   - A QUAKER MARRIAGE. L in the presence of royalty, would retain his hat even on a matrimonial occasion, and Hannah also had her head covered, though a white, drawn silk bonnet occupied the place of the plain one she once despised.  When the form of words mentioned above had been uttered, and a brief period of. silence had elapsed, a venerable man, the clerk of the meeting, arose near the young couple, and after a proper adjustment of his spectacles, read aloud the certif- icate of marriage usually provided, which the bridegroom and bride were previously required to sign, "she taking the name of her husband after the customof marriage," as the certificate declared. Two Quaker ladies, who had long passed the bloom of youth, were seated on the right of the bride, and two elderly Quaker men upon the left of the:bride- groom.  Those were termed witnesses; arid it was their duty to sign the certificate iamediat^ly after the bride, and other signatures were :afte6 'ward added, as seemed best to all parties eoucextii- ed. Right glad were Henry and Hannah when the ceremony was concluded, and they were permitted to return to the home of her father, where a boun- tiful table was spread for the invited guests, and cheerfulness without gaiety, and sobriety withbdt mtoroseness, were the chief characteristics. The 7     74    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. poor were not forgotten, but many who "fared  ,far from " sumptuously every day," were provided with an ample supply of food, accompanied with hearty good wishes, which they returned in grate- ful blessings upon the young couple, which fell all softly and sweetly upon their spirits, as showers of roses upon a triumphal pathway. Should not the poor be oftener remembered by those whose board is amply supplied, till their ta- bles groan beneath their burdens? Jesus taught His disciples to remember the poor with benevo- lent hearts, and almsgiving, and they who have once tasted the sweets of that fountain from whence springs kindly actions, and sympathizing words, will wish to sip often, and will find it an unfailing spring of earthly blessedness. There is no higher earthly bliss than that which they experience, who impart joy to others. The reflex influence of kind- ness is vast and incalculable, and they who seek to share their own joys with others, are but pursuing the very course which will double the joys, for, as the poet wisely remarks, "Teaching we learn, and giving we retain." The invited guests remained at the house of Hannah's father until late in the evening, but the latter portion of the day was spent by the young  ...   A QUAKER MARRIAGE.       75 people apart from -the elderly portion of the guests, and greater freedom prevailed among them. Fitzroy was there, and Hannah's warmest fe- male friend- Lucretia- was not absent.   The young Southerner, and the fair Quakeress were far from being disenchanted with each other, for each looked through a rosy medium upon the other. It is so common for lovers to perceive no defects in each other, that it has become proverbial to declare that "Love is blind." The elderly Friends very obligingly remained as if unconscious of sounds, while the music of Fitzroy's voice was echoing from room to room be- neath that Quaker roof as he sang the beautiful song by Mrs. Hemans, called "The Bride's Fare- well." "Why do I weep? -to leave the vine Whose clusters o'er me bend,- The myrtle - yet, oh! call it mine! - The flowers I love to tend. A thousand thoughts of all things dear, Like shadows o'er me sweep; I leave my sunny childhood here, Oh! therefore let me weep! I leave thee, sister! we have play'd Through many a joyous hour, Where the silvery green of the olive shade Hung dim o'er fount and bower.     76    LUCRETIA  TIIE QUAKERESS. Yes, thou and I, by stream, by shore, In song, in prayer, il sleep, Have been as we may be no more - Kind sister, let me weep! I leave thee, father! Eve's bright moon Must now light other feet, With the gathered grapes, and the lyre in tuae, Thy homeward step to greet. Thou, in whose voice, to bless thy child, Lay tones of love so deep, Whose eye o'er all my youth had smiled- I leave thee! let me weep! Mother! I leave thee! on thy breast, Pouring out joy and woe, I have found that holy place of rest Still changeless, - yet I go! Lips, that have lull'd me with your strain, Eyes, that have watched my sleep! Will earth give love like yours again? Sweet mother! let me weep!" These pathetic words, and the touching melody of the air, affected sensibly the heart of our fair heroine, and when Fitzroy turned to her at its close, and asked her if Mrs. Hemans were not one of her favorites, she could only answer him through tears; yet he thought she had never looked more amiable and lovely. In the course of the evening the peculiar customs and manners of the society of Friends became the subject of the general conversation, and one of the   A QUAKER MARRIAGE.      " young men present; rather flippant in address, asked Fitzroy if he would become a Quaker, for the sake of obtaining the hand of one belonging to that sect. "If I loved her, and she would not marry me without," was his ready reply, with a glance at Lucretia, who happened, at that moment, to be ap- parently, intensely interested in something outside of the window from whence she was gazing. But that reply was not unheard by her. As a sweet memory, she stored it in her mental casket, and often afterward reverted to it, as a ground of hope, that, although her parents might never con- sent to have her the bride of any man, however worthy in all other respects, who possessed not the crowning qualification of being a reputable mem- ber of Friends Society, the difficulty might be ob- viated. As were the Jews of old, tenacious of their own customs, and averse to intermarriage with "aliensfrom the commonwealth of Israel," so the Quakers of that day recommended their young people to marry only with those who were willing to walk " according to Friend's discipline." The question addressed to Fitzroy, and his prompt reply, led to the introduction of some stan- gas, said to have been written by a sea ceptain of Philadelphia, and addressed toa young Quaker lady who went passenger in his vessel to Georgia, in 7     78    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. order to reside in the Western part of that State. Whether the lines ever emanated from a denizen of the "Quaker City," is as uncertain, as is the or- igin of the Pyramids of Egypt, shrouded in mys- tery. They were read aloud by Henry Wilson, and from the poetic epistle we quote the following stanzas: "Thus, safe arrived, she greets the strand, And leaves her pilot for the land! - But, Lydia, why to deserts roam, And thus forsake your floating home! As o'er the seas with you I stray'd, The hostile winds our course delay'd, And, proud to waft a charge so fair, To me were kind, and held you there. I could not grieve when you complain'd That adverse winds our course detained, While foaming seas to mountains grew, O'er gulfs of death concealed below. With tim'rons heart, and tearful eyes, You saw the vast Atlantic rise; Saw wintry seas their storms prepare, And wept to find no shelter there. When voyaging o'er the lonely wave, To me your fev'rish hand you gave, And, sighing, bade me tell you true, When land again would rise in view!   A QUAKER MARRIAGE.         79 When night came on with fiercer gale, You feared the tempest would prevail, And, anxious, asked if I were sure That on these depths we sailed secure! Delighted with a face so fair, I oft forgot my weight of care, And saw unmoved the whirlwinds rise, Encircling waves, and threat'ning skies. Oh! now, at length, arrived from sea, Consent, kind girl, to stay with me; My bark, e'er faithful to its freight, Shall still on your directions wait: To all your questions, when, or why, I still will make a kind reply, Give all you ask, each whim allow, And change my style to ' thee and thou." If verse can life to beauty give, For ages I can make you live, Beyond the stars triumphant rise, While Chloe's tomb neglected lies." Many of the company were amused by the stan- zas, and particularly by the allusion to a change of address, from  the plural "you" to the singular "thou;" but to Fitzroy's fine and cultivated taste, their poetic merit was as faintly discerned, as are the far-off stars when an autumnal mist has gath- ered around the earth. \     80    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. Yet he remarked in a low voice, a short time afterward, to Lucretia, that he "loved the Quaker laniguage." "There is more of music 'in the sound of thee and thou, thy and thine," said he, "and more of poetry in sentiments such language will appro- priately express, than in the harsher terms of the world in general. I quite approve of the Swed- ish custom, mentioned by Miss Bremer, of address- ing a chosen friend with the word 'thou,' as a token of affection, and mark "of endearment." Lucretia could not fail to assent, and when, a few moments after, he addressed her, with a pe- culiar smile, "wilt thou have a glass of water?" She was gratified by the compliment, and still more by the spirit which evidently led him to ad- dress her thus. Already had he become so inter- esting to her, that praise or blame from him was more keenly felt than the kindest words, or most ungenerous censure from many others. At such a period a young lady has occasion for the use of all the discretion, prudence, and other spiritual weap- ons with which the armory of her soul may have been already stored. Then is truly felt the worth- the inestimable value of early religious training, and there is scarce a nobler employment this side Eternity, than the moral culture of infant immor- tals. It is a work, second only to his who trains   A QUAKER MA RRIAGE.      81 the "babes in Christ." Both are planting seed whose fruit will only be seen in its ripened fulness, when the enshrouding veil of mortality is removedf and the disembodied spirit exhibits its likeness either to Jesus the glorious Pattern, or His Great Adversary, the destroyer of men's souls. Lucretia had been educated in the "school of Christ." From early youth she had cherished the desire to live in accordance with pure and lofty principles, and the desire had grown into a habit, till now, in the hour of approaching trial she found herself clothed in spiritual strength, and although she was deeply impressed with the idea that, of all whom she had ever met, Morton Fitzroy was the most worthy of her affections, she yet shrank from deciding the question of affording him encourage- ment, until she had learned his principles, and had found them such as she had been taught to believe would be necessary in order to a happy consum- mation of her hopes. Of all who were present on the occasion of Han- nah's wedding, there was no one who appeared as Fitzroy's equal. He shone as the "star of the first magnitude," and in Lucretia's memories of that night he occupied the most conspicuous po- sition. He was no less interested in the beautiful young Quakeress, who seemed to him a "gem of the purest water," and no less lovely in mind than     82    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. in person. Was it strange that he should venture to press her hand on parting with her, at her fa- ther's door, that evening, or wonderful that she should return the pressure, and then both seek their couches only to meet there visions of the lov- ed, so rapturous, and favorable to their best hopes, that the waking moment came all too soon?   CHAPTER VII. THE AVOWAL. I love thee, and I feel That on the fountain of my heart a seal Is set to keep its waters pure and bright For thee."-Shelley. And wilt thou with me wander, love, Amid those southern bowers, And early ties now sunder, love, To pluck Affection's flowers? SUMMER with its heat and loveliness had passed away. "Brown Autumn" came, and the season "when the moon stays longest for the hunter" was most welcome to Lucretia, and her lover, as we must now style Fitzroy. The plant of love had grown in the heart of each, until its luxuriance was evident to many, and its fragrance delicious to the parties themselves. The "harvest moon" fre- quently shone down upon the loving ones, as they wandered upon the sea-shore in pure and sweet communion with each other. How natural is the union of the words "moonlight" and "love;" yet not more natural than the reality! And who, pos- sessed of poetic feeling, has not loved to stroll abroad in the moonlight! Bishop Doane's poem, "That silent moon, that silent moon,"     84    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. has met a responsive echo from many a heart, and none who appreciate the poetic beauty of Lydia Maria Child's "Letters from New York," can wonder that there are three subjects upon which, she says, she is crazy, namely, " music, moonlight, and the ocean." Fitzroy and Liucretia were permitted to enjoy these three in their delightful sea-shore rambles; and under such propitious circumstances no won- der that Love's progress was rapid. Gifted as he was with a fine intellect, which had been under life-long cultivation and development, Fitzroy was fitted to win the heart of one, who, like Lucre- tia, could appreciate the high gifts of intellect and education. This appreciation was correct, for next to the aristocracy of moral excellence, should ( the aristocracy of intellectual refinement, and t richest legacy a parent can bequeath to his child, next to an untarnished Christian reputation, and early religious instruction, is the education of the ntellect, which will enable him to maintain an ele- rated position in society, while at the same time ic is able to exert a vast amount of influence for iuman weal. Fitzroy had received from his fa- her great wealth, but the intellectual training he  lad enjoyed was of the most real benefit. And here was such melody in his tones of love, such ewitching grace in his address, and so much poet-   THE AVOWAL.        85  ry in his words, that, long ere Autumn, the heart of Lucretia was Fitzroy's, and none could be sur-I prised that such should be the case. At first, friend Barnard objected to the increpas- ing intimacy between Lucretia and her young  Southern friend; but both himself and his usually careful wife were led, at last, to watch for his coming, and to hail his approach, ere they had quite resolved to allow the friendship to continue between him and their lovely and beloved daugh- ter. Music was never allowed in Friend Barnard's house, since he was, as a Quaker, opposed to its  practice; but often did he and his wife listen with deep, absorbing interest, to the rich, full voice of  the young Southerner, as he sang to Lucretia, in the garden, some song of the passions, or some hymn of praise. The idea that singing might be wrpng, sometimes arose in Lucretia's mind, -but   i the unanswerable query would arise, Why did  God allow the birds to fill the morning air with  their melodies, if it were wrong?' The doctrine  of Friends in reference to singing as a part of public worship, Fitzroy could not endorse; but he  if thought their objection to " solemn words upon a  thoughtless tongue," as is often the case where  members of choirs have no peculiar regard for the  j Supreme Being, very sensible, and perfectly in ac- !f 8                1f i t, ; 'it l      86    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. cordance with the teachings of the Bible, and the character for sincerity which Quakers everywhere possess. Yet love, the master-passion, overcame Lucretia's prejudices, and she listened to Fitzroy's music with delight. Often was the curtain at the window of Lucre. tia's little room put aside, late in the evening, that she might gaze upon the beloved form of him whose flute or guitar " discoursed sweet sounds " beneath that favorite window. And, Quaker-like as had been all Lucretia's early habits, she might now be heard humming the songs she had learned to love for his sake who taught them. She even sang a little when " about the house," for a loved and loving one, joyous and happy, must certainly sometimes evince her joy in song. Her parents did not chide her, for how could they chide one whose childhood had been so stainless, whose obe- dience and gentleness had ever been their delight, if she now assumed a little more wilfulness in mi- nor matters. It is never well to be either strict or lenient in the training of children and youth; a medium course, though difficult to find, and when found, more difficult to follow, is, nevertheless, ex- ceedingly desirable. The time at last arrived which seemed to threaten an end to the happiness of Lucretia and her lover.   THE AVOWAL.        87 One evening, after tarrying with the family a shorter time than was usual for him, Fitzroy gave a letter into Friend Barnard's hand, as he pre- pared to depart, asking its speedy perusal. Lu- cretia accompanied him to the outer door, and with his farewell to her he presented a letter also, say- ing he would call on her the next evening for her reply. Tender and affectionate were his last words, and Lucretia felt that they would live in her memory forever.  She did not return to her parents, but retired immediately to her chamber, that she might pore over that beloved and familiar chirography alone. Seating herself beside her little table, upon which she had placed the lamp, she broke the seal with trembling hands and agitated spirit. A presenti- ment such as she seldom felt, seemed to warn her of impending evil, and shecould not fail to believe that the letter she held in her hand would, in some way, affect all her earthly destiny. Have we not all experienced such seasons of presenti- ment and foreshadowing? And have there not been many, of whom the world never knew, whose spiritual discernment was such, that they could truthfully use the poet's words - "I see a hand thou canst not see, Which beckons me away; I hear a voice thou canst not hear, Which says, 'No longer stay!'"     88    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. Not until we know the precise boundary between the two worlds, or states of existence, material and spiritual, can we consistently deny to human- ity the power of penetrating the veil which divides the Past. and Present from the Future. That Fu- ture is wisely hid from most of us, doubtless. Would we have it otherwise, if we could? The wiser portion of mankind, methinks, would reply with Mrs. Southey: - "Nay, let it fall, that blessed veil Which shuts the future out, - The earthly future; but beyond,- Away with dread and doubt!" But to return to Lucretia. She glanced hastily over it at first, as if to gather a general idea of its contents, and then read as follows:- MY OWN LOVED ONE:- From the hour we met, you have been the star of my existence, the sun of my spirit; and now that I am about to leave your native island, my heart is full of sad- ness, and I feel that I must tell you the cause. Will you not listen to me with a heart full of sym- pathy? and O! when you have finished, say, 'I will accede to thy request.' When I left my home in the sunny south, it was with the feeling that there was no place in the uni- verse so dear to my heart; and I feared that the   2\^   THE AVOWAL.        89 summer would seem long and lonely, when so far away from my mother and sisters. But my health imperatively demanded a northern climate, my physician assured me; and from a fancy that this island was intended as the place of my retreat, -having just then learned of its salubrity--I came here not expecting to enjoy more than that delight which springs from renovated health. But here I found another home, and other lov- ing hearts. Nay, more, here have I found the only lady who ever did, or ever can, hold suprem- acy in my affections, and whom I would gladly call by the hallowed and endearing name of 'wife.' Lucretia, my beloved, you are not ignorant of the love which stirs the very depths of my spirit. But I have never formally addressed you as a suitor. Words were not needed to convince you that you were dear, inexpressibly dear to me, even when our acquaintance was in its infancy; but perhaps custom and propriety demand that I should now be more explicit. Indeed, love impels me to the offer, unreservedly, of heart, and hand, and fortune, to you. O, say that you will not re- fuse to go with me to my early home, and mingle in our happy family circle, as my own beloved wife! Give me the right of a husband to protect and love you! My heart is sad because I must 8*     90    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. now leave you, but it will rejoice again if you will grant my request. By my letter to your father, you will perceive that wealth is mine, and if you will accept it, shall be yours. Yet the wealth of your love is more desirable to me than any other riches, and I crave the happy possession of your society through life. May I not have it? Perhaps your parents will object to our union, because I am not of their sect; but will they not yield, if you add your solicitations for their con- sent, to mine? Let your affectionate heart dictate a reply. O, follow the impulses of your own pure spirit! Hope whispers that you will be mine. O, change not hope to despair!" Much more was written, but time would fail us now to record each word of that impassioned epis- tle, occupying many pages as it did. Arguments and entreaties were employed by Fitzroy, calcu- lated to gain the assent of the indifferent, much more the willing assent of one whose heart throb- bed happiest only in his presence. After a season of tumultuous thought, tears, and prayer for direction, Lucretia placed the dear let- ter in her bosom, and descended to her parents. Her mother sat alone in their quiet little parlor. Tears glistened in her eyes, as she welcomed her   THE AVOWAL.        91 almost idolized daughter, and reached her the let- ter which her father had received from Fitzro Lucretia received it without a word, andread, and re-read it in silence. It spoke of Fitzroy's fortune, his early life, his wishes, and his plans. He had recently watched by the death-bed of his father, and was now left, an only son, and heir to the largest portion of his father's property. His mo- ther and two sisters were residing at his childhood's home, and he was now, as he had become "of acge" master of a large fortune in his plantation, bank- stock, etc. In the halls of his ancestors he desired to install Lucretia mistress, and sincerely promised that all which wealth could purchase of happiness, should be hers, and that he would strive to fulfil every duty devolving upon an affectionate husband. His plan was, if all parties concerned could agree to it, to return to his own home in the course of a few days, and at the expiration of a month, or the time needed for preparation, he would return to Lucre- tia's native isle with his mother and, sisters, and then bear her away as his cherished bride, to the South. It was his purpose also, that she should enjoy the society of her loved parents, whenever they were willing to visit her, and that she should frequently return to them. "Wouldst thou leave us, my daughter?" was     92   TLUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. the inquiry of her worthy mother as Lucretia, at last, laid the letter upon the table. And then at the very thought of parting with a daughter, so loved, her tears fell fast, and as her daughter flung her arms about her, she laid her head upon Lucre- tia's bosom with audible sobs. "I love Morton, dear mother," was Lucretia's reply of sincerity, and if it were right, I should desire above all things to become his wife, though it would be very hard to part from such kind pa- rents as thee and my father;" and then she min- gled her tears with those of her mother. Lucretia had been taught from childhood, by her excellent parents, to shun equivocation as well as falsehood, and even when her answer would un- veil the dearest secret of her heart, her reply to her mother was perfectly sincere, and she contin- ued in guilelessness and sincerity to converse with her of the matter. It was no part of her mother's policy, to keep her child at a distance from her, so much as to repress the overflowing confidence of childhood and youth, and well was she repaid by the confiding, affectionate conduct of her be- loved daughter. If the daughter cannot confide in her mother, or the son in his father, sad indeed is the condition of the household. Parental respon- sibility is incalculably great, and the parent's earn- est study should be to prepare for all the devolving   THE AVOWAL.        93 duties, and varying circumstances attendant upon the parental relation. As the fair blossoms repay the labor of- the flo- rist, so will the blooming excellences of their child- ren amply repay the toil, and anxiety, the labor, and cares of faithful parents; and to this shall be added hereafter the commendation of Him who established the first family in Eden's peaceful bow- ers. Friend Obed had left his home, after reading Fitzroy's letter, to inquire of one to whom Fitzroy had referred him, in reference to the young suitor. When he returned, he said, quietly, "Our Friend Morton is a slave-holder." Lucretia started with surprise. She had not forgotten the lessons of anti-slavery which were early instilled into her mind, nor the deep impressions which had been added, as she had perceived in riper years, the great iniquity of the unhallowed system. She fully believed slave-hold- ing incompatible with true religion, or refined, hu- mane characteristics; and believing Fitzroy the personification of so much excellence, she felt in- deed surprise and regret at her father's announce- ment. "I asked," continued her father, after a pause, in which he evidently sympathized with his daugh- ter, "C why he did not mention that-some of his prop-     "   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. erty consisted of slaves, and his friend replied, that he supposed Morton, like most Southerners, brought up amid the sights and sounds of slavery, was so inured to it, that he no more thought of mention- ing them, than of mentioning the furniture of his house, - both being equally' Chattels' in his sight, and both included in the general term 'planta- tion' "Surely," said Love, "he has heard thee bear thy testimony against slavery;" and the remark reminded Lucretia that he had scrupulously avoid- ed replies on such occasions, and even had said to her that he did not favor the views of all the abo- litionists. She, however, at the time, construed his remark into a token that he disliked the movements of some called " ultra-abolitionists," who were vio- lent and noisy, and with whom "Friends " had lit- tle sympathy. But she had not dreamed that one so noble in appearance, so gentle, respectful, and affectionate in manners, and so exalted in senti- ment, could bear a name which she could not but deeply dislike, if not abhor - that of a - SLAVE- HOLDER. She sat silent until her father had finished his remarks, and had declared that from principle he could never give his consent to a marriage between his daughter and a slave-holder; and then, after exchanging a caress with both dear parents, she   THE AVOWAL.         95 retired again to her room. She had feared her parents might object to their union on the ground of a difference of religious opinion, or rather, a question of ecclesiastical discipline; but here was a more serious objection still, whose hydra-head reared itself, in all its deformity, even before her own eyes. She felt instinctively that she would shun the slave-holder as she would the Upas tree, could she meet him in any other form than his who had become so very dear to her. l  y     CHAPTER VIII. T HE REFUSAL. Ah! sooner than espouse a man Who owns or uses slaves, I'd quickly find a last repose Amid my fathers' graves: The daughter of a Quaker ne'er Can wed with thee, such lome to share. My mother's kind and gentle voice,  My father's tender tone, But speak the words which echo finds In these so much my own! And mother, sire, and daughter say, Slave-holder, haste from us away. INSTEAD of seeking rest, Lucretia paced the room for some time, in agony of doubt in reference to the course which Duty required her to pursue. She had ever been so obedient that she did not ordina- rily question her course when her parents pointed the way, but now Affection called her in one direc- tion and Principle in another. Affection whis- pered that she could be happy only with Fitzroy, and that to refuse him would be to drink the cup of bitterness herself, as well as to present the draught to his lips, who was dearer to her than her own life. On the other hand, Principle imperatively de-   THE REFUSAL.        97 manded the sacrifice of individual preference, in behalf of the cause of truth, and bade her seek happiness only as she aided in the triumph of the right. Yet, after all, as we intimated above, Lucretia did not so much shrink from suffering for herself, as for him she loved. It is ever easier for the lov- ing heart to bear a heavy weight of sorrow itself, than to add one straw to the burden of a friend be- loved, and hence her reluctance to decide the ques- tion at once in the negative. Still, on the other hand, all the woman and the Quakeress arose in opposition to the slave-holder as such, and Lucretia felt that she ought not, while cherishing anti-slavery views, become the mistress of the slave-holder's mansion. True, she might as their mistress do the slaves much good, but still she felt that she would be wandering from her path of duty, were she to become thus related to her fellow beings. The loss of liberty was, in Lu- cretia's eyes, no light thing, and from the inmost recesses of her spirit came, that evening, a voice- was it not the voice of the "Inward Monitor?" Saying," Fitzroy's slaves have an' inalienable right to life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,' and as his wife thou wouldst assist in depriving them of one, at least, of these sacred rights, and this must not be." 9     98    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. Long did the struggle continue in Lucretia's mind,-- Affection and Principle, alternately in the ascendency. Such mental conflict she had never known, for never before had Passion and Duty struggled thus for the mastery within her. At such an hour one needs the guidance of the Om- nipotent Spirit, that the thorny path may be cho, sen, instead of the flowery way, if such should be the Divine requirement. At her usual hour Love entered the room of her daughter. She had ever been accustomed to make Lucretia a final visit, just before seeking rest for herself; to satisfy her maternal solicitude, and many a season of exquisite pleasure did she expe- rience, as bending over her darling's pillow, she watched her tranquil slumber. So truly is there joy in a mother's duties. Finding Lucretia still disquieted, Love strove to soothe her. She informe4her, in a tender and af- fectionate manner, that her parents were willing to leave the subject to her own decision. If she could consent to marry a slave-holder with a clear, untroubled conscience, they would not oppose her wishes, though they could never fully consent to such a union themselves. They knew the influences which had been around Lueretia in other days, and were well aware that she was deeply inter- ested in the cause of the oppressed, and counting   THE REFUSAL.      99 upon this sympathy, and her usual character for consistency, they believed it safe to leave the mat- ter to her own unbiassed decision. Her mother exchanged with Lucretia a good night kiss," and soon departed. Lucretia stood for a season at the window. O, how many pleas- ant memories rose to her mind as she stood there. All the sweet communion which she had enjoyed since that eventful Sabbath when she first met Fitzroy, seemed present before her, and the moon- light as it softly fell upon the garden now strewed with autumnal trophies, reminded her of the sweet stroll by the sea-side, when, beneath the same moon-beams, she heard the confession that she was dear to Fitzroy. It was remarked above, that Lucretia paced the room in an agony of doubt; and that word "agony" is the only one which would truly express her state of feeling. Emotions at once conflicting and congenial, alternately swayed her decision, until, with a firm resolve to perform what was really duty, she humbly bowed and implored Divine di- rection. Long did she wrestle with the fair promise- angel, and then, at last, the dove of peace descended to her bosom. Light shone upon the pathway of the beautiful young sufferer, and Principle became triumphant over Inclination.     100   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. The love which prompted her to accept Fitzroy, remained, although duty induced her to refuse him. And with her heart full of sorrow, such as she had never known until that hour, she wrote to him all her views and emotions, and her final resolve that so long as he continued a slave-holder, she would never become his wife. Noble resolve! Noble maiden! "Morton Fitzroy," were her words, "it gives me pain, yes, agony of spirit, to write that I cannot be thine in the holy marriage relation. To be thy wife, to walk life's pathway by thy side, as thine own loved companion, is what my love for thee prompts me to seek to do; but the voice of the in- ward monitor forbids. I could never sleep in peace beneath the roof of a slave-holder, - and the wealth of the Indies would not make bright and joyous the home where I should daily meet a sin- gle enslaved fellow being. I believe our Heavenly Father made thy slaves to be as free as thyself, and therefore I cannot consent to become their mistress, though my heart throbs with agonizing grief at the thought that I must therefore separate fi'om thee." After several pages in reference to her decision, she added, "Till the hour we met, I never knew what it was to love and be loved, though I have had kind   THE REFUSAL.      101 friends around me from infancy. Of the depth of affection in my own soul, I was ignorant until it was called forth by thee. And I have loved thee, Morton, as I shall never love another. Henceforth I will devote myself to God. Thou hast been my idol, the darling object around which twined my heart's fondest affections, - but God shall be my sun and centre, now. I had hoped to walk life's pathway with thee, for 'Busy fancy blended thee with all my future lot.' But thus it must not be; and I bow, though alas! not yet humbly, to the decree of duty. Love bids me accept thee, but Principle says, 'thou must not become the bride of a slave-holder.' I cannot /hope that thy love for me will induce thee to make free thy injured fellow-beings, for the sake of overcom- ing what thou mayest esteem idle scruples; and therefore, in this letter I must bid thee a final farewell. O, may God bless thee! I cannot add, may He give thee one more worthy than Lucretia for a wife, for I cannot yet bear the thought that another may receive thy love, and enjoy thy life- long presence. But O! may prosperity attend thee, and spiritual blessings, as well as temporal, be ever thine!" Thus wrote Lucretia, the Quakeress, Affection and Principle, by turns the directors of her pen, 9*     102   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. until long after the midnight stars had passed the meridian; and not until the blush of morn was to be seen in the east, did she seek repose. Even then her soul was troubled, and her slumbers light --for visions of the sad reality remained before her mental eye, in all their appropriate and vivid coloring - and she arose, unrefreshed, at her usual hour, and descended to the parlor. She did not feel inclined to converse, for the charm of friendly household communion seemed to have vanished. Her parents saw that the rose had fled from her cheek, and the usual light from her eye, and they suspected the vigil, knowing well its cause. For awhile they said nothing in reference to the mat- ter so all-absorbing to each of them, but busied themselves with the paraphernalia of breakfasting, as if no higher object of life existed. This was to give Lucretia time to regain her usual composure, which, however, she entirely lost, - when her mother, with tender anxiety, could no longer re- frain from questioning her; and throwing herself, with a burst of tears, upon that faithful mother's breast, she disclosed to them the substance of what she had been writing. Her parents fully approved of her resolve, and strengthened her in that final decision, by their un- reserved commendation. After a somewhat length- ened conversation with them, she grew calmer.   THE REFUSAL.       103 That morning Fitzroy received with unqualified surprise, and a burst of indignation, Lucretia's epistle, accompanied by one from her father, stat- ing similar reasons for declining his proposals. The warm, Southern blood arose in his veins, and his love changed to anger, as he declared that one who could refuse him only because he was a slave-holder, should never be addressed by him again. So without a word of farewell to those who indeed truly loved him, he departed from the isl- and, regretting that he had ever visited it. But he carried away one more memory of Lu- cretia. He could not rest on the night previous to his departure; sleep forsook his couch; and at the midnight hour he arose, slowly and cautiously left his chamber, proceeded down the stairs, and at last stood outside of his boarding-house. Then, as if impelled by some peculiar and powerful agency, he directed his footsteps toward Obed Barnard's house. The full moon was gloriously traversing the starry heavens, and her mild radiance was shed in beauty around. There was a little gate which he had been ac- customed to enter, in order to meet Lucretia and her parents in the garden. This gate he tried, and found it unfastened. A brilliant light shone from the window of Lucretia's chamber.  He gazed up at the window with a &igh, and then en-     104    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. tered the garden. Taking a stand ne opposite the window, he remained watching the shadows cast upon the snowy curtain by the moving form of one within,-one whom he deeply loved, but whom he might never call his own. Ere long the curtain was lifted, the casement opened, and the voice of Lucretia, low and sweet, was to be heard by one as near her as Fitzroy, singing an evening hymn. It was a hymn which he had taught her, and seemed to call up sad asso- ciations and memories to her mind,--for as she sang, she wept, and Morton Fitzroy felt that those tears flowed for him. He soon had other and bet- ter evidence; for Lucretia, ere many moments, left her window, and Fitzroy was suddenly startled by her appearance at the outer door of the house. It was unusual for her to visit the garden at that late hour, and he had not anticipated discovery by her. Hastily secreting himself, which he had hardly time to do, he attentively observed the movements of his heart's chosen one. She came 'directly to- ward him, passed so near that he could almost touch her, and then paused in a summer-house but a short distance from him. There she knelt, and in the silence of midnight, she offered to heaven a prayer for her beloved one. Deeming herself alone, and where no ear could hear her save His   THE REFUSAL.       105 whom she addressed, she prayed without reserve; and Fitzroy could not but acknowledge that she  loved him, though he still deemed her guided by mistaken views of duty.                Several times he was on the point of rushing to  her side with passionate pleadings for the retrac- tion of her decision in regard to himself, but pride restrained him. All his early education had been adapted to the formation in his soul of pro-slavery principles, and he yielded not to impulse, but proudly watched her retreating form, as she re- turned to her chamber, all unconscious of his vicin- ity, and then returned with sadness to his own res- idence. The next evening he was far away upon the dark blue sea, on his journey to his early home.  Morton Fitzroy was highly intellectual, but not  pious, and therefore he could not appreciate the  motives which led to Lucretia's noble decision. Her earnest prayer in the garden touched no res- ponsive chord in his bosom; for though he pro- fessed great respect for religion, he was far from  being truly a devout and pious man. There were others who condemned Lucretia's conduct, beside himself, and who thought she ought to have accepted him, since she had given him so much encouragement, and, moreover, deemed her silly for refusing to become the mistress of so much     106   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. wealth, for such "idle scruples" as they termed the principles which actuated her. The noble deeds of the truly worthy are ever thus repudiated by those who have neither the good sense nor the true piety to appreciate the motives which result in such actions. But the truly good among Lucretia's friends and relatives, were rejoiced that one so young had chosen to walk in the path of duty, thorny though it might be at its commencement, rather than "en- joy the pleasures of sin for a season." They re- joiced that Principle was triumphant; though the sadness which for a long time rested on that youth- ful spirit, and spoke in the pensive glance of her beautiful eye, told the "ower true tale " that pre- cious hopes had been suddenly blighted, and Prin- ciple triumphed not without a mighty struggle. Still it did triumph, and angels in heaven must have rejoiced over such a victory won for the cause of justice and truth, -while the mild, and gentle, and compassionate, yet faithful, truthful, and earnest Martyr to the truth, even the Great Exemplar, must have regarded Lucretia Barnard with unwonted favor, on account of her noble and self-denying resolve.   CHAPTER IX. THE  MONITRESS. Tread softly! 't is a holy place Where man with God communes;  Though here no organ tones arise, The heart hears heavenly tunes, While silently to God ascending, With prayer its worship e'er is blending. Yea, hush! on each soul herein bowed In waiting silence now, Soft sheds the Spirit's influence pure, To smooth each anxious brow, And calm and gentle thoughts bestowing,- For each the fount of love is flowing. Give me a place beside the meek, - Whose simple worship here, Must sure be worthier far, than theirs - To Him whom each should fear- Who bow, 'mid gilded shrines adoring, Through priest and Virgin grace imploring. ANOTHER Sabbath morning dawned in loveli- ness and quietude; and at the hour for assembling, a young man happened to pass by the open doors of a Quakers' meeting-house in the city now known as the "London of America." He had that morning attended his mother and     108   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. sisters to a Roman Catholic placeof worship; and, as he had oftentimes before, he felt that he posses- sed no sympathy with the pomp of that form of worship, and more than that, he had recently adopted the opinion that the adoration of the Vir- gin was idolatrously wicked. Vibrating to the opposite extreme, he obeyed a sudden impulse, and retracing a few steps, he en- tered where all forms of worship are professedly discarded. Very different was the scene within those walls, from that exhibited by the multitude, now standing, now sitting, and anon kneeling while the priest chanted, or intoned, or elevated the Host,- consisting of that simple wafer which he had the audacity to pronounce the very flesh of Christ. In quiet worship were they seated who believed that " in quietness and in confidence shall be their strength," and having taken a seat almost imme- diately in front of that appropriated to ministers and elders, and near to them, he occupied himself for a few moments in looking around. The house was very full, almost to overflowing. Many were there who, judging from their appear- ance in fashionable costume, were too much'"con- formed to this world " to be real, bonafde Quakers. And he immediately suspected that some preacher of uncommon ability must be present, whose wlrds,   THE XONTMRESS   .   109 uttered with eloquence as well as sincerity, sufficed to gather a vast congregtion. Then scanned he the countenances of those who occupied the seats of the ministers and elders There was one among the men, whose famailiar countenance, as he raised his mild, blue eye, and looked for a moment around the house, was inm stantly recognized, with a throbbing heart, by the young man, who was indeed none other than Mor- ton Fitzroy. Years had passed away since he sought his early home after receiving Lucretia's letter, and witnessing her form in the garden at the midnight hour; and those years, spent as they were in the society of the worldly and dissipated, had left their traces on his careworn brow,--but in the appearance of the Quaker, upon whom he now gazed, and who was OBED BARNARD, there was no perceptible chazBge Then, as now, he wore a drab-oolored coat, panta and hat. His white muslin cravat, and close vest, were the same as ever, and he still sat during the hours of worship with his clasped hands resting on  his cane, and his chin leaning on his hands, in pro found meditation, or in spiritual worship, Fitzmy's eye rapidly glanced to the women's side of the same elder's seat, but he was wholly uaprepared for the sight which there met his gaze. 10     "O    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. He had thought perhaps Love is near, but there sat Lucretia, arrayed in Quaker garb, but looking as beautiful as when they separated, though seve- ral years had rolled away. By her side sat her mother, Love, and she, too, seemed unchanged, for those years had been passed by this family in peace and piety,-and their simple habits had been, as they ever are, accom- panied by health. Fitzroy's eyes were riveted upon Lucretia. Could she be the speaker? Should he hear that loved, loved voice again? -She sat with those soulful eyes bent upon the floor, apparently in deep thought, for a season, and then, as her father rose to address the audience, she lifted her eyes upon the assembly, and. en- countered the gaze of him she had once so devot- edly loved. Oh, what a thronging host of associations one glance at that countenance, recognized, though changed, called up into her mind! The blush of surprise and recognition- dyed her cheek with an unwonted hue of crimson, and she dared not look again lest she should be overpowered by the recol- lections of the past; but with the power which they alone possess to whom long practice has made the effort familiar and easy, she turned her thoughts   THE MONITRESS.      Ill away from that early sorrow, and sought to give attention to her father's words. Obed had been meditating upon the goodness of our Heavenly Father, and his words were the em- bodiment of those meditations, and awoke in Fitz- roy's spirit compunction that he had so often anid so long been ungrateful in heart and action. When Obed had concluded his brief; but excellent exhor- tation, he resumed his seat, and in a few moments a gray-haired pFriend at his side, kneeling with his face toward the audience, which arose, according to Friends' custom, offered up a fervent thanks- giving to the Almighty. He ceased. The audi- ence became seated, and soon all was silent again. Then arose a youthful monitress, and laying aside her bonnet, reaching it into the hand of her mother, Lucretia, wearing the plain, but, to her, becoming cap, and the usual handkerchiefs, of snowy muslin, and silk of Quaker hue, laid neatly and precisely, yet gracefully upon her shoulders, and crossed upon her breast-advanced, and laid one hand upon the back of the seat before her. Then raising the other, with graceful and impres- sive gesture, she repeated with solemnity, Christ's words to the woman of Samaria, "God is a spirit, and they that worship Him, must worship Him in spirit and in truth;" and then, quoting the words of the celebrated Melancthon, the dear friend of     "2   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. the lion-hearted Luther, she proceeded; - It has been truthfully and beautifully said, 'The Spirit of God loves retirement and silence; it is there He penetrates into our hearts. The bride of Christ does not take her stand in the streets and cross-ways, but she leads her spouse into the house of her mother.' And we, dear friends, if we would enjoy the presence of the Com- forter, must often retire from the bustle and confusion of the world, and seek there to offer up pure and spiritual worship to our Father in heaven. In the crowded mart, in the halls Ef gaiety, in the haunts of dissipation, we must eVir look in vain for that inward quiet wherein dwelleth the spirit of holiness and peace. The condition of the body affects the condition of the spirit, and thus it is ever well to seek, as did Isaac when he went out at eventide, a place of retirement, where we may meditate on the high and important subjects con - nected with our duty as responsible beings, and our eternal destiny. Hence it has ever been the custom among friends to meet together, apart from the world, not only on the day commonly observed as the Sabbath, but also on one forenoon during the week, not for the purpose, usually, of listening to sermons, or offer- ing audible prayers, or reading aloud from the blessed Bible, though they love that lamp of life,   THE MONITRESS.       113 but for silent, spiritual communion with their Lord. Peculiar as seem the views of Friends on 'this point, to many, there are none, probably, who have ever learned the sweet lesson of waiting worship and adoring supplication, who are willing to con- demn our practice. Far from our hearts is the idea that true worship is not elsewhere offered, though in a different manner, and blessings also received in thus worshipping; but we must still prefer our own silent, waiting communion with Him who hath said, 'They that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength,' while we experience the blessed fulfilment of the promise ' Thou wilt keep Him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee.'" Much more than the above brief extract was uttered by the fair Monitress; but to strive to pen her eloquent address would be a fruitless effort. Suffice it to say, that after speaking of the priv- ilege enjoyed of worshipping God according to the dictates of conscience, she launched forth on the broad and sparkling sea of anti-slavery. Neither men nor minds, she maintained, were to be fettered; and Scripture, rhetoric, logic, and eloquence lent their united and powerful aid to the influence of her words, and manner, until Fitz- roy, who felt that every word was uttered express- ly for his ears, was deeply impressed with a sense 10*     "4   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. of his own sin in so long resisting the voice of duty, which had so many years before called on him, through Lucretia and her parents, to release the fellow immortals who were styled his slaves. "Ah!" exclaimed Lucretia, " the day may come, when the crown of immortal glory will wreath the brow of the pious slave, while his proud, impious master is rejected by the Judge of all the earth. And in heaven, ' the servant is free from his master,' as saith the Scriptures, and the redeemed are all one in Christ Jesus!" Fitzroy thought of an aged servant of Christ, who was numbered among his slaves, and who had occasionally remonstrated with him upon his course of dissipation and sin, and he remembered with. shame how he had abused that servant for his fidel- ity in doing what he believed to be his duty, and for seeking his self-styled " master's" spiritual good. The meeting, at last, closed, with the usual for- mula of " shaking hands," the truly English cus- tom of expressing one's interest in his fellow being. Lucretia and Fitzroy sought their separate homes. She thought of him in sadness, for true love never forgets the best interests of its chosen one, and Lucretia sighed to know that her rejected, but still -dear friend, was a Christian, and happy in the daily performance of every duty. She spoke of him to her parents;. they, too, had   THUE ONITRESS.      115 observed his presence, and his breathless attention during Lucretia's monitory words, but neither of them regretted the past, so far as their own actions were concerned, knowing that the motives, from which they acted then, were pure and high, and being well aware that the same course would meet their approbation still. God was indeed Lucretia's sun and centre now, and she sighed not to recall the words which banished Fitzroy from her pres- ence, though she could not avoid, at times, the wish that there had been no occasion for their utterance.     CHAPTER X. VISIT TO TIIE SICK. "O, the precious privilege To the pious given,- Sending by the dove of prayer Ioly words to heaven! Arrows from the burning sun Cleave the quivering air,- Swifter, softher, surer on, Speeds the dove of prayer, Bearing from the parted lips Words of holy love, Warm as from the heart they gush'd To the throne above!"---Mrs. Hale. DURING their sojourn in the city of New York, Lucretia and her parents were the guests of a fam- ily, united with them in the faith and practice of Quakerism, and possessors not only of spiritual blessings, but of a large amount of this world's goods. Their residence was in a retired portion of the city, away from the bustle of Fulton St. or the noise of Broadway, and yet sufficiently near the large thoroughfares, and omnibus routes, to en- sure their easy access to the places they might be most desirous of visiting. As it was the first time Lucretia had ever been in that busy city, she had   VISIT TO THE SICK.     117 some curiosity to walk and ride about in it, and behold its peculiar features. But much as she loved to familiarize to herself all the localities which she might visit, she was yet far more desi- rous of performing the duties devolving upon her, in the fulfilment of her mission as a Christian teacher. Among her duties she accounted the visits she might pay to the sick chambers of Friends, as pecu- liarly important. As a disciple of Him "who went about doing good," her heart, and purse, were ever open to the wants of her fellow-beings. She deemed it especially the privilege of Christians to visit the couch of pain and sickness, where wast- ing disease had found a victim, and cheer the suf- ferer with the blessed words of Him "who spake as never man spake." This was a duty which Lu- cretia truly loved. Having known, in early life, what it is to feel that fondest affections are with- ered, that brilliant hopes are blighted, while on the spirit is the mighty weight of the gloom and shadow of the rayless future, she well knew what words of counsel, and strength, and sympathy to utter; and seldom did she visit a sick room, with- out so gladdening it by her presence, and leaving behind such an influence, that one would almost feel as if a celestial being had been the soother of his sorrows, the lightener of his griefs. It is a     "8    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. blessed privilege thus to cast flowers in the path- way of any human being, and especially a privi- lege to extract thorns, and plant flowers in the path of a fellow-traveller Zionward. Near the close of the day in which Lucretia and Fitzroy had sat beneath the same roof, and she had fearlessly delivered her message to him, or in his presence, for him, an elderly Friend, with whom arrangements had been previously made, called for Lucretia to accompany her to the house of a sick Friend. It is frequently Friends' custom, where some of the members of their communion are una- ble to be present at the meetings of worship, to en- gage the services of ministers who may be present with them, to hold a season for worship with such persons, and generally their ministers feel it to be a peculiar privilege thus to visit their brethren and sisters, in the days of their affliction. Lucretia gladly accompanied this friend to the dwelling of the suffering. But a few moments were required for the adjustment of her plain, but perfectly neat costume, and then they were dili- gently threading their way, on foot, through the busy streets, and narrow by-lanes of the famous Mercantile Metropolis of this New World. Before much time had elapsed they reached their destination. An old, time-worn and dilapidated building was before them. They crossed its de-   VISIT TO THE SICK.     119 cayed threshold, and ascending to a chamber on the second floor, they there found the object of their visit. Two elderly ladies, whose dress and address proclaimed them members of the Society of Friends, were sitting evidently expecting the vis- it, and apparently pleased to receive it. They were sisters. Time had strewed their brows with gray hairs, but the genius of meekness and gentleness seemed to have stamped his seal upon them. They had been tried in " the furnace of affliction" also, and, as the pure gold, had es- caped refined and purified from its influence. To them the voice of God had been heard in the fierce storms which raged around their domestic joys, and they had bowed meekly, and reverently, with profound submission to the will of the Omnipo- tent. One had experienced a trial similar to that of the youthful Monitress who now stood within the humble dwelling. She had been betrothed to one whose calling was upon the mighty deep. And both these sisters had stood upon the rock-crowned precipice, above the angry billow, and beheld with anguish unutterable, the bark go down beneath the foamy waters, which held the husband of one, and the betrothed of the other. God only knew the agony of that hour. But the bereavement was Di- vinely ordered, and the sisters only clung the more     120    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKEsESS. closely than ever to Him who was an undying and unchanging Friend. All these things Lucretia had learned from the friends with whom she was a guest, and from her Quaker companion on her way to the afflicted fam- ily. The poor sisters had struggled on, vainly en- deavoring to support themselves by their needles, until their case came to the knowledge of the Friends, who took such cognizance of. the matter, in conformity with their usual custom, that the comforts of life were soon ensured to the lonely ones, recently doubly bereaved in the loss of him who was "the only son of his mother, and she a widow," who had departed buoyant with hope about a year before, for the El Dorado, and the sad, heart-rending news had been borne to his mother and aunt, that his fair young head was bowed in the dust, and the hands of strangers had made for him a last resting place beneath the golden-sands of the fkr off Pacific coast. Every earthly stay seemed to be departed from them, save that each was yet spared to the other, and God to them both remained a sun and shield. As we have said, the building was very aged, and bore the undisputable marks of Time's appal- ling ravages. The stairs creaked beneath Lucre- tia's light step, with an ominous sound, but they ascended with all safety, and then found themselves   VISIT TO THE SICK.     121 in a small entrance hall, just about large enough for four persons to stand within comfortably, from which they entered a small room, whose neatness and cleanliness proclaimed it at once the abode of those with whom they were to spend a season of Christian sympathy. The old-fashioned clock, reaching from floor to ceiling, stood in one corner of the room, and numbered one among the few rel- ics of the " better days," pecuniarily, which the sis- ters had known. The brass of the bellows, andirons, tongs and shovel were scoured till they outshone the blaze when kindled on the hearth near them, a to- ken of the unfailing neatness and industrious house-, wifery of the " sect called Quakers." Neat and precise, however, as they may be, those who ridicule the possession of these qualities may well imitate them in their remembrance of some of" the weightier matters of the law." The poor of their society are never allowed to suffer for the necessaries of life, and, what is better, a good home is usually provided for all the sick, and indi- gent, who are unable to work, where they are kindly treated, and faithfully cared for, without having to seek a shelter, and daily food within the public alms-house. Should not all denominations provide a similar home for the sickly, and super- annuated of their number, where they may be fre-- quently visited by ministers of their own sect, and "              L 'ski      122    LUCIRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. feel themselves, amid symnpathizing fellow members of one body, emphatically -" at home?" Lucretia and her companion having shaken hands with the two sisters, sat down in some low old-fash- ioned, rush-bottomed-chairs, and for a season there was the silence of the usual Quaker meeting. This was intended as a season for worship, and all immediately engaged in it. At last Lucretia's companion was moved to offer prayer, and did so with that humility and fervor which always char- acterizes the true Christian, of whatever sect. She asked the consolations of the Spirit for the bereaved and afflicted sisters, and when she had concluded, Lucretia followed her with a strain of thanksgiv- ing. All was soon again silent in " waiting worship," when Lucretia was moved to utter words of exhor- tation. She spoke without rising from her seat. And to the surprise of all assembled, she spoke in the language of congratulation. The spirit of prophecy seemed upon her, and she predicted joy to the household, while, at the same time, she sought to give the praise to Him who is " the Giv- er of all good and perfect gifts." All present were surprised, as in words of elo- quence she appeared to be rejoicing with those who rejoiced, rather than evidencing sympathy with those who wept. Yet they knew that Lucre-   VISIT TO THE SICK.     123 tia professed to be moved from a higher source, to speak the words she uttered, and so they sate listening silently, yet with amazement, and the mother's tears fell fast, as Lucretia described a happy meeting with the long absent, for she touched a sad chord in her bosom then, .and seemed to tear open her wounds till they bled afresh. Yet Lucretia meant no harm; -she intended not even the shadow of evil, and sooner than give pain willingly to the heart of a fellow-disciple, or, indeed, to any one, she would suffer much herself. But she felt that these words must be uttered. They seemed to arise spontaneously, and she uttered them unconscious of their import. She ceases All is still again. Her little audience, with her- self; are calm a the placid lake on a zephyrless day. Hark! a footstep upon those creaking stairs. It is a light and happy step, just such a step as had not been heard there since the widow's only son departed for a distant land. It is a-familiar step, though, for the widow seems to recognize it. She listens intently. All is si- lent in the entrance hall. All is" still as star-light" within that low, old-fashioned apartment. Yet the widow moved not, because she would not disturb the other worshippers, until the meeting was ended. She did not know an eye of love un-     124    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. utterable, yet belonging to mortal, was gazing up- on her. She had not raised her eyes to the old- fashioned looking-glass, whose position was such that one who stood in the entry, could see the oc- cupants of the chamber, without being seen in re- turn by any as they now sat. Why should the person in the entry remain there quietly, without announcing himself; or herself, and giving a reason for the visit?"It must be some one," thought the widow, " who is acquainted with Friends' customs, and does not wish to disturb our meeting." Lucretia's companion now saw reason to close the prolonged sitting, and accordingly they adjourned "sine die." The widow moved toward the door. A young man stepped upon the threshold. The widow started, then stood motionless, pale and rigid as a marble statue. "Speak to me, mother," exclaimed the young man, " oh speak to me!" At the sound of that voice, the widow once more started, and then fell heavily upon the floor. So rapidly had all this transpired, and so unexpected was such a scene, that before the others present had thought of supporting the widow, she had fall- en, and was lying utterly insensible upon the floor. The young man was surprised that his return should produce such an effect upon his dearly loved   VISIT TO THE SICK.     125 mother, and that all present seemed astonished at beholding him alive and apparently in excellent health, but he wondered no more when he learned how that devoted parent had mourned for him as one that would never again be met in the flesh. But oh! the joy of that mother's heart, when on reviving she found that she had not' dreamed of such a blessed event, but that her son had, in truth, returned. Words cannot describe the un- utterable delight, and consolation of that hgur. The pencil would fail to delineate its radiance. Lucre- tia returned to her residence, rejoicing that the widow could indeed exclaim, "This my son was dead, but is alive again; he was lost, but is found." When opportunity was afforded, the young man related his adventures, and the account thrilled the hearts of his hearers. They learned that the report of his early death arose from the fact that he had been very ill at the mines of California, and his companions heartlessly left him, supposing he would soon die, and taking away his effects, they spread the sad, though happily false, intelligence of his decease. No thought of a mother's anguish de- terred them from their crime, for alas!" the love of money is," indeed" the root of all evil." As Lucretia and her friend returned to their own residences, their conversation very natural- "*     126   iLUCRKTIA, THE QUAKERESS. ly related to the scenes of the recent visit. "I I could not speak otherwise than cheerfully," said Lucretia. "I felt impelled to say just such words, and uttered them as a message, 'Coming events cast their shadows before,' and I could not speak differently, though the thought arose once, that I might be supposed deficient in proper sympathy. Oh, how I do now rejoice with the widowed mother!" Her friend expressed similar sympathy, and af- ter a few words more they reached the block in which was Lucretia's present abode. Glancing forward at the front of the house occupied by her friends, Lucretia saw the head and shoulders of some female protruding from a front chamber win- dow, and when they were near enough to hear, a voice exclaimed, "Lucretia Barnard, how art thou?" "Why Hannah!" replied Lucretia, with some surprise, and then hastily entered the house, and went up to her chamber, which Hannah seemed to have appropriated. "When didst thou arrive?" was Lucretia's first question, after a cordial greeting between the friends. "An hour ago," replied Hannah, " and I, who have never before visited a large city, and naturally pos-   VISIT TO THE SICK.     127 sess a great deal of feminine curiosity and inquisitive. ness, thee knows, - I have had my head out of the window as far as was convenient, while Alice Mant- ell has scarcely moved since we entered thy apart- ment." Lucretia turned toward the said Alice, who had entirely escaped her notice, from the fact that she had neither moved nor spoken since her entrance. Alice was likewise a "Friend," and sat as upright as a May-pole, in a chair at some distance from the window. She was arrayed in Quaker garb, and her hands were carefully folded upon her lap, while every portion of her dress seemed to know its appropriate place, and to keep it. Words of kindness and courtesy were addressed by Lucretia to Alice, who received them with pre- cision and formality. All, however, were soon en- gaged in conversation, and much interested, as Lu- cretia proceeded to inform them of the occurren- ces during her visit to the sick and afflicted sis- ters. Hannah and Alice remained with Lucretia and her friends during the remainder of Lucretia's so- journ in the city. Henry Wilson had not accom- panied his wife, being detained at home by busi- ness, but had deputed Alice to be a companion of her travels, thinking Alice's imperturbable gravity and rigid sobriety would shield his more volatile,     128   LUGRITIA, TIIE QUAKERESS. and less precise Hannah from any great impropri- eties. Ail Alice's entreaties, however, would have been unheeded, had she deemed it best to offer any, on the occasion of Hannah's arrival in the busy city. The proper place for Hannah's head seemed to be out of the window, whether her body accompanied it or not, and Alice's example of staid deportment was entirely lost upon her, ser- ving only to afford a subject of merriment, when she afterwards related her city adventures on her island home. On the next morning, as Lucretia and Hannah were crossing the street, hastily, in a busy part of the city, where they were in danger of collision with a variety of vehicles, with noisy, boisterous dri- vers, a familiar form rapidly passed them. Lucretia saw it first, but her quick glance at Hannah, a few seconds after, assured her that the form was also seen by her, and recognized. He had passed near enough to them to touch Lucretia's plain but neat parasol, and bowed in an apologetic manner, without perceiving, at first, whom he had met. But he could not fail to recognize his once tenderly loved Lucretia, and the wild throbbings of the hearts of each proclaimed too truly that they yet had the ability to interest each other. Hannah, with unusual tact, refrained from com- menting on the circumstance, till Lucretia, in a few   VISIT TO THE SICK.    129 words, informed her of Fitzroy's presence at the meeting, and therefore that she was not surprised at meeting him again. "Do you love him still?" asked Hannah, with the freedom of a confidential friend. "I love his memory," said Lucretia; " to me he is as one who has no longer a home on earth. I do not even dream of him in connection with a mar- riage with myself, since I know it can never, never be. Yet I would rejoice to know that he was no longer a slave-holder. If, by the sacrifice of anything short of my duty to God, and the pure principles of our holy religion, I could win him, from what I deem an evil path, I would gladly lay that sacrifice upon the altar. But God only can change the heart. We must wait his own good time, and in the meanwhile, pray and labor. The day will come when the moral evils of the slavery system will become so evident to all, that public opinion will demand the liberation, and admission of the slaves to the privileges of a happy and enlightened Republic." God grant that the day of which Lucretia spoke may soon arrive! Its dawning brightness already gilds the eastern heavens, since slavery is indeed abolished in our Eastern States, but O for its me- ridian and unclouded glory! Albert Barnes, the celebrated author of Notes     130   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. on various portions of the Holy Scriptures, re- marks, "In a sense that is not merely constructive and figurative, we think that the God of our fa- thers summons the people of the present genera- tion to take possession of this land for the cause of evangelical religion; and that great as is the labor of doing this, and formidable as are the obstacles in the undertaking, He commands them neither to fear nor be discouraged." If this is to be done, (and, methinks, all who have ever studied the pro- found subject of "God in History," will agree with the sentiments expressed above,) first of all, the curse of slavery must be removed from our country, and the unwaning splendor of that hoped-for, bright- er day, deluge, not only the North and East, but the West and South, with its light, and joy.   CHAPTER XI. THE TRUTH RECEIVED. ' Oh! is there not A time, a righteous time, reserved in fate, When these oppressors of mankind shall feel The miseries they give?" - Thomson. "When we have hoped, sought, striven, lost our aim, Then the truth fronts us, beaming out of darkness, Like a white brow through its o'ershadowing hair." Bailey's Festus. Ah! why in darkness have I trod The paths which downward tend, When God was willing, evermore, His light and strength to lend? "ET us return for a season to Fitzroy. When he left the meeting where he had seen Lucretia, he sought the splendid hotel where he had left his mother and sisters. He passed up the massive stone steps, and through the gorgeously furnished apartments, in a sort of dreamy unconsciousness of the sights and sounds around him. Waiters were bustling about, but he noticed not their pres- ence. The dining-room was prepared for a sump- tuous repast, but he thought not of its delicacies. The mental predominated over the physical, and     132   LUCRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. for a time he scarcely felt himself a denizen of this mundane sphere. He found his mother and sisters in their elegant private parlor, and after exchanging a few com- monplace remarks, he retired to his own room. For a long time lie remained in his apartment, musing upon the singular circumstance of his be- holding Lucretia so unexpectedly, and in such a manner, and hearing such sentiments from one who had proved, by the acts of former years, that she really believed all that she would impress upon the minds of others. He half resolved that he would at once act from his convictions of duty, and while his first act should be to dedicate himself to the service of his Creator, his next should be to liberate his slaves. But - could he offer to God such a wreck as he now was? Could it be accepted, when he refused to offer it in early life? Would the "fountain opened in Judah and Jerusalem for sin and for un- cleanness," suffice to take away the stain of trans. gressions from his soul? Was there mercy for such a sinner as he had been? Could he hope for restoration to the image of the Being whose holiest precepts he had sometimes disobeyed? Could he hope for peace with Him against whom he had so long been arrayed, at first, perhaps, unconsciously, but recently from a choice, deliberate and unwav-   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.     i33 ering, to love mammon rather than Jesus, and seek happiness here, rather than labor to obtain it here- after? And in reference to his slaves should he seek to liberate them, what a tornado of opposing influ- ences might he not meet from his relatives! would they not deem him insane, fanatical, or a fool! would not lhis beloved mother, and dear sisters also, murmur at a proceeding which might deprive them of the assistance of those who are daily and hourly so needful to the languid Southerner! And yet, was not Lucretia right? Ought he to hold in bondage an immortal being, however degraded by ignorance, and its consequent vice? These questions were indeed difficult to decide, and like one of old, he resolved to postpone the sub- ject to "a more convenient season," and rising hastily after this determination, ere better emotions again exerted sway, he joined his mother and sisters in their parlor. That mother was amiable, and go were those sisters; but they were not, as Lucretia, amiable because pious;- gentle and kind, because ruled by the spirit of the mild and gentle Jesus - and Fitzroy could not but give her the preference through all the long years which had intervened since they last met. And now he felt the differ- ence still more forcibly, and sighed as he contrast- ed the conversation of the company in this parlors 12     134   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. with the pure communion he had once held with her who had never been supplanted in his affec- tions, by any of the butterfly votaries of fashion who frequently flitted around his path. Fitzroy was still unmarried. He had never sought another, but as time wore away his indignation at his rejec- tion, he clung to the memory of his communion with Lucretia, and cherished affection for her still. This affection for a pure and virtuous female, had been as a shield to him in many an hour of temp- tation, when vicious companions would have lured him into vile companionship with those who seem- ed to have lost every attribute of the feminine character, and though dissipated, and gay, a use- less member of society at times, indolent, and worldly, he had never plunged so deep into the vortex of fhshionable folly, as to be unworthy of the affection of a chaste and pure-minded woman. Gladly would he again have sought Lucretia's hand in marriage, but he knew too well that there was at least one barrier between them, and even his love for leer had not power to induce him to level that. He felt, too, that Lucretia's intellectual and moral power must have increased, or she would not occupy ler present conspicuous position; and he thought perhaps another barrier was thus reared, although he well knew that intellectually, he was certainly her equal if not her superior.   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.     135 He remembered also, that Lucretia's views of woman's rights, and position, once agreed fully with his own; that she regarded home as woman's most appropriate sphere of action and influence, and the thought arose in his mind that perhaps her disap- pointment at not becoming his wife, had produced the result he had never foreseen, but which was on that day manifested before him. Silent and abstracted he sat on that evening, on a sofa by the side of his mother, regardless of the attempts made by some silly young ladies present, to win the heart, or rather the hand, of such a wealthy young man. Alas! that our sex is some- times degraded in the persons of these female for- tune-hunters. The woman who regards only the purse, and not the heart of her suitor, is unworthy of the name of lady. She proves herself recreant to all that is lofty and excellent in woman's true nature. A woman who enters into the bands of wedlock, only for the sake of securing for herself a home of ease and competence or luxury, regardless of the affection which should ever exist between those who are thus united, degrades herself in the esti- mation of all good men, and deserves to find her- self the slave of a tyrant-husband. A few days afterward, Fitzroy's impressions as to the path of his duty became so deep that he could scarcely resist them, though in order to do this, he     136   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. walked and rode much about the city, hoping to divert his thoughts from the painful subject. It was while on one of these usually vain excursions, that he met Lucretia and her friend Hannah Wilson, as mentioned above. Had he met only one of those ladies, and had that one been Hannah, about whom he was least interested, he would still have been deeply affected. As it was, to meet them both, was enough to render fruitless his attempts at composure, and forgetfulness of his sins and his duty. His first impulse was to ad- dress them; but the next moment he thought the recognition might not be mutually pleasant and agreeable, and he forbore, and passed on with only a bow. Oh! how much he would have given for the power to reenter Lucretia's society, and live again the golden days of their early love! How much he wished that all his doubts and fears were removed, and his heart at rest, in the calm, placid enjoyment of a true, domestic life, with Lucretia, the enchantress of his youth, as his companion and friend! How lonely did he feel in the streets of that great city, crowded though they were, with those who jostled against him unmindful of his cares or sorrows! Shortly after he left the city for his own place of abode, exchanging the doubtful advantages of a hotel, for the comfort of his own splendid mansion,   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.      137 and there shutting himself into his library, which was a favorite resort, he spent whole days in se- vere study, and by this effort to interest his mind in literature and science, he hoped to be rid of the impression that Lucretia's voice was haunting him, calling earnestly for the performance of duty. The library-room was spacious and lofty, and filled with every appurtenance requisite, and every aid which could be rendered to the earnest and as- piring student. Two opposite sides of the room were filled from within three feet of the floor al- most to the ceiling with books on almost every im- aginable topic, and in a variety of languages. The three feet excepted above were filled with drawers which served as the receptacles of numerous shells, fossils, and minerals, which their owner had col- lected from time to time, whenever opportunity had been afforded, (means were never wanting) or his taste for geology, mineralogy, or conchology, was revived. Some of them served, too, as the repository of magazines, newspapers, and other un- bound literature, which the neatness of Fitzroy's mother forbade to be scattered around the room. In appropriate places were globes, celestial and ter- restrial, and a portable telescope, and between the windows, which nearly filled the third side of the room, were philosophical and chemical apparatus, while the fourth side, opposite the windows, pre- 12*     138   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. seated various portraits, landscapes, and other pic- tures, and between them were bookcases with their shelves amply filled. The centre of the room dis- played a table prepared for writing, and around the room were seats whose very appearance would lead one to think of studious ease, and luxurious study. In short, this was a model study and libra- ry, which was first arranged by the father of Fitz- roy, and afterward improved by himself. Here, as we remarked above, he spent many, many very busy, and sometimes pleasant hours. The earliest beams of the god of day often found him there, and the midnight oil was often burned by him as he sat in lonely study, or absorbing meditation. How of- ten had he longed for the companionship of Lucre- tia here! And yet he now strove to banish her from his mind; for with the remembrance of her beauty of mind and person, came the thrilling call to Duty. He could not wash away the past in Lethe's stream, and there was no real peace for him. He did not seek, as when he first left her, to drown his disappointment in a sea of pleasure, for he had strangely lost his relish for such enjoy-  ment. The keen search after novelties, and the desire for amusement faded away. Solemn thoughts, like autumn clouds, arose thick and fast upon his mental horizon, and spoke of the sad and gloomy winter which should follow the spirit which had   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.     139 been recreant to duty, and had not planted good seed, so as to garner a golden harvest. Such was Fitzroy's state of mind when, one bright morning, a few months after the meeting be- tween himself and his early loved one, a domestic slave entered with a letter upon a salver. Fitz- roy read it with listlessness, and a feeling of cha- grin when he learned that by it his presence was re- quested at Columbus, the capital of Ohio, and as the business requiring his attention was very im- portant, he deemed it best to " make a virtue of ne- cessity," and go himself. "And besides," thought he, "I may feel better on my return; travelling and attention to business matters may serve to bring my mind to its own proper state again, so that I can pursue afterward ' the even tenor of my way,' and leave my doubts and gloom behind." The route from his own residence to Columbus, by the choice of Fitzroy, lay through the village of Guyandotte, which was pleasantly situated on the Virginia side of the Ohio river. Heie he resolved to spend a night, and was soon ensconced in a little, cosy sort of parlor, at the most fashionable hotel. As daylight was not yet departed, he proposed to himself a stroll near the river, and not many mo- ments elapsed after his decision, ere he found him- self in the vicinity of a steamer, which was lying there, with "eighty slaves on board, chained two     "O    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. and two, with a long chain between, similar to the manner in which horses are fastened for droving." Here are beings, created, equally with himself, n God's image, degraded to the hard sad lot of brutes, and the thought would arise in his mind, "Are these things right, and am not I upholding such a gross violation of the teachings of' humanity, and the Word of God, when I also hold my fellow beings in bondage, even though I am not as cruel to them? Observing some of these slaves were sadder in appearance than others, and seemed also to be occa- sionally in great pain, he inquired the cause, and learned that the night before, when it was unusual- ly cold, these poor, miserable, pitiable creatures, were so exposed that some had ears, and others toes frozen, while again others were suffering ex- cruciating torture from the freezing of both. His heart throbbed with unutterable emotion. He had seldom been other than very kind to all his own slaves, and never exposed them unnecessa- rily to discomfort, or danger, and these were sights to which his eyes were all unused. He immedi- ately spoke to the captain of this boat, remonstrat- ing in earnest tones, against his cruelty, so that finally, he was induced to place them in more comfortable quarters, loosing the long chain, which then allowed them to gather around the stove.   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.      141 Their groans from the intense cold were most piti- ful, and to a person of tender feelings most heart- rending. Fitzroy's heart was very far from cal- lous, and he felt deeply on this occasion for the woes of these poor creatures, while, in his heart, he acknowledged the injustice and wickedness of the whole slavery system. Upon inquiry he found that all these slaves, help- less and suffering specimens of man's inhumanity to man," were bought up at Charleston, Virginia, for the Southern market, and several hundreds of their relatives and friends, colored, of course, more or less, bade them a last farewell with tears and sorrow, as the boat left. "Lucretia is right, Lucretia is right!" was the absorbing idea in Fitzroy's mind as he pursued his journey. Hastening to transact his business, he spent as brief a space as was possible in the city and vicinity of Columbus, and then returned with all possible speed to his beloved home, there to renew again the musings and reflections from which it was vain for him to seek escape. To his mother and sisters he was kind and pleasant as ever, and they were too much delighted with his presence at home, to envy the library its power to rob them of his society so frequently. They noticed his abstraction, at times, and with feminine tact, discovered its connection with the ob-     "2    LUTCRETIA, TIlE QUAKERESS. ject of his early love, though they were far from fathoming the depth of that moral energy which. was powerfully influencing his whole spirit. They could not comprehend his emotions, for they pos- sessed no clue to the call of duty which he heard while in New York, since he had never mentioned it to them, choosing rather to decide, or suffer alone. There was yet much of nature's true nobility evi- dent in Fitzroy; Oh! why could he not prove him- self worthy of the name of republican, and worthy of an anti-slavery wife, such as Lucretia could be to him! One evening he was reclining pensively upon a sofa, placed before a window which descended to the floor, and which commanded an extended view of a most delightful prospect. He was gazing at the gorgeous, sunset clouds, whose glorious drape- ry made beautiful the western horizon. All around was quiet, save a low, murmuring sound from the next apartment. The magic influence of the twi- light hour, together with the refined pleasure he ev- er experienced from witnessing the beauties of na- ture, had so softened his spirit, that he was prepared to receive good and holy impressions. Once, though he loved Nature's beauties and sublimities, he was too proud to open his heart to her sweet, soothing influence, while, at the same time, he listened to her "  still, small voice," as it spoke to him of her   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.     14 and his Creator, and called upon him to adore and love, to believe and obey. Now, the Spirit's pow- erful influences were with Nature's voice, and the good seed found congenial soil. He was led to notice the slight murmuring sound in the next apartment, and curiosity induced him to arise, and seek to discover from whence that murmur proceeded. He advanced on tip-toe to the door, and opened it cautiously and without noise. He could then hear quite distinctly the words of one in prayer. The voice was familiar, and its tones were touching and pathetic. It was the same pious old slave, whose religious feelings Fitzroy had often outraged, and his well-meant re- marks had often despised, and treated him rudely for making them. Now the voice of humble, earnest prayer, even if offered by a slave, seemed in accordance with his feelings. "Heavenly Massa," prayed the good old man, I no ask now that I may be made free man, for I'm old now, and Jesus soon take me to heaven, where I shall be free; but I ask, Good Father, that my dear, loved massa may be thy child too. Oh! give him new heart! Oh! give him right spirit! Make him free from sin, and prepare, his soul for heaven." Fitzroy's sense of propriety would not permit him to listen any longer, and he softly dosed the y     "4   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. door and returned to his seat without giving to his aged slave the least intimation that he had been overheard. As he again reclined upon his sofa, his soul was deeply moved. All his past trans- gressions arose to his mind, and he felt that he was indeed a sinner, and all the more a sinner, because he was a slave-holder. At last he sought to pray, and when he went forth from that room, the evening star had long been shining, and with his own soul reflected the light of a sun. Peace had flown like a soft, bright dove from heaven, at his earnest supplication, and now nestled in his bosom. He had " peace in be- lieving, and joy in the Holy Ghost," and he was willing to advance as " truth might open the way." His course was soon determined, in accordance with the ancient and truthful proverb, "Where there's a will, there's a way." Notwithstanding the opposition of his family, and neighbors, when his change of views becaae known to them, he persisted in obeying the voice of duty, and called his slaves together as soon as the proper measures were taken, and secured to each and all their free- dom, with the offer to them of remaining still, as hired servants, on the plantation. Most of them preferred to remain, but none of them were more rejoiced than the good old colored man, who was   THE TRUTH RECEIVED.      145 glad, not only that himself was " a free man in free America," but that his master was "free in the liberty wherewith Christ makes his children free." Fitzroy had now more true peace of mind than he had ever known before, and it was a tranquillity of spirit, which nought could ruffle. Like some inland lake surrounded by tall mountains, and little exposed to storm and tempest, his soul was placid in its peace, fbr "As the mountains are round about Jerusulem, so is the Lord round about those that fear him." God was his sun now, as well as Lucretia's, and he was not surprised that in the enjoyment of God's favor, and with the consciousness of being and doing right, she was enabled calmly to fulfil her mission, while his unreconciled, rebellious spir- it was stirred by frequent whirlwinds of passion. His soul was "as the troubled sea which will not rest, but casteth up mire and dirt," and like a bat-k helmless and helpless, floating heedlessly, yet sure- ly on to destruction. 13     CHAPTER XII. THE REUNION. They meet again who long ago Exchanged a sad farewell, And where no parting words are heard, For evermore they dwell. "The morning blush was lighted up by hope, - The hope of meeting her." - Miss Landon. "Absence, with all its pains, Is by this charming moment wiped away." Thomson. ONE year glided away, and on the anniversary of the day when Fitzroy yielded to the voice of Duty, Lucretia received a letter from him. It was a long, full letter, and to her deeply interesting. Once more she read what he had penned in her own, dear little chamber, where she read his last epistle long years before, when the scalding tear- drops attested to the agony of her spirit; but now she read the words of him who still loved her, while propped up in bed, supported by the pillows which maternal kindness had arranged, and which her extreme weakness demanded. The hectic flush seemed to be seated upon her cheek, and her mother every day dreaded lest the physician should   THE REUNION.      147 declare it his opinion that the fire of consumption alone gave such light and brilliancy to her eye. Most of her friends regarded her days as numbered, but her mother could not yet calmly resign her. Maternal love triumphed, for a while at least, over Christian faith, and trust, and resignation. Ah! how easy it is to create idols, and how hard to re- nounce their worship. That welcome, welcome letter was a cordial to Lucretia's heart. With her illness had come a stronger desire for Fitzroy's conversion, and com- panionship. O, how joyful was now the assurance that he had liberated every one of his slaves, and was himself no longer the bondman of sin. How her heart responded to his earnest wish to meet with'her again! He had purposely delayed writ- ing for a year, that he might be able to say that time had proved the reality of his change of spirit. Obed and Love also rejoiced at the reception of such an epistle, and wrote immediately a reply, to which Lucretia was only able to add a postscript, and express the wish that they might meet again, soon, on earth, and a hope that they would cer- tainly meet in heaven, that " better land," where there is neither sickness nor death. A short time only elapsed, just long enough for the transmission of the letter to Fitzroy, and for him to travel thither, and then Fitzroy stood once     "6   LUCRETIA, TIlE QUAKERESS. more at Lucretia's side. And all the sad past was forgiven, and obliterated, applarently, from their me- mories. They were hapl-)y once more as friends, they were happy still more as those who were united in Christ. "Blest be e te tie that binds Our hearts in Christian love; The fellowship of kindred minds Is like to that above." Together the reunited lovers now sought com- munion with their Saviour, while Fitzroy's melo- dious voice was often heard reading to Lucretia, from the Blessed Volume, those promises which cheer the departing spirit of the Christian. Gradually, yet to all eyes around, too surely Lucretia faded away. Her wasted form, and attenuated limbs, bespoke the ravages of disease, yet her spirit was calm and happy. She could still adopt the language of the Virgin Mother when she exclaimed, " 3y soul doth magnify the Lord, and my spirit doth rejoice in God my Saviour." Death to Lucretia, was shorn of its terrors. Her sins were forgiven, so that death's sting was utterly removed, and the grave could have no victory over one who was a true-hearted and true-lived follower of Him who triumphed over death, and arose from the tomb "leading captivity captive." Yet it was a sad, sad thought to all her friends that she must   THE REUNION.      149 leave them, in the bloom of womanhood, just when she was dearer than ever, and her prospects for the earthly future seemed fairer than ever. Still they strove to be resigned, and with many a prayer for a submissive spirit, they awaited God's unfolding providence. One evening Lucretia was leaning upon the bosom of her weeping mother, with one hand clasp- ing that of her father, and the other hand enclosed in both of Fitzroy's. She had been talking to them of her anticipated departure. She bade them not to sorrow as if without hope, for they had all the prospect of meeting again, where the lovely and the loved endure forever, and the tear of part- ing and sorrow is banished from every eye. Obed restrained his tears, as she talked, from a wish to act, as well as feel resigned, but they would glisten in the eyes which ever and anon he bent upon the pale brow of his only, cherished daughter. Fitz- roy gazed uninterruptedly upon her in speechless agony - the agony which is too deep for tears, or rather which needs the flow of tears to afford a physical relief from the sense of suffocation and distress. "Mother," said Lucretia, after a pause, " wilt thou take my orphan cousins to thy home and heart when I am gone? Father, thou art surely willing. Let them grow up under thy sweet influence, and     -150   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. perhaps they may be spared to make you rejoice, and to watch over you in declining years. They have no parents, and soon you may have no daugh- ter on earth; is it not a duty to adopt them?" "Dear child," said Obed in a feeble, because agitated voice, "thou needest not to urge us, for thy wishes shall all be heeded." "And dear Morton," added Lucretia, "I would not be forgotten, and I would be mourned by you, but yet I would not have this lifi all dark and sad to you. Oh, may God guide you!" He softly pressed her thin, pale hand, and an- swered, with gentle tones, "As I have before men- tioned, dear Lucretia, I shall travel far and wide, but wherever I go, your memory shall incite me to the performance of good. God help us all to meet in heaven!" He could say no more; and it seemed as if Lucretia would have heard no more, could hle have uttered furthllr words, for, as he ceased the pale lips of the patient sufferer quivered, her limbs stiffened, and her eyes closed as if in their last, long sleep. With unnatural calmness her mother laid her down, and murmured forth "asleep in Jesus." For a few seconds not a word was uttered, not a tear was shed. The three who loved Lucretia better than any others did, gazed there alternately upon her cold, pale form, and upmo each other.   THE REUION.       151 But the mother's wail of mourning would break forth upon the hushed air of that solemn chamber, and the tide of grief in each heart welled up from its fountain with all-powerful energy, and found vent in tears and groans. But Oh! amazing mercy! -will that form re- vive? Are those dear eyes once more opened upon this lower world? Is Lucretia yet indeed in the body?"Present in the flesh, and absent from her Lord?" Fitzroy's eyes were the first to perceive that those clear orbs which ever shone for him, opened yet once and again, and then closed in a calm, quiet, sleep. Obed and Love were yet suffering in the voilence of the first knowledge of what they had deemed her departure. They had clasped each other by the hand, and were standing near the bed- side, absorded in grief. Gently, with respect to their parental feelings, yet with joy that he could whisper comfort, he touched them both, and softly uttered, "She is not dead, but sleepeth." For a moment they believed him'but using the language of the Scripture for their comfort, and had he uttered, "She will rise again," with Martha, the sister of Lazarus, they could have answered, "we know that she shall rise again at the last day,'- -             . .. .      152    LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. without understanding, at all, that her spirit had not yet departed to the God who gave it. But he repeated his words, and added, " we are mistaken, - Lucretia is yet with us." And ! the joy in those parents' hearts, as they quickly approached the bedside of the calmly sleep- ing one, and perceived that Fitzroy's words were true! All that night they watched beside her, and the morning found her wakening in unusual vigor. From that day she began to amend. She had been very near the confines of the grave, and equally great was the love which welcomed her back to earth. Once more her social circle was gladdened by her presence. Health again gave roses to her cheeks, and after the lapse of several months, her parents gave their consent to her union in mar- riage with Fitzroy the chosen of her heart in early years. Her health had been such, that she no longer deemed it her duty to continue a preacher. Hence- forth her place was by her husband's side, her sphere a domestic one, rendered happy and useful, wherein she had the hearty cooperation of her hus- band in all good works, and in their Southern home was never pained by knowing that those who served her were enslaved. They soon learn- ed to love her, and served herself, and husband, with fidelity, from affection rather than for the   THE REUNION.      153 wages which Fitzroy had punctually paid them ever since their liberation by his noble act. He had never reason to regret that his servants were no longer exposed to galling chains, and cruel whip of merciless overseers. They w'cre all faith- ful who remained, and while the plantations all around them were sometimes the scenes of insur- rection and bloodshed, the home and plantation of Morton and Lucretia Fitzroy, were the abodes of peace, plity, and content. Many of his slaves -strove to follow him as he followed Christ, and both himself and wife had the great satisfaction of ministering to the last wants of the pious old col- ored-man, mentioned above, whose prayer was overheard by Fitzroy in his season of indecisions and beheld him triumphantly depart to his heav- enly home. A change came over Fitzroy's surviving parent and sisters, pairly owing to the influence of the gentle, Christian, -anti-slavery bride, till they were "all one in Christ Jesus," and his mother on her dying bed declared that " if she were to renew her earthly existence, she would never hold a fellow being in bondage," and she believed "no true Christian, with enlightened mind, could ever be a slave-holder." Henceforth, Fitzroy and Lucretia shared with each other the " sweet luxury of doing good."     154   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESSo Together they visited the classic soil of Italy, the "stately homes of England," and the land for- ever hallowed by association with the Meek and Lowly One who lived and labored there. The dreams of Lucretia's early life, which led her to desire to travel far and wide were then and thus fulfilled, and O! how deep the gratitude which was cherished by both toward Him who had led them to such pleasant and glorious results. High and holy were their future aims, and their whole lives were devoted to the noble service of God and humanity. Fitzroy's voice was often heard advo- cating the pure principles of anti-slavery, and pleading in behalf of the oppressed, and both wiel- ded their pens with earnestness of purpose, and holy zeal, to overthrow the gigantic evil - Sla- very. And often in after-life did they both rejoice that Lucretia was enabled to be faithful to the voice of wisdom; and was it not well that in the mighty struggle between Inclination and Duty, Principle was at last triumphant?   CHAPTER .XIII. A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE. "Lives there who loves his pain? Who would not, finding way, break loose from hell Though thither doomed." - Milton's Paradise Lost. "' Equal nature fashioned us All in one mould. The bear serves not the bear, Nor the wolf the wolf; 't was odds of strength in tyrants, That pluck'd the first link from the golden chain With which that thing of things bound in the world. Why, then, since we are taught by their examples, To love our liberty, if not command, Should the strong serve the weak, the fair deform'd ones? Or such as know the cause of things, pay tribute To ignorant fools? All's but the outward gloss And politic form, that does distinguish us." L[Massinger's Bondman. WE would permit our readers one more glance at Lucretia in her Southern home, and show them that the views and actions of earlier years were not the result of prejudice, or romance; but were really the consequences of high and holy princi- ples, imbued in her very soul through the whole of life,-and, from the hour of his conversion to the truth, were her husband's guiding motives. In her daily life, and in all her intercourse with all     156   LUCRETIA, TIE QUAKERESS. persons, white or colored, Lucretia proved beyond the shadow of a doubt, that principle was ever tri- umphant. A woman worthy of commendation, her example slould be followed by all, at least of tile gentler sex. It was towards the close of' an autumnal day, that Lucretia and her husband sat quietly beneath the verandah, enjoying togetler the gorgeous view of a glorious sunset befbre them, equally with the gambols of their three children, Walter, Mary, and Anna, wlho were between the ages of twelve and five. On the right of a long row of poplars, which bordered a field nearly opposite, might be seen the pleasant, comfortable, thoutgh humble houses of those whlo assisted in the business of Fitzroy's plantation, -now no longer slaves, but the hired laborers of a synmpatletic master. They were no longer regarded as "' goods and chattels," and they felt the ditffrence between their present and their former lot. At the present time they were gather- ing cheerfully beneath their cottage-roofs, and look- ing forward to an evening of enjoyment and repose. Having so much happiness in the hearts and homes of those around them, with the consciousness of having aided in producing such contented enjoy- ment, we cannot be surprised that a prevailing spirit of peace and joy characterized both Fitzroy and his still cherished Lucretia.   .    A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.    157 Suddenly an exclamation from the children called the attention of the parents to a carriage which was rapidly approaching the house. It had been hid- den from previous view by a gentle eminence crowned with lofty trees. "There is cousin Hannah, mother," exclaimed Walter, " may I run and meet her?" "Run to the entrance of the avenue, Walter, but no further," replied Fitzroy, while Lucretia rang a bell to summon the domestics who should assist Hannah to alight. Yes, it was Hannah, with a formidable array of bundles, bandboxes, and baggage of various de- scriptions, as if her visit were to endure for ages instead of a few weeks, which was all the time her worthy husband declared he could trust her out of his presence, as years and matronly duties had in no wise curbed the Niagara-like flow of her spirits. "Welcome, annah," said Fitzroy, as he assist- ed her up the marble steps of his splendid mansion. "-Thou art, indeed, welcome here," added Lu cretia, as they exchanged greetings. In a short time their New England guest was seated at the hospitable board, -and Southerners are famed for their hospitality to white strangers, - and dispensed the latest news of Lucretia's early- home, as rapidly, if not more so, as she satisfied the demands of hunger. Of course, much time "     158   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. elapsed ere the subject was sufficiently exhausted to introduce another; but the time at last arrived, -and seated together in a corner of the spacious library, with the children near them, listening with that eagerness which so truly belongs to childhood, and which may be made the means of a mighty influence for the promotion of their highest inter- ests, the three friends conversed long and earnestly on that subject in which they were ever interested, and which surrounding circumstances seemed to call forth. "Yes," said Lucretia, in reply to some remarks from Hannah, "I cannot help feeling the force of Friend Whittier's words : 'By misery unrepell'd, unawed By pomp, or power, thou seest a MAN In prince or peasant- slave or lord, Pale priest, or swarthy artisan;' And when that poor, trembling fugtive, for whose sake, thou hast heard, my husband has been perse- cuted, came in his helplessness to us, it seemed to me that the monitor within would never give me peace if I did not aid him, even when detection, and punishment by enemies seemed certain." "That punishment came," added Fitzroy, " but I rejoiced in being able to bear it. I had the con- solation of knowing that I had aided a fellow-being   A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.    159 in his escape from what is far worse than death to the Christian- the bondage of soul and body." "Do tell me the particulars, Lucretia," said Hannah, " what was his name?" "It is so long, I cannot remember it. Its length reminds me of Friend Tuckerman's aprons, which she used to tread upon so frequently as she walked. Dost thou remember how she was accustomed to wear three aprons, to keep each other clean?" Lucretia and her husband smiled, for the remark was so like Hannah, who, though really good- hearted, was, like some institutions of the South, "peculiar!" The elder children laughed outright, and Mary ventured to whisper, "Cousin Hannah, were the aprons all alike?" "No, dear child," was the reply; "one was black silk, over that a white linen one, and outside of both a dark calico. She was so neat that a friend laughingly told her, that if she sat for her daguerreotype, she ought to have a broom in one hand, and a dust-cloth in the other." The children laughed. "She was a good woman though," added Lucretia, "and was cleanly and neat from a sense of duty." "But to return to the fugitive," said Hannah, "I have unintentionally changed the subject of our conversation."     160   LL'CRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. "Well," said Lucretia, "I will tell thee, if Mor- ton will aid me, should I fail in narrating correctly. One morning, about six o'clock, Walter came hastily into my chamber, and whispered, 'Mother, old James wishes to see thee, alone, in his cottage, and wishes no one to know but father.' "I immediately suspected that he had a fugitive secreted there, and as soon as possible, I informed Morton of my message and my suspicions. He agreed with me, and advised a speedy removal of the unfortunate one to our place of secretion. To effect this the more easily and safely, he directed all the men, except James to proceed to a distant field, and the women to assist in the dairy, and garden. I then proceeded to the cottage of the negro, whom we call old James from the fact that he is the eldest of our servants." "Does it not sound strange to thee to say I ser. vant,' Lucretia?" asked Hannah. "The laborer is called a servant in the Bible, Hannah, and as I use it only in the sense of one who assists, I see no impropriety in it." "Old James is that good old man, whose prayer I overheard on that eventful night when I yielded my will to the will of Heaven, as thou hast heard me say before, Hannah," said Fitzroy. Hannah bowed assent, and Lucretia proceeded. "I repaired to old James's cottage, and there,   A 'GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.   161 upon a bed, lay a youthful colored-man, apparently exhausted by the efforts he had made to escape from his cruel master. I sat down by his bedside, There was no one present but 'Aunt Betsey,' as she is called, the wife of' Old James.' The tears rolled down our cheeks as the poor, trembling, ex- hausted fugitive told us of his many trials and hardships, his scourgings, and various sufferings,- till at last he determined to escape from bondage. He had heard of our unusual method of carrying forward all business without the use of coercive measures, and, indeed, with none but free colored persons to labor for us; and he conceived the idea of escaping from his master and fleeing to us for refuge, until he could 'see his way clear' to a land of freedom." "Where freedom dwells, not only in name, but in reality," said Fitzroy. "It is a burning shame that our country is no more truly a land of liberty; and Slavery, as it now exists, and has existed, will forever be a blot upon her history. Oh! that it might be otherwise! that we might have just and righteous rulers to enact wise and noble de- crees, giving 'liberty to the captive, the opening of the prison to them that are bound.' I can echo the words of the poet: 'Hasten the day, just Heaven! Accomplish thy design; "*     162   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. And let the blessings thou hast freely given, Freely on th men shine; Till equal rights be equally enjoyed, And human power for human good employ'd; Till law, and not the sovereign rule, sustain, And peace and virtue undisputed reign.' "If you had seen and known all that I have of the mighty evils of this system of wrongs, you would not wonder that I feel deeply for the poor slave now." "Oil, Friend Fitzroy," exclaimed Hannah, "I do, indeed, sympathize with the friends of the op- pressed, and I can tell thee no true wonlan lives, whose mind has been exercised upon this question, but is an anti-slavery woman. If women had as much voice in the counsels of the nation as she has in Friends' Meetings, this hideous evil would long ago have ceased to exist." "I believe thee," said Lucretia, " but since it is not woman's place, at present, to vote on moral questions, she should prepare herself, and labor to influence rightly those who can vote. But I will proceed with my narrative. "The poor young fugitive was so ill with fatigue and excitement, added to his previous sufferings, that it was not deemed best to remove him to our house, at once. Directions were accordingly given that no one should visit the cottage of' Old James' without permission, for several daya."   A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.    16: "t Were you afraid to inform your own laborers of the fugitive's presence? I should think they would all have such a fellow-feeling for the slaves, that none could be found base enough to prove informants." ," Thou art right in thy final remark," said Fitz- roy. "Every person upon my estate will shelter, and aid, in every possible manner, the fugitive, but all agree to inform as few as possible of the fact, lest when an inquiry is made, as may usually be expected, there may be fewer to receive blame, and suffer the penalties." "I see the wisdom of the plan," said Hannah. Lucretia continued, "The feet of the young man were bleeding and blistered; his back was bleed- ing, also, from the wounds made by the cruel lash of an unmerciful overseer, and a burning fever raged in his whole system, threatening his life. He soon became delirious, and cried incessantly, 'Oh, save me! save me! let me be free! let me be free, or let me die!' "Towards night we learned from a domestic, whom we had sent out especially to watch for in- quirers after the fugitive, that we were suspected of having the poor slave upon our premises; and it was supposed that a person would soon ap- pear with an armed escort, and a search-warrant, neithrx of which did we feel it right to resst.     164   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. "But we did believe it our privilege to secrete the young man, and we did so. To-morrow, I will show thee the place of his retreat, and another fugitive who arrived the day before yesterday, and is now waiting for a suitable opportunity to reach Canada." "I wish I could take him to our island-home," exclaimed Hannah; "hle would be as safe there as if in Canada; for the fugitive slave-law is too odious to our kind-hearted people to be obeyed; and for my part, I don't believe in obeying any laws which conflict with God's higher laws." "Neither do we," said Fitzroy, while Hannah smiled archly and added, "Thy opinions have somewhat changed." "Yes," answered Fitzroy, with candor, "and the change is owing, in a great measure, to her who was once Lucretia Barnard, and would not become Lucretia Fitzroy while I held a single fel- low-being in bonds." "But Hannah," interrupted Lucretia, "I have not finished my narrative. The poor slave was quietly removed to our house, and placed in our secure retreat, which we call The Refuge.' This was accomplished at about eight o'clock in the evening, and at half-past eight our porter came running in, hastily inquiring if he should admit a party of men, who were indicating, by loud and   A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.   165 repeated knocks, mingled with a volley of oaths and curses, that they desired an entrance. "We immediately took our seats in the library, having charged our domestics to answer no ques- tions, but refer all inquirers to us. Soon, the offi- cer, with his escort, entered; he showed his search- warrant, and in no gentle tone said, we were sus- pected of aiding all the slaves who had escaped, for a long-time; we did not answer, save to his question as to our willingness that he should obey his orders. We calmly bade him search, but to excuse us from accompanying him. 'Old James' was the only domestic who attended them, and we knew we could trust in his discretion and pru- dence. They could discover nothing, and reluct- antly proceeded to their homes. The poor fugi- tive had heard some of their harsh and profane expressions during their search, and was much alarmed; but we soon succeeded in convincing him that no further evil should befal him. As soon as he was able to travel, Morton started with him for a neighboring city, where there were anti- slavery friends, -who could and lwould set the fugi- tive 'on his way rejoicing.' We soon after learned of his safe arrival in Victoria's dominions. But while my husband was travelling to that city, he was observed by some one who recognized the slave; but as that person was alone, and Mor.     166   LUCRETIA, TIIE QUAKERESS. ton had several stout colored-men with him, he feared to arrest their progress, and could, therefore, only enter a complaint against Morton for vio- lating the law by aiding a figitive to gain that blessed boon - freedom. "From the representations of that malicious person, the neighboring slave-holders were roused, and through their influence a company of evil- disposed persons were gathered, whose object it was to execute ' Lynch-law,'- thou hast heard of that, Hannah, - upon him. They chose the even- ing for that purpose, and fell upon Morton when he was walking from 'Old James's cottage home- ward. 'Old James' heard the scuffle, when the wicked men seized Morton, and instantly suspected the cause. He immediately took down a tin trumpet, which each person has in his cottage in order to alarm the whole, in case of fire, or other danger, and sounded the usual call. The trumpet- tone rang clear and shrill on the evening air, and roused the dwellers of the mansion, as well as those in the cottages. "All rushed to Old James, as they perceived the call was from him, and but a short time elapsed ete the whole plantation was in commotion, and strong, able-bodied, faithful men rushed to the suc- cor of their friend and employer,--mark, Han. nah, not their master    A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.   167  "Before he was rescued, however, Morton was bruised and beaten; while words of rebuke were neither few, nor their tones gentle. They were pre- pared to clothe him with ' tar and feathers,' but our  kind colored friends prevented that." "Thy colored friends have no non-resistance   i scruples, then," said Hannah to Fitzroy, who replied, "I cannot say that I was not glad at heart, when I saw those evil-minded men scattered to the right and left, while I was at liberty, and surrounded with friends." 4 Morton was prosecuted soon after," added Lu- cretia, "and was obliged to pay a heavy fine, which -he did very cheerfully, being rejoiced, if he musti suffer, to 'suffer fbr righteousness' sake.' This was the only fugitive whose presence with us has become known, though we can truly say, we have been 'a succorer of many.'  The evening wore away in similar conversation, till the little party finally dispersed. Early the ; next morning, however, cousin Hannah might have been seen gazing intently from her window; and, in a few moments after, in the garden, gath- ering grapes. "How art thou, this morning, Hannah?" said a voice behind her. Hannah turned and beheld Lucretia.     168   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. "Right well, Lucretia, and thy grapes are ex- cellent, and hang so low that I am not under the necessity of playing the fox, and calling them sour." "I came to summon thee to our usually early breakfast; for our domestics, as they labor from choice, are not like the slaves of our neighbors, inclined to take as much ease as possible in the morning. "I may see the fugitive to-day, may I not?" "Yes, Hannah; but please do not speak of him aloud; for we would rather be entirely silent, than expose him to the horrors of slavery again.' "How glad I am that 'Friends' have always opposed this iniquitous system, which not only places human beings in such misery, but bids talkative Hannah Swift curb her tongue!" Lucretia smiled, and they entered the breakfast room together. When the morning meal was concluded, Han- mah observed that a great many colored persons entered the room, and sat down quietly upon seats conveniently arranged. These were the domestics, and such of the "field hands" as could conveni- ently be present. While Hannah was wondering at their presence, a colored man brought a large Bible and placed it upon a stand at Fitzroy's side.   A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.    169 4 I have a severe cold, this morning, and my lungs are sore," said Fitzroy; "wilt thou kindly take my place, Lucretia?" Consent was freely given, and the Bible placed near Lucretia, who then read, in a clear, rich voice, the portion of Scripture designed for the day, com- menting upon it in a lucid manner,- a duty which her former public services admirably qualified her to perform. After these exercises were concluded, Lucretia beckoned to Hannah, and they proceeded together to a chamber, where Lucretia opened a closet door, and bade Hannah "Look within." - 4 I see nothing but a closet, with a few articles of clothing on the shelves." : Lucretia then showed her that the shelves could be lowered, and, by moving certain impediments, that side of the closet could be opened as a door, through which Lucretia and Hannah passed to a stair-case, leading upward to a small room scarcely large enough for a comfortable residence. It was, however, high and well ventilated, and kept warm by the heat proceeding from a chimney whose place for fire was in a room near this. In fact, this little room was between two walls, Fitzroy having had this wall made deep enough for such a purpose, since he renounced slaveholding. A long, 15     170   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. narrow cot furnished a comfortable sleeping place. There was also a place for a lamp, and provisions. No window was allowed here, lest the fugitive's light should attract attention. Here the fugitive spent his nights, and such a portion of the days as might seem expedient. At other times he was allowed the privilege of occupying the room near the closet of entrance, and precautions were taken to prevent a knowledge of his presence there. As soon as possible, every fugitive was released, with a hearty "God speed," and aided to reach a truly free country. The fugitive then occupying that apartment, received Lucretia with earnest expressions of grat- itude. "You are very kind to shelter me, but when can I be free?" said he. "I do not wonder at thy haste to be out of dan. ger," replied Lucretia, " and we will do our beat for thee." "Why can he not go home with me?" asked Hannah; I will warrant him a pleasant home of liberty." The fugitive looked inquiringly at Lucretia. "Yes," said she to him, "thou mayest trust this woman; she is thy friend as well as mine, and if thou art willing, perhaps it would be well for thee   A GLIMPSE OF AFTER-LIFE.    171 to go with her, as her servant, until thou art where no one will molest thee." Upon further onsideration, and consultation with Fitzroy, this was deemed the safest way; and accordingly when Hannah returned, the plan was fulfilled, and proved eminently successful. Among the kind-hearted, conscientious Quakers of' that "ocean isle," the fugitive found warm hearts and outstretched hands, and the " arm of the law" was powerless to remand him back to a bondage more cruel than that of the Israelites in Egypt, a desolation greater than that of Crusoe on his lonely isle, and a sadness deeper than that which wrapped the brow of the Psalmist in gloom, when he sighed for his beautiful but fallen Absa- lom. To Hannah's questions, Lucretia replied that her husband conceived the idea of making a fugi- tive's room, from reading in a work written by a Quaker of England (William Howitt,) of a similar place of refuge prepared in the castle of a Chris- tian nobleman, for those persecuted servants of God, the Lollards. Hannah returned to her New England home in the full persuasion that triumphant Principle is not only consistent with, but promotive of, great hap- piness. Lucretia found abundant joy in teaching      172   LUCRETIA, THE QUAKERESS. those around her, especially the youthful portion, the various English branches of common study, and the arts of sewing, knitting, and the like; while both her husband and herself exerted a powerful and healthful moral influence upon those associated with them on their plantation. Like all others who pursue the " path of the just," they found it growing "brighter and brighter unto the perfect day."     
         
      
   
