
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Out of the Foam .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6153 wright2-0623
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            NEW NOVELS BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE.
            
               I.—FAIRFAX. Price $1.50
               II.—HILT TO HILT. 1.50
               III.—HAMMER AND RAPIER. 1.50
               IV.—OUT OF THE FOAM. 1.50
            
            All published uniform with this volume. Sold everywhere, and sent by mail
                  free on receipt of price, by G. W. CARLETON, Publisher, NEW YORK.
         
         
            
               OUT OF THE FOAM.
               A Novel.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE, AUTHOR OF "HILT TO HILT," "HAMMER
               AND RAPIER," "FAIRFAX," "SURRY OF EAGLE'S NEST," ETC., ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               Carleton, Publisher, Madison Square
               LONDON:
               S. LOW, SON & CO.
            
            MDCCCLXXI.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1870, by GEORGE W.
                  CARLETON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the
                  Southern District of New York.
               Stereotyped at the WOMEN'S PRINTING HOUSE.
               Corner Avenue A and Eighth Street New York.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               PART I.
               THE ATTACK ON WESTBROOKE HALL.
               
                  I.—The Beacon. 9
                  
                  II.—The Solitary Woman and her Visitor. 13
                  
                  III.—The Gypsy. 19
                  
                  IV.—The Odor of Death. 26
                  
                  V.—The Rendezvous. 33
                  
                  VI.—Sir Murdaugh's Midnight Visitor. 41
                  
                  VII.—What Earle saw from his Hiding-place. 46
                  
                  VIII.—The Wolf-Hound. 52
                  
                  IX.—How Earle Staggered and Fell, Uttering a Cry of Triumph. 57
                  
                  X.—How the Sailor Earle became one of the "Wolves." 65
                  
                  
                  XI.—Ellinor Maverick. 72
                  
                  XII.—"It is Time!" 80
                  
                  XIII.—The Man in the Coach. 84
                  
                  XIV.—The Night March, and its Object. 91
                  
                  XV.—The Viscount Cecil. 98
                  
                  XVI.—The Attack and Pursuit. 103
                  
                  XVII.—Goliath. 112
                  
               
            
            
               PART II.
               THE BLOOD-HOUND.
               
                  I.—Hunted. 118
                  
                  II.—The Baronet and the Solitary. 129
                  
                  III.—What One Woman is capable of toward Another. 142
                  
                  IV.—The Sailor and his Ship. 149
                  
                  V.—Earle's Design. 154
                  
                  VI.—The Witness. 158
                  
                  VII.—The Denunciation. 162
                  
                  VIII.—The Blood-Hound. 170
                  
                  IX.—What Followed. 177
                  
                  X.—The Flag with the Lilies. 181
                  
               
            
            
               PART III.
               BURIED ALIVE.
               
                  I.—Baron Delamere. 189
                  
                  II.—The Mutilated Register. 198
                  
                  III.—The Revelation. 203
                  
                  IV.—The Discovery. 207
                  
                  V.—The Blow of the Whip. 213
                  
                  VI.—The Mad Dog. 219
                  
                  VII.—The Burial of the Wolf. 224
                  
                  VIII.—The Chase. 228
                  
                  XI.—The Mystery of the Dead Bodies. 233
                  
                  X.—The Den of the Wolf. 339
                  
                  XI.—Kidnapped. 243
                  
                  XII.—Master and Man. 247
                  
                  XIII.—A Tigress. 251
                  
                  XIV.—The Intruder. 259
                  
                  XV.—The Rifled Grave. 269
                  
                  XVI.—The Attack of the Wolves. 277
                  
                  XVII.—The News from France. 283
                  
                  XVIII.—The Crisis. 289
                  
                  XIX.—The Path to Wentworth Castle. 293
                  
                  XX.—What the Gypsy Woman had Seen. 299
                  
                  XXI.—The Love of an Old Man for a Girl. 304
                  
                  
                  XXII.—The Bludgeon and the Rope. 312
                  
                  XXIII.—The Maverick Vault. 317
                  
                  XXIV.—The Man from Wentworth Castle. 322
                  
                  XXV.—The Wedding at Llangollen. 326
                  
                  XXVI.—The Vengeance of a Blood-Hound. 332
                  
                  XXVII.—The Wolves celebrate the Marriage of their Chief. 338
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Out of the foam
            OUT OF THE FOAM.
            
               PART I.
               THE ATTACK ON WESTBROOKE HALL.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE BEACON.
                  ON a stormy night of autumn, a boat, approaching from the open sea, drew
                     rapidly near the coast of Pembrokeshire, the most western of the shires of
                     Wales.
                  The coast was wild, rock-bound, jutting out into gigantic headlands, and lashed
                     by the restless surges of St. George's Channel, breaking with a hollow murmur
                     on dangerous reefs. At the point which the boat approached, the loftiest of
                     these headlands rose precipitously from the foam; at its foot grinned the
                     jagged teeth of rocks which had wrecked many a vessel; and in the cavernous
                     recesses the long bellow of the waves was mingled with the shrill scream of the
                     sea-fowl.
                  
                  The boat was rowed by four men, and in the stern stood a fifth personage
                     wrapped in a cloak.
                  The stars, glittering from moment to moment, between the masses of black cloud,
                     scarce revealed the dusky figures; but all at once there shot up from the
                     headland, towering at a dizzy height above, a pillar of flame, which threw its
                     crimson glare far out upon the waves of the channel.
                  Every instant the fiery streamer grew more brilliant. The wind began to blow
                     big guns, and the gigantic torch flickered in the gusts. The boat flew on,—was
                     steered through the threatening reefs by the man in the stern,—and finally shot
                     straight toward the perpendicular precipice, where it seemed impossible to
                     land.
                  The steersman, however, evidently knew the locality. All at once, there
                     appeared a sort of indentation in the precipice, from which a winding pathway
                     was seen to ascend the cliff. The boat touched land, or rather the rock; the
                     man in the cloak leaped ashore, carrying under his arm a black leather valise;
                     and the boat, without delay, returned toward the open channel.
                  As it moved away, the man in the cloak said, in the brief tone of command,—
                  "Remember my orders, men. Return to this spot every night, for ten nights, at
                     this hour. The corvette will stand for the coast of Ireland, but regularly beat
                     up again at nightfall. My business may be finished in two days; if not in ten,
                     I will be dead."
                  And the speaker rapidly ascended the cliff by the rugged path, which, in twenty
                     minutes, conducted him to the plateau on which streamed the beacon light.
                  It was a great bonfire in a fissure of rock, not far from a sort of hut leaning
                     against a mass of granite. On a bench, in front of the hut, sat a woman of
                     about fifty, clad in sad-colored garments, and looking out thoughtfully upon
                     the channel. The face of this woman was pale and emaciated; her hair was
                     sprinkled with gray; and from time to time she passed backward and forward
                     through her fingers the beads of a Catholic devotee, attached to her girdle.
                     Poor as her dress and surroundings were, there was something proud and imposing
                     in her appearance. In the full glare of the beacon light every detail was
                     plain.
                  The man drew near. At first the crackling of the fire and the dense smoke made the woman
                     unaware of his approach. All at once, however, he stood beside her, and
                     exclaiming "Edmond!" she rose to her feet.
                  "Mother!" came in response, and a moment afterwards she was locked in the man's
                     embrace.
                  As he extended his arms his cloak fell, and he was seen to be clad in the full
                     uniform of a captain of the French navy.
                  This scene took place nearly a century ago, and England and France were then at
                     war.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE SOLITARY WOMAN AND HER VISITOR.
                  THE young officer and the woman sat down side by side on the bench, in the full
                     light of the beacon fire.
                  The light revealed his face and figure clearly. He was about twenty-five; of
                     slight figure, but evidently active and powerful. The face was bronzed by sun
                     and wind. In the black eyes, keen and piercing, could be read force of
                     character, and a courage as cool as it was reckless.
                  They talked long and earnestly. The sailor seemed to be narrating his
                     adventures.
                  "And now, mother," he at length said, "since I have finished with myself, let
                     us come to yourself. You still keep up your beacon?"
                  "Yes, yes, my son!" was the reply, in French, the language of their conversation. "Alas! it is
                     little to do in expiation of my sins."
                  "Your sins?"
                  "My great sins. Do not bring them to my memory. That beacon, you know, warns
                     vessels approaching the reefs. It has saved many lives."
                  "True, mother—mine among the rest. I dared not look for a pilot, and your
                     beacon saved the corvette last year."
                  "A whole year since your last visit!"
                  She gazed at him tenderly as she uttered these words.
                  "Could I help that, mother? England and France are enemies now, and the coast
                     is guarded. A frigate may blow my little corvette out of the water at any
                     moment."
                  "But you come—"
                  "On secret service."
                  "Tell me of it."
                  He shook his head.
                  "That is impossible, mother."
                  "And yet I tell you all!"
                  He looked at her with a smile, and then shrugged his shoulders.
                  "You tell me nothing. What is it you have ever told me? Stay: what brought you
                     hither, many years since, to this solitary spot? Why did you leave beautiful
                     France for this rock-bound shore? Why do you live the life of a recluse, going
                     to the fishing village beneath only once in many months to buy scanty supplies,
                     with the poor little gold I brought?"
                  Her head sank.
                  "True," she said, "I have preserved silence as to all this, but only because I
                     was compelled to do so. Believe me, Edmond, I have good reasons for my
                     silence."
                  "And I too, my mother, for mine, namely, my orders. So we will respect each
                     other's secret. Instead of speaking, I wish you to speak. Is a certain Viscount
                     Cecil in this neighborhood now?"
                  "I do not know, my son."
                  "A certain Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke?"
                  The woman turned her head suddenly.
                  "I believe so. But your business with him, my son?"
                  The sailor uttered a short laugh.
                  "Merely to have an interview with him, my mother."
                  The woman shuddered.
                  "What is the matter, mother?"
                  "Beware of this man, my son."
                  
                  "Beware of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke?"
                  "He is a terrible person, they say; bloody and cruel; and strange stories are
                     told of him."
                  "Ah! what stories?"
                  "Mysterious things are said to take place at Westbrooke Hall. People speak of
                     singular noises heard there,—of groans; of great hounds prowling around ready
                     to tear down intruders. More still,—it is said that a singular odor fills the
                     house."
                  "A singular odor?"
                  "The smell of corpses."
                  And the woman crossed herself.
                  The young sailor repeated his short laugh.
                  "That is mysterious, and curious, and I will go and see for myself.
                     Groans—hounds—noises—the smell of corpses! That is queer, and excites
                     curiosity. But we have conversed sufficiently of the excellent baronet.
                     Besides, I am in haste, my mother—I must leave you. First, however, here is
                     some gold."
                  And he drew a heavily filled bag from his valise, and placed it in the lap of
                     the recluse.
                  "Do not refuse it," he added; "it is honestly earned; and money is a friend,
                     mother—one of the best in the world, and we should not repulse friends. Now I
                     must hurry. I have some distance to travel to-night, and must change my
                     costume."
                  With these words the sailor raised the valise, and entered the door of the hut,
                     leaving the solitary woman still seated on her bench, in the light of the
                     beacon fire.
                  This light streamed through the small window, and revealed a rush-clad floor,
                     one hard wooden chair, a low narrow bed, with a poor but neat covering, and
                     several exquisite engravings of scenes in the lives of the saints.
                  In ten minutes the sailor reappeared. He was scarce recognizable. His uniform
                     had been replaced by a handsome dark travelling suit of English fashion; in one
                     hand he carried a small travelling satchel, and in the other what appeared to
                     be a bundle of rods about three feet in length, wrapped in shining
                     oil-cloth.
                  "You behold, my mother, the gentleman tourist, Mr. Delamere," he said,
                     laughing. "Let it be pardoned the captain, Edmond Earle, sailor, if he adopts
                     the name of Delamere—de la mèr—as that to
                     which he is best entitled after his own."
                  "And you will leave me, my son, so soon after gladdening my poor old eyes with
                     your coming?"
                  
                  "I must, mother; but do not fear: I will soon return."
                  "But the danger."
                  "Danger! Well, we are old acquaintances, this same danger and myself. We have
                     shaken hands often, and I am not afraid of him."
                  "If they discover you—"
                  "They will arrest and hang me as a spy? Yes: but they will not probably
                     discover me. I speak English like a native; and before they hang me, the town
                     yonder will be blown to atoms by my cannon."
                  The recluse clasped her hands.
                  "Oh, my son! do not go."
                  He laughed grimly.
                  "Be at rest, my mother: there is no danger; and you will not behold that fine
                     spectacle from your headland,—the coast of this good Pembrokshire raked by the
                     guns of my corvette. See! yonder is her light on the horizon. She is standing
                     out to sea. You do not see it? I am a sailor, and see far. And now, farewell,
                     my mother. I will revisit you to-morrow night, I think. Embrace me."
                  And embracing the woman, the sailor set out rapidly by a path which led down
                     the mountain side toward the interior.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE GYPSY.
                  A MILE southward from the headland which we have described, lay the fishing
                     village of Oldport, an assemblage of huts, many of them consisting of the
                     overturned hulls of wrecked vessels, in which lurked rather than lived openly a
                     wild and lawless class of men, half fishermen, half smugglers, popularly known
                     throughout the region as "The Wolves."
                  In front of a building of somewhat greater pretensions hung a rude sign
                     depicting a cat with a bell around her neck. This was the inn of the Cat and Bell, and on the day after the scenes just described, a
                     rickety old road-wagon, answering in place of a stage-coach, deposited at the
                     inn the disguised French officer who had entered the vehicle at a town some
                     miles distant.
                  
                  Announcing himself as Mr. Delamere, tourist and amateur trout-fisherman, he
                     dined; stated that he expected to remain some days; and taking from the
                     oil-cloth case a jointed fishing-rod, fitted it together, and strolled through
                     the village.
                  From the huts of the "Wolves," curious and threatening eyes were bent upon him,
                     shining under shaggy masses of hair. The wild animals seemed to scent a
                     popinjay in the well-clad amateur of their own trade.
                  But Earle did not see the scornful glances, or hear the threatening murmurs. He
                     proceeded toward a body of wood, from which rose in the distance a great
                     mansion of dark-colored stone; gained the wood, through which a stream ran, and
                     rapidly following a path, muttered,—
                  "This leads to Westbrooke Hall—which is my object, since the worthy Viscount
                     Cecil is not in the vicinity. I must reconnoitre. This is the path, I
                     think—"
                  Suddenly he stopped. He had come upon a group of gypsies; an old crone in a red
                     cloak bending over a blaze, two rougish-looking girls, and a young man,
                     black-eyed, black-haired, lithe of figure, reclining at the moment between the
                     girls, and picking his white teeth with a straw. He was a handsome young
                     vagabond, and his ragged-clothes did not conceal a graceful and vigorous
                     figure.
                  No sooner had Earle made his appearance, than one of the girls rose and
                     hastened to him.
                  "Shall I tell your fortune, handsome stranger?" she said.
                  Earle looked intently at the girl, shook his head, and replied in a strange
                     tongue which seemed to produce an electric effect on the group. The girls
                     started, the old crone turned her head, and the young man, rising to his feet,
                     exclaimed,—
                  "How! you speak the Rommanye Rye! You are a brother?"
                  Earle replied in the same language, and the young man looked at him with
                     astonishment.
                  "You speak the pure unmixed Rommanye Rye! Where did you learn it, brother, and
                     who are you?"
                  "I learned it in Portugal, brother," responded Earle, "and am one of the tribe
                     by adoption. Who I am, beyond that, is not important."
                  The gypsy came up close to him.
                  "Yes, it is important," he whispered.
                  "Why?"
                  
                  "Because, if you are really a brother of the Rommanye Rye,—and you needs must
                     be, since you speak our tongue,—I have something on hand in which you can help
                     me, and yourself too."
                  "What is it? and how will it benefit me?"
                  "There will be ten thousand guineas to divide."
                  Earle looked sidewise at his companion.
                  "A robbery?" he said, coolly.
                  The gypsy looked much shocked.
                  "Nothing of the sort, brother: the affair is a strange one; but no
                     robbery."
                  Earle found his curiosity much excited by this preamble, and said,—
                  "Well, tell me about it. I may be able to assist you."
                  The gypsy looked toward his companions, and whispered,
                  "Not here or now."
                  "When and where, then?"
                  "Do you see that spot yonder, where the road skirts the dark pool, under the
                     big rock, covered with trailing vines, hanging down in the water?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Meet me there at midnight to-night. I swear, on the faith of the Rommanye Rye,
                     that no harm shall come to you!"
                  Earle laughed.
                  "I am not afraid," he said, "and I know that oath is sacred. I only demur to
                     the time and place. I am at Oldport, and that is miles distant. Midnight is the
                     hour to sleep; why not earlier and in a less secluded spot?"
                  "Because what I tell you must be told to you alone; and that spot is the place
                     to tell it."
                  "Why?"
                  "You will discover."
                  Earle looked keenly at his interlocutor. He was evidently in earnest.
                  "You want my help?" said Earle.
                  "I must have help. None of the brothers of the Rommanye Rye are at hand. You
                     are a stranger, but a brother. I will trust you. What do you say?"
                  "I say I will be yonder, near the pool, at midnight," was the reply.
                  And they returned to the group who had been eyeing them with ill-dissembled
                     curiosity.
                  "This is a brother," he said to the gypsy girls. "There is no mistake about
                     it."
                  The black-eyed houries showed their appreciation ation of the visitor, thereupon, by coming up to
                     him, locking their arms, browned by the sun, around his neck, and kissing him
                     with ardor.
                  The sailor laughed, and did not decline the ruddy lips. He then made a
                     confidential gesture to the young gypsy, declined the offered supper, and went
                     on, intent, it seemed, on making the circuit of the Westbrooke Park, until he
                     reached the gateway.
                  This he soon found,—a huge arch, with carved stone abutments,—and, dragging
                     open the ponderous affair, he entered the grounds.
                  They had been splendid, but were now returning to 
                        wilerdness
                        wilderness
                     . Hares ran across the road in front of the pedestrian, a deer
                     disappeared in a tangled thicket, and no human being was seen, to indicate that
                     the spot was inhabited.
                  All at once, Earle came in sight of a great building of age-embrowned stone,
                     apparently dug from the neighboring quarries, with lofty gables, ivy-covered,
                     and long rows of windows, close-shut, and giving no indication that the house
                     was occupied by the living, whatever antics the dead might cut up, at midnight,
                     in its suites of deserted chambers. The great front door was as closely
                     secured, and a huge knocker in bronze scowled fiercely through cobwebs. In the
                     circle in front of the portico, whose tesselated floor was giving way, was a
                     stone urn, slowly crumbling.
                  Westbrooke Hall was not a cheerful spectacle.
                  Earle was looking at it, leaning, as he did so, against a tree, when a rough
                     voice near him said, in a threatening tone,—
                  "Well, what is your business here?"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE ODOR OF DEATH.
                  EARLE turned quickly. Standing near him was a man of low stature, but herculean
                     limbs, with a shaggy beard, bloodshot eyes, over which the brows were bent in a
                     dark scowl, and holding in his hand, finger on trigger, a heavy carbine.
                  Beside him stood two large wolf-hounds, ready to spring. The man with this
                     ferocious body-guard seemed reluctant to await Earle's reply before firing upon
                     him.
                  The sailor exhibited little surprise and no fear.
                  "My business here?" he said. "Who are you that ask that? The gamekeeper?"
                  "Yes—who are you? I am told that suspicious picious characters are
                     prowling about. Your name and business here, or I carry you before Sir
                     Murdaugh!"
                  Earle reflected for a moment, muttering,—
                  "That would not be so bad."
                  The gamekeeper cocked his gun, scowling ferociously.
                  "Do you intend to answer me?"
                  "No."
                  "Then come along before his honor. He will find out who is prowling around his
                     house."
                  Earle coolly nodded, and walked with the man toward the mansion. Reaching the
                     front door, his companion drew from his pocket a huge key, opened the ponderous
                     door, which grated on its hinges, and ushered Earle into a funereal apartment,
                     hung round with old portraits, after which he disappeared.
                  The furniture was ancient and mouldy; and to add to this depressing influence,
                     Earle's attention was speedily attracted by a peculiarly acrid, offensive, and
                     even sickening odor, which he could compare to nothing but that issuing from
                     some vault or charnel-house.
                  In spite of his courage and buoyancy of temperament, he shuddered. This
                     funereal mansion sion, full of shadows
                     and mystery, affected unpleasantly even the rough sailor. The dim eyes of the
                     portraits followed him, the brows scowled, the terrible odor, which he
                     perceived now, came to perfect the depressing and melancholy influence of the
                     place.
                  "Really, I have blundered into a vault," he muttered. "Some corpse is going to
                     glide in at that door there, and clutch me by the hair!"
                  Suddenly a harsh and metallic voice, almost beside him said,—
                  "Your business here? How did you gain entrance?"
                  Earle turned and saw before him a strange figure. In the new-comer's appearance
                     there was something at once grotesque and terrible. He was a man of about
                     sixty; of great height: gaunt, bony, with glittering eyes, deeply sunken under
                     heavy brows, and a nose resembling the beak of a hawk. From the corners of a
                     large and sensual mouth, protruded two tusks, rather than teeth. The result of
                     this, was a permanent and ghastly sneer, which put the finishing touch to a
                     physiognomy which excited at once fear and disgust—the sentiment of the
                     ridiculous and the terrible.
                  He was clad in an old faded dressing-gown, the sleeves of which were rolled up,
                     and had evidently not expected a visitor.
                  "Your business here?" he repeated, in his cold, forbidding voice, the muddy
                     gray eyes rolling in their cavernous sockets.
                  Earle gazed at him coolly, and replied,—
                  "Your gamekeeper conducted me hither. I say your gamekeeper, as I
                     presume you are Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke."
                  "I am."
                  As he spoke, the shaggy-headed Hercules entered. His master turned to him with
                     a scowl.
                  "I ordered no one to be admitted here without my knowledge—why have you
                     disobeyed me?" he said.
                  "It was long ago—I was wrong Sir Murdaugh," stammered the man.
                  "In future obey me," grated the metallic voice; "who is this—gentleman?"
                  The word seemed forced reluctantly from him.
                  "I am a tourist," said Earle, "travelling on my own affairs. I came to look at
                     Westbrooke Park, and have been gratified with a view, also, of the interior of
                     your residence, sir,—in the character
                     of a vagrant brought up before your honor."
                  And Earle looked around him coolly. A door led from the apartment toward the
                     servants quarters'—through folding doors, leading to a second receiving room, a
                     window was seen open in rear, and through this window, the foliage of the
                     park.
                  "Good!" muttered the sailor; "that is all I wanted to know."
                  He rose and bowed.
                  "If I am not to be committed as a vagabond, I will now take my leave, sir," he
                     said.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, bowed stiffly.
                  "Before I take my departure, however, may I ask one question, sir?" said the
                     sailor.
                  "Ask it."
                  "It may appear intrusive."
                  "Ask it!" grated the voice.
                  "Since you so politely permit me, I will venture to ask," said the sailor,
                     coolly, "what the very peculiar odor I perceive here is due to, Sir
                     Murdaugh."
                  The baronet drew back and seemed to freeze. Only his eyes burned in their
                     bloodshot recesses.
                  "Your question is offensive!" he growled
                  "Then it resembles the smell I perceive."
                  And Earl snuffed up the air with manifest disgust.
                  "I compliment you upon the power of your imagination!" sneered the baronet.
                  "My nose is the organ affected, and I should say that you have a corpse for a
                     visitor at present, sir," said Earle. "But I grow really intrusive now, and
                     will take my leave. Good-evening. Thanks for the hospitalities of Westbrooke
                     Hall. We shall probably meet again."
                  And he bowed and left the apartment. As he did so the baronet called,—
                  "Wilde!"
                  The shaggy gamekeeper was at the door, and quickly made his appearance.
                  "Follow that man and find out where he goes, and who he is—I do not like him.
                     There is something in his face and voice that warns me to beware of him. Who is
                     he? You do not know? Why do you not know? What do I employ you for? Go, I say,
                     and track him, and bring me word all about him!"
                  The man, sullen but cowed, went out, and the baronet looked toward the door
                     through which Earle had disappeared.
                  
                  "If that man comes here again with his talk about odors and corpses," he
                     muttered in his harsh voice, while the yellow tusks protruded threateningly, "I
                     will make a corpse of him!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE RENDEZVOUS.
                  IT was nearly midnight: the moon had risen about half an hour before, and its
                     pallid light revealed every feature of the lonely and lugubrious locality fixed
                     upon by the gypsy for his rendezvous with Earle.
                  Nothing more gloomy and forbidding than the spot in question could be
                     imagined.
                  The road, or rather bridle-path, indicated by the gypsy, ran along the steep
                     banks of the stream we have spoken of, and near a dark and sullen-looking pool
                     above which rose a huge rock, festooned with spectral-looking vines, and
                     covered nearly with dense foliage. The stream, merrily brawling on elsewhere,
                     here dragged its black and sombre current slowly along, and deposited its froth
                     and scum. Above the pool a dead bough,
                     gnarled and abrupt, resembled the gaunt arm of some fiend stretched
                     out—beneath, on the sullen water, the shadows assumed ghostly and threatening
                     outlines.
                  It was a spot to commit a murder, not to hold a midnight interview in, save
                     with the hand upon some weapon. The very hooting of a great-horned owl, buried
                     in the leaves, sounded unearthly. The spot seemed given up to gloom and the
                     recollection, by the very inanimate objects, of some terrible tragedy.
                  Precisely at midnight, a figure wrapped in a cloak approached the great gnarled
                     tree near the rock hanging over the pool, and the moonlight clearly revealed
                     the form of Earle.
                  "Well, I am here," he muttered; "where, I wonder, is my friend of the black
                     eyes?"
                  "Here!" came from the shadow of the rock.
                  And the gypsy advanced into the moonlight.
                  Earle advanced in his turn. Under his cloak his hand grasped the hilt of his
                     poniard.
                  They faced each other directly opposite the pool; and the dark eyes of the
                     gypsy, full of wary cunning, were fixed upon the calm face of Earle.
                  "I see you are a brave man, brother," he said.
                  "How have I proved that?" said Earle.
                  "By coming here at an hour like this, alone."
                  "That is no proof of my courage. You are but one man—I am another."
                  The gypsy laughed.
                  "And a cool one. Others might have refused this meeting. This spot has a black
                     reputation in the neighborhood."
                  "Why?"
                  "A man was tied to that tree, and lashed nearly to death."
                  "Indeed!"
                  "And six feet from it, another was murdered, and his body dragged to the pool
                     yonder, where it was thrown in, with weights to hold it down."
                  "How do you know that?"
                  "I saw it."
                  "You saw the murder?"
                  The gypsy nodded.
                  "Why did you not denounce the murderer? But doubtless you did so."
                  The gypsy shook his head.
                  "I was too intelligent for that."
                  
                  "Too intelligent?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Explain.'
                  The gypsy laughed again. It was a low, subtle sound, like the hiss of a
                     serpent.
                  "Why should I have informed on the murderer?" he said. "No: I was too
                     intelligent for that! A man is murdered; his body concealed in that
                     black-looking pool; no one knows of the murder save the man or men who
                     committed it, and a wandering vagabond of a gypsy who chanced to be in the
                     copse yonder, and witnessed all,—and you ask now why the vagabond did not go to
                     a magistrate and tell all; why he did not say, 'I saw another commit this
                     murder.' No—I am acquainted with these good English justices of the peace. They
                     demand a murderer where murder has been done—what more natural than the arrest
                     of the vagabond?"
                  Earle nodded.
                  "You are right. And you held your tongue?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Knowing all?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Tell me what happened. There is nothing like understanding all the particulars
                     of a given event."
                  "The story is short. I will conceal nothing—for you are a brother of the
                     Rommanye Rye, and the oath of the brotherhood seals the lips—you know
                     that."
                  "Yes."
                  "What happened was this: There was a man who had an enemy. That enemy met the
                     man one day at this spot, seized him with the aid of a servant, bound him to
                     that tree there, and lashed him as men lash a hound. I do not know why—enough
                     that he lashed him till his flesh was bloody. Then the two went away and left
                     him tied; when some passer-by found him he was nearly dead."
                  "That is a strange story," said Earle; "and this led to the murder?"
                  "Yes. The man who had been lashed got well, and waited. One day he was riding
                     along this road just at dark with a mounted attendant. He met his enemy—the one
                     who had treated him as I have described. I was yonder in that thicket, as I
                     told you. The enemies met face to face, and he who had been lashed smiled
                     sweetly, held out his hand, and said, 'I forgive you; my punishment was just.' At these words, the other held
                     out his hand in turn. A minute afterwards he fell from his horse with a deep
                     groan—the man whom he had lashed had stabbed him to the heart."
                  "Good!" said Earle; "there is a regular murder."
                  "Yes. The man did not die at once, so his enemy and the attendant dismounted
                     and beat out his brains. They then fastened rocks, with their stirrup leathers,
                     to the feet of the corpse, and dragged it to the pool yonder, where they threw
                     it in, and it sunk to the bottom."
                  Earle listened with attention.
                  "And you saw all this?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And did not inform on the murderer?"
                  "No."
                  "Then the murder remained unsuspected?"
                  "On the contrary, it was discovered at once."
                  "How was that?—you interest me."
                  "The murdered man had been followed by a very fine blood-hound, a pet dog with
                     him. When he was stabbed, the dog leaped at the throat of the murderer."
                  "Brave dog!—and they did not kill him too?"
                  "No: he escaped, and led the way afterwards to the spot where his master had
                     been murdered. The marks of a struggle were found—the blood-stains on the grass
                     over which the body had been dragged, and at last the body itself, in the pool
                     where it had been sunk."
                  Earle reflected for some moments and then said,—
                  "That is a singular history you relate, brother, and yet your voice tells me
                     that it is true. Now, what is your object? To bring the murderer to
                     justice?"
                  The gypsy smiled.
                  "I should like to do so if I could, brother; but I cannot, being a vagabond;
                     and then, I cannot afford it."
                  "Afford it?"
                  "The secret is worth much money. Listen: I go—that is, you and I go—to the man
                     who committed that murder and say, "Your life is in my hand; you killed a man;
                     pay me ten thousand guineas as the price of my secresy?" That is plain, is it
                     not?"
                  Earle nodded coolly.
                  "Then we will divide the sum he pays us," said the gypsy.
                  
                  "That would be liberal," returned Earle.
                  "You consent?"
                  "That depends. We have used no names; let us come to that. Who was the murdered
                     man?"
                  "Giles Maverick, a prominent gentleman of Pembrokeshire."
                  "The murderer?"
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke."
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  SIR MURDAUGH'S MIDNIGHT VISITOR.
                  HE had scarcely uttered the words, when a low growl in the copse near them was
                     suddenly heard; and an instant afterwards the gypsy sprung in the direction of
                     the sound, which resembled the noise of rapidly retreating footsteps.
                  The gypsy followed with long leaps, like a wild-cat in pursuit of his prey; but
                     in spite of all, the sounds became more and more indistinct, and suddenly
                     ceased. The concealed personage had escaped.
                  Earle had remained motionless, leaning against the gnarled tree.
                  In ten minutes the gypsy returned to the spot, breathing heavily from his
                     exertion.
                  "We have been tracked," he said, hastily.
                  
                  Earle nodded.
                  "I thought so," he said.
                  "You thought so?"
                  "Yes; that is to say, I feared as much."
                  "Why?"
                  "I was at Westbrooke Hall late this evening, and had a conversation with Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke. As I went out, I heard him summon a confidential servant,
                     or gamekeeper, whose name is Wilde. The man followed me, hung around the tavern
                     at the village for an hour, disappeared, I thought; but now I find that he is a
                     better hand at woodcraft than I am, a mere sailor. He has tracked me, and
                     overheard all."
                  The gypsy knit his brow.
                  "You take it coolly, brother."
                  "There is no reason why I should take it otherwise."
                  "He will inform Sir Murdaugh."
                  "Of what?"
                  "Of all he has heard."
                  "He has heard nothing."
                  "Nothing!"
                  "We have been talking in the Rommanye Rye," said Earle.
                  The gypsy looked at him with admiration.
                  "That is true, brother," he said; "and you have a long head on your shoulders.
                     Now what is to be done?"
                  Earle reflected for an instant.
                  "The affair looks unpromising," he said; "but something may, perhaps, take
                     place which will guide you in your business. The night is clear, we have some
                     hours before us: why not pay a visit to the park of Westbrooke Hall, and try to
                     discover, for one thing, whether I am mistaken in thinking that the man Wilde
                     has tracked me? If I am right, he will return to make his report. Through a
                     window chink we may overhear something; from a tree, which a good sailor like
                     myself can easily climb, we may see something. Who knows? Let us try, at
                     least."
                  And, followed by the gypsy, who evidently regarded him with admiration, Earle
                     set out rapidly in the direction of Westbrooke Hall. In half an hour, they were
                     near the boundaries of the park, which was encircled by a high wall.
                  As they drew nearer, they all at once discovered a light vehicle, to which a
                     single horse was attached, standing in the shadow of the wall, at a point where
                     the stones had partially fallen, and left a gap.
                  Through this gap two men were seen lifting a third wrapped in a cloak, and apparently in
                     the last stages of intoxication.
                  "Stand up, my hearty!" said one of the men, with a low laugh; "this way you
                     have of going and getting yourself as drunk as a beast is not according to good
                     morals, old fellow! There! use your legs and come on. Sir Murdaugh is waiting
                     for you."
                  "Be quiet, and hush your gab, mate," said the other; "who knows who may be
                     prowling about?"
                  "After midnight?"
                  "Yes. There are the gypsy people."
                  "Well, they do hate Sir Murdaugh."
                  "There, again. I have often warned you about calling names; stop it! Bear a
                     hand there."
                  "You are right, mate. Come on, aged inebriate!"
                  And the two men half dragged, half carried the third along a path through the
                     shrubbery, toward the hall.
                  Earle and the gypsy followed, walking noiselessly and keeping in the
                     shadow.
                  As they approached the hall, a low growl from a kennel, where a hound seemed to
                     be chained, greeted them, and a moment afterwards the door of the hall opened
                     slightly, and revealed the figure of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, clad in his long
                     dressing-gown, and holding a light in his hand.
                  Earle and the gypsy had reached the thicket near which the former had
                     encountered the gamekeeper. In this they ensconsed themselves, and could see
                     everything.
                  Sir Murdaugh shot a keen glance in the direction of the three figures.
                  "Make haste!" he said, impatiently.
                  "Come on, old gentleman!" muttered one of the men to the one between them.
                  The figure staggered, and would have fallen had not the two men held it up by
                     main force. As it staggered, the hat fell off, the cloak dropped to the ground;
                     and the light revealed all.
                  The figure was clad in a shroud, and the jaw had fallen.
                  It was a corpse.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  WHAT EARLE SAW FROM HIS HIDING-PLACE.
                  EARLE laid his hand upon the arm of his companion. On the firm lips of the
                     young sailor the moonlight revealed a sarcastic smile.
                  "Look!" he whispered; "there is the sort of goods in which our friend
                     deals."
                  "Yes," said the gypsy, whose dark eyes were fixed upon the face of the corpse.
                     "Is it another murder?"
                  "No."
                  "What?"
                  "I will tell you when there is less danger of being overheard."
                  In fact, the two men carrying the corpse had paused to listen. Something seemed
                     to excite their suspicion.
                  "What is the matter?" came in low, harsh tones from the lips of Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke.
                  "I thought I heard a noise, sir," said one of the men.
                  "A noise?"
                  "In the thicket there." And releasing the arm of the corpse, the speaker took
                     two steps toward the spot where Earle and the gypsy were concealed.
                  Earle laid his hand upon his poniard. The hand of the gypsy in like manner
                     stole beneath his ragged jacket and grasped something—a knife, probably. There
                     was no possibility of retreating. It was necessary, they felt, to await the
                     attack and defend themselves.
                  But the danger quickly passed.
                  "Nonsense!" came in same low, harsh tones from the baronet; "all fancy! There
                     is no one there. It is one in the morning. Bring in that!"
                  And with his long, lean finger he pointed to the corpse.
                  The man returned, muttering something, and again assisted his companion in
                     dragging—for they rather dragged than carried—the body into the mansion. The
                     lugubrious group with their funereal
                     burden passed through the great doorway—it closed—save the glimmer through one
                     of the windows, there was now no sign of life throughout the establishment.
                  "Well," said Earle, "we have stumbled upon something like an adventure. We did
                     well in coming to visit the park. There is nothing like knowing the private
                     affairs of a man you are to have dealings with!"
                  "Hist!" returned the gypsy suddenly. I heard a noise!"
                  "A noise?—Where?"
                  "In the wood yonder, behind the house."
                  Both listened. All at once footsteps became audible—the firm tread of a man,
                     walking on the thick turf, which gave forth a muffled and dull response.
                  "He has arrived!" whispered Earle.
                  "Who?"
                  "The man who tracked me and overheard what was said yonder—Wilde?"
                  "He will discover us!"
                  "It is probable, as he has one of the hounds with him."
                  "Where is the dog?"
                  As he spoke, Wilde appeared in the moonlight, emerging from the shadow of the
                     wood. Beside him ran the great wolf-hound, nosing and uttering suppressed
                     growls.
                  "What is the matter?" the man was heard to say in a low voice; "there is no one
                     here, Wolf."
                  The dog continued his quest, uneasy, evidently, and more suspicious than his
                     master.
                  "Come here," said Wilde; "you are losing your time. The first thing is to see
                     Sir Murdaugh. Then we will come out and go the rounds, Wolf."
                  With these words he called the dog to him, and they disappeared behind the
                     mansion.
                  "Now is the time to get off," whispered the gypsy.
                  "No: now is the time to discover more," returned Earle, coolly. "Go deeper into
                     the thicket; no dog can find you there, if you lie down and keep quiet. I am
                     going to the maintop to look out."
                  And with a short laugh, which revealed his white teeth, the young sailor
                     emerged from covert, crossed the moonlit expanse in front of the house, and,
                     climbing with the agility of a cat, an enormous oak whose foliage brushed the
                     walls of the house, concealed himself among the leaves.
                  
                  From the lofty perch which he had thus reached, and where he sustained himself
                     by a firm grasp upon one of the lesser boughs, the young man could see into the
                     establishment, one of whose window-shutters was open.
                  The apartment into which he looked was not that which had witnessed the
                     interview between himself and Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke. It was a much smaller
                     room on the left, plainly furnished. In the centre was a great arm-chair.
                     Seated bolt upright in this chair, with grinning teeth, was the corpse.
                  Sir Murdaugh was standing erect, candle in hand. In his long dressing-gown,
                     dark and draping his person from head to foot, he resembled a Roman augur,
                     about to perform some mysterious rite. His face was pallid, and as he gazed at
                     the body, the grin habitual with him distorted his features, revealing clearly
                     the sharp tusks at the corners of his mouth. His sombre glance seemed to gloat
                     on the lugubrious object. Earle shuddered almost. The effect produced by the
                     expression of the pale face was that of the presence of one of the deadly
                     cobras which the sailor had seen in the tropics—a mixture of fear and
                     loathing.
                  The two men had retreated, hat in hand, to the door, and waited.
                  As Earle, from his hiding-place in the oak, took in the details of this
                     singular tableau, the door opened and Wilde entered, followed by his
                     wolf-hound.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE WOLF-HOUND.
                  THE baronet and the shaggy Hercules exchanged rapid glances.
                  Wilde made a slight movement of the head in the direction of the two men, and,
                     as though comprehending at once the meaning of this sign, Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke pointed to the door, said something to the men, and they
                     disappeared.
                  Wilde then rapidly approached his master. His face was dark and scowling. He
                     spoke rapidly, with animated gestures, pointing, as he did so, in the direction
                     of the pool near the boundary of the park.
                  As he spoke, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke's face grew as black as night. His bushy
                     brows were knit over his snake-like eyes, and he listened with unconcealed
                     emotion.
                  The sailor, in his oak, uttered a low laugh.
                  "The worthy pair are discussing things," he said. "The man is telling his
                     master of the mysterious interview between the mysterious stranger and the
                     gypsy, at the pool. What will result? Let us look on, since it is impossible to
                     listen."
                  The interview continued for about half an hour. Then the baronet was seen to
                     point through the window toward the front of the house.
                  The sailor saw that gesture, and his marvellous acumen told him that Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke was informing Wilde of the supposed noise heard by the men
                     when bringing in the dead body.
                  The Hercules turned quickly toward the door. As he did so, he made a sign to
                     the wolf-hound, and the animal, as though understanding perfectly, disappeared
                     at a bound.
                  A moment afterwards, Earle's attention was attracted by a low and continuous
                     growling beneath the oak. He locked down and saw the dog coursing to and fro,
                     and nosing the earth.
                  By a strange instinct, the wolf-hound paid no attention to the traces left by
                     the men and their burden. Something
                     seemed to draw him irresistibly toward the oak, in which Earle was concealed.
                     Every circuit which he made brought him nearer; at last he reached the tree.
                     His nose rested for a moment upon the trunk, and he snuffed at it in silence.
                     Then his head rose, his dark eye glittered in the moonlight. He caught sight of
                     Earle, half-lost in the foliage, and uttered a long, continuous, and furious
                     bay.
                  As the deep and prolonged alarm issued from the hound's lips, Earle felt that
                     he was lost. There was no possibility of remaining undiscovered: the hound had
                     descried him; the hoarse bay could not be mistaken. It was the sound uttered by
                     animals who have discovered their prey, and are furious to leap upon it, and
                     tear it limb from limb. Earle felt that Wilde and the baronet would understand
                     all in a moment, and throwing a rapid glance through the window, he saw that
                     his fears were well founded
                  No sooner had the hoarse cry of the hound reached his ear, than the man Wilde
                     started and turned toward the door.
                  Sir Murdaugh, who had gone toward the body, turned as quickly.
                  Wilde pointed in the direction of the sound, uttered some hasty words, and,
                     drawing a hunting knife from his girdle, rushed from the room.
                  Earle saw that all was lost, unless he acted with decision. He did not
                     hesitate. The inmates of Westbrooke Hall were persons, evidently, who did not
                     fear bloodshed, and were apt to act without ceremony. His life would in all
                     probability pay the forfeit of his daring invasion of the precincts, and
                     without a moment's hesitation Earle slid down the tree, passed from bough to
                     bough, let his body fall from the lowest limb, and sprung upon the hound, who
                     in turn darted at his enemy's throat.
                  Earle felt the hot breath of the animal on his face, and the sharp teeth
                     touched his throat.
                  The struggle was desperate, but did not continue long. Before the teeth of the
                     hound could close upon the throat of Earle, he drew his poniard, plunged it
                     into the animal's body behind the shoulder, and hurling the dog from him,
                     rushed into the thicket just as Wilde reached the spot, attracted by the last
                     cry of the dying wolf-hound.
                  The Hercules uttered a growl so savage that it resembled that of a tiger.
                     Drawing his knife, he hastened in the
                     direction of a rustling which he heard in the thicket. Head down, like a mad
                     bull, he burst through every obstacle, breathing heavily, uttering curses, his
                     eyes glaring with rage.
                  But the noise receded—ceased. Coming to an open space, he saw through a vista
                     two shadows clear the park wall and vanish.
                  Earle and the gypsy had effected their escape, and were lost in the great
                     Westbrooke woods.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  HOW EARLE STAGGERED AND FELL, UTTERING A CRY OF TRIUMPH.
                  A MORNING full of brilliant sunshine succeeded the night in which the events
                     which we have just described took place.
                  It was one of those days of autumn which seem to make of the dull earth a fairy
                     realm, all splendor, glory, and delight; when the forests blaze in orange,
                     purple, crimson, and all colors of the rainbow; when the blue sky bears upon
                     its bosom argosies of white-sailed clouds; and the sigh of the pines, the
                     laughter of the breeze, the long and musical murmur of the waves, make up a
                     symphony sweeter than ever Mozart, Verdi, or Rossini dreamed.
                  From the fishing village of Oldport, St. George's Channel was seen to roll its
                        azure waves in the fresh breeze;
                     and these blue billows as they reached the rocks in the small harbor, and at
                     the foot of the gigantic headland, broke into snowy spray, which glittered in
                     the sunshine.
                  Dotting the restless surface, covered with spangles, and growing more and more
                     restless and brilliant as the breeze freshened, were a number of fishing-boats,
                     with small triangular sails, which the wind filled, driving the barks rapidly
                     before it.
                  As the morning drew on, the breeze freshened still more and more, and began to
                     blow a gale; the fishing-boats were seen hastening landward; then as they
                     approached they were tossed dangerously aloft; as they reached the shore, and
                     were dragged up and rescued, the roughest water-dogs of the coast were
                     evidently well pleased to be ashore, and not exposed in their small skiffs to
                     the gathering tempest.
                  One sail-boat alone was visible now, beating up toward the headland.
                  This craft, even at a distance, was seen not to be a fishing-smack, but a
                     pleasure-boat, gayly painted, and with ladies on board; for, as the boat veered
                     and danced on the waves, her bright sides and the floating scarfs of women were
                     plainly visible.
                  The wind grew stronger every moment, and in a group upon the strand, the rough
                     "wolves," as the fishermen were called, watched the boat, which careened
                     dangerously as it flew onward, making straight for shore.
                  "That much sail is enough to sink her," said a huge "wolf" in a ragged
                     pea-jacket, and with hair growing down nearly to his eyes.
                  "The rudder is gone," said a calm voice behind the speaker.
                  The "wolf" turned round with a scowl. His eyes fell upon the neatly-dressed
                     figure of Mr. Delamere, amateur fisherman.
                  "What are you a-saying there?" he growled, contemptuously.
                  "I say," said Delamere, otherwise our friend the sailor, Earle, "that the
                     rudder is gone, and the man in that boat is a sailor, who is steering her
                     ashore with his brains, as he has nothing else."
                  A low growl came from the "wolf."
                  "Look here, my hoppadandy," he said, turning to Earle and clenching his fist;
                     "who are you that come here to larn old sailors their business?"
                  
                  He advanced threateningly upon the young man as he spoke. Earle did not
                     move,
                  "Who are you?" shouted the "wolf," raising his arm to strike at
                     him. "I'll smash your headpiece if—"
                  The sentence was not concluded.
                  Earle planted his left foot three feet in advance of him, followed rapidly with
                     his right, and as the ball of the foot touched the earth his right fist darted
                     out, backed by the whole weight of his body thrown with it, and struck the
                     giant exactly where the low shag of hair terminated nearly between his
                     eyes.
                  The "wolf" fell as though a battering-ram had struck him.
                  But, rising, stunned and dizzy, he rushed at his opponent.
                  In a minute he was down again. The rough crowd, whose sympathies had all been
                     with their own representative, uttered a shout of admiration at the amateur's science. It was plain indeed that the
                     slight stranger was a perfect master of the art of boxing, and his adversary,
                     in spite of his size, was hesitating whether he should renew the attack or
                     expend his remaining energies in violent curses, when a cry attracted the
                     attention of every one—a cry so shrill and piteous that it thrilled through the
                     roughest person present.
                  Earle glanced quickly in the direction of the cry, that is, toward the sea.
                     That glance told him all. The sail-boat had run before the wind with the
                     rapidity of a dry leaf borne onward by the breeze—had nearly reached the land;
                     but at two hundred yards from shore had struck the reef, capsized, and a man
                     and two women were seen clinging to the frail mast and the ropes, which rose
                     and fell and beat upon the threatening surge.
                  The cry had issued from the women, and the crowd was instantly in
                     commotion.
                  A boat was launched, and two of the "wolves" sprung into it. At fifty yards
                     from the shore it capsized, and the men only reached land again by vigorous
                     swimming.
                  A second attempt was made. In this case the boat swamped at twenty yards from
                     shore.
                  A glance toward the overturned sail-boat showed that the strength of the young
                     ladies—for such they were now seen to be—was rapidly deserting them. The waves
                     beat them cruelly in the face, and tore at them. The wind roared at them,
                     nearly wrenching the frail hands from the mast. The man, clinging to the
                        gunwale, could afford them no
                     assistance. In ten minutes, it was plain, they would desert their hold, and the
                     surf would engulf them.
                  Suddenly, the crowd, who had been nearly paralyzed, was seen to divide.
                  In the open space, Earle was seen, without hat, coat, boots, waistcoat, or
                     cravat,—a sailor in shirt and pantaloons,—with a hatchet in his belt and a rope
                     the thickness of a man's finger tied around his waist.
                  "Stand back!" his clear voice rang out.
                  And throwing himself into the boiling mass, he struck out vigorously for the
                     wrecked boat.
                  As he rose and fell like a cork upon the waves, the crowd shouted, following
                     him with eyes of admiration. Every instant they expected to see him disappear,
                     and held their breath as he sank in the hollows. As he rose again, swimming
                     like a giant, the roar of voices sounded above the storm.
                  It is a 
                        splended
                        splendid
                      spectacle to see man contending with the forces of nature. The sailor
                     was defying the sea lashed to fury. The waves struck him with their huge hands,
                     buffeting and howling at him—and he went on. The spray cut his face and filled
                     his eyes, blinding him—and he went on. Hurled into the hollows of the billows,
                     he rose like a leaf, cutting the foam. The crowd hurrahed, and held their
                     breath, and ran into the sea, grasping the rope affixed to the sailor's
                     waist.
                  Suddenly a shout, which seemed to drown the thunder of the wind, rose.
                  Earle had reached the boat and affixed the rope to a ring in the ornamental
                     headpiece. Then he tore the rigging from the mast, bound the young ladies by
                     the body to the slight rail-around the deck; cut away the mast; and, rising up
                     in the water, waved his arm toward the shore.
                  At that signal the crowd shouted, and began to pull. The disabled craft obeyed
                     the rope. Rolling, tossing, rising, falling, groaning, creaking in all its
                     timbers, it approached the shore.
                  But the danger was coming. Within twenty yards of land an enormous wave rushed
                     at the prey about to escape, and with one blow broke the frail craft into a
                     dozen pieces.
                  The young ladies disappeared, and a great wave rolled over them.
                  Then they reappeared as suddenly. With his hatchet Earle cut the ropes which
                     secured them to the pieces of wreck; the man of the boat seized one, and Earle
                     seized the other; five minutes
                     afterwards, the fishermen had rescued the former; and then Earle appeared,
                     staggering, panting, struggling to reach dry ground, the inanimate form of a
                     girl clasped in his arms.
                  The fishermen hastened toward him. A great wave hurled itself—the last defiance
                     of the sea—in their faces, and forced them back. But that wave drove Earle
                     onward.
                  As it receded, he was on firm earth.
                  With his left arm around the girl, he raised his right aloft as though waving
                     his hat, uttered a low cry of triumph, and, staggering, fell upon the sand, his
                     head upon the bosom of the girl.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  HOW THE SAILOR EARLE BECAME ONE OF THE "WOLVES."
                  IN the afternoon of the same day, Earle was about to issue from the hostelry of
                     the Cat and Bell, when a thundering knock at his door made him
                     turn quickly toward a brace of pistols lying upon the table.
                  "Has my good friend Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke perchance gained an inkling of my
                     real character, and of what is in store for him?" he muttered. And turning to
                     the door,—
                  "Come in!" he said.
                  As he uttered the words, he cocked one of his pistols, prepared for whatever
                     was to come.
                  The door opened, and the huge "wolf" with whom he had fought in the morning,
                     entered.
                  
                  His head nearly touched the low ceiling. His countenance was a great mass of
                     shaggy hair. Low down on his forehead grew a similar mass, and he resembled
                     rather a wild animal than a human being.
                  "I be come to see you, master," said the wolf.
                  "And who are you?" retorted Earle.
                  "My name be Goliath, master," returned the Anak, "and the wolves are waiting to
                     catch you up and make you one of us."
                  Earle gazed at the speaker, and saw that this man was a friend. If there was
                     any doubt of the fact, his next words removed it.
                  "I felt your hand to-day, master," said Goliath: "it is heavy, but I want to
                     feel it again."
                  As he spoke, Goliath extended a paw as large nearly as a ham, and half covered
                     with hair.
                  "Good!" said Earle; "there it is."
                  And he reached out his own. It was small, bronzed, and had the grasp of a
                     vice.
                  The giant winced.
                  "It hits hard, and it hits fair," he said. "I be sorry I quarrelled, master;
                     but I am going to make up that."
                  Suddenly he turned up Earle's cuff. A blue anchor was tattooed, sailor-fashion,
                     on the white wrist.
                  "I knew that," said Goliath; "nobody but a sailor would 'a' ventured as you did
                     to-day."
                  "Well, I am a sailor."
                  "Which makes it all the better; you knocked me down, and after that I would 'a'
                     fought you. You went out in the surf—and the 'longshoremen are a-going to make
                     you a wolf!"
                  As he spoke a loud roar was heard in the street without,—evidently uttered by
                     the wolves.
                  Earle laughed, and muttered,—
                  "A strange life this of mine!—to be made a chief of the Iroquois in Canada, and
                     one of the wolves in Wales!"
                  The roar was again heard.
                  "The wolves be waiting, master!" said Goliath.
                  "Ready!" said Earle.
                  And walking beside the giant, he descended to the street, where a great crowd
                     of tattered, fierce-looking and shaggy-bearded 'longshoremen were gathered with
                     intent to do him honor.
                  "Stop your howling!" shouted Goliath, "and be orderly, will you!"
                  The roar ceased for a moment, but was resumed sumed an instant afterwards with fresh zest. The
                     noise seemed to excite the crowd. From hoarse shouts they proceeded to action.
                     Earle suddenly found himself caught up, borne aloft in triumph, and then his
                     captors at the head of whom was Goliath, surged into the low-pitched
                     common-room of the inn, where Earle was placed upon a table in the midst.
                  At his side, on the floor stood Goliah, one hand on his shoulder.
                  "What be your name, master?" said the giant.
                  A singular sentiment moved the sailor. Content to assume a false name with
                     indifferent persons or enemies,—with these rough friends it was different.
                     Something uncontrollable within him made him answer,—
                  "Edmond Earle!"
                  At that reply a man who had been seated in a dark corner started, rose
                     suddenly, and went out of the inn. As he disappeared, one of the 'longshoremen
                     scowled after him and laid his hand on his knife. The man who had gone out was
                     Wilde, the emissary of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke; and Earle, in thus uttering his
                     real name, had committed a terrible imprudence.
                  He did not see Wilde, however. The wolves were admitting him, with rude
                     ceremonies, into the pale of their order.
                  A gigantic beaker of usquebaugh was first raised to his lips; each drank from
                     it in turn, and then the residue was poured upon the floor.
                  As the liquor fell from the beaker, Goliath exclaimed, in his voice of
                     thunder,—
                  "So the blood of all who hunt the wolves shall be poured out!"
                  And clapping Earle on the shoulder,—
                  "From to-day you be a wolf, master!" he said.
                  The wolves roared in approbation.
                  "Join hands!" thundered Goliath.
                  At the word the wild figures linked hands and began to dance around the table.
                     Earle had never witnessed so strange a spectacle. There was something at once
                     ferocious and grotesque in these ragged figures circling the table in their mad
                     dance. Three times they thus whirled around him, and then the circle broke and
                     they again caught the sailor up on their shoulders. All resistance was
                     impossible. He was borne forth and carried through the streets in triumph.
                  When, an hour afterwards, he was 
                        realeased
                        released
                     , and woke as it were from
                     this orgy of dreamland, he saw Goliath standing beside him, and heard the giant
                     say,—
                  "You be one of us now, master; and woe be to him who lays his hand on you!"
                  At the same moment the man Wilde entered Westbrooke Hall, and hastened to the
                     baronet.
                  "Well?" said the master.
                  "I have something terrible to report, sir!" said the man.
                  "What?"
                  And the baronet rose, as if on steel springs.
                  "The person who visited you here last night, sir—"
                  Wilde paused.
                  "Speak!" shouted the baronet, shaking him by the collar.
                  "Is—who would have believed it—!"
                  The baronet's hand passed to the man's throat.
                  "Is—is—" muttered Wilde, in a half-strangled voice—"Edmond—Earle!"
                  The baronet turned ghastly pale, and stared at the speaker with
                     stupefaction.
                  "Edmond—Earle!" he said in a low voice, "the Edmond Earle?"
                  "The same, sir. There was something familiar in his look."
                  The baronet's eyes blazed.
                  "Then he is not dead, after all!"
                  "No, since we have seen him sir, and I have heard him give his name as
                     Earle."
                  In a few words the man related what had occurred at the inn.
                  "Yes—I see now—I was deceived," said the baronet in a low tone. "He is
                     here—cool and determined—ready, and he knows my secret. Fool!—from this moment
                     he is dead! Dead men tell no tales."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  ELLINOR MAVERICK.
                  WHEN broken in upon by the wolves, Earle had been preparing to take a ride.
                  An hour after the ending of the ceremony which inducted him into the band of
                     "wolves," he mounted a horse procured at the inn, and set out on his ride.
                  As he went on, a singular emotion agitated him. The occasion of this was the
                     name of the gentleman and ladies whom he had rescued. This name was
                     Maverick.
                  Maverick! Could it then be the head of this family whom Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke
                     had murdered? Had no steps been taken to discover the criminal? Into what black
                     mystery was he, Edmond Earle, about to plunge? He had received the warm thanks
                     of the gentleman and two young ladies whom he had rescued. They had urged "Mr.
                     Delamere," in the most pressing manner, to visit them at their home, "Maverick
                     House." The road had been pointed out to the sailor; and, emerging from the
                     fishing village, he already saw the mansion on its lofty hill, about a league
                     distant.
                  He soon reached the great gate, and riding up an avenue, dismounted and gave
                     his bridle to a servant. Maverick House was ancient, but cheerful and inviting.
                     Dogs were basking in the sunshine on the long portico, where the light
                     filtrating through variegated foliage threw its twinkling shadows; and on the
                     steps stood, smiling cordially and ready to welcome Earle, the gentleman of the
                     boat, Arthur Maverick.
                  Arthur Maverick was a young man of about Earle's age; thin, pale, and
                     sad-looking, but courteous and cordial. He welcomed the sailor warmly, and
                     conducted him into the mansion, whose appointments were at once substantial and
                     elegant. In a cage a linnet was singing; old dogs wandered about; and a lapdog,
                     small and hideous, which made him immensely valuable, ran yelping to announce
                     the visitor to the two young ladies whose lives he had saved.
                  
                  Ellinor Maverick, the eldest, was tall, with raven hair and dark eyes, instinct
                     with a subtle fascination. The great eyes melted or fired; the red lips, full
                     and moist, curled satirically or were wreathed with dazzling smiles; in every
                     outline of her rounded and supple figure there was the superb beauty of the
                     animal—the tigress you were apt to think; and with only a slight effort of the
                     imagination you might fancy the beautiful creature "in act to spring."
                  Rose Maverick was altogether different. About nineteen,—Ellinor was
                     older,—slender, brown-haired, with soft, violet eyes, and an exquisite
                     expression of candor and goodness, Rose made children and old ladies love her,
                     and men take no notice of her. The latter went crazy about Ellinor, and did not
                     even look at Rose. One was the dazzling sunlight, the other the pensive
                     moonlight. From the first moment Earle's eyes were dazzled; and on his return
                     to the inn that night, a strange throbbing of the heart accompanied his
                     recollection of the superb Ellinor.
                  On the next day he went to Maverick House again, and on the next, and the
                     next.
                  He was fascinated. That term best expresses his sentiment towards Ellinor
                     Maverick. It would be incorrect to say that he loved her; he was
                     crazy about her, and the great melting or blazing eyes had wrought the
                     charm.
                  At times his neglect of the important object which had brought him to the coast
                     of Pembrokeshire weighed heavily upon his spirits. Was he not criminally
                     disobeying the orders which he had received? Was he not neglecting his sworn
                     duty? Would not the crew of the corvette wonder what had become of their
                     captain, and the boat at the secret rendezvous return nightly to find him still
                     absent, paying no attention to his appointment? Earle asked himself those
                     questions, and gloomily shook his head. Then he would find himself beside
                     Ellinor Maverick. All his depression would disappear. Her golden smile would
                     shine upon him, and the dazzled moth would circle careless around the light,
                     drawing every moment nearer to his fate.
                  It came at last. Nearly ten days had elapsed since his first meeting with the
                     young lady. He had never spoken of his love in plain words, for an instant, but
                     now a little incident drove him to that proceeding.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was the occasion of the denouement. Earle had well-nigh
                        forgotten gotten the baronet, and
                     the strange history 
                        relared
                        related
                      by the gypsy. Was the "Giles Maverick, Esquire," assassinated at the
                     pool by him, a relative of the family at Maverick House? He had intended,
                     often, to ask that question, but something had always prevented. Either the
                     occasion was wanting, or his interviews with Arthur Maverick had been
                     interrupted; always something had intervened to withhold him from ascertaining
                     the truth.
                  At last the opportunity came. He was conversing with Arthur Maverick one
                     evening, when the latter pronounced the name of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                  Earle looked keenly at him.
                  "Are you acquainted with that gentleman?" he said.
                  "Very well," was the young man's reply.
                  "And he is a friend?"
                  
                     
                        Arther
                        Arthur
                      hesitated.
                  "No," he said, at length.
                  Earle observed a singular coldness in his companion's tones, and said,—
                  "You do not like the baronet?"
                  "I feel some delicacy in replying to that question," returned Arthur
                     Maverick.
                  "Why?" said Earle.
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke is a suitor for the hand of my cousin."
                  Earle started, and looked at his companion in utter astonishment.
                  "Your cousin? Sir Murdaugh her suitor? Who is your cousin, my dear
                     Mr. Maverick?"
                  "Ellinor. I thought you knew that she was not my sister, Mr. Delamere. She is
                     the daughter of my father's brother. On the death of that gentleman she had no
                     home, and came to live with us here. You seem astonished."
                  "No, no," stammered Earle. "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke a suitor! and for the hand
                     of—why, 'tis monstrous!" And his face flushed. "That is to say—may I ask you a
                     question, Mr. Maverick? You speak of your father's brother; he is dead, you
                     say. Your father also is dead, is he not?"
                  "Some years since," was the reply, in a low tone.
                  "May I ask the cause of his death?"
                  Arthur Maverick's head sank.
                  "He was cruelly murdered, Mr. Delamere; and in the most mysterious manner!"
                  "Ah! a murder, sir!"
                  "An infamous murder, by whom we have never discovered. He left home one
                        evening on horseback, and his dog
                     returned some hours afterwards without him. It was a very intelligent
                     blood-hound; he is still living, old and almost blind; and he led the way to a
                     pool in the woods, where my father's body was discovered."
                  Earle remained for some moments silent. Then he said,—
                  "And no clue has ever been discovered to the murder?"
                  "None whatever. It is still wrapped in the profoundest mystery."
                  Earle nodded his head coolly, and said,—
                  "Pardon my intrusive questions, Mr. Maverick; I see they agitate you, and I
                     regret them. To return to the worthy Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, your cousin's
                     suitor. Does she smile upon him?"
                  "I am afraid so."
                  "You say that in the tone of one who regrets a thing," said Earle, whose heart
                     suddenly sank. "Is it possible that the baronet, an aged and not agreeable
                     person, I think, has succeeded in the role of a lover?"
                  Arthur Maverick did not reply for an instant, then he said,—
                  "We are not wealthy, sir. Ellinor has nothing; and Sir Murdaugh is a person of
                     great possessions."
                  "Ah! and hence he succeeds! Miss Maverick barters her beauty against money.
                     Pardon my rudeness, sir; I am a sailor, and speak without ceremony. Her
                     preferred suitor! It is monstrous! It cannot be! I will know the truth!"
                  And leaving his companion abruptly, Earle went with pale face and glowing eyes
                     toward Ellinor Maverick, who was standing near one of the great windows in the
                     drawing-room.
                  Her golden smile said "Come! you have stayed away from me too long!" Her glance
                     was magnetic, alluring, almost passionate, and seemed to pierce through
                     him.
                  "Is Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke your suitor?" he said. "Answer that question
                     plainly, I pray you."
                  Her silver laugh rang out.
                  "Yonder he comes; why not ask him?" she said, pointing through the window.
                     "Strange that you and he have never met before, Mr. Delamere!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  "IT IS TIME!"
                  A FEW minutes afterwards Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke entered, clad as became his
                     rank, and grinning in his most attractive manner.
                  At sight of Earle, however, he suddenly grew livid, and the grotesque grin was
                     succeeded by a glance full of menace.
                  For an instant their hostile glances flashed and crossed like rapiers. Then
                     Earle regained his coolness, continued to converse with Ellinor Maverick; and
                     that young lady's handsome back was turned upon Sir Murdaugh.
                  The baronet's expression thereat grew venomous. His demeanor toward Earle was a
                     mixture of apprehension and suppressed rage; but no one noticed it—certainly
                     not the fair Ellinor, who leaned forward, resting her rosy cheek upon her snowy
                     hand, so as to exhibit the charms of an exquisitely rounded arm, and gazed at
                     Earle with an air of deep and fascinated interest.
                  That expression, in the eyes of a beautiful woman, is dangerous. It had its
                     full effect upon the sailor. He felt his heart beat, and the blood rushed to
                     his cheeks. Through a sort of haze he seemed to see an angel, or a devil, he
                     knew not which, whose eyes said to him, "You did right to take me away from
                     that hideous satyr yonder. We are young. Love is the only true life. Love me,
                     and I will love you, and be yours!"
                  When a commonplace question from Rose Maverick broke the spell, Earle seemed to
                     fall suddenly from some fairy realm into the cold world again. He turned
                     quickly. Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was looking at him and Ellinor with all the
                     furies raging in his heart.
                  He rose—his visit had lasted less than an hour, but it had seemed a century of
                     torment. Declaring stiffly that he had only ridden out to take the air, and
                     must now return, he bowed low, shot a wrathful glance at Ellinor Maverick and
                     went out, accompanied by Arthur Maverick, whose manner throughout the interview had been
                     perfectly courteous but also perfectly formal.
                  Two hours afterwards, Earle in his turn mounted and directed his way toward the
                     village.
                  His head was turning, almost. A passionate scene had occurred between himself
                     and the fair Ellinor on the portico. She had magnetized him, drawn him on, said
                     "Come!" with her eyes, and when he poured out his passion, quietly laughed at
                     him.
                  Ten minutes afterwards, he was riding away; as he went he muttered to
                     himself,—
                  "So that folly ends, and the end is fortunate, perhaps. Earle the sailor is not
                     to cast anchor yet—so much the better; the wind is fair, and there is fighting
                     and sailing to do. Fighting? Come! I think there was some question of that
                     once! I've been crazy, but am sane now; I was dreaming, but am awake! To work,
                     laggard! and obey your orders. You came hither under orders, and you are
                     shirking your duty. Your men await you nightly, yonder; act this night, and
                     leave the accursed land where you've fallen into a woman's toils! Come! to
                     work! Ah! Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, my dear assassin and rival, beware! This
                     very night I will lay a heavy hand upon you!"
                  He was passing, as he thus muttered, through a dark hollow in the hills.
                  "It is time, brother!" said a voice, "or he will lay his hand on
                        you!"
                  And the speaker advanced from the shadow of a huge hemlock, beneath which he
                     had been concealed.
                  It was the gypsy.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  THE MAN IN THE COACH.
                  EARLE, startled for an instant in spite of himself, by the apparition in his
                     path, quickly regained his coolness, and drew rein to converse with his
                     companion.
                  "You say—?" said Earle.
                  "That Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke is plotting to destroy you," said the gypsy. "I
                     know it from hearing the thing with my ears, brother."
                  "Tell me all about it."
                  And dismounting, Earle threw his bridle over his arm, and walked on beside the
                     gypsy.
                  "Well, I will do so, brother. Night is the time to talk; and I think the stars
                     yonder are friendly to the brethren of the Rommanye Rye. Here is the way I
                     discovered all. I had been to make a visit to Westbrooke Hall—"
                  "Not to converse with the baronet on that business?" interrupted
                     Earl.
                  The gypsy smiled in a manner which displayed a double row of teeth.
                  "No, brother. To tell you the truth, I don't like the thought of going there on
                     that errand. Some accident might happen to me; I might be set up in a chair,
                     opposite that other grinning 'old gentleman,' in the grave-clothes!"
                  "I understand," said Earle.
                  "I had other business, and I succeeded in it, brother. I had made a little plot
                     against the other wolf-hound. Some day, I said, I may have to visit Westbrooke
                     Park. Then the hound will prove an ugly customer, and give the alarm. Better
                     act in time, and pay my respects to his honor, the wolf-hound!"
                  "I understand," repeated Earle.
                  "So I went to see this good watch-dog in his kennel," continued the gypsy; "and
                     to make my visit more acceptable, carried with me a piece of fresh meat. This I
                     threw to our friend, the hound, just as he sprung out to give the alarm. He
                     gobbled it up instead of barking. I hid in the bushes near, and in about
                     fifteen minutes the dog seemed to grow sick. Then he bit the ground and tugged
                     at his chain, and ended by rolling on
                     his back, beating the air with his paws, and then lying quiet."
                  "Poisoned?"
                  "Yes, brother. He is not apt to trouble us further. I saw that he was done for
                     and hastened to retreat from the park. When I reached the great woods, I
                     thought I was safe; but as I was gliding through a thicket skirting the main
                     road, I thought I heard footsteps in the undergrowth, and lay down listening.
                     The steps came nearer. From my covert I saw a man, with a gun on his shoulder,
                     pass within twenty feet of me, and as he approached the road I could hear the
                     hoof-strokes of a horse."
                  "The baronet?"
                  "Yes. He was coming back, it seemed, from a visit, as I soon found that he was
                     in full dress. The man who was his gamekeeper, Wilde, had chanced to be going
                     his rounds and met him. The baronet stopped, and I could see, through an
                     opening, by the starlight, that his face was pale and full of anger at
                     something."
                  Earle nodded.
                  "I can explain that. Well, you saw,—doubtless you also heard."
                  "Yes, brother, I was born with a great hankering after finding out everything.
                     I crawled along, without making a noise, until I was within a few yards of
                     these good people, and hiding in a clump of bush, listened. I had torn my rags
                     to worse rags, but what I heard was worth the expense. I need not tell you what
                     they said; it amounted to this—that you were to be waylaid and 'got rid of.'
                     That was the baronet's phrase. As to me, I was to be treated in the same way.
                     You see he knows we know his secret, and as long as we are alive
                     he is not safe. He is in a violent rage with you at something, besides, which
                     occurred to-night, it seems; and, hearing the name, 'Maverick House,' where, it
                     appears, you were on a visit, I thought I'd warn you in time, brother."
                  "You did well,—forewarned, forearmed," said Earle. "Was anything more said
                     between the worthies?"
                  "They were interrupted."
                  "By whom?"
                  "As they were talking in low tones, on the side of the road, within a few feet
                     of me, a fine coach, drawn by four horses, came along, going toward the Hall,
                     and, as it passed, a gentleman put his
                     head out of the window, and said, 'Is not that Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke?'—'Yes,'
                     the baronet replied.—'I am the Viscount Cecil,' said the man in the coach. And
                     the baronet bowed, came up, talked for some minutes, and at last got into the
                     coach, which rolled away toward the Hall, Wilde having taken his master's
                     horse. Then I set off to find you; the grass has not grown under my feet. What
                     will you do, brother?"
                  But Earle did not reply. A sudden glow had come to his countenance.
                  "Are you sure you heard aright?" he exclaimed. "The man in the coach gave his
                     name as Viscount Cecil?"
                  "I heard the name distinctly, brother. It seems to interest you."
                  "It does, I swear to you! And you heard nothing more?"
                  "Only something about his having come down to his estates, from Parliament, to
                     see the baronet on business, or something of the sort."
                  "Good! 'Parliament,'—that is enough! 'Viscount Cecil,'—there can be no doubt.
                     It is he!"
                  "What do you say, brother?"
                  "Nothing. Ah, the man in the coach—the man in the coach! That decides me. I
                     might have been weak—this makes me resolute!"
                  And turning to the gypsy, he added,—
                  "I am about to leave this country, brother. Do not count on my co-operation
                     with you, and look out for yourself. One thing only I can promise you: I think
                     that I will rid you of your enemy, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke. All is ready!
                     To-night decides! Farewell, brother! May the stars guide you!"
                  He uttered the last words in the gypsy tongue, and made a salute peculiar to
                     the fraternity.
                  Then, putting spurs to his horse, he disappeared at full gallop in the
                     darkness.
                  The gypsy gazed after him with an expression of wonder, and then began running
                     in the same direction; that is, toward Oldport.
                  The village was not, however, Earle's destination now. Once out of sight of the
                     gypsy, an individual whom he seemed to decline trusting, he turned to the
                     right, rode rapidly toward the coast, reached the foot of the great headland,
                     on which we have witnessed his interview with the sad-looking woman, and,
                     dismounting, concealed his horse in a thicket.
                  
                  He then advanced upon foot, without losing a moment, toward the spot where he
                     had disembarked from the boat, and following a winding path, along narrow
                     ledges of rock, came in sight of the little indentation in the precipice.
                  The boat was awaiting him. There were four men in it—they seemed to have just
                     arrived.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  THE NIGHT MARCH, AND ITS OBJECT.
                  THE young sailor passed along the narrow ledge, with the activity of a chamois,
                     and suddenly stood in presence of the boat's crew.
                  All hands went to their hats.
                  "Welcome, Captain!" said one whose tone was that of an officer; "you see we
                     obey orders. I was growing uneasy."
                  "Thanks, Dargonne! Well, the time has arrived. The affair will take place
                     to-night. Come ashore, order the men to follow us. I see they are armed, as I
                     ordered. Direct them to make no noise and come on quickly, keeping us in
                     sight."
                  Lieutenant Dargonne, a small wiry-looking personage, clad in plain clothes, like the men,
                     turned and communicated Earle's orders.
                  The men silently stepped from the boat: attached it to a splintered rock by a
                     chain, and followed Earle and Dargonne, who passed back along the narrow path
                     by which Earle had come.
                  Reaching the slope of the headland again toward the interior, Earle went to the
                     thicket in which he had tethered his horse, untied the animal, led him by the
                     bridle, and, followed by the sailors, made a circuit so as to avoid Oldport,
                     and approached Westbrooke Hall.
                  "The moment has come now, my dear Dargonne," he said to his companion, "to tell
                     you my project. I have not done so before, in obedience to orders. A few words
                     will explain everything. France and England are at war. In America the war has
                     been barbarous, they say, on the part of England, and it seems growing as
                     barbarous here. The English admiralty have issued orders to their cruisers to
                     descend upon the French coast, whenever an opportunity offered, and carry off
                     persons of position and influence to be held as hostages. This policy has been
                     adopted in obedience to the wishes of the English party in power, and this
                     party is led in Parliament by Viscount Cecil, who made a violent oration urging
                     the policy I speak of. His oration was reported in the English journals;—these
                     were transmitted to His Majesty, King Louis; in consequence, the cruisers of
                     His Majesty have received orders to retort by descending upon the English coast
                     and carrying off any persons of rank and importance whom they can lay their
                     hands on."
                  Dargonne made a sign that he understood perfectly.
                  "Blow for blow! That is only fair," he said.
                  "Entirely fair, my dear Dargonne; and now to come to the work before us. When I
                     received the general order to land at any point I thought proper on the English
                     coast for the object in view, I decided to visit the coast of Pembrokshire,
                     hoping to seize the Viscount Cecil himself. I had already visited this coast,
                     as you know; and the viscount's large estates lay near Oldport. I might find
                     him at home after Parliament, and that would be superb. So I came, but soon
                     found that the viscount was still in London; then I planned the seizure of a
                     cousin of his, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke. I visited Westbrooke Hall to
                     reconnoitre, and did so. Then the
                     attack would have been made—it should have been—but I have been weak, Dargonne!
                     No more of that—it is over! I am Earle the sailor again, and will act like him.
                     I was to have made my attack on Westbrooke Hall to-night, my object being to
                     carry off the baronet, the viscount's cousin. But suddenly an immense piece of
                     good fortune has happened to us. The viscount himself has arrived!"
                  "Viscount Cecil?"
                  "Himself—to-night."
                  "The man who set the whole policy against France in motion!"
                  "The very man. And think—we shall seize him to-night! He is at Westbrooke
                     Hall!"
                  Dargonne clucked his tongue in a rapturous manner.
                  "Magnificent!" he exclaimed.
                  "Is it not?" said Earle, his eyes sparkling with joy. "Such an opportunity to
                     win rank and distinction is seldom offered to a privateersman."
                  "Not in one hundred years, Captain! It is splendid—unheard of. Viscount
                     Cecil—not only a Lord, but the man His Majesty hates! We will be
                     presented—thanked, at court. Jean Bart will be forgotten!"
                  Earle made a gesture checking his companion.
                  "The work is not done; we may fail," he said.
                  "Fail?"
                  "May not succeed in seizing his lordship and the baronet, for I aim to secure
                     both. All human affairs are doubtful."
                  "This must succeed! What are the obstacles? Are there retainers to
                     meet our cutlasses—dogs to alarm them?"
                  "Fortunately no dogs. The only one was poisoned to-night and will not be able
                     to announce our approach. And as to retainers, they are few. The viscount, and
                     possibly the baronet, will, however, make resistance."
                  "A trifle."
                  "Let us undervalue nothing, Dargonne. I have succeeded and failed; but if I
                     fail now, it will be after exhausting every effort. The viscount is at
                     Westbrooke Hall—there it is through the opening in the trees yonder! We will
                     approach without noise, and enter either by surprise or escalade. If the
                     viscount is captured, he will be mounted on this horse—the baronet on another
                     from his own stables,—and they will be conducted rapidly to the boat, thence to
                        the corvette; and we will make sail
                     for France, and be out of sight of the coast by daylight."
                  They had reached the wall of the park. Earle threw the bridle of his horse over
                     a bough in a sheltered nook, and at one bound cleared the wall, followed by
                     Dargonne and the sailors.
                  As he did so, a shadow glided from beneath an oak. At one bound Earle seized
                     the shadow—it was the gypsy.
                  "You hurt my throat, brother," said the gypsy.
                  "Ah, it is you! How did you come here?"
                  "I followed you, brother," returned the vagabond coolly; "and if you are
                     willing, I will help you in your work."
                  Earle reflected for an instant. It was plain that the gypsy had no motive to
                     prove false to him; and the presence of the men made it impossible for him to
                     escape and give the alarm if he wished to do so.
                  "It is well, brother," said Earle; "follow me and obey my directions."
                  The gypsy fell back to the ranks of the sailors.
                  "See that the men make no noise now, Dargoune," said Earle, "and above all,
                     that no firearms are used. The attack will be made from the rear of the house,
                     to prevent resistance and an alarm. Let every one preserve silence and follow
                     me."
                  As he spoke, they came to the desolate-looking expanse immediately in front of
                     Westbrooke Hall.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  THE VISCOUNT CECIL.
                  LET us precede the assaulting party, and ascertain what was going on in
                     Westbrooke Hall at the moment when they silently followed the path through the
                     woods to seize the coveted prize.
                  In the large apartment where the interview between Earle and the baronet had
                     taken place, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke and the Viscount Cecil were seated, coldly
                     conversing.
                  The viscount was a gentleman of commanding appearance, and had once been
                     handsome; ill health, or some other cause, however, had reduced a frame once
                     powerful. It was an invalid, almost, who talked with the baronet, but an
                     invalid of superb and commanding expression and bearing.
                  "I have long desired to hold this interview, but have been constantly
                     prevented, sir," he said to the baronet, in a cold tone.
                  "Its object, my lord?" was the formal question of the baronet.
                  "Family affairs; and to propose to you an arrangement which may prove agreeable
                     to us both."
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke became more formal and stiff than before. Two icebergs
                     seemed to have encountered each other; under the frozen crust of these men's
                     countenances no emotion of any description was discernible.
                  "An 'arrangement,' my lord?—you have an arrangement to propose to me?" said the
                     baronet, with ill-concealed suspicion. "I listen, and shall be glad to know of
                     what character it is."
                  The viscount remained for a moment silent, his eyes fixed upon the floor; then
                     he raised his head and said in measured and formal tones,—
                  "Permit me, in the first place, to state briefly the relations we now sustain
                     toward each other, sir. That will lead to a clear understanding of the offer I
                     propose to make you. When the last Lord Wentworth died, he was almost without
                     blood relations. Two young cousins, you and myself, sir, were the nearest, and were
                     selected by him to be his heirs. By his will, you were to have the great
                     Westbrooke property here; I that upon which his lordship had resided in this
                     neighborhood. That is correct, is it not, sir?"
                  "Wholly correct, my lord," was the cold reply.
                  "I will proceed, then, sir. There was a proviso in the will, that if either you
                     or myself died without issue, the survivor should inherit. Thus the entire
                     property of Lord Wentworth would remain in his family. That also is correct,
                     sir, is it not?"
                  "Entirely, my lord."
                  "Well, now for my proposition, sir. I do not propose to marry, and think it
                     improbable that you design doing so. Thus you will inherit from me, or I will
                     inherit from you: the chance is even, perhaps. I am an invalid, but one of
                     those invalids who live longer than strong men; and your age is greater by some
                     years than mine—in brief, I may survive you."
                  "It is possible, as your lordship says," returned the baronet, with his ghastly
                     grin.
                  "Well, I propose a compromise; and I will be entirely frank, sir, in stating
                     its object. A great grief has rendered me lonely,—the death of my wife,—a fact
                     of which you are aware. I am solitary and crave affection; thus I have fixed my
                     regards upon a young lady whom I wish to adopt as my daughter. To this young
                     lady I wish to leave a portion of my property; in fine, I propose, sir, to
                     convey to you, now, one-half my entire estate, if, in return, you will execute
                     an instrument settling the other half on the young lady, to be her own at my
                     death."
                  "The name of the young lady, my lord, if you please?" said Sir Murdaugh,
                     coldly.
                  "It is unimportant—I will withhold it for the present. What say you to my
                     proposition, sir?"
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke rose, with a grin of unconcealed triumph.
                  "I say that circumstances render it impossible for me to accept it, my
                     lord!"
                  "Circumstances? Of what nature, sir?"
                  "I will be franker than your lordship. The circumstance of my approaching
                     marriage."
                  "Your marriage?"
                  "Your lordship dwells upon the word 'your;' it is scarce polite."
                  
                  The viscount suddenly grew freezing.
                  "Your pardon, sir. It was, indeed, scant courtesy. I will not further trouble
                     you, save to congratulate you upon your approaching nuptials."
                  The baronet bowed ironically.
                  "I can understand, sir," said the viscount, in the same tone, "that your
                     parental anticipations quite overturn my own views. Your children may inherit
                     my estate: so be it, sir. God has so decreed it."
                  Something like a convulsion passed over the pale face. Then it resumed its
                     expression of lofty and commanding calmness, and the viscount said,—
                  "Will you be good enough to order my coach, sir? I will sleep at my own home
                     to-night."
                  As he uttered the words, the window in the adjoining room was driven in by a
                     heavy blow, the sash was thrown up, and Earle, at the head of his men, leaped
                     into the apartment.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  THE ATTACK AND PURSUIT.
                  EARLE advanced with drawn sword toward the viscount and baronet.
                  "Surrender, or you are dead!" he said, presenting the point to the viscount's
                     heart.
                  The nobleman's reply was to draw his dress-sword, and lunge straight at Earle's
                     breast.
                  But the sailor was far too powerful for him. With a whirl of his weapon, he
                     sent the dress-sword of the viscount spinning across the room.
                  In spite of his disarmed condition, the viscount continued to resist, and was
                     with difficulty secured.
                  "No harm is designed your lordship," said Earle.
                  
                  And he wheeled round to seize Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                  The baronet had disappeared, the explanation of which was simple.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, for reasons best known to himself, had amused his
                     leisure moments by constructing in the wall of the apartment a secret door,
                     which opened by means of a spring and closed in the same manner. Was the secret
                     recess, or means of exit, intended to be employed in the event of a sudden
                     advance by the officers of the law upon him? It is impossible to say, but there
                     was the means of safety at hand, and the baronet made use of it.
                  Finding that the viscount was in the power of the midnight assailants, Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke determined to save himself. At one bound he reached the
                     wall, leaned against the concealed knob, the door flew open, the baronet passed
                     through it, and the panel flew to again, protecting, with its three inches of
                     solid oak, the fugitive from all further danger.
                  Thus the baronet had evaded him, but Earle had secured the greater prize. The
                     frightened servants had fled at the first noise, and no opposition was
                     made.
                  "Now to gain the boat," said Earle; "no time is to be lost, as the alarm may be
                     given!"
                  He made a sign and the great front door was thrown open.
                  "Your lordship will please go with us quietly," he said to the nobleman.
                  And the party, with the viscount in charge, passed out and hurried through the
                     park. They soon reached the spot where they had entered, found the horse
                     quietly awaiting them; and Earle, with perfect courtesy, requested the viscount
                     to mount. He did so without uttering a word. One of the sailors led the animal
                     by the bridle; Earle and Dargonne walked on each side. The rest followed, and
                     the cortege set out rapidly in the direction of the coast.
                  When they had gone a hundred yards, Earle turned to the viscount and said,—
                  "I beg that your lordship will have no apprehensions. No harm will be done you,
                     if you make no resistance."
                  "Very well, sir" was the viscount's reply, in a cold and unmoved voice; "that
                     at least is gratifying. You have not asked for my purse, I observe."
                  Earle colored with anger, but suppressed this emotion at once.
                  
                  "We do not wish to inspect the contents of your lordship's pockets," he said,
                     stiffly.
                  "May I ask your object, then, sir, in committing this extraordinary outrage
                     upon my person?"
                  "The object was to capture your lordship," said Earle calmly.
                  "To capture me?"
                  "Precisely."
                  "For what reason? I am really curious to ascertain the object which you have in
                     view, sir. You appear to be a person of good breeding, if I may judge of your
                     character by the tones of your voice; and I need not inform you that curiosity
                     is most painful when left ungratified."
                  There was a coolness and nonchalance in the viscount's tones which highly
                     pleased Earle, and made him respect his adversary.
                  "I compliment your lordship on your calmness, and thank you for your good
                     opinion The object of this little night attack need not remain a secret. It is
                     now unimportant whether your lordship knows or is ignorant of the meaning of
                     every thing. We shall carry you off,—it is probable at least,—and I trust that
                     the safety of my men will not require me to put your lordship to death. I
                     should regret that, and will not contemplate so painful a catastrophe."
                  "You turn your sentences charmingly, sir; and now for your object in carrying
                     me off?"
                  "It is my design to conduct you to France, my lord."
                  "To France?"
                  "To the court of his French majesty."
                  "A prisoner?"
                  "Of state or war, as you choose."
                  "Ah! I begin to understand. You retaliate for the late order of the English
                     admiralty against French civilians!"
                  "Precisely, my lord."
                  "Then this affair assumes quite another aspect. Your name and rank?—you are a
                     French officer?"
                  "I am, my lord. I have assumed the name of Delamere, but I am a captain in His
                     Majesty's navy, and my true name is Edmond Earle."
                  The viscount bowed.
                  "All this changes things greatly, and no blame whatever attaches to you, sir,"
                     he said coldly. "I regarded you, very naturally, as a bandit bent on plunder. I
                     beg you to pardon that injustice,
                     since you are an officer acting in obedience to orders. Thanks for the
                     information thus communicated. I do not care to know anything further."
                  And the viscount relapsed into silence, busy, it seemed, with his own
                     thoughts.
                  Earle said no more, and the party proceeded rapidly on their way. Following the
                     road by which they had come, they made the circuit of Oldport; and then Earle
                     hastened still more, expecting every moment to hear or see something that would
                     give the alarm. Sir Murdaugh's first thought after the disappearance of the 
                        assaliants
                        assailants
                      would undoubtedly be to arouse the country—the audacious party might
                     be followed, and either captured or killed; all depended now upon expedition;
                     and Earle pressed on at the head of his men toward the spot where the boat had
                     been left.
                  Suddenly the beacon light on the headland shot up, and threw its ruddy glare
                     around.
                  "What is that, pray?" said the viscount, coolly.
                  "A misfortune, my lord," said Earle; "at least to us, for it will dissipate the
                     darkness."
                  And glancing at the beacon fire he muttered,—
                  "Why is that kindled to-night?"
                  He looked up. The appearance of the heavens explained all. Across the sky
                     drifted rapidly black masses of cloud; and the hoarse roar from the channel
                     indicated that a storm was approaching. Doubtless the solitary had seen that,
                     and kindled her beacon to warn vessels off the headland.
                  Earle's brows were knit, and he hurried on.
                  All at once, from an elevated point on the coast south of Oldport, a piece of
                     artillery sent its long, hoarse thunder on the air.
                  "There is the alarm, my lord," said Earle. "Sir Murdaugh has not spared
                     horseflesh and, the revenue station has given the alarm."
                  "Do you think there is a probability of my rescue, sir?" said the viscount,
                     with great coolness.
                  "None at all, I am pleased to say, my lord."
                  "I will pay each one who takes part in rescuing me, a thousand guineas," said
                     the viscount, looking at the sailors.
                  Earle laid his hand on his pistol and frowned.
                  "Will your lordship be good enough to forbear from further observations of that nature?" he said, sternly, "If my
                     men are tempted again, I will blow out your brains, my lord!"
                  The Viscount inclined his head, with unmoved coolness.
                  "You are right" he said; "it was an indiscretion under the circumstances! I
                     will therefore say no more, but await events."
                  "You will do well, my lord. You will now dismount, if you please. We are near
                     the spot where a boat awaits you.'
                  The viscount dismounted without objection.
                  Earle then hastened at the head of his party toward the narrow path along the
                     ledge of rocks, leading to the spot where the boat was awaiting him.
                  All at once the noise of hoofs was heard in the direction of Oldport. Lights
                     danced to and fro. The gun had given the alarm.
                  "What noise, pray, is that?" said the viscount, quietly.
                  "The mounted guard of the revenue station—they have ridden well, and seem to be
                     piloted by some one!"
                  "The affair grows interesting!" said the viscount, walking calmly beside
                     Earle.
                  'I think we'll get off with your lordship!" was the cool reply. And turning
                     round,—
                  "Lose not a moment!" he said to the men; "the cavalry are on us!"
                  The sudden smiting of hoofs within two hundred yards came like an echo.
                  "To the ledge of rocks!" cried Earle; "once there we are nearly safe!"
                  The hoof-strokes were silent.
                  "Quick! they are dismounting!" cried Earle.
                  All at once the pursuers were seen passing around a clump of bushes. They were
                     following on foot—about ten men under an officer, and the gigantic plume of
                     fire on the headland showed them their game.
                  Earle knit his brows savagely.
                  "We will reach the boat or die fighting!" he said. "Come, my lord!"
                  And he dragged the viscount on.
                  "There is then some hope of my escape?" said the latter, coolly.
                  "None!" was Earle's stern reply. "I shall probably have the great honor
                     of—dying 
                        with with
                        with
                      your lordship!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  GOLIATH.
                  THE sailor had scarcely uttered these words when a sudden darkness spread
                     itself over the landscape.
                  The beacon fire disappeared as though a tempest had extinguished it. Had the
                     wind blown it out, or had the recluse heaped fresh wood upon it in such
                     quantities as to temporarily smother the blaze? It was impossible to say, but
                     the light suddenly disappeared. Earle and his party were 
                        completly
                        completely
                      concealed from his pursuers.
                  The sailor uttered an exclamation of triumph.
                  "We are saved if the darkness continues!" he said.
                  "The beacon seems extinguished, sir," said the voice of the viscount in the
                     darkness.
                  "Yes, my lord?"
                  "What does it mean?'
                  "Fresh wood or the wind, probably."
                  "That is unfortunate."
                  "Or fortunate."
                  "You are right, sir. We look at things, very naturally, in a different light.
                     This path is extremely narrow."
                  "Your lordship runs no danger, holding my arm. Come! our pursuers are nearly
                     upon us!"
                  "The revenue guard?"
                  "Yes, my lord."
                  "They are pressing you close, captain. Is it your intention, if I may ask, to
                     blow out my brains rather than lose me? I ask from mere curiosity; only to know
                     what is coming."
                  "You are a brave man!" was Earle's reply. "No! a thousand times no! I am
                     ordered to seize you, not to murder you!"
                  The viscount nodded.
                  "You say I am brave—I say that you are an officer and a gentleman. Now I will
                     await the sequel. I have little further solicitude."
                  "And yet you are in very great danger."
                  "What?"
                  
                  "Your friends may fire on us, and kill you!"
                  As Earle uttered the words a voice cried "Halt!" and a shot was heard.
                  The sailor staggered.
                  "You are struck!" exclaimed the viscount.
                  "Yes, my lord—and badly hurt, I think. But no matter!"
                  "I swear I regret it!"
                  "Thanks!"
                  "Surrender! I give you my word of honor you shall be treated as an officer
                     captured on honorable duty."
                  "Surrender? never!" gasped Earle; "I will die fighting before I will
                     surrender!"
                  And clutching the arm of the viscount, he dragged him violently toward the
                     boat.
                  The pursuers were rushing upon them with loud shouts. The darkness hid them,
                     but the noise of their footsteps on the rocky ledge betrayed them.
                  Earle dragged the viscount on. They reached the boat.
                  "Make haste! make haste, Dargonne! Every instant counts!" cried Earle.
                  And pushing the viscount without ceremony,—
                  "Enter the boat, my lord," he said, sternly.
                  "Then I am not to be rescued after all, it seems," was the philosophic reply of
                     the viscount as he stepped upon the boat.
                  The men leaped after him and Dargonne followed.
                  "Come, Captain!" shouted Dargonne.
                  As he spoke, the foremost pursuers rushed on Earle. He felt a hand upon his
                     throat. Then something like a heavy thump was heard in the darkness, and the
                     man who had seized Earle was hurled back as by the blow of a bludgeon.
                  A second dull thump followed, and a second was prostrated in the same
                     manner.
                  Earle staggered to the boat which had not moved.
                  "Put off, and return for me!" he exclaimed.
                  "Never!" Dargonne cried.
                  "Obey!" said Earle, imperiously. "It is I who give orders here!"
                  Dargonne bowed his head. Discipline conquered. He made a sign, and the boat
                     flew a dozen yards from shore.
                  "Row, row!" cried Earle; "they are about to fire on you!"
                  A volley came like an echo, and one of the oarsmen uttered a cry of pain.
                  
                  "Row!" cried Earle a second time; and the boat darted toward the open sea.
                  The sailor turned then to face his enemies, resolved to die as he had promised
                     he would. But suddenly a voice near him said,—
                  "I have knocked down the foremost! Run up yonder and you be safe, master!"
                  It was the voice of Goliath, the "wolf."
                  "You?" said Earle.
                  "I came ahead, thinking it was smugglers, meaning to fight for 'em, master. It
                     be you, which is better. You be a 'wolf.' There is the path."
                  He spoke hurriedly and pointed to the path leading up the cliff. Suddenly,
                     shouts close at hand indicated that the main body of the pursuers had reached
                     the spot. Earle had just time to rush behind a rock and up the path when the
                     ledge swarmed with his enemies.
                  He hastened on up the steep path. His wound was bleeding profusely, and already
                     his strength was nearly exhausted.
                  He tore open the bosom of his shirt, and bound up the wound in the best manner
                     possible. But the linen was almost instantly saturated with blood.
                  Earle staggered on.
                  His head began to turn, and more than once he came near falling.
                  Still he continued the painful ascent: the strength of his powerful will alone
                     seemed to sustain him.
                  At length, he had nearly reached the summit, where stood the hut of the
                     recluse. The path wound around a ledge jutting over the sea.
                  As Earle tottered along this path, on the very edge of the dizzy precipice, the
                     beacon fire shot aloft suddenly—a great pillar of flame.
                  Earle looked seaward. Half a mile from the headland, the boat containing the
                     viscount was seen rapidly making for the open channel.
                  "Safe!" the sailor muttered, "they will soon reach the corvette."
                  And he tottered on up the broken pathway, his bosom heaving, his sight failing
                     him.
                  A few more steps, and he reached the summit. Before him was the beacon and the
                     hut. The solitary woman was seated on her bench.
                  Earle staggered toward her.
                  "Mother!" came from him in a low murmur.
                  A moment afterwards he had fallen, lifeless, nearly, upon the bosom of his
                     mother.
               
            
            
               
               PART II.
               THE BLOOD-HOUND.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  HUNTED.
                  SINCE the events just related more than a month had passed.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was seated in his library at Westbrooke Hall—cold,
                     grim, gloomy, and knitting his brows, under which rolled, in their cavernous
                     sockets, the threatening and bloodshot eyes.
                  "To think that he should have escaped!" he muttered; "and some day he will
                     reappear—I feel it—and destroy me by uttering one word. What devilish accident
                     ever threw him with that gypsy whom I have been hunting in vain? That vagabond,
                     no doubt, witnessed what took place yonder, while prowling in the
                     woods."
                  He half shuddered.
                  "I am standing on a volcano!" he added in the same hoarse growl. "At any
                     instant I may be destroyed. Not by the gypsy: no one would credit the statement
                     of a worthless vagrant against Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke; but he—his
                     statement—that is different. He is bold, determined; a man of
                     character, and can ruin me if he chooses. He will return hither; that girl has
                     made him her slave. Oh! to find him! to drive a bullet through him! to seal his
                     lips by pistol or poniard, and at one blow insure my safety, and what is almost
                     as important—!"
                  He turned round suddenly. Hurried steps were heard in the corridor. He started
                     to his feet, turned pale, and his eye fell upon a brace of pistols lying on the
                     table.
                  Wilde entered, or rather rushed in.
                  "You?"
                  The baronet drew a long breath.
                  "What is the matter?"
                  "Something important, your honor!" exclaimed the gamekeeper.
                  
                  And in hurried words he 
                        explaimed
                        explained
                      the cause of his abrupt entrance. We shall sum up his communication
                     in a few words. Knowing his master's anxiety to ascertain all in reference to
                     Earle and the attack on the hall, he had exerted himself to the utmost in his
                     character of spy and secret emissary. Lurking and listening at the Cat and Bell, and keeping his eyes as well as his ears open, he had managed
                     on this day to ascertain the fact that Earle was wounded on the night of the
                     attack. He had then examined the ground where the embarkation on the boat had
                     taken place; observed the path up the precipice; ascended it; concealed himself
                     behind a rock; seen Earle through the window of the hut, and hastened back to
                     his master with this highly important intelligence.
                  It acted like a blow.
                  The baronet started to his feet, and exclaimed,—
                  "At last! this removes every danger at once!"
                  "He is a desperate man, sir," said Wilde. "We must take a party with us."
                  "Right. I'll send a note to the officer commanding at the revenue station."
                  And sitting down, he hurriedly wrote,—
                  
                     "SIR,—Information has just reached me that the leader of the party who
                        attacked my house some time since, and carried off the Viscount Cecil, is
                        now lurking on the coast, at a point not far from Oldport.
                  
                  "As the attack on my house was a personal grievance, and the abduction of my
                     cousin, the Viscount Cecil, another, I offer to take command of a party to
                     arrest the chief of the bandits. If you approve of this, send the men to
                     Westbrooke Hall without delay. Loss of time will probably defeat the object in
                     view."
                  This note he signed, sealed, and dispatched by Wilde himself.
                  Three hours afterwards the man returned, at the head of half a dozen mounted
                     men. The shades of evening approached. It was the best hour for their project.
                     Without a word, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke mounted his horse, and made a sign to
                     Wilde to do likewise. Then they set out, followed by the men, over nearly the
                     same path which Earle and his party had pursued, which enabled them to avoid
                     Oldport.
                  Wilde had made this suggestion.
                  "Better not pass through the village, sir," he said; "the wolves do not like
                     you, from your activity in arresting
                     their friends the smugglers. More than this—he is one of them.
                     They made him a wolf in regular form a month or more ago. They will warn him or
                     resist you; for they are capable of anything."
                  "You are right," returned Sir Murdaugh in a low tone; "lead the way by the
                     safest road. There must be no failure—and listen, Wilde!"
                  He sunk his voice still lower.
                  "This man must not be arrested!"
                  Wilde returned the meaning glance.
                  "He must die!"
                  The man nodded.
                  "I understand you, sir; better give your orders."
                  The party were following a bridle-path through the woods. Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke turned to the men.
                  "Let every man pay attention!"
                  All eyes were bent on him.
                  "The man we are in pursuit of is a desperate character. If he makes the least
                     resistance, kill him. You will know if he resists by my firing upon him. At
                     that signal, every man aim at his heart!"
                  The men were regular soldiers, and accustomed to obey orders without dispute.
                     Their heads moved in assent; and, directing them to follow him at the distance
                     of twenty yards, the baronet rode on with Wilde.
                  "This is better, after all," he said in a low tone, with a gloomy and lowering
                     frown; "this man must die for more reasons than one. He knows what will destroy
                     both you and me—he stands in my way yonder at Maverick House; and there is
                     still another reason, as I need not tell you, which makes his
                     death necessary."
                  He paused a moment, and added in a still lower tone.
                  "Let him die, then! And there is no reason to spare him. He is an enemy of the
                     country, and has committed burglary and abduction. His life is forfeited to the
                     law. He will hang for what he has done. But before he hangs he will speak,
                     Wilde!—he will speak, do you hear? And then it is you and I who will mount the
                     gallows after him."
                  Wilde's expression of countenance was one of much disgust at this announcement.
                     The word "gallows" seemed to have a sickening effect upon him. He
                     shuddered.
                  "Your honor is right. There is nothing to do but shoot him down. I have my
                     carbine ready; and he will not get off."
                  
                  "Good!"
                  And the baronet rode on in silence. The party made the circuit of Oldport,
                     keeping in the shadow of the woods. Evening gradually drew near, and just at
                     sunset they reached the forest on the slope of the headland, from which it was
                     easy to gain on foot the path leading up the precipice.
                  "Dismount and follow me," said the baronet, addressing the men.
                  And they silently dismounted, tethered their horses, and followed the baronet
                     and Wilde.
                  The gamekeeper rapidly led the way along the ledge to the spot where the boat
                     had awaited Earle. They did not look out toward the channel upon which the
                     mists of night had descended. Had they done so, they might have perceived a
                     small boat vigorously rowing towards the headland; and on the horizon of water,
                     a dusky sail beating up in the same direction.
                  Both escaped the attention of Wilde and the baronet.
                  "It was here that the viscount was brought," said Wilde, "and our man escaped
                     up that path. Better tell the men to be quiet. I will lead the way, your
                     honor."
                  "Do so."
                  He followed Wilde, and was followed in turn by the men.
                  As they ascended the steep and dangerous path, the last red beams of the sun
                     died away in the channel mist; and the moon, a great crimson wheel, was rolled
                     into the eastern sky above the fringe of the savage looking evergreens on the
                     horizon.
                  "Did he go up this path after being wounded? It is hard to believe that,"
                     muttered the baronet.
                  "There is the proof of it."
                  And Wilde pointed to blood-stains on a rock.
                  "He must have leaned against that rock; and he went this way, or by some other,
                     as I saw him yonder."
                  "Yes, yes! Come, we are losing time!"
                  And he hastened after Wilde up the dangerous pathway.
                  "Who is this woman with whom he has taken refuge?" he panted.
                  "A strange character; a sort of solitary."
                  "I have heard of her."
                  "You will see her soon. There is the hut."
                  And Wilde pointed to the cabin of the recluse.
                  
                  In a few minutes they had passed the dizzy ledge near the summit, and just as
                     the last light of day was dying away from the headland, the baronet, at the
                     head of Wilde and the men, rushed upon the hut.
                  In a moment they reached it, and the baronet, pistol in hand, threw himself
                     against the door.
                  It yielded and flew open. The baronet raised his weapon.
                  But all at once his arm fell, and he staggered back as though a heavy blow had
                     struck him. By the last light of day, it could be seen that his face had grown
                     livid. Crouching, his mouth half open, and displaying in full relief the
                     hideous tusks at each corner, with eyeballs starting from his head almost, and
                     a cold sweat bursting forth upon his forehead, he was gazing at the solitary
                     woman, who, erect, cold, and with her eyes fixed intently upon him, stood
                     stiffly in the centre of the apartment.
                  "You!" exclaimed the baronet, in a voice nearly stifled by fear or
                     astonishment. "You! Is it a corpse I see? You! Then you are not dead!"
                  "I am alive, as you see," returned the recluse, in a cold and unmoved
                     voice.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke recoiled, gazing at her with an air of stupefaction. In
                     spite of his self-possession, he trembled.
                  "You!" he repeated. And he drew a long, deep breath, as though something were
                     pressing heavily upon his breast.
                  "I, and I alone! He whom you seek is not here."
                  The baronet glanced around. It was utterly impossible that any one could be
                     concealed in the cabin.
                  "Good!" he said. "That matter can wait, then. I see you know on what errand I
                     came. I, in my turn, wish to know how it is that you are alive, and what brings
                        you here?"
                  He turned to Wilde.
                  "Go with the men to their horses. I will soon rejoin you."
                  Wilde inclined his head, and went with the party in the direction indicated,
                     only he took a path leading down the slope toward the interior, not that by
                     which they had come.
                  "Now for much in a short space," said the baronet, looking sidewise at the
                     woman.
                  It was an evil look, and his hand was on his pistol as he spoke.
                  "Neither of us know how long we may live," added the baronet, with a 
                        gastly
                        ghastly
                      grin; "and be fore we die
                     it will be as well that we should have a short talk together, madam."
                  "I listen, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke," said the recluse, seating herself
                     composedly.
                  "Your manners remain as lofty as ever, I perceive, madam."
                  "It is natural, since I am Lady Westbrooke, sir."
                  "True, madam," came with an ominous scowl from the baronet, who remained
                     standing. "I had lost sight of—or forgotten the fact that you are my wife."
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE BARONET AND THE SOLITARY.
                  THE solitary woman gazed at him with perfect coolness and even with
                     curiosity.
                  "You no doubt regret the fact that I am Lady Westbrooke, sir," she said; "but
                     that is the truth, nevertheless. It affords me little gratification to claim
                     the title, but I cannot discard it. We meet to-night for the first time for
                     twenty years nearly; and a bad errand brings you hither. Better that you had
                     not come—"
                  "And intruded myself upon your ladyship! Well, perhaps you are right; but I
                     have little time at present. Answer me: how and when and why did you come to
                     live in this wild spot?'
                  "Many years since."
                  
                  "Your object?"
                  "To prevent you from committing a great sin."
                  "Thanks, madam, for your pious guardianship; but may I beg to be informed what
                     sin you allude to?"
                  "A second marriage during my life—the life of your lawful wife," was the calm
                     response.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke's countenance assumed an expression utterly hideous at
                     these words.
                  "Ah! that is the sin which you kindly propose to prevent me from committing,
                     madam?" he growled.
                  "It is."
                  "You are a hypocrite! You came hither with some other object!" he half
                     shouted.
                  This sudden rage brought a defiant flush to the solitary's pale face.
                  "You charge me with lying, then?" she said, coldly.
                  "Yes: deception is your element."
                  "This to me, from you! That is wonderful, sir, and well-nigh surpasses
                     belief."
                  The words seemed to still further increase the rage of the baronet, and his
                     glance grew terrible. More than once, a sudden clutch on the weapon in his
                     grasp seemed to indicate a mad desire to remove then and there this obstacle
                     from his path.
                  But his fury had no effect upon the woman: she remained cold and composed.
                  "Listen, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke," she said. "You charge me with deceiving you,
                     and coming hither with some covert and unworthy object. Do you think my past
                     life—an unhappy life—supports that idea? What was that life, and what did you
                     make it? I was a happy girl in the village of Martigny in Normandy, as gay as
                     the roses blooming under our bright French sun, when one day there came to my
                     father's house in the village, a young Englishman. Chance brought on this
                     visit, and my wretched beauty—they said I was beautiful—did the rest. My
                     father, an officer of the navy, was absent, and my old aunt watched over me.
                     You were that young Englishman, sir. You won over my aunt; you became enamoured
                     of me; you would have made me your victim, if I had not been too ignorant even
                     to understand your base hints; and in the end, when you found that I was
                     unassailable, you were mastered by your passion for me—you proposed for my hand, and my aunt forced me to marry
                     you. The ceremony took place: I became Lady Westbrooke."
                  The baronet grinned hideously. The yellow teeth protruded like the tusks of a
                     wild boar.
                  "You narrate with extreme clearness, madam, and recall the happy days of my
                     life. Yes, I, an Englishman of rank, married the daughter of a poor
                     sea-captain. He was lost at sea, nearly at the moment I married you. Thus you
                     were a mere pauper, having nothing beside his pay. Well, what next, madam?"
                  The face of the solitary flushed hot.
                  "This it is to be a person of 'rank,' sir! You taunt a poor woman with her
                     poverty—you hint that I was designing, sir. I loathed you at the very moment,
                     when I placed my hand in yours; my aunt compelled me to marry you. French girls
                     have no word in these arrangements. Yes, my poor father was dead—would he had
                     appeared and forbidden the terrible sacrifice I was forced to make."
                  A sneer settled on the baronet's face.
                  "Well, all this is interesting, madam," he said, "but not very important.
                     Oblige me by coming to the events which brought Lady Westbrooke to this crag on
                     the coast of Wales."
                  "I will gratify your curiosity, sir," the recluse said, coldly, "and tell you
                     everything without reservation. You had married me for my face merely, and six
                     months afterwards were tired of the face. You began to treat me badly—wearied
                     of the quiet of the old house in Martigny where we had lived since the day we
                     were united. In the end you began to quarrel; you treated me cruelly, and
                     laughed in my aunt's face, when she wished you to take me to your own house and
                     acknowledge me publicly as Lady Westbrooke. That enraged my aunt; but
                        I had a much greater ground for melancholy. You were a
                     Protestant, I a Catholic. I had thus married a heretic, and the union, in my
                     eyes, was sinful."
                  "Which led you, my dear madam, to desert me—"
                  "Just as you were on the point of deserting me. Yes, sir."
                  "Well, you are right, madam; I acknowledge that my married life had grown
                     cursedly wearisome. I was thinking of leaving you and your doll face, and had
                     even prepared to do so. It was a coincidence—two fond spouses mutually plotting
                     in secret to desert each other."
                  The woman preserved a disdainful silence.
                  
                  "Think! the affair was really comic!" added the baronet, grinning. "You
                     watching me, and I watching you; each afraid that the other would discover the
                     secret; each fearing detection, pursuit, and a renewal of the hateful union,
                     while each in reality thirsted for the separation."
                  "Have you finished, sir?" said the recluse, coldly. "If so, I will
                     continue."
                  "I have finished, madam," returned the baronet, with a bow of mock respect,
                     "and shall be glad to hear the rest of your ladyship's interesting
                     narrative."
                  "It shall be communicated in few words, sir. You were cruel to me; treated me
                     with contempt; more than once were near striking me; in addition to which you
                     were a heretic, and I was perilling my soul's salvation by listening in silence
                     to your sneers at our holy church. Then I prayed for 
                        guidence
                        guidance
                      from heaven, and something said to me, 'Leave him: he will destroy
                     you.' I accordingly fled from Martigny."
                  "And on the very day, that I went in the opposite direction, as I afterwards
                     learned, madam!"
                  A burst of sombre laughter accompanied these words of the baronet.
                  "It is well, sir," was his companion's reply; "then the sin I committed, if it
                     be a sin, had that palliation at least. I left you, very miserable, but
                     carrying with me some consolation,—the child who had come to prove a solace to
                     me in my wretchedness. I went to a distant relative's; the boy grew and loved
                     me; he was placed in the marine, became a man, won his way to the command of a
                     ship by his courage and high character; then I came hither, fearing that you
                     would be led to commit a great sin,—the sin of marrying a second time during
                     the life of your lawful wife."
                  The baronet grinned.
                  "Why not, your ladyship? Intent makes sin; and I have not sinned in intent! Did
                     I not believe that you and the boy were lost at sea? That was your device, was
                     it not? You conveyed that intelligence to me?"
                  "I did, sir. It was a sin; but committed to avoid a greater one,—that of
                     remaining with you; and had you believed me and the boy alive, I feared you
                     would pursue us, and force us back."
                  "And destroy your soul's salvation, my pious spouse."
                  "Yes; mine and the boy's. I did evil that good might come of it. You were a heretic and a
                     vicious man; you blasphemed our holy church; had you forced me to return, I
                     should have been compelled to listen to that daily, and worse still, you would
                     have corrupted and poisoned the heart of the child. So I originated and had
                     conveyed to you that report of our death. Years passed. I had lied to prevent a
                     terrible impiety; but then came the thought, that my pious fraud would lead you
                     to this sin. You thought me dead; you might marry again; it was my duty to
                     prevent that. So I came hither and watched you, sir; not from love,—I never
                     loved you,—but from a sense of duty. You did not suspect my presence here, but
                     I was near Westbrooke Hall and must have heard of your intended marriage. I
                     have lived poorly; have waited: but for accident you would not have discovered
                     me."
                  The voice was silent.
                  "Well, you have related an entertaining history, madam. A misalliance,
                     desertion the solitary life of a recluse on a storm-beaten crag, where your
                     only amusement, I am informed, is to build beacon fires, in the intervals of
                     watching over the morals of your dear spouse,—what could be more romantic, more
                     touching, and
                        ilke
                        like
                      the story-books! And may I ask your future intentions, madam?"
                  "To remain where I am and live as I have lived, sir."
                  "Ah!"
                  And the baronet's face grew dark.
                  "Suppose, in spite of all, I should contract marriage with some second fair
                     one?"
                  "You dare not!"
                  "Ah! I warn you I am a tolerably daring person, madam!"
                  "You will not marry, because you would thereby commit the legal offence of
                     bigamy. The law of God might not restrain you—the law of man would punish
                     you."
                  "You round your sentences charmingly, madam; but I beg to remind your ladyship
                     of one fact,—that you are supposed to be dead, and even are such on your own
                     authority. Why, then, should I not marry? Widowers, however sad, marry."
                  "You will not marry, for a good reason, sir."
                  "What is that, madam, will you please inform me?"
                  "Because the marriage of Marianne Earle and Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, baronet,
                     is recorded corded in the parish
                     register at Martigny, in Normandy!"
                  The baronet started, and turned pale.
                  "Fool that I was to forget that!" he muttered; "it is incredible how men will
                     blunder!"
                  Then looking at his companion sidewise, and with a wary glance,—
                  "What you say is very true, madam, and I have not the remotest intention of
                     becoming a bigamist," he said.
                  A keen glance accompanied the last words. The recluse seemed neither to believe
                     or disbelieve them.
                  "And now to end our interesting conversation, madam. You propose to remain here
                     until I marry?"
                  "Or I die."
                  "That would be sad; and as a Catholic you would doubtless confess yourself to a
                     priest?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Revealing your true name?"
                  "My name and whole life."
                  "So that if I should unfortunately be married, my marriage would be shown to be
                     illegal?"
                  "Yes."
                  "It is well," he said, with the spirit of murder der in his low voice; "and now
                     for a last point. Where is that boy?"
                  The recluse looked intently at him.
                  "Be at rest—you mean him mischief, unnatural father! but he is beyond your
                     reach."
                  "Where?"
                  "I will not reply!"
                  "Beware how you defy me!" he said, advancing a step toward her.
                  "I fear you not!"
                  "Answer!"
                  "I will not!"
                  He seized her wrists furiously.
                  'Reply! or—!"
                  "Kill me, if you please!" said the woman, coldly, and exhibiting no signs of
                     pain. "Do you think I value my life? I despise your threats and violence, and
                     will tell you nothing, though you murder me!"
                  She wrenched her hands from him.
                  "Go!" she said, rising to her full height; "the boy has never wronged you. It
                     is I, if any one, who should suffer."
                  "And I swear you shall!" howled the baronet; "at present I have
                        that to attend to. I will not give up the search yet. I go now,
                     but beware of me when I return!"
                  
                  With these words he hastened from the hut, and rapidly descended the path taken
                     by Wilde and the men.
                  In ten minutes, such was his haste, he reached the clump of trees in which they
                     waited beside their horses.
                  "Mount!" he ordered.
                  The men threw themselves into the saddle.
                  The baronet and Wilde rode in front, at full gallop.
                  "He is at Maverick House!" said the former, hoarsely; "and to-night may end
                     that matter, Wilde. But I have other work for you! Be ready to set out for
                     France at daylight."
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "You were at Martigny with me—you remember?"
                  "Yes, sir."
                  "Well, listen now to my instructions, and see that you obey them to the letter.
                     If you succeed—a thousand pounds sterling! If you fail, find some other master.
                     Now listen!"
                  And in rapid words he gave the man his instructions as they went on at full
                     gallop.
                  As the baronet ended, Maverick House glimmered before them in the moonlight a
                     quarter of a mile distant.
                  "The time is near!" he said; "no faltering, Wilde! this man must die!"
                  And turning to the men,—
                  "The desperado we are in search of is here!" he said, "and ready to resist. At
                     the signal from me, fire on him! Shoot him down—a hundred guineas to the man
                     who kills him!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER III.
                  WHAT ONE WOMAN IS CAPABLE OF TOWARD ANOTHER.
                  AN hour or two before, Ellinor and Rose Maverick had issued forth, and strolled
                     over the russet lawn, to enjoy the mild and caressing airs of the autumn
                     evening.
                  It was what is called "St. Martin's Summer." The breeze was soft, and fanned
                     their foreheads like the zephyrs of spring. The cutting blasts had not whirled
                     the brown leaves from the trees. The year was going to his death in his
                     trappings of golden sunsets; mists curled around the headlands; the moonlight,
                     mixing with the orange tint in the west, slept serenely on the charming
                     landscape.
                  The two girls had wandered some distance in the shrubbery.
                  The superb beauty of Ellinor was unchanged. Her dark eyes sparkled with
                     satirical wit, her lips curled with irony, and the magnetic glances kept for
                     the male sex had given way to an expression best described as "spiteful."
                  Rose was much altered. The delicate carnation of her cheeks had disappeared.
                     She walked over the russet turf with slow and languid steps. It was the pale
                     flower of autumn beside the dazzling rose of summer, and the summer flower
                     seemed to be amusing herself at the expense of the autumn primrose.
                  "What a very romantic affair! Who would ever have believed it?" said Ellinor,
                     satirically. "The elegant and high-born Miss Rose Maverick in a love-sick
                     condition about an unknown adventurer!"
                  Rose turned her head impatiently, and a slight color came to her pale
                     cheeks.
                  "I have already told you, Ellinor, that it was unpleasant to me to be spoken to
                     in that manner," she said.
                  "I don't believe it!" was the reply. It is not unpleasant, my
                     quiet little cousin! You are proud of your romance. Come, confess!
                        are you ashamed of your—well, of your friendship
                     for the handsome Mr. Delamere?"
                  
                  "I am not," said Rose, firmly. "He saved my life, as he did yours. We owe him
                     friendship, at least—"
                  "And love? Ah! you wince, my pretty cousin. Your blushes betray you."
                  Rose Maverick drew herself up with some hauteur, but made no reply.
                  "Oh! there is your fine air again, my Lady Disdain!" snarled the fair Ellinor.
                     "If you are not in love with him, why have you drooped like a
                     flower when the frost comes, ever since that night when he disappeared so
                     mysteriously? Before, your spirits were excellent, and I think the
                        goody old people, if not the men, liked you much better than
                     they liked me, preferring your "sweet smile, full of native goodness," one of
                     them said, I remember, "to my brilliant glances." Well, where is the sweet
                     smile? Why do you sit for hours in sad musings? Why have you lost all interest
                     in your flowers, and even forgot to feed your linnet yesterday? I reply that
                     you are in love—in love with the interesting unknown!"
                  Rose had turned with an offended air to re-enter the house.
                  Ellinor followed, goading and snapping at her.
                  "Deny it, if you dare, my romantic cousin!" she said.
                  Rose made no reply. She walked quietly toward the house, her companion beside
                     her, and laughing maliciously.
                  "Now you really ought to have taken pattern by my insignificant self," went on
                     her tormentor. "The late interesting Mr. Delamere had the bad taste to prefer
                     me to you. I am penniless, only a poor girl, but he honored me by his
                     attentions; in spite of which I remained quite heart whole and not in the least
                        romantic about the handsome stranger. Oh, he said a number of
                     things to me! Did I never tell you that before? He looked at me in such a way!
                     He told me at last—but here I am becoming indiscreet. If he did not kiss my
                     shoes, and lay his neck down for me to place my foot upon, it was only because
                     he saw that I was too proper a young lady to encourage a strange
                     adventurer! There is the blush again, and this time it is an angry blush. Very
                     well, but this is true. He would have knelt down quickly enough, if he had
                     hoped I would raise him up in my arms! And what he did do was
                     something! He—"
                  "I am weary of all this," said Rose, stung to the quick. "I wonder you take such pains to
                     prove that you are heartless, Ellinor. You are witty and brilliant, you think.
                     Other persons would call your wit ill-temper."
                  The words went home and aroused in the ironical Ellinor a good old-fashioned
                     fit of pure anger.
                  "Ah, there you are, my fine cousin!" she cried. "You treat me, as usual, to
                     moral and scriptural abuse. Thank your ladyship! But 'tis enough for the
                     present. I'll go home now and hear the rest of the sermon on another occasion.
                     Thank you!—I am 'ill-tempered'! Oh, yes! And all because I refer to what
                     everybody is speaking of! I say what everybody is speaking of, madam!—your
                     lovesick state of mind all about this unknown stranger, Mr. Delamere! The very
                     neighbors laugh at it! You have no pride, they say. They wonder, as your family
                     wonder, that you should thus honor a person of unknown position and blood, that
                     ever since he disappeared in that mysterious, and, I must say, very suspicious
                     manner, you should have mourned him and cried about him, and loved the very
                     chair he sat in! That is all I have to say, madam! 'Ill-tempered'!"
                  And the fair Ellinor tossed her head in superb wrath.
                  "I'd like to know what I have said to expose myself to that insult!" she added.
                     "'Ill-tempered'! and all because I laugh at your infatuation about an
                     adventurer!"
                  "Mr. Delamere was not an adventurer!" was Rose's cold response.
                  "What, then, was he? this charming stranger, whose amateur fishing excursions
                     terminated so mysteriously, and so very suspiciously."
                  "I see no mystery and no ground for suspicion in his disappearance," was Rose
                     Maverick's response. "You know as well as I do, Ellinor, that he has been
                     missing since the night of the attack on Westbrooke Hall, when the Viscount
                     Cecil was carried off. It is nearly certain now, as you know equally well, that
                     this attack was made by a party of Frenchmen from a vessel, in the channel, and
                     that their object was to abduct persons of rank to hold as hostages."
                  "Pray what has that to do with it, if I may address a question without offence
                     to your ladyship?"
                  "Simply this. Mr. Delamere was returning from his visit here to Oldport, on the
                     night of the attack. On the next morning he had disappeared appeared, and his horse was found grazing in the
                     fields. Nothing further is known; but it is certainly reasonable to suppose
                     that he too was carried off,—since his dress, demeanor, and all connected with
                     him, you will not deny, indicated that he was a gentleman. As such he was worth
                     attention. He was seen no more. Is it so improbable that the French people
                     captured him?"
                  "A fine theory, indeed!"
                  "It is at least more charitable than to conclude that he was an adventurer and
                     disappeared as he came,—"mysteriously."
                  "You defend your protegé well, madam."
                  "I take the part of the absent, who are defamed."
                  "And the absent thanks you!" said a voice in the shrubbery, very near them.
                  The young ladies recoiled, and uttering exclamations, gazed with affright
                     toward the shadow.
                  A figure wrapped in a cloak advanced. The face was pale, thin, and worn, but
                     resolute and stern.
                  It was Earle.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE SAILOR AND HIS SHIP.
                  A SUDDEN and unexpected event was the occasion of Earle's presence at Maverick
                     House.
                  He had remained prostrate on a couch of illness for weeks after the night of
                     the attack on Westbrooke Hall—the recluse watching over him in the solitary hut
                     with deep solicitude and tenderness.
                  At last the wound in his shoulder had healed. He had left his sick bed. The
                     fresh breeze of the ocean infused new life into his frame; and seated for hours
                     on the bench in front of the rude cabin on the great headland, he had looked
                     through his glass out on the channel and along the coast.
                  Where was the corvette? he asked himself. What had become of his beloved craft? The sailor
                     loves his ship, and the fate of the corvette was ever on Earle's mind. Had she
                     arrived safely with her prize, the viscount, or had she been chased and
                     captured by some English frigate? Was she riding in pride, or sunk fathoms deep
                     beneath the waves of St. George's Channel?
                  He had been seated in his customary seat on that morning, gazing through his
                     glass and asking himself these questions, when all at once the recluse saw him
                     rise to his feet, and heard him utter an exclamation, almost a cry, of joy.
                  The corvette was visible in the offing! There was no mistaking the object of
                     his pride and affection! The eye of the sailor knows his craft, as the eye of
                     the lover knows his mistress. There was the corvette slowly beating up toward
                     the coast of Pembrokeshire; and as his mother hastened to his side, Earle
                     pointed the vessel out and exclaimed,—
                  "There she is, mother!"
                  "Your ship, my son?" said the poor recluse, not sharing his joy.
                  "Yes, yes, mother! My own corvette!—coming to rescue her commander."
                  "Then you will leave me?"
                  He turned toward her, and looked at her with great tenderness.
                  "See how strong the sailor spirit is in me: I had not thought of that," he
                     said.
                  "While I think first of it. You go, and I shall be alone again."
                  Her voice was full of melancholy, and the sailor's joy was dimmed.
                  "Come with me, my mother. Leave this wild and lonely spot. Your native Normandy
                     is brighter than this land; come! Nothing there shall ever part us."
                  "You say Normandy: how do you know that Normandy is my
                     birthplace?" said the recluse, suddenly.
                  "From your missal, mother,—the little book you pray from. I found it on the
                     table near my sick couch, and opened it. On the first leaf is written,
                     'Marianne Earle, Martigny, Normandy.'"
                  The recluse was silent.
                  "Until now I had thought you a native of the South, mother, where we always
                     lived; but you never told me any thing. There will be time, to discuss all
                     this, however. Now time is wanting. See! look through my glass. There is a man;
                     it is Dargonne, on the deck of the corvette vette. He has his glass, and is looking for me.
                     He waves his handkerchief, and I reply."
                  Earle waved his own handkerchief.
                  "You see, mother! Get ready to come with me."
                  "I cannot."
                  "Why not?"
                  "I must remain here. Do not ask me why, my son."
                  "And we shall part!"
                  "It breaks my heart, but I must remain, Edmond. Ask me not why."
                  "Enough, my mother; I will say no more. Women like yourself never yield. I must
                     go; but I will return. My duty calls me now, but we shall still love each
                     other. See! the signal flags are run up. I read them as I read print."
                  "What do they say?"
                  Earle looked through his glass, and repeated slowly as the fluttering signal
                     flags syllabled the message,—
                  "Be at—the old place—to-night."
                  "The recluse sank upon the bench.
                  "Then it is ended—all my happiness at seeing you near me, my child," she
                     murmured.
                  And looking at him, she said to herself in a low voice,—
                  "He does not hear me; he is looking at his vessel, waving his handkerchief.
                     That means that he will be punctual. Oh! why do we love in this world? Why do
                     we become wrapped up in human beings until we are unhappy without them? Then
                     they go—we are alone—our very love works our woe. Alas! my child is going to
                     leave me, and I will be alone."
                  Earle turned toward her, joyously.
                  "See! she understands my signal, mother. She has tacked about, content—is
                     making for the coast of Ireland—but she will be here without fail, again,
                     to-night!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER V.
                  EARLE'S DESIGN.
                  AS evening approached, Earle dressed himself in his full uniform of a captain
                     in the French navy, buckled on his belt and pistols, and, wrapping his cloak
                     around him, turned to the recluse.
                  "I am going to be absent for an hour, my mother," he said. "A last duty makes
                     this necessary. Be not afraid: I will soon return, and then I will renew my
                     persuasions to induce you to embark with me for France. Reflect that it will
                     make me very happy, mother; and the good God watch over you."
                  He left the hut. The recluse had made no response. Bending down and weeping
                     silently, she presented an appearance of the deepest dejection.
                  Earle threw a last tender glance toward her, and disappeared in the dusk of
                     evening.
                  He followed the path leading down the headland, in the direction of Maverick
                     House; and just as Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, with his party, left Westbrooke
                     Hall in pursuit of him, entered the Maverick woods, half a league from the
                     mansion.
                  As he went on with firm tread, and an expression of stern resolution upon his
                     features, he muttered to himself,—
                  "Yes: this is a duty, and I will not leave the country without performing it.
                     Chance has placed me in possession of a secret intimately concerning Arthur
                     Maverick, the man who has called me friend, and his household; a murderer is
                     about to enter that household as the husband of one of the family whose head he
                     has assassinated. I alone, besides the gypsy, who has disappeared, can warn the
                     victim. I swear I will do so, and from a sense of duty, not in the least from a
                     mean jealousy; and then, if the marriage takes place, let it take place."
                  He went on rapidly. Pale and thin as he was, it was evident that his physical
                     vigor was nearly unabated.
                  "Jealousy!" he muttered as he proceeded beneath the huge boughs, toward Maverick
                     House,—"jealousy! oh, no! I swear that I am not in the least jealous. The love
                     I had for that woman is dead. She made me crazy for a time; but I have become
                     sane. I can see now—thanks to the hours of meditation and 
                        recollecon
                        recollection
                      my sick couch—that she is false, acted a part with me, lured me on to
                     gratify a poor sentiment of vanity; and when she had entrapped me, and driven
                     me to an avowal, threw me away without a thought or care for me.
                  "Fool that I was to imagine that the poor stranger could compete with the rich
                     baronet in madam's eyes. Fool, above all, to give my love to a thing of
                     deception, false as the sea. As the sea? I do it wrong. It is changeable and
                     dangerous, but makes no protestations. You embark on it with a knowledge of its
                     perils. This woman's glance and smile said, 'There is no danger with me.' They
                     fooled me. I was her slave. I am free now; and I am not jealous. Were she to
                     hold out her hand now, I would not take it, for I know her. Fool! to pass by
                     that pure flower, Arthur Maverick's sister, and bestow my love upon this
                     quicksand, Arthur Maverick's cousin. But it is over—all that madness. I care
                     not if she marry the assassin and monster. It is to save Arthur Maverick, my
                     friend, that I go to warn him, and to speak in my own name and character. There
                     is the house, here is the wall: in ten minutes I shall be there."
                  As he spoke, rapid steps were heard on the path behind him, and he turned
                     round.
                  Through the dim light a man was seen running towards him, and he drew his
                     pistol.
                  "Don't shoot, brother. I am a friend!" said the pursuer.
                  And the gypsy reached him.
                  "Take care, brother!" he said; "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke is on your track!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE WITNESS.
                  EARLE gazed at the gypsy without exhibiting the least emotion at these
                     words.
                  "How do you know that?" he said. "But first tell me where you have been?'
                  "I have been yonder in the woods, in the great ravine beyond Maverick House. On
                     the night of the attack on Westbrooke Hall, I went with you as far as the ledge
                     on the sea shore. There my heart failed me. I heard the shouts of the revenue
                     guard. I was a coward, and glided into the darkness."
                  "You did well. I have been wounded; but that is no matter. You say I am
                     pursued?"
                  "Yes, brother. I was at the revenue station to-day, offering to tell fortunes.
                     As I was telling that of the young officer in command, the man Wilde rode up
                     hastily. He brought a note. The officer read it half aloud, and I heard it. It
                     was from Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, and asked for a party of men to arrest you.
                     You were lurking at a place on the coast near the village of Oldport."
                  "Ah! he has found out that? And the men were sent?"
                  "Yes, brother. They were ordered out immediately. Then I left in a hurry, and
                     began to run toward Oldport. As I went, I thought of the hut on the headland,
                     where the solitary woman lives. You might be there, and I went up the steep
                     cliff by a path I found. You were gone; the woman said, had followed the path
                     toward Maverick House. I ran after you, and here I am. The baronet is probably
                     on your track too."
                  Earle nodded coolly.
                  "It is well," he said.
                  He looked keenly at the gypsy, as though to read him through. The look seemed
                     to be understood by the vagabond. His face flushed, and he said,—
                  "You don't doubt me, brother?"
                  "No," said Earle, extending his hand; "but this deep interest you show in a
                     stranger—"
                  
                  "You are no stranger, brother. You are one of the Rommanye Rye. But there is
                     more to make me your friend. You have been kind to me. You have not despised
                     me. All the world despises the gypsies. They are vagabonds and thieves! At
                     their appearance, the housewife takes in her linen from the hedge. When they
                     camp in the woods near a homestead, the farmer looks to his sheep and pigs.
                     They are outcasts; all curse them! I am one of them, and you have been kind,
                     not cruel. You are a gentleman, and have touched my hand and called the poor
                     gypsy 'brother.' That has moved him; he is your friend. I swear to watch over
                     and obey you, brother!"
                  Earle saw that the speaker was in earnest, and suddenly the thought came, "Here
                     is the witness to the murder."
                  "You will do what I ask of you, then, brother?" he said.
                  "I swear it; order me. I am yours!"
                  "Then follow me. I am going to reveal the murderer of Giles Maverick to his son
                     Arthur. Remain concealed in the shadow of the trees near the house. When I call
                     you, come quickly. See, we are near now. Here is the wall!"
                  They leaped into the park, and rapidly approached the house.
                  "Remain here!" said Earle, pointing to a spot in the shrubbery; "and when you
                     hear me blow on my sailor's whistle, come quickly, and give your
                     testimony."
                  The gypsy made a sign of obedience.
                  "I will lose no time, brother; and I advise you to hasten. The baronet will not
                     find you on the coast, and will come straight here. I warn you."
                  "Let him come!"
                  And Earle rapidly made his way toward the mansion.
                  Suddenly he heard the sound of voices, and Rose and Ellinor passed in the
                     moonlight. He clearly distinguished what was said; heard the taunts of Ellinor,
                     the charge of loving him, which she brought against her cousin; and heard, too,
                     the defence made of him by Rose.
                  A moment afterward he stood before them.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE DENUNCIATION.
                  EARLE wrapped his cloak around him so as to conceal his uniform, and bowing low
                     to Rose, said, in his deep voice,—
                  "Once more I thank you, madam. You defend me. The attack is strange!"
                  He turned to Ellinor.
                  "I loved you once, or thought I did," he said, coolly. "I love you no
                     longer—have ceased for more than a month to care aught for you. I shall see you
                     no more—before I go I undeceive you on that point, if you have deceived
                     yourself."
                  Ellinor Maverick blushed crimson at the stern and almost contemptuous words of
                     the sailor. Her pride was cruelly mortified, and anger followed—her eyes darted
                     lightnings.
                  Before she could speak, however, Earle had turned his back upon her. He went to
                     meet Arthur Maverick, who, startled by the exclamations of the ladies at
                     Earle's appearance, had hurried out to ascertain the cause of their
                     agitation.
                  "In good time!" said Earle; "it is you whom I come to see."
                  "Mr. Delamere? Is it possible that you are alive, and not a prisoner either? We
                     thought you had been captured."
                  "I will explain all, some day," was Earle's reply; "now there is no time. I
                     came not to explain this 
                        disapearance
                        disappearance
                     , but a much more mysterious affair. My explanation must be brief, the
                     meaning of which statement you will soon discover, friend."
                  "Your words astound me!"
                  "I am about to astound you far more. The object of my hurried visit to-night is
                     to reveal to you what I should have revealed long since."
                  "To reveal—what?"
                  "The murderer of your father!"
                  Arthur Maverick started, and almost recoiled.
                  "You know the mystery of that terrible affair?"
                  "Yes!"
                  
                  "Good heavens, Mr. Delamere! Speak! What frightful intelligence have you to
                     communicate?"
                  "Intelligence truly frightful! for it reveals a depravity almost incredible.
                     Tell me, friend,—you are that to me,—what think you of love and murder mingled?
                     What would you say if I told you that your father's murderer aspires to an
                     alliance with one of your own family! What if the man whose hands reek with the
                     blood of the uncle, comes to ask the hand of the niece, hopes to make Miss
                     Ellinor Maverick his wife?"
                  Arthur gazed at the speaker with distended eyes.
                  Ellinor Maverick, as pale as death, now, seemed about to faint.
                  "You would say—you surely do not mean—?" Arthur said in a low and agitated
                     voice.
                  "I mean that Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, of Westbrooke Hall, is the murderer of
                     Giles Maverick, your father!"
                  For a moment a deep silence reigned throughout the entire group. The words
                     seemed to paralyze the listeners, and to deprive them of the power of
                     utterance.
                  The first person who spoke was Ellinor Maverick erick. She sprang forward with
                     the fury of a tigress.
                  "Who are you, sir?" she cried, white with rage, "who bring this
                     accusation? who are you—the unknown adventurer who dare to assault the
                     character of a gentleman of rank? Speak! I will defend Sir
                     Murdaugh, if my cousin is too cowardly to do so!"
                  Earle bowed with ironical ceremony.
                  "I compliment you, madam, upon your chivalric defence of the absent. It seems,
                     then, that you can defend as well as attack those who are not present to take
                     their own parts!"
                  "Answer! no evasion! No trick to avoid a reply to my question!" exclaimed the
                     young lady, stung to wild fury.
                  "Your question, madam?"
                  "Who are you, I demand, who sneak here to destroy a
                        gentleman's character?"
                  Earle threw back his cloak, and revealed his full uniform of a French
                     captain.
                  "I am Edmond Earle, of the French navy; an enemy, but an officer and a
                     gentleman! I came to avow that; you hasten the avowal. Yes," he said, turning
                     to the astonished Arthur, "I am not Mr. Delamere, but Captain Earle. I have assumed a part—it was
                     repugnant, but it was done in compliance with orders. French civilians were
                     seized on the French coast—I came to seize English civilians on the English
                     coast! It was I who attacked Westbrooke Hall and, carried off the Viscount
                     Cecil,—it was I who was pursued and wounded on the sea-shore. I have remained
                     here since that time; my ship has returned for me, and the boat is now waiting;
                     but I have come here, risking my life, you see, with a mounted party on my
                     track, to say, 'Thanks for your hospitality friends! I never betrayed that.
                     Before I go, I perform a duty; act as your best friend would act—reveal the
                     fact that a murderer, the murderer of your own father, is about to enter your
                     family as the husband of a member of that family.'"
                  Arthur Maverick looked and listened with stupefaction. Words seemed to fail
                     him.
                  "The avowal of my real character is dangerous, perhaps," said Earle; "but I
                     swore I would make it. I am a French officer, and politically your enemy; but
                     personally, my heart beats with earnest affection for you. Do not remember that
                     I am an enemy—think me your friend. There is little time left. Let me hasten
                     and prove my charges."
                  He made the signal agreed upon, and the gypsy appeared quickly.
                  "This man is a vagabond, and you may not credit him," said Earle; "but listen
                     to his story first, and form your opinion."
                  At a sign from Earle the gypsy rapidly narrated the scene at the pool in the
                     forest, more than five years before. As he painted in vivid colors the sombre
                     event which he had witnessed,—the meeting of the enemies, the apparently
                     friendly greeting, the sudden stab, the dog leaping at the murderer's throat,
                     and the murdered man beaten with fragments of rock, and his body dragged to and
                     sunken in the pool,—as this terrible scene was depicted in the forcible words
                     of the gypsy, Arthur Maverick shuddered, and his face assumed the ashy hue of a
                     corpse.
                  "You do not believe that, perhaps," said Earle, as the gypsy terminated his
                     narrative. "You may say that I am the rejected suitor of Miss Maverick, and
                     have suborned this man to perjure himself, in order to ruin my rival. So be it!
                     form that theory, and try this narrative by the strongest test. Believe nothing until it is
                     accounted for upon reasonable grounds; and first, was there no reason why Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke should hate your father?"
                  "I know of none," said Arthur Maverick in a stifled voice.
                  "I am better informed!"
                  "You?"
                  "Your father bound and lashed the baronet as men lash a dog! Were you too young
                     to know that fact? Interrogate your memory."
                  "Good heavens! And it was my father, then, who committed that terrible outrage,
                     with which the whole country rang! Is it possible? and yet, it is incredible,
                     but—"
                  "Had they not quarreled?"
                  "Yes, yes! I now recall old stories of a violent scene between them. They were
                     on a racecourse; had an altercation; my father gave Sir Murdaugh the lie, and
                     the baronet struck him with his riding-whip. Before he could repeat the blow,
                     the bystanders interposed and forced Sir Murdaugh from the ground!"
                  "That is enough," said Earle, coolly; "and the chain of motive is
                     perfect. Your father quarrels with the baronet, the baronet inflicts a terrible
                     ble indignity upon Mr. Maverick; the result is that your father returns the
                     insult in kind by binding and lashing his adversary; and the fifth act of the
                     drama is the murder of your father by that adversary."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE BLOOD-HOUND.
                  ARTHUR Maverick's eyes were fixed upon the ground. His expression of horror and
                     astonishment began to give place to a gloomy rage.
                  "Then, if this be true, I have welcomed and touched the hand of my father's
                     murderer!" he muttered.
                  Before Earle could reply, Ellinor Maverick bounded toward them.
                  White with fury, chiefly from the undisguised contempt of her former lover, she
                     caught Arthur by the arm, almost shook him in her rage, and half hissed through
                     her closed set teeth,—
                  "Do you believe that spy and liar?"
                  Arthur Maverick drew back and extricated his arm from her grasp.
                  "Permit me to manage my own affairs madam, and believe or disbelieve as seems
                     good to me," he said, coldly.
                  "Believe as you will, then!" was the furious response; "disgrace your name if
                     you will, by giving credit to this convicted spy and adventurer! But you shall
                     not poison my mind against—"
                  "Your uncle's murderer, madam? As you will—that is your affair. I arrogate no
                     authority over you. But listen to me. I am the head of the house of Maverick in
                     Pembrokshire; my father was murdered; a man is charged with the murder. I will
                     pursue the inquiry to the last limits. If true, the guilty shall suffer. If
                     untrue, the innocent will be vindicated. Does that suit your views, madam? If
                     not, the fact will not move me."
                  Ellinor was carried away by her rage.
                  "I say the very idea is an insult!"
                  "So be it, madam. People will be insulated, then."
                  "It is an outrage—a thing unheard of, that this unknown adventurer, this man
                     who dared to pay his addresses to me, whom I spurned and laughed at, and ordered to leave my
                     presence,—it is infamous that on his testimony a gentleman of rank
                     and character should be suspected!"
                  "She fights hard for her rich suitor!" muttered Earle, with stern irony.
                  And then raising his voice,—
                  "May I call your attention to one fact, madam?" he said, coldly: "I have no
                     testimony to give."
                  "You have paid this vulgar wretch to blacken Sir Murdaugh!"
                  "I am too poor, madam!"
                  He made her a mock inclination, and spoke with an accent of such contempt that
                     the lady shuddered with rage, and with difficulty refrained from springing at
                     him.
                  "To end this scene," said Earle, returning to his gloomy tone, full of
                     sternness and cold resolution: "I expected this reception—I was thus prepared
                     for it, and it does not move me. I had my duty to perform, and have performed
                     it,—at some risk, too," he said to Arthur Maverick. "Do you doubt that?
                     Listen!"
                  He raised his finger, and there was dead silence for a 
                        monent
                        moment
                     .
                  In the midst of this silence rapid hoof-strokes were heard on the road leading
                     to the great gate.
                  "Do you hear?" said Earle, coolly.
                  "Yes!" was Arthur Maverick's reply—"the meaning of that sound?"
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke is coming hither with a party to seize and murder
                     me."
                  "The baronet?"
                  "In person! Can you not fancy the worthy's motive? On the night when this black
                     mystery was revealed to me, he had me tracked—his secret emissary overhead all.
                     Sir Maudaugh knows that I know—his good name is threatened. I may
                     send him to the gallows—he has doomed me—and is coming to murder me!"
                  The hoof-strokes sounded nearer, and a shudder ran through Rose Maverick, who
                     was standing pale but erect beside her brother.
                  "My sentence is already pronounced; I am to die," said Earle, coolly; "and I
                     lose my life by coming hither to warn you of this man's character! Does that
                     prove, or does it not, that I believe this gypsy's statement? He
                     alone can speak of that scene—"
                  Earle suddenly stopped.
                  
                  The hoof-strokes clashed on the avenue. The pursuers were nearly upon them.
                  "Yes, yes!" said Earle: "there is another witness—and he is here! the
                     blood-hound!—you informed me that he was still alive, old and blind nearly.
                     Send for the dog!—he will know the murderer!"
                  "I will go for him in person! wait!"
                  And Arthur Maverick disappeared at a bound toward the rear of the mansion,
                     where the bloodhound—dangerous in spite of his great age—was kept chained.
                  As his figure disappeared, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke rushed toward the group.
                     Behind came his men, ready to obey his orders.
                  "There he is!" shouted the baronet, "armed and ready to resist!"
                  Earle's pistol was indeed in his hand, and unconsciously he raised it.
                  "He is ready to fire! Shoot him down!" cried the baronet furiously.
                  And he raised his own pistol, but suddenly let it fall.
                  Rose Maverick had rushed between Earle and the threatening muzzle.
                  "You dare not fire upon me!" she exclaimed disdainfully; "if you
                     dare—fire!"
                  And beautiful, superb, her cheeks burning with passionate feeling,—
                  "I know now that you murdered my father!" she exclaimed.
                  The words were nearly drowned in a hoarse and threatening roar; and an instant
                     afterwards an enormous blood-hound bounded down the steps.
                  At sight of the dog, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke uttered a hoarse cry and turned to
                     fly.
                  It was too late. The dog had recognized the murderer of his master. His
                     bloodshot eyes glared at the baronet for an instant; his huge mouth opened
                     wide, displaying the jagged teeth—then with one bound the blood-hound reached
                     the spot and sprung at his enemy's throat.
                  A second cry, hoarse and horror-stricken like the first, came from the baronet.
                     But this time it was suddenly interrupted. The hound's teeth were on his
                     throat. A supernatural strength seemed to animate the faithful animal—the
                     baronet struggled in vain—suddenly man and dog fell beneath the trampling hoofs
                     of the horses, and Earle's voice was heard exclaiming,—
                  "Behold the murderer of Giles Maverick!"
                  
                  As he uttered the words the far boom of cannon came from the channel.
                  Earle started.
                  It came a second time. The 
                        omnious
                        ominous
                      sound was unmistakable.
                  "The corvette!—she is attacked!" cried Earle.
                  And seizing the bridle of the baronet's horse, he leaped into the saddle.
                  "Farewell, friends!" he cried to Arthur and Rose: "there are my cannon!—I know
                     their ring! My corvette is fighting and I am absent! Farewell!"
                  And charging, pistol in hand, the confused revenue guard, he passed through
                     them, followed only by a few random shots, and then disappeared toward the
                     coast.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  WHAT FOLLOWED.
                  EARLE went on at full speed.
                  The boat, he knew, awaited him at the cove under the headland: to reach the
                     spot now without delay was the one thought that possessed him.
                  The animal he bestrode was a powerful hunter, of the purest blood and the
                     highest speed. At every bound he cleared ten feet. Earle drove him on
                     mercilessly. With erect head, floating mane, and foam flying from his jaws, he
                     darted straight on toward the coast, along whose headlands and rocky
                     promontories reverberated the hoarse boom of the cannon.
                  Suddenly another sound mingled with the far ominous roar,—the smiting of hoofs
                     on the road behind.
                  
                  Earle turned his head and listened.
                  'They are following me," he muttered, digging the spur into his horse's
                     sides.
                  He was not mistaken. Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was on his track.
                  A brief but fiery scene had followed the fall of the baronet, in the clutch of
                     the blood-hound. His men ran to him, dragged off the dog, and he rose to his
                     feet, trembling, bleeding, and as pale as a corpse.
                  "The meaning—of—this—outrage?" he gasped.
                  "Ask your memory," was Arthur Maverick's response, in a low, hoarse tone.
                  He advanced close to the baronet as he spoke, and fixed his eyes upon him.
                  "You are the murderer of my father!" came in a low hiss through his pale
                     lips.
                  The baronet recoiled, and his eyes seemed starting from their cavernous
                     sockets.
                  "That hound convicts you! See! I have only to step aside and he will tear you
                     to the earth a second time! Wretch! murderer! convicted assassin! your black
                     crime shall not go unpunished longer!"
                  And catching the baronet by the throat, he would have strangled him despite his
                     great strength, had not the men forcibly interposed, and parted them
                     instantly.
                  "It—is—well!" gasped the baronet, staggering back; "you shall answer for this
                     outrage. I go now, but I return. My horse!"
                  And turning, he caught almost mechanically, the bridle of a horse which one of
                     the men hastened to lead forward.
                  The baronet mounted hastily, and made a sign to his men to do likewise.
                  Arthur Maverick seemed to hesitate whether he would attempt to retain him or
                     not.
                  "Well, go!" he said; "but beware how you set your foot here again. Return, as
                     you say you will, and you die by my hand."
                  The baronet looked at the speaker with eyes full of indescribable rage, with
                     which was mingled no little trepidation.
                  "It is well!" he said, in a low tone; "but let the son beware of the fate of
                     the father."
                  As he spoke he turned his horse's head, and struck the spur into the animal's
                     sides.
                  "Come!" he shouted in hoarse tones to the men; "we may catch up with the spy
                     yet. A hundred guineas for his head!"
                  And he set out at full speed on the track of Earle. The men followed, and the party
                     disappeared like a 
                        whilwind
                        whirlwind
                     .
                  The dismounted man, whose horse the baronet rode, ran after them.
                  The gypsy had already disappeared.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE FLAG WITH THE LILIES.
                  EARLE continued his flight, making straight for the coast.
                  The hunter cleared the earth with long strides, and promised very soon to
                     distance all pursuit and reach the strand.
                  Suddenly he staggered. A sharp stone had entered his foot, and inflicted a deep
                     wound. Such was the pain that he was unable to keep up his great speed; his
                     pace fell off; he limped terribly; and Earle heard behind him the shouts of the
                     pursuers, who every moment were gaining upon him.
                  He turned and looked over his shoulder; then through the night mist toward the
                     coast. From the rear came threatening cries; from the front, the long reverberating boom of cannon
                     from the channel.
                  Behind that curtain of white mist wrapping the shores and the great headlands,
                     Earle felt that a hard combat was going on between his corvette and an English
                     frigate probably.
                  The thought drove him to frenzy almost. He struck the poor animal he rode, with
                     his clenched fist.
                  "Faster! faster!" he exclaimed. "I care not for myself. But she is attacked
                     yonder—my corvette! They are fighting, and I am not there!"
                  With merciless spur, he drove the animal to full speed, in spite of his wound;
                     and thus pursuers and pursued swept onward toward the sea.
                  It was now a race for life. The party commanded by Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke were
                     every moment gaining on the sailor. Either they caught glimpses of him, or
                     heard the sound of his horse's hoofs. They came closer and closer, and Earle
                     heard them, and prepared for the worst.
                  As his horse went on at full speed nearly, in spite of the painful limp, the
                     sailor slipped his belt round, and placed the handle of his pistol where he
                     could easily grasp it.
                  "If they come up, I will fight them all," he muttered, with his short, defiant
                     laugh. "That is not brave; it is the only course! If I am arrested, I will die
                     on the gallows. Yes, my good Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, you play with edged
                     tools. You may come up with me, but you come to your death!"
                  A pistol-shot was heard, and a bullet whistled by his head. He drew his own
                     weapon, but did not fire.
                  "I am too good a sailor to waste my shot," he muttered.
                  And he went on, pursued by cries; they evidently saw him, and were gaining
                     rapidly on him.
                  The mist opening for a moment, gave him all at once a full glimpse of the
                     party. At their head rode Sir Murdaugh, and Earle heard him howl,—
                  "Shoot him down! Death to him!"
                  Then the mist enveloped them.
                  But from this mist came, nearer and nearer, the hoof-strokes and the cries.
                     Earle's horse staggered under him, and seemed about to fall.
                  From the front, as before, came the thunder of cannon, and with this now
                     mingled the hoarse dash of the waves.
                  
                  "The coast is near. I cannot see, but there is the sound a sailor knows,"
                     muttered Earle.
                  The roll of the surf grew louder. With it came now the confused sound of
                     voices.
                  Earle's brows were heavily knit.
                  "I had forgotten that!" he exclaimed. "While I am followed by this party, bent
                     on my death, another party awaits me yonder. Between the two I shall be
                     crushed!"
                  The wind whirled away the mist, and on the strand were seen confused
                     shapes,—men running to and fro.
                  "I have mistaken my route, and am near Oldport," muttered Earle.
                  Then gazing before him,—
                  "If these people see me, I am lost!" he exclaimed.
                  As he spoke, the party behind rushed upon him, with fierce shouts. From the
                     mist emerged a whirlwind of furious enemies, pistol in hand.
                  "Halt! or you are dead!"
                  Earle replied by firing at the baronet.
                  The bullet passed through his hat. Only a moment afterwards a hail-storm of
                     balls whistled around the sailor.
                  His horse had struck his wounded foot, and, half falling, saved the life of his
                     rider.
                  The bullets passed over Earle's head, and the baronet uttered a cry of
                     rage.
                  "Ride him down! See, his horse will carry him no farther!"
                  Earle drove the spur deep into his animal's side. The only result was that the
                     horse uttered a groan, and nearly fell.
                  At the same moment violent hands caught the bridle, and threw him on his
                     haunches.
                  "Who be you?" cried a voice—the voice of the man in front.
                  Earle recognized that voice. It belonged to Goliath.
                  He threw himself from the saddle.
                  "I am one of the wolves!" he said; "and they are after me!"
                  "You!" exclaimed the giant, recognizing him.
                  "Yes: listen! Yonder are the men who are hunting me down!"
                  The baronet rushed on with his men, who uttered shouts of triumph.
                  "Who be these?" said Goliath.
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke and the revenue guard!"
                  No sooner had Goliath heard Earle's reply, than he drew a long knife. His next
                        proceeding ing was to utter a
                     shrill and prolonged cry, resembling the scream of the sea-gull.
                  At that cry, dusky shapes rushed toward him from every direction. The wolves
                     had evidently recognized the signal, which meant, "One of the wolves is in
                     danger!"
                  "You be safe, master," said Goliath.
                  Earle drew his second pistol.
                  "Go on, master; where you be going?"
                  "I am not going anywhere!"
                  As he spoke, the pursuers darted upon them.
                  "Kill him!" exclaimed the baronet," and all who resist!"
                  As he spoke he fired at Earle, and, riding at him, levelled a blow at him with
                     his pistol, which was still smoking.
                  The sailor parried it, and fired on the baronet, so close that the powder
                     blackened his face. As the weapon was discharged, the horse ridden by the
                     baronet took fright and wheeled. He was not destined to bear off his rider,
                     however, who had remained uninjured. One of the wolves caught the baronet by
                     the throat and dragged him down. Then the fight surged over him. Quick
                     pistol-shots, cries, the revenue guards scattering and flying, hotly
                     pursued,—such were the sounds and sights which greeted Sir Murdaugh as he
                     rolled to the earth, and a powerful wolf placed his knee on him.
                  "Quick, master," said Goliath to Earle; "the fight be over! take care of
                     yourself!"
                  "Thanks."
                  And Earle caught a horse and threw himself into the saddle.
                  "Good-by, brother!" he said, grasping the huge hand of Goliath; "you have saved
                     my life to-night, and I shall not forget that."
                  Goliath shook his head.
                  "No need of thanking me, master. You be a wolf, but look out!"
                  Earle turned in the direction indicated by the giant's finger.
                  The sound of cavalry coming on at full gallop was heard.
                  "The revenue station people!"
                  "They are too late!"
                  And with a last pressure of the hand, Earle darted off along the shore toward
                     the spot where the boat awaited him.
                  In ten minutes he stopped, and threw himself to the earth.
                  Then he began to run along the narrow ledge of rock, and disappeared in the
                     shadow of the headland.
                  
                  Ten minutes afterwards the revenue guard who had ridden down to the shore,
                     might have been heard uttering cries.
                  A boat had darted from the shadow of the headland, above which suddenly soared
                     the beacon light. The gigantic torch lit up all. The ruddy glare turned night
                     into day. The boat was rowed by four men, and another in uniform stood erect in
                     the stern.
                  A shower of bullets from the guard, who rode down into the surf, greeted the
                     boat.
                  The reply aroused furious shouts and more shots.
                  It was simple.
                  The man in the stern unfurled a flag, and waved his hat.
                  The glare of the beacon fell on the flag.
                  On its defiant folds were emblazoned the lilies of France; and, as though, to
                     salute it, a salvo of cannon roared from the channel.
                  Earle waved his hat a second time in triumph, and in ten minutes the boat had
                     disappeared in the mist.
               
            
            
               PART III.
               BURIED ALIVE.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  BARON DELAMERE.
                  UNTIL nearly midnight the cannon continued to roar from St. George's Channel;
                     then the dull sound receded, was heard at intervals only; then ceased.
                  Three days afterwards His French Majesty's corvette the Solitaire, entered the port of Brest, having in tow His Britannic Majesty's
                     sloop-of-war the Hornet, which had attacked the corvette in St.
                     George's Channel, off the coast of Pembrokeshire, and very nearly succeeded in
                     sinking the Frenchman.
                  
                  In fact the fight was plainly going in favor of the Hornet, and
                     the corvette was trying to get off, when a boat rowed by four sailors, with a
                     fifth person standing in the stern, was seen making its way from shore,
                     directly under the fire of the Hornet's guns—and this boat in the
                     midst of plunging shot, and a fire of musketry directed at it, reached the
                     corvette; the person in the stern leaping instantly upon deck, and, as the
                     English commander could see, taking command.
                  From that moment the fight became far more obstinate; and it was soon obvious
                     that whoever the commanding officer of the corvette might be, he had resolved
                     to go to the bottom rather than strike his flag. Success crowned his hard
                     work—it was the sloop-of-war which struck her flag, and the corvette sailed
                     away with her, managing to evade the English cruisers and reach Brest in
                     safety.
                  Such had been the result of Earle's night combat in St. George's
                     Channel,—victory over a waspish craft manned by good men, and commanded by a
                     brave old sea-dog. He sailed into Brest with colors flying, and was saluted by
                     the fortress with the roar of cannon.
                  An hour afterwards he had cast anchor.
                  His barge was manned, and he sprung into it. The oars fell, the barge danced
                     over the waves, Earle touched shore; and was soon bowing, cocked hat in hand,
                     in presence of the great Due de Choiseul, prime minister, who chanced, happily
                     for the sailor's fortunes to be on a visit to Brest, and to witness his
                     triumphal entry.
                  A week afterwards Captain Edmond Earle was travelling post from Paris to the
                     village of Martigny.
                  The object of his visit was to procure a copy of his baptismal register, and
                     the formal record of the marriage of his father and mother.
                  These documents were necessary before he could be created Baron Delamere.
                  That was the reward designed to be conferred on the young sailor; and for the
                     suggestion he was indebted to no less a personage than the Viscount Cecil.
                  A few words will place the reader in possession of the details. Our history
                     passes in Wales, and only touches for a few moments the French shore.
                  The capture of the viscount had pleased everybody, and the court was thus in
                        high good humour. He was released
                     at once on parole; fêted by the anti-war party; received with great politeness
                     by his grace the Due de Choiseul, whose word was law throughout France; and one
                     morning when he was shown into the minister's cabinet he found Earle in
                     waiting.
                  "Ah! you have returned then, my dear Captain?" he said.
                  "As you see, my lord," said Earle, bowing.
                  "And, I have heard, with a prize. What ship had the bad luck to meet you?"
                  "I was 
                        attaked
                        attacked
                      by His Britannic Majesty's sloop-of-war Hornet, my
                     lord."
                  "Commanded by Digby! You had a hard fight?"
                  "A very hard one, my lord. Captain Digby did not seem to know when he ought to
                     strike! A very brave man!"
                  The Viscount Cecil bowed.
                  "When one brave sailor speaks well of another, we civilians should listen."
                  "Your lordship does me great honor."
                  "Not more than you deserve, sir. Come to England—I will have you made a
                     peer!"
                  The Due de Choiseul laughed.
                  "What say you, Monsieur le Capitaine?"
                  The sailor bowed.
                  "I have a flag, my lord. It is the flag of the lilies!"
                  The viscount approached the duke.
                  "See, monseigneur! you have a nobleman already made there."
                  "But you think, my Lord Viscount—" said Choiseul.
                  "That you should make him a baron, at least, monseigneur."
                  "Baron—whom?"
                  "Stay: I find you a name, monseigneur. Delamere—de-la-mer. He captured me while bearing that name; and I assure
                     your lordship that he will honor your patent."
                  The Due de Choiseul inclined politely.
                  "Will it oblige Monsieur le Vicopte?"
                  "Very greatly, my lord. It is a great privilege to be able to reward merit—I
                     have enjoyed it at times."
                  The duke took a large sheet of paper, wrote some lines upon it, and then
                     affixed his seal to it.
                  "Monsieur le Baron Delamere," he said, turning to Earle, "take this paper to
                     the Bureau of Record, which you will easily find, and have all the formalities
                     attended to by the chief of the
                     Bureau. You will then report in fifteen days to the admiral at Brest for
                     orders. The Tèmèraire will await you there, and you will take
                     command of her!"
                  Earle bowed low. The Tèmèraire was a frigate of the first class;
                     and he was dizzy for joy. He did not think of the paper in his hand. But when
                     he found himself in the antechamber he glanced at it.
                  "Edmond Earle—created—by His Majesty—for important services—Baron Delamere.
                     Choiseul."
                  Earle read something like that. The whole affair astonished him. And he owed
                     this latter distinction to his brave enemy the viscount!
                  As he walked on, in a dream as it were, he felt a hand laid upon his arm.
                  He turned quickly. It was the Viscount Cecil.
                  "Farewell, baron; I return to England tomorrow," said the viscount.
                  "You are released, then, my lord?"
                  "Yes."
                  "I am overjoyed to be so informed. It was by my act that you have been thus
                     inconvenienced—and your revenge has been princely, my lord."
                  The viscount took the sailor's arm, and they walked on together.
                  "Listen, my dear Captain Earle—for that is your most honorable title," said
                     Viscount Cecil: "I am an old man now, and have seen a great deal of the world.
                     I never prided my-on many things, but I think I recognize a gentleman whenever
                     I meet one. Well, you conducted yourself as such in capturing me, and you beat
                     Digby—those two facts have much impressed me. To day I found the occasion—his
                     grace was in an excellent humor. He has made you a baron—you deserve that, sir;
                     and when the war ends, come and see me. I live at Wentworth Castle—you will
                     always be welcome there. Farewell, Captain! There is the Bureau of Record."
                  And he held out his hand, which Earle pressed warmly.
                  "Thanks, my lord," he said. "The king ennobles me for a fight and a victory.
                     But there are others who do not require that, since they are noblemen by
                     nature."
                  And they parted,—Earle entering the Bureau.
                  He was ushered into an inner apartment, where a dry-looking individual scowled
                     at him. At sight of the paper in the
                     writing of Choiseul, however, this individual dissolved into profuse
                     politeness.
                  "Will Monsieur le Baron be seated?" he said, bowing and pointing to a chair.
                     "This patent is in regular order. I congratulate Monsieur le Baron. A few
                     formalities only are necessary,—mere formalities; namely, the full name of
                     Monsieur le Baron's father and mother, and the date of their marriage; also,
                     the date of Monsieur le Baron's birth: that will be all. Delighted to serve
                     Monsieur le Baron!"
                  And the functionary executed another bow.
                  Earle responded in the same manner, and left the Bureau, with "Monsieur le
                     Baron" fairly ringing in his ears.
                  On the next morning he set out for Martigny, in Normandy, remembering the
                     writing in the recluse's missal.
                  Just at dusk he reached the village.
                  As he entered it in the post-carriage, a man muffled in a heavy overcoat
                     passed, running rapidly.
                  The man seemed making for the sea-coast, a mile or so distant, where some
                     sail-boats were seen.
                  Earle scarcely looked at him. He stopped at the inn, and was directed to the
                     house of the curé.
                  "What is your pleasure, my son?" said the old priest, meeting him on the
                     steps.
                  "To see your register, father, and find the date of the marriage of the Tèmèraire! Pshaw!—pardon, father! They have given me a frigate,
                     and it has turned my head!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE MUTILATED REGISTER.
                  TWO hours before the appearance of Earle at the village of Martigny, a man of
                     powerful frame, his face half-covered by a heavy beard, had knocked at the door
                     of the old priest's house, and, receiving the reply "Come in," had entered.
                  "You are the priest of this parish?" said the man, with a foreign accent.
                  "Yes, my son."
                  "And you have in your possession the record of births in the parish?"
                  "Yes, my son."
                  "I wish to examine them,—to find the registry of the birth of Jean Angely,
                     cordwainer," said the man.
                  The old priest mildly inclined his head.
                  "That will be easy, my son. But you know we poor priests are very curious,
                     having so little to amuse us. The object of this inquiry, my son?"
                  "That Jean Angely may inherit property left to him. His cousin, Guillaume
                     Angely, of Tours, leaves a farm to Jean Angely, born at Martigny, and son of
                     Robert Angely and Suzanne, his wife. The fact of his birth needs formal proof.
                     The register will prove it."
                  The priest inclined his head, and, after a moment's hesitation, opened a
                     closet. From this he took a large volume in black leather, and laid it on the
                     table.
                  "The date is about 17—," said the man.
                  "An error of a year, my son."
                  "It may be."
                  And the man turned over the leaves, examining the register.
                  As he was thus engaged, a second knock came at the door.
                  "Come in!" repeated the old priest, and a child entered.
                  "Well, my little one?"
                  The child modestly held down his head and said,—
                  
                  "Mother Francois is dying, and wishes to see you, father."
                  "Mother Francois! Dying! Why, she was scarcely ill!"
                  He rose quickly and put on his hat. Then he stopped, looking toward the
                     man.
                  Compassion conquered, however, and he went toward the door.
                  "I will return speedily, my son. Await my coming."
                  And he left the room.
                  As the door closed, the man turned round and listened attentively. The priest's
                     footsteps receded.
                  "Good!" he said; "my little trap has caught the old bird. I have ten
                     minutes."
                  With a sharp knife he rapidly cut from the volume one of the leaves. This he
                     examined a second time, to be sure that no mistake had been made, folded, and
                     placed in his pocket-book; returned the latter to his pocket; and, taking pen,
                     ink, and paper, carefully copied the entry in the register, relating to Jean
                     Angely, cordwainer.
                  He was thus occupied when the old priest returned, red in the face, and looking
                     much mortified.
                  "These children! these children!" he murmured: "to think of Emile Drouet
                     playing a trick on me."
                  The man raised his head.
                  "They played a trick, do you say?" he inquired.
                  "Yes, yes, my son; Mother Francois was much better than when I saw her this
                     morning, and had never sent Emile. That child will turn out badly."
                  "A young rascal!" said the man. "Well, I have copied the entry I wish, and you
                     can attest it."
                  "I will do so with pleasure, my son."
                  And comparing the copy of the entry, it was found correct. The old priest then
                     certified on the paper that it was a true copy, signed his name, and the man
                     folded up the document, and put it in his pocket.
                  "Is any fee to be paid?" he asked.
                  "None, my son. It is my duty to keep the register, and afford access to it. I
                     can even offer you a part of my poor dinner, if it please you to share it."
                  This the man declined, and wrapping a great overcoat around him, he straightway
                     left the priest's house.
                  
                  He did not go to the inn, but out toward the suburbs, in the direction of the
                     coast.
                  Once in the suburbs, he began to run, making for a clump of woods on a
                     hill.
                  He saw a post-carriage driving rapidly into Martigny from the direction of
                     Paris.
                  He scarcely glanced at it, and reaching the woods, disappeared.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE REVELATION.
                  THE day seemed destined to be a busy one for the good priest of Martigny.
                  The man who had called to examine the record of the birth of Jean Angely, had
                     scarce left him, when another appeared, anxious to know "the date of the
                     marriage of the Tèmèraire."
                  Earle laughed, and corrected himself.
                  "I mean the date of the marriage of one who was probably a member of your
                     flock, father."
                  "Her name, my son?"
                  "Marianne Earle."
                  The old priest looked up quickly.
                  "Marianne Earle, my son?" he said.
                  "Yes, father. Did you not know her?"
                  
                  "As I should know my own child, had I enjoyed the happiness of paternity."
                  "Then you loved her?"
                  "Tenderly."
                  Again the old priest looked intently at Earle.
                  "Well, father, then you will certainly be pleased to aid me. I am her son."
                  "You the son of Marianne Earle!"
                  The sailor nodded.
                  "Does that seem strange, father?"
                  "And she sends you?"
                  Earle shook his head.
                  "Why, then, do you come?"
                  Earle explained his object.
                  The old priest listened, quietly; but it was plain that he was weighing every
                     word which his companion uttered.
                  "Now you understand, father. Pray look for your register. I wish to find the
                     date of my mother's marriage, and that of my birth too."
                  The old priest did not move.
                  "In a moment, my son. Where is your mother now?"
                  "In Wales."
                  "You have seen her lately?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And she could not inform you of the exact date?"
                  "Doubtless; but the occasion has just arisen; moreover, she has always
                     preserved a singular silence on these matters."
                  "Her silence has been judicious, my son," said the old priest, gravely; "I know
                     its cause, and approve it."
                  "What is the cause?"
                  "I will tell you frankly. She wishes to preserve you from a knowledge of your
                     father."
                  "Of my father? Was he not her cousin, Edmond Earle of the Marine?"
                  The priest hesitated an instant.
                  "No," he said at length; "he was a heretic."
                  "My father a heretic!—and not Edmond Earle!—you astound me, father!"
                  "I tell you the truth, my son; and your mother had good reason to conceal all
                     this. She was one of my flock, and I knew every thought of her heart. Every
                     breath she drew was purity itself, and she placed her religious duties before
                     all. Your father would surely have corrupted you—hence she fled to rescue you.
                     Now you come and ask me to tell you, in effect the name of that father. Do you
                     wonder I hesitate?"
                  
                  Earle pondered with knit brow for a moment.
                  "No father—but—it is astounding! Edmond Earle not my father? His name, then!
                     his name! Or rather let me see the register!"
                  The old priest said solemnly,—
                  "Swear to me, that you will not be corrupted by him, my son."
                  "Corrupted?"
                  "That you will not permit him to shake your faith in the Holy Church."
                  "I swear it, father. I am a good Catholic, and will die in the true faith! Does
                     that satisfy you? My father's name now?"
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke."
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE DISCOVERY.
                  EARLE gave a violent start and turned so pale that he seemed about to
                     faint.
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke!" he gasped,—"that man my father!"
                  "Yes!"
                  "You laugh at me, old man! My father was a French sailor, Edmond Earle, a brave
                     man and a good Catholic."
                  "You are mistaken. Your father was an Englishman, and I am sorry to say a
                     heretic, my son!"
                  "Good heavens!"
                  The old priest assumed an expression which said,—
                  "It is melancholy, but true!"
                  Then he added in words,—
                  "You doubtless have seen him?"
                  
                  "Yes," said the sailor, in a low voice; his brows knit, his eyes fixed upon the
                     carpet.
                  "Without knowing of the relationship?"
                  "I never dreamed of it," said Earle, in the same tone.
                  Then rising suddenly, and losing sight apparently of the presence of the
                     priest, he paced hurriedly up and down the room, exclaiming at intervals,—
                  "That man my father!—the husband of my mother, living there within sight of
                     her; never acknowledging, or perhaps not knowing her! It is incredible, or it
                     is infamous! That murderer whom I have just renounced! that man who has
                     tracked, and hunted me to my death well-nigh! that assassin, that infamous
                     excrescence of humanity,—this wretch my father! my own father!"
                  He sank into a chair, and covered his face with both hands. His breast shook, a
                     deep sob tore its way from his lips, and scalding tears trickled between his
                     fingers.
                  The old priest went to him, and said soothingly,—
                  "Do not be so much moved, my son. No human being can control his fate. It is
                     not your fault that you are this man's son. Dry your tears; seek consolation
                     where alone it is to be found, and all will once more grow peaceful in your
                     breast. Lift up your heart!"
                  The old 
                        man man
                        man
                      raised his hand, and pointed toward heaven. Earle slowly inclined his
                     head, and removed his hands. His face was wet with tears.
                  "Enough, father," he said. "I was a child for a moment, but I am a man
                     again."
                  His face flushed. He rose to his feet.
                  "Yes, a man! and my mother shall not suffer!"
                  "Your mother?"
                  "She shall not be repudiated by that man! I know him too well; he has acted
                     infamously, if he is my father; he is bent on acting more infamously
                     still."
                  "Tell me all, my son."
                  "He designs marrying a second time; and even now may be perfecting that crime
                     in spite of all I have done to destroy him!"
                  "You! a second marriage! Why that would be no marriage, since your mother still
                     lives, you say. And you speak of attempting to destroy him! How is all this, my
                     son?"
                  Earle grew calm, collected, and on his guard all at once. The old priest's
                     foible was evidently curiosity; but
                     the sailor did not wish to gratify this curiosity. A heavy weight was on his
                     heart, and he saw that there was no time to lose if he meant to act.
                  "I am in haste now, father," he said, "and must reserve my story for another
                     occasion. At present I request that you will exhibit to me your register, and
                     supply me with an attested copy of the marriage record of Marianne Earle and
                     Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke. It is here—the register?"
                  "Yes, my son; there upon the table."
                  And the old priest approached the table, and opened the volume bound in black
                     leather.
                  "Another person has just visited me, on an errand similar to yours, my son. His
                     object was to procure a copy, attested, of a certain birth entry. What you wish
                     is further back. It ought to be here," he added, stopping as he turned over the
                     leaves.
                  He examined the pages.
                  "Strange!" he said. "I do not find it, and yet—"
                  He looked at the paging of the volume. At a glance it was evident that one of
                     the sheets was missing, since page 39 followed page 36.
                  "Can it be?"
                  And the priest examined the volume more closely. A sheet had been cut out. The
                     narrow strip remained indicating the theft.
                  "It is incredible! How was it possible? Yes, yes! while I was absent! That was
                     a plan laid to remove me. Not a doubt of it!"
                  "What is the matter, father?" exclaimed Earle.
                  "It is gone, my son. The entry of your father and mother's marriage has been
                     stolen!"
                  "Stolen! By whom?"
                  "By the man who was here an hour ago."
                  "The man—!"
                  "An Englishman, as I conjectured from his accent. He had me sent for on a false
                     errand; remained here, and must have cut out this leaf."
                  Earle gazed in astonishment at the book, and saw the narrow slip.
                  "What interest could any one have in—"
                  Suddenly he stopped.
                  "An Englishman, did you say, father?"
                  "As I supposed, my son."
                  "His appearance?"
                  "A large man of great bulk and strength, though not tall. He had a heavy black
                     beard on his face, and wore an English dreadnought coat."
                  
                  "It was Wilde!" exclaimed Earle; "and he was sent hither by his master. This
                     proof of the marriage with my mother existed. He is bent on marrying again, and
                     has abstracted it."
                  He turned quickly, and seized his hat.
                  "What route did the man take, father?"
                  "I can tell you that, my son. He went straight toward the coast."
                  Earle hastened toward the door.
                  "Farewell, father! I am going to pursue him. I have fifteen days' furlough;
                     this cloak will conceal my uniform. From this moment it is a struggle which of
                     us shall reach England first. I will have that paper, or the life of the man
                     who carries it on his person. If he arrives with it, all is lost! If I come up
                     with him all is saved. Farewell, father! Your blessing. I go on a dangerous
                     journey."
                  And turning suddenly, the young man knelt on one knee.
                  "Heaven bless and prosper you, my son!"
                  A moment afterwards Earle had disappeared
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE BLOW OF THE WHIP.
                  AT the moment when Earle left Paris, on his way to Martigny, events of
                     importance to the personages of this history were occurring in
                     Pembrokeshire.
                  Arthur Maverick was seated in his library, gloomily reflecting, when a servant
                     entered and announced Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                  A moment afterwards the baronet entered.
                  His brow was as black as night, and there was something venomous and yet
                     apprehensive in the glance shot sidewise from his deep-set eyes.
                  Arthur Maverick rose quickly. His whole person seemed suddenly to have
                     stiffened into stone.
                  "Your pleasure, sir!" he said, in a voice which was scarcely recognizable. "What does my
                     father's murderer propose to himself in coming to this house?"
                  The young man's expression was sick and scornful. It was plain that he
                     tolerated the presence of the baronet only by a strong effort.
                  "I came to speak of that," was the low reply of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke; "to
                     ascertain if I am to suffer in the estimation of yourself and the Misses
                     Maverick from the testimony of a vagabond and the attack of a mad dog."
                  Arthur looked at him fixedly.
                  "How do you know that the vagabond testified against you?" he said.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was caught.
                  "I thought as much. He is my enemy and has 
                        endevored
                        endeavored
                      to extort money from me. He made up the whole of this base charge.
                     Your father and myself never met after our quarrel on the race-course."
                  "Not even when he bound you to a tree and lashed you?"
                  Sir Murdaugh quivered with rage at the scornful glance of the young man.
                  "That is a lie, like the charge of murder. He never so outraged me."
                  "And you think I will believe you—you, the convicted liar and murderer!"
                     exclaimed the young man. "You suppose, then, that I am a baby—that because I
                     have not arrested you, you will go free. Undeceive yourself. Your fate
                     approaches. At the next assizes I lay an information against you, and the
                     gallows shall avenge my father."
                  Sir Murdaugh rose in tremendous wrath.
                  "Then there are none but enemies here," he growled.
                  "You have one friend at least," exclaimed a voice at the door, and Ellinor
                     bounded into, rather than simply entered the apartment.
                  "Yes!" she cried, "there is one person who disbelieves this infamous
                     fabrication, this slander based on the testimony of spies and vagabonds and
                     dogs. My cousin there," and she scornfully pointed towards 
                        Authur
                        Arthur
                     , "may believe as he chooses, and insult the guests in his own house
                     to his heart's desire; but I, at least, will not do that. I cling to—"
                  "Your rich suitor, madam?"
                  And with an expression of overpowering scorn, Arthur Maverick made his cousin a
                     low bow.
                  The contempt of his voice and expression seemed to sting the fair Ellinor into
                     wild rage.
                  
                  "If I am to be insulted, I will leave this house. I am not homeless; Lady
                     Worsham will protect me."
                  "As you please, madam," said the young man, making her a second bow of profound
                     ceremony. "You are welcome here as long as you remain Miss Ellinor Maverick. If
                     you design becoming Lady Westbrooke, the ceremony will not take place
                     here."
                  The young lady could scarce contain her rage at these words.
                  "Very well, sir," she said, shooting a wrathful glance at her cousin; "will you
                     have the goodness to order a carriage to take me to Lady Worsham's?"
                  Arthur Maverick quietly rang a bell, and a servant entered.
                  "The coach!" he said.
                  The servant disappeared.
                  "I will not remain here an instant longer than is necessary, sir."
                  And going out, the young lady banged the door violently after her.
                  Sir Murdaugh had listened attentively. He had supposed his suit at an end
                     forever. Now the unexpected turn of affairs showed him that he might derive
                     enormous advantage from Ellinor's continued adhesion to her engagement. Who
                     would be brought to believe that he was a murderer, when Miss Maverick
                     consented to be come Lady Westbrooke? Would the niece marry the murderer of her
                     own uncle? No one would believe that. It was with a sudden sentiment of safety
                     and triumph, therefore, that the baronet prepared to depart.
                  "I will imitate Miss Maverick now, sir, and rid you of my 
                        furthur
                        further
                      presence here," he said, venomously.
                  "Do so," said Arthur Maverick, "and beware how you return."
                  "And you, sir, beware how you insult me," hissed the baronet.
                  "Insult you? You are not worth insult."
                  "Beware!"
                  "This is my reply to you."
                  And seizing a riding-whip lying on the table near, the young man, in a wild
                     rage at the presence of his father's murderer, struck the baronet a furious
                     blow across the face.
                  In an instant they would have clutched each other; but the door suddenly flew
                     open.
                  "The blood-hound, sir!" exclaimed a servant, rushing into the apartment.
                  "What of the hound?" said Arthur Maverick erick, pale with passion, and quivering in every
                     muscle.
                  "There at the door, sir. He has gone mad, they say."
                  In spite of himself, the baronet turned pale.
                  "We meet again!" he gasped, hoarsely, addressing Arthur Maverick. "You have
                     struck me, outraged me: you shall answer with your life."
                  And seeing that the way was clear, he hastened forth and mounted his horse. A
                     moment afterward, he was going down the avenue at full speed.
                  Suddenly a hoarse and prolonged bay was heard in the grounds. Then a white
                     object darted swiftly from a mass of shrubbery on his track.
                  The blood-hound had seen and was pursuing him.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  THE MAD DOG.
                  THE baronet rode on at the full speed of his horse.
                  That deep and ominous bay had shown him his danger, and he had now a double
                     reason to fear the blood-hound. Not only was the animal his sworn enemy as the
                     murderer of Giles Maverick,—he was mad, and his bite was mortal, no longer a
                     mere wound.
                  Thus it was a race for life. As he went on at headlong speed, he heard the
                     hound on his track.
                  The dog had cleared the tall gate in the wall enclosing the grounds, at one
                     leap; had plainly descried the baronet going at full speed over the high-road;
                     and now, with hanging tongue, quick pants, and grinning mouth, he pursued him at a pace which promised to put
                     his enemy in his power in a few minutes.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was brave, but his heart sank within him as he drove
                     his horse on. The hoarse bay of the mad hound rang in his ears like the trump
                     of doom. Every instant he seemed to be gaining on his enemy in the wild
                     race.
                  Suddenly his horse, into whose sides he had driven the spur mercilessly,
                     stumbled and half fell.
                  With a curse, his rider dragged him up, and again struck the spur into him.
                  But the instant thus lost was nearly fatal to the baronet. The hound reached
                     him and sprung at his throat, his eyes glaring, his mouth slavering.
                  But for the sudden grasp on the bridle, that moment would have been the
                     baronet's last. The horse rose to his feet again, and the blood-hound missed
                     his spring. The sharp teeth, instead of fixing themselves in the baronet's
                     throat, clutched his riding boot.
                  Death had grazed him thus, and he improved the incident promptly.
                  With a blow from his clenched hand, cased in a heavy riding gauntlet, he hurled
                     the hound from him. The animal rolled over on his back, and again the baronet
                     went on headlong, intent on nothing now but escape.
                  All at once, however, the ominous bay was again heard. With a sudden chill at
                     his heart, he turned his head and looked back. The hound was once more pursuing
                     him, more resolute and enraged than before.
                  At that spectacle the murderer felt a pang of mortal fear. Despair clutched
                     him, as he felt the venomous teeth would soon do. The image of the man whom he
                     had assassinated rose and "shook his gory locks at him." In the agony of his
                     soul he shouted,—
                  "Help! help! that dog will murder me. Help!"
                  Suddenly his horse shied violently. He had nearly ridden over a man in the
                     road. This man was rudely clad, and shouted,—
                  "What be the matter?"
                  "The dog!" gasped the baronet.
                  And he looked over his shoulder.
                  The mad blood-hound was within ten feet of him.
                  "Ten guineas if you kill him!" he gasped.
                  As he spoke, the hound sprung. But the man had understood, and met him.
                  
                  They clutched and rolled on the road, locked in a mortal hug.
                  The baronet did not wait. He put spur to his horse and disappeared at headlong
                     speed toward Westbrooke Hall.
                  He was saved.
                  
                  An hour afterward one of the fraternity of wolves entered Oldport, with his
                     breast covered with blood.
                  The blood flowed from a deep wound in his throat, which had swelled
                     suddenly.
                  When his brother wolves questioned him, he said he had met a man chased by a
                     dog, the man had offered him ten guineas to kill the dog, and he had killed
                     him.
                  Then the "wolf" ceased speaking, and began to snap at those around him.
                  Two days afterwards he was attacked with convulsions, and four men were
                     required to hold him.
                  On the next day he was calmer, but suddenly drawing up his limbs, expired.
                  The dead hound had been discovered on the road to Maverick House. The "wolf"
                     had succeeded ceeded in strangling him, but the mortal poison had been
                     communicated.
                  He had died of the bite of the mad dog, in place of the baronet, and even the
                     ten guineas were unpaid.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE BURIAL OF THE WOLF.
                  THE wolves followed their dead companion to the grave, with solemn
                     ceremony.
                  The scene of sepulture was a wild spot on the very brink of the sea, and the
                     fishermen had enclosed the space by piling up masses of rock, which from the
                     channel resembled rough defences against cannon.
                  Up the rugged path which led to this burial place they now bore the dead wolf,
                     the rude coffin enclosing his remains carried on the shoulders of his brethren;
                     and reaching the wall, they lifted the coffin over, and carried it to the side
                     of the grave.
                  Then the ceremony of interring a member of the fraternity of the wolves began.
                     No priest of any denomination was present, and there was something heathenish
                     in the strange rites.
                  Hands were joined around the grave, the wolves circled it slowly, beating the
                     ground with monotonous feet; then a wild and melancholy chant rose, and was
                     carried away by the wind.
                  This lasted for half an hour. Then the hands were unlocked and the coffin
                     lowered into the grave amid deep murmurs.
                  "Who is this we be a burying?" came in hoarse tones from the gigantic
                     Goliath.
                  "A wolf!" was the muffled response from the voices of all present.
                  Goliath extended his hand solemnly.
                  "So mote it be!" he thundered; "and cursed be the man who moves the bones of a
                     wolf!"
                  As he spoke he took a handful of earth and threw it on the coffin. The men did
                     likewise, each in turn, and the grave was speedily filled.
                  Then the wild-looking figures joined hands and encircled the grave once more,
                     beat the ground with their feet, and repeated their monotonous chant.
                  It ended at last. They left the burial ground, and slowly wound down the hill
                     toward the coast. As they disappeared, night descended, and the moon rose,
                     throwing her pallid light on land and sea.
                  
                  Such had been the wolf's burial.
                  An hour past midnight, and a figure leaped the wall, followed in a moment by
                     another.
                  The moon revealed the faces of these men, who carried picks and spades. They
                     were the two rough personages whom Earle and the gypsy had encountered that
                     night bearing the corpse into Westbrooke Hall.
                  "This is the place, mate," said one of them; "it is easily found."
                  "By the fresh earth—you are right."
                  "And now to work; this job is dangerous."
                  "Dangerous?"
                  "This is one of the wolves, and I'm told they are sworn to put a knife into
                     whoever disturbs one of 'em."
                  "Ough! I never heard that."
                  "It makes the job worth five guineas more."
                  "Exactly."
                  And without further words they proceeded vigorously to work.
                  In an hour the coffin responded to the blow of the pick.
                  "Take care, mate!" said one, as the dull sound was heard.
                  "Right."
                  And proceeding more carefully, they soon unearthed the long box without noise,
                     and wrenching off the lid, dragged forth the dead body.
                  "He's a rough-looking one," muttered the man who lifted the corpse, "and his
                     neck is all swollen."
                  "On account of the dog."
                  "Hurry up, mate."
                  And laying the body on the earth, they proceeded rapidly to fill up the grave
                     again.
                  This was soon accomplished, and they then lifted the body over the fence, and
                     bore it on their shoulders down the rough path leading toward the interior.
                  In a clump of bushes a small vehicle was waiting. Into this they pushed the
                     corpse as if it were the body of an animal.
                  "Come on, mate; I don't like this job. Seems to me they are a watching of
                     us."
                  And the speaker hastily got into the wagon. The other followed, and in a
                     business-like way took his seat on the corpse.
                  Then the single horse was whipped up, the vehicle rolled away, and night
                     swallowed it.
                  The grave of the wolf had been rifled. Would the curse descend?
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE CHASE.
                  IT was the night succeeding these events. Darkness and storm had rushed down
                     simultaneously on the coast of Pembrokeshire.
                  The surges of St. George's Channel, lashed to fury by the breath of a veritable
                     hurricane, broke in thunder on the jagged reefs and ledges of rock jutting from
                     the water, and died away in the cavernous recesses beneath the great headland
                     near Oldport, like the hoarse bellowing of bulls, or the dull boom of
                     artillery.
                  The coast was absolutely deserted. Scarce a light glimmered in Oldport. On the
                     headland, no beacon light warned barks off the perilous reef. The light of the
                     blood-red moon alone, shining through a rift in the black clouds, toward the
                     east, contended with the ebon darkness, and revealed, in their full horror, the
                     foam-capped reefs.
                  All at once a sail-boat might have been seen darting toward land. It was a
                     vessel of the smallest size, and careened terribly under the great pressure of
                     canvas.
                  Clinging to the single mast was a man wrapped in a dreadnought, and with his
                     hand in his breast. Three other men were on the bark, but they were crouching,
                     pale and sullen.
                  "We'll all go to the bottom!" said one of the men, who seemed to be the owner
                     of the boat.
                  "You are paid!" was the gruff reply of Wilde—for he it was who stood erect,
                     clinging to the mast.
                  "What's pay if we go down?" said the sullen one.
                  "But we wont!"
                  "Look at that reef! Down with the helm!"
                  And he started to his feet.
                  The vessel grazed a grinning reef, scraped, and darted on. She was a mere
                     cork—the winds drove her like a dry leaf of autumn over the foaming waves.
                  
                  "If I only arrive," muttered Wilde, "I have my fortune here!"
                  And he clutched a package in his breast,—the pocket-book containing the stolen
                     leaf from the register at Martigny.
                  "Look!" suddenly shouted the skipper of the vessel. "There is that devilish
                     craft following us still!"
                  And he pointed to a sail-boat similar to his own, which was darting towards
                     them.
                  Wilde uttered a curse.
                  "I thought you had got away from her!"
                  "I thought so too! But there she is,—followed us all the way from the coast of
                     France!"
                  And, knitting his brows, he muttered,—
                  "A sailor is on board of her! I believe I'll throw this Englishman overboard,
                     and strike to the craft that's been pursuing us!"
                  Wilde heard the muttered words, and drew a long knife from beneath his
                     coat.
                  "Death to the man who touches me!" he growled, with the accent and manner of a
                     wild animal.
                  "And death to the man who is running us on these reefs to go to the
                     bottom!"
                  As he spoke, the Frenchman drew a knife in his turn, his companions exactly
                     imitated him, and they rushed straight on Wilde.
                  It was too late.
                  Before they had reached him where he stood, clinging with his left hand to the
                     mast, a crash like thunder was heard, the bark staggered, and reeled backward.
                     She had run right on a reef, and two of the Frenchmen were hurled
                     over-board.
                  As they disappeared, a single cry cut the darkness like a steel blade. An
                     instant afterwards the heads were engulfed and the men dashed to pieces on the
                     jagged rocks.
                  The third Frenchman uttered a shout of rage, and struck at Wilde.
                  As he did so, his foot slipped.
                  An instant afterwards Wilde had seized him and hurled him into the sea.
                  The craft grated with harsh thunder on the rocks, and then darted ahead.
                  The momentary arrest of her progress had, however, given her pursuers time to
                     gain upon her.
                  As she drove on now, the craft following hovered above her, on the summit of a
                     gigantic wave—and in the prow a man, wrapped in a cloak, gazed eagerly toward
                     her.
                  
                  "She struck, Captain!" said one of the men, "and look!—again!"
                  In fact, the sail-boat containing Wilde, had rushed straight on a still more
                     dangerous reef.
                  It finished her. The sharp teeth tore her hull to shreds—she burst in two, and
                     her mast sunk, dragging the sail like the wing of a wounded sea-bird. Wilde was
                     thrown into the water, and struck out powerfully for the strand, now not two
                     hundred yards distant.
                  "He will escape!" cried the man in the boat in pursuit.
                  And without a moment's hesitation he threw off his cloak, and plunged into the
                     boiling waves.
                  Then a tremendous contest took place between the adversaries. On one side was
                     enormous strength and great skill as 
                        a a
                        a
                      swimmer; on the other, equal skill, if not so much strength, and a
                     burning resolve to reach the man he was in pursuit of, or die.
                  The wind howled; the waves struck them; the moon was blotted out; all was
                     darkness. Still Wilde darted on, pursued by Earle.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE MYSTERY OF THE DEAD BODIES.
                  WHILE these events were occurring on the storm-lashed coast of St. George's
                     Channel, a sombre scene might have been witnessed at Westbrooke Hall.
                  In an apartment of the mansion, furnished with only two or three chairs and a
                     long pine table, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, clad in his old dressing-gown, with
                     the sleeves rolled up, was dissecting a dead body.
                  The corpse was that of the "wolf," carried off from the lonely spot near the
                     sea; and at the door stood one of the rough persons who had effected the
                     robbery of the grave, thus providing the "subject" which the baronet was
                     engaged in dissecting.
                  Sir Murdaugh, with animated movements, and an expression of horrible avidity in his eyes, cut away at the body: the
                     man gazed at him with interest and a curiosity which was plain in his
                     expression.
                  All at once the baronet turned, bloody scalpel in hand, and grinned. His yellow
                     tusks protruded frightfully thereupon, and, to speak plainly, he was extremely
                     hideous.
                  "Gubbs!" he said.
                  The man thus addressed returned,—
                  "Your honor?"
                  "This seems a strange way of amusing myself, Gubbs?"
                  As the words were uttered in the tone of an inquiry, the man said,—
                  "Yes, your honor."
                  The baronet grinned again. The occupation in which he was engaged always put
                     him in a good humor. To see the flesh of his dead subjects divide at the
                     application of the knife, almost invariably communicated a singular and
                     repulsive cheerfulness to the baronet's expression.
                  "You wonder, I suppose, Gubbs," he said, "why I dissect. Well, suppose I tell
                     you. It is simple, and easily explained. When I was a young man, I acquired a
                     taste for surgery in the great hospitals of Paris. I was poor—was then simple
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke; studied surgery. Afterwards I had no occasion to enter the
                     fraternity of leg and arm cutters; but I was as fond as ever of this—I am fond
                     of it still; and so I amuse myself, you see, Gubbs, in this highly scientific
                     manner."
                  The tusks became the most prominent features in the baronet's face as he spoke.
                     His yellow teeth came out too, jagged and awry; his eyes, bloodshot but
                     glittering with pleasure, rolled in their cavernous sockets.
                  "Other men like wine and cards and women," said the baronet, plunging his knife
                     into the body,—"I like this!"
                  And with a keen stroke, he cut into the subject, making a clear circular
                     incision which nearly divided it.
                  "Every man to his taste! this is mine."
                  And he eagerly repeated the stroke. As he did so, the knife slipped, and
                     inflicted a slight wound upon his hand.
                  "Take care, your honor," said the man, "I've hearn that was dangerous."
                  "What?"
                  "To cut yourself while you were carving away at one of them."
                  
                  And he pointed to the body.
                  "True, it is sometimes. But a little water will prevent danger."
                  And going to a basin he washed his hands and looked at it.
                  The knife had punctured the palm and blood exuded.
                  "An ugly scratch!" he muttered, "but no harm can come of it now."
                  As he spoke, he bound a handkerchief around the hand, and returned to his
                     work.
                  "Anything further to do, to-night, your honor?" said the man.
                  "Nothing, but come back to-morrow."
                  All at once hurried steps were heard, and the door was thrown open.
                  As it flew back, Wilde rushed in; his face flushed, his eyes sparkling, his
                     clothes wet and dripping.
                  "You have it!" exclaimed the baronet.
                  "Yes, your honor,—but I am nearly dead. He—that one—pursued me; both boats were
                     wrecked on the reef yonder. I swam ashore, he after me,—he clutched me just as
                     I touched land. I stabbed him, and got off in the dark."
                  The baronet had scarcely listened.
                  "The paper!" he exclaimed.
                  "Here it is, your honor."
                  And Wilde drew forth the leaf which he had stolen from the register,—the proof
                     of Sir Murdaugh's marriage with Marianne Earle.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE DEN OF THE WOLF.
                  WILDE had accurately narrated what had taken place between himself and
                     Earle.
                  The sailor by almost superhuman efforts had succeeded in coming up with his
                     opponent just as Wilde emerged half dead with cold and exhaustion from the
                     blinding surf; had grappled with him, intent alone on arresting his further
                     progress; and the powerful gamekeeper thus assailed by his mortal foe, had just
                     strength enough to draw his knife and strike at Earle as the latter clutched
                     him.
                  The knife passed through the fleshy part of the sailor's arm, and inflicted a
                     painful wound.
                  It was far from disabling him however, and it was the darkness alone which
                     saved Wilde.
                  He tore away from Earle as he struck, pushing ing back his opponent as he did
                     so; then, with a single bound, he disappeared in the gloom, running rapidly
                     over the sandy shore, which gave back no sound, and enabled him to evade his
                     pursuer.
                  Earle had rushed after him, but all was in vain. Wilde had vanished, and no
                     sound indicated the direction in which he had gone. In ten minutes the sailor
                     gave up the pursuit, and stopped, panting and nearly exhausted from the blood
                     which he had lost from his wound.
                  He looked around him. All was dark. A few lights glimmered in the village of
                     Oldport. He dared not venture there in his full uniform of a captain in the
                     French navy; and looking for the bark which had brought him, he could nowhere
                     discover it.
                  "One thing only is left," he muttered,—"to go to my mother."
                  And traversing the surge-lashed shore, along the edge of the water, he reached
                     the narrow path running along the ledge of rocks—then that which wound up the 
                        preipice
                        precipice
                      to the hut of the recluse.
                  No one but a sailor, sure-footed and 
                        accustoned
                        accustomed
                      to work with hands and feet in the dark, could have found his way
                     safely up the dizzy path toward the
                     summit. More than once he passed near the very brink of the precipice; a step
                     out of the pathway, would have hurled him a thousand feet down into the boiling
                     abyss. But he went on safely. No chamois could have traversed the narrow way
                     more rapidly and surely. Soon he reached the last and most dangerous point;
                     passed it; reached the summit, and hastened to the hut of the recluse.
                  No light was visible. The spot seemed deserted.
                  Earle struck the door with his clenched hand. It flew open, but within all was
                     darkness and silence.
                  He entered. A strange sinking of the heart suddenly assailed him. Where was his
                     mother? Why this darkness and silence, instead of her smile and warm
                     greeting?
                  He went toward the narrow bed, and felt for his mother there. She might be
                     asleep.
                  The bed was vacant. The cold pillow was round and unpressed.
                  She was gone!
                  Earle sat down, faint in body and mind. A sombre foreboding 
                        siezed
                        seized
                      upon him. What was the origin of this absence?
                  Suddenly he rose with a hoarse cry.
                  "That man!—that wretch! He has probably murdered her! He has discovered her! He
                     came here, I now remember, in search of me! He sent to France to steal that
                     proof of his marriage! He has secured both obstacles to his new marriage,—the
                     record, and the person of the first wife!"
                  Earle pressed both hands to his forehead, and staggered.
                  What should he do?
                  With weak and uncertain steps, but a wild excitement in his breast, he tottered
                     out of the hut, went toward the precipice, traversed the dizzy brink with the
                     instinct of a blind man, descended the path, reached the shore, then, scarce
                     knowing what he did, he staggered on toward the village.
                  All at once there rose before him in the darkness a weird-looking object.
                  It was the hull of a wrecked vessel, turned upward and fitted up as a rude
                     dwelling. A ray of moonlight as red as blood enabled him to make out its
                     surroundings. These were nets, an old anchor, a coil of rope, and an old buoy.
                     The door was a hole scarce large enough for a man to crawl into. It was open
                     now, and Earle saw crouching over a
                     few embers, a gigantic figure.
                  Something in this figure struck him as familiar. He tottered forward and looked
                     in. The figure raised its head. By the glimmer of the embers Earle recognized
                     Goliath.
                  The next moment he staggered to the doorway, uttered a low cry, and fell
                     forward into the arms of the chief of the wolves, who had recognized him, and
                     drew him into his rude dwelling, radiant with joy at his return.
                  "You be come up out of the foam, master!"
                  Earle tried to reply, but-fainted.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  KIDNAPPED.
                  IN an upper room of Westbrooke Hall, difficult of access, and almost
                     unsuspected, so carefully was it concealed by jutting gables and angles, sat
                     the recluse whom we left in her hut on the headland, when Earle set out for
                     Maverick House.
                  Two days before, she had been kidnapped. This was very simply effected. The man
                     Gubbs, in the absence of Wilde, the baronet's factotum, undertook the affair,
                     went thither after midnight, simply seized and gagged the solitary woman,
                     forced her to enter a light carriage, and then drove off swiftly through
                     woodland by-roads to Westbrooke Hall, which they reached before daylight.
                  The recluse was then conducted to the apartment ment which we have spoken of above; the door was
                     locked upon her; she was left to her reflections; and, whilst still engaged in
                     this occupation, Sir Murdaugh had entered.
                  "Welcome to Westbrooke Hall, your ladyship!" was his ironical greeting. "Can I
                     do aught to render your sojourn here more agreeable? If the servants exhibit
                     any neglect, pray inform me of the fact, Charmed to see you, my dear
                     madam,—really charmed, upon my word!"
                  The recluse looked at him coldly. There was not a particle of nervous
                     trepidation in her expression.
                  "You do not reply, my lady. Pray honor me with a few words: your voice
                     invariably charms me."
                  "I do not reply because I have none to make, sir," said the woman, with entire
                     calmness. "What response is necessary to an outrage like this?"
                  "An outrage, madam?"
                  "Is it not an outrage to send a wretch in your pay to seize an unprotected
                     woman and to drag her off thus to a place of concealment?"
                  "Well, it is irregular."
                  The baronet grinned and was evidently enjoying himself.
                  "Your object?"
                  "Well, shall I be frank with you, madam?"
                  "If you can."
                  "Shall I tell you my first plan, or my second?"
                  "Speak!"
                  "First, I thought I would—well, would—murder you, my dear madam.
                     That is an ugly word, but you may retort that it suits me. Perhaps
                     it does. I am not a beauty, and my life, tried by a strictly moral standard,
                     may not be beautiful morally. Yes! I thought I would get rid of you."
                  "Why have you not done so, then?" was the cold inquiry.
                  The baronet's face grew dark.
                  "It is not too late," he said in a threatening tone; "beware how you defy
                     me."
                  "Defy you? Do you suppose I am afraid of you? No! do as you will. Yes! I do
                     defy you."
                  And the woman rose to her full height.
                  "I never feared you," she said, looking at him with superb scorn in her eyes.
                     "I fled from you to rescue a child from your poisonous association. That child is safe from you now You
                     cannot harm him, for he knows you. As to me, what care I, think
                     you? Nothing."
                  And she sat down again.
                  The baronet scowled at her with sudden wrath. Then this changed to a sneer.
                  "Good, good!" he said; "the same spirit that used to blaze out in Marianne
                     Earle, twenty years ago. Ah! you look at me with your fine disdain. You would
                     say that I provoked you then. Well, so be it; let that go. I am here to speak
                     of the present and future—your future. I will do so very briefly,
                     madam. I brought you here intending to get rid of you, if necessary. It is not
                     necessary. I will simply send you to St. Domingo. My good servitor, Wilde, who
                     is known to you, will accompany your ladyship. He is absent now on important
                     business, but will soon return. Then I will call on madam again."
                  And sneering, he went out abruptly.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  MASTER AND MAN.
                  SUCH were the events which had occurred during the brief absence of Earle and
                     Wilde.
                  We left the baronet and this latter worthy in the apartment containing the
                     corpse, the eyes of Sir Murdaugh fixed joyfully on the paper which Wilde had
                     brought him.
                  "At last I have it," he exclaimed. "From this moment I am safe."
                  Wilde glanced sidewise at the man, Gubbs, and the baronet nodded.
                  "You can go now," he said to the man, who at once left the apartment.
                  "And now to business, Wilde," added the baronet. "Much has been done in your
                     absence."
                  
                  "What, your honor?"
                  "That woman is here, a prisoner in this house. But, before I speak further of
                     this, tell me all about your journey."
                  "That I will do in few words, sir."
                  And Wilde narrated every thing, concluding with the scene which had occurred on
                     the beach.
                  "That man is an incarnate devil," growled the baronet. "He is ever on my track.
                     Not content with denouncing me as a murderer, he is now here again to thwart
                     and endanger me."
                  "There is but one thing left your honor," said Wilde in a low tone.
                  The baronet looked at him intently.
                  "I understand you—yes," he said.
                  Compact of murder was never made more clearly in fewer words. But the baronet
                     seemed determined that there should be no doubt whatever.
                  "That man must die, Wilde; no mincing of words. We have gone too far to
                     recede."
                  The words were uttered in a whisper.
                  "The thing is plain, sir," was the reply in the same tone; "while he is alive,
                     you are in danger, to say nothing of me. I don't intend to rest.
                     Give your orders, sir. They shall be obeyed."
                  The baronet sat down, and gazed at the floor.
                  "Where is he?" he said suddenly; "since you stabbed him, he must be near
                     Oldport. Was the wound dangerous?"
                  "Only in the flesh of the arm."
                  "That is nothing! Act promptly. Go and look for him to-night! This is all the
                     more necessary, as he will come quickly to look for us!"
                  "I understand, sir."
                  "She is here! He will be on our track, since he must suspect me of
                     the abduction."
                  Wilde buttoned up his wet coat.
                  "I will take Gubbs, and hunt him to-night, sir."
                  "Do so, and return before daylight. Things are hurrying in many ways, Wilde.
                     Listen! I am to be married in eight days. In three days that woman
                     must be out of England. If in twenty-four hours he is dead we are
                     safe, and you will have earned one thousand pounds. If he lives—the gallows—! I
                     am rich and influential, and may escape. You are poor and nobody—you will hang!
                     Go, now! You may find him in some corner, fainting and weak from loss of blood.
                     You are a man of decision; you will not neglect that chance. Go, go! His death secures everything. Whilst he
                     lives,—listen, Wilde,—the halter is around your neck!"
                  "And yours!" muttered the Hercules as he hastened from the apartment.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  A TIGRESS.
                  AS Wilde disappeared, the baronet fixed his eyes with avidity upon the paper in
                     his hand.
                  "The actual entry!" he muttered; "Murdaugh Westbrooke to Marianne Earle,
                     Martigny, April 17—, signed by Father Ambrose; all in due form! Decidedly,
                     Wilde is a cool hand, and has effected all I hoped for. Now to action! But
                     first to enjoy my little treat!"
                  He went out quickly, and ascending the broad staircase, took a key from his
                     pocket and opened a door. Before him, in a bare apartment, sat the recluse,
                     pale but calm.
                  "I have come to call on you, madam," he said, grinning.
                  
                  The recluse coldly inclined her head.
                  "I have an interesting communication to make, madam."
                  The recluse gazed at him intently, but made no reply.
                  "Your ladyship is silent this evening, but no matter. I will talk myself. And
                     first, I beg to call your ladyship's attention to the fact that this is the
                     record of our marriage in the village of Martigny—brought for my private
                     perusal by our mutual acquaintance, Mr. Wilde."
                  The baronet watched her closely. At these words she turned suddenly pale.
                  "Doubtless a copy, sir!" she said, coldly, but with a sudden, eager glance.
                  The baronet burst out laughing. It was a sombre and ghastly sound.
                  "A copy? By no means, madam. The original paper! I was too intelligent to care
                     for a copy. I wished to feast my eyes upon the sole and only evidence of our
                     connubial bliss! What cared I for a copy? What I wanted was the
                     actual sheet from the record, signed by the priest: here it is; and from this
                     moment there is no proof whatever of our marriage."
                  The recluse was pale, but her calmness had returned.
                  "So you are bent on destroying all proof that I am Lady Westbrooke?"
                  The baronet bowed and said ironically,—
                  "Madam is intelligent."
                  "You design marrying again?"
                  "I do, madam."
                  "To commit bigamy?"
                  "There is no bigamy where proof does not exist of a former marriage."
                  The recluse made no reply. With her eyes fixed intently upon the baronet, she
                     seemed to listen coldly.
                  "Why make so much ado, my dear madam," he said, with a sombre grin. "Are we so
                     much devoted to each other that we cannot bear to ignore that former union? Was
                     it of hearts—or hands only? I think it was merely the hand. Well, I count that
                     a sin. I design to unite myself now to a young creature who loves me?"
                  No reply came from the recluse. The baronet went on:—
                  "Shall I tell you of my little affair? The fair one is called Ellinor Maverick.
                     She is exceedingly handsome—much more handsome, I must say, than
                        you ever were; and she marries me in defiance of the whole respectable Maverick
                     family."
                  The recluse had never removed her eyes from the face of the baronet.
                  "Does she know that you have one wife living?" she said, calmly.
                  The words brought to the baronet's face the eternal grin.
                  "I must confess she does not, madam! She is a tender lamb led to the slaughter.
                     I am a monster, you perhaps think, and I confess I am not a saint. 
                        Bnt
                        But
                      in this case the lamb is tough! Miss Maverick weds me for my estate,
                     not from the sympathetic impulse of her maiden heart! She calculates—she does
                     not gush out! I am Sir Ten Thousand a Year, rather than Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke; and a few little charges which have been brought against me have
                     had no influence on the sweet charmer—she is still determined to marry me."
                  "And you will ruin this young woman because she is worldly and ambitious?"
                  "Ruin her, madam? not at all? How shall I ruin her?"
                  The recluse pointed coldly toward the paper in his hand.
                  "Still harping upon this!" the baronet said with a grin. "I will show you how I
                     remove that little difficulty in the simplest manner, madam?"
                  He caught the paper with both hands, and was about to tear it in pieces.
                  "Forbear!" cried the recluse, suddenly rising and confronting him.
                  "Forbear what?" he growled.
                  "From the commission of the crime you meditate!" his companion said, with
                     flushed cheeks. "It is your soul's salvation you imperil! I do not speak of the
                     offence against law! Think, unhappy old man!—for you are old now, as I
                     am,—think, God has forbidden this. You sin wilfully against his commandments!
                     Stop now, on the threshold!—repent!—a poor sinner urges that! Abandon this
                     scheme!—remember that your lawful wife still lives!—Give me the paper!"
                  And before he divined her intention, she grasped the paper and tore it from
                     him.
                  The baronet uttered an enraged cry and said,—
                  "Beware!—give me back that writing!"
                  "It is mine equally—since it is the record of my marriage!" she exclaimed,
                     recoiling, and thrusting the paper into her bosom.
                  
                  "Give me the writing!"
                  And he seized her by the wrist, with a grasp of iron.
                  "Release me, sir!"
                  "Give me the paper!"
                  "I will not!"
                  He seized her by the throat.
                  "The paper—or you are dead!"
                  The hand grasped the white throat more furiously.
                  "Kill me, then!—you may take it from my dead body—I will never surrender
                     it!"
                  He tore open her dress, and drew the paper from its hiding-place.
                  "Coward!" she exclaimed, as he did so; "wretch, to outrage me thus!—to lay the
                     hand of violence where you once laid your head! Oh! I could tear the very flesh
                     which was so profaned once!—coward!"
                  And with flaming eyes she confronted him,—eyes full of superb wrath.
                  "Insult, outrage, murder me if you will!" she cried, in her rage and scorn.
                     "There is one person who is safe from you—your child!—whom you aimed to murder!
                     unnatural and monstrous! Of what race do you come? You would slay your own
                     child!—but he at least is safe from you!"
                  The baronet had retreated a step as she confronted him with blazing eyes. In
                     spite of himself, he shrunk before the scorn of his companion. Now, however,
                     his sneer returned—the ghastly grin distorted his ugly mouth.
                  "Ah! you think that whelp is safe, do you, madam? You are mistaken. Wilde
                     stabbed him to-night!"
                  "You lie—he is in France!"
                  "I do not lie, madam—he is in Pembrokeshire."
                  The woman looked at him; as she did so the flush died out of her cheeks.
                  "Where is he?"
                  "I will not tell you!"
                  She trembled.
                  "For pity's sake!"
                  And suddenly submissive she clasped her hands.
                  "Do not harm him! He has not wronged you! Why do you thus hate him?"
                  "Because he hates me, and will destroy me—if I do not destroy him!
                     Cease your prayers, then—they are vain! His doom is sealed—Wilde is now
                     tracking him!"
                  
                  "That wretch? Oh, it is infamous! He will murder him! Let me go and save
                     him!"
                  The baronet thrust her back violently, and went toward the door.
                  "It is too late! he is doomed!"
                  And he reached the door and opened it.
                  Suddenly the woman threw herself upon him, and seized his throat with both
                     hands.
                  "Give me my child!" she cried, with the rage of a tigress robbed of her
                     young.
                  His reply was to hurl her from him, and she fell at full length on the floor. A
                     moment afterwards the baronet had passed through the door and closed and locked
                     it.
                  As the key turned in the lock, the door shook under the grasp of the poor
                     mother.
                  "My child! my child! Give me my child!" she moaned, shaking the door.
                  A laugh replied; and the baronet's footsteps receded. A moment afterwards a
                     body fell heavily in the apartment which he had left.
                  The recluse had fainted.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  THE INTRUDER.
                  SIR MURDAUGH WESTBROOKE descended to his sitting-room.
                  The grin had disappeared from his lips and there was no longer the former
                     expression of hideous triumph in his eyes.
                  He sat down, and gazed for fully a quarter of an hour into the fire, which was
                     dying down now.
                  "How will this end?" he muttered. "I am knee-deep in blood, and am going in
                     waist-deep! Am I then a wretch unable to withhold myself from crime? Why do I
                     venture on this marriage. Why do I plan that boy's destruction? Is the Devil my
                     prompter? Doubtless, since he has just made me outrage a woman—cut her to the heart—inflict personal
                     violence upon her!"
                  He knit his brow, and his lips writhed.
                  "I am a lost soul, I think!"
                  And he rose to his feet.
                  "She cowed me yonder to-night when—yes, I was a coward to outrage that bosom!
                     It was Marianne Earle's once—I loved her—have never loved any one else! Yes,
                     yes, I was a coward! And I aim to prove myself a worse coward still!"
                  He looked at the paper which he held in his hand. "Marianne Earle, Martigny,
                     April 17,——," seemed burnt in flame upon it.
                  "She was beautiful then!—the only dream of my life!" he muttered. I loved
                     her—could have died for her—for six months!" he added, with a cruel sneer.
                  And leaning against the tall carved mantelpiece, he pondered, his face
                     gradually growing dark.
                  "No! it is too late to recede—and to defy that boy Arthur is delicious! This
                     marriage is necessary—it removes suspicion! It ties their hands, for I will be
                     the husband of Ellinor Maverick, their own blood! Then—then, with this woman
                     and that other enemy gotten rid of —with no fears any longer, and the failing
                     health of the Viscount Cecil to count on—!"
                  He slowly tore the paper in pieces and threw it into the fire.
                  "The die is cast!" he muttered; "my sentimental mood is over! Sentiment for me!
                     I was an innocent man once, now I am what? What have I to do with
                        sentiment? Can the wolf that is hunted find time to snivel and
                     wipe his eyes? Away with such imbecility! I am a man again, and will ride over
                     all enemies. Aid me, Devil! if there be a Devil!"
                  And, with a face distorted into a hideous grin, the baronet took from the table
                     the only light in the apartment, slowly crossed the drawing-room, opened and
                     passed through the door, and then his steps were heard slowly ascending the
                     staircase.
                  Ten minutes after his disappearance, a slight sound might have been heard at
                     the rear window.
                  This window opened, as the reader will remember, directly on the park; and for
                     more than a half an hour a man standing on the ledge beneath it had been
                     watching the baronet, his eyes on a level with the window-sill.
                  As the figure of the baronet disappeared now, a dusky arm suddenly rose from without. As the
                     arm rose, the moon came out, and revealed a man's head and shoulders above the
                     sill. Then the hand stealthily passed through a broken pane in the window—the
                     bolt was silently shot back—a moment afterwards the sash was raised—and, silent
                     as a shadow, the man stood in the room.
                  It was the gypsy: his countenance expressed mingled curiosity and apprehension.
                     The swarthy face was plain in a vagrant gleam from the dying fire, and toward
                     the fire he now moved with a cautious and stealthy step.
                  "That paper!—why did he look at it so closely—and then tear it?" muttered the
                     gypsy. "I see it is not burned—only one of the pieces is destroyed!'
                  He stooped and raised the fragments, joining them together, and closely
                     scanning them.
                  "Murdaugh Westbrooke—Marianne Earle; Martigny. Why this is a marriage record!"
                     he murmured. "And to think that the good Sir Murdaugh has already been
                     married!"
                  He looked again at the paper. The name of the woman seemed to strike him for
                     the first time.
                  "Marianne Earle!" he said, knitting his brows, and evidently lost in
                     reflection, "Marianne Earle! Earle!—there is some mystery here!"
                  And his quick mind went back to his association with the sailor. Twice he had
                     heard Earle repeat his own name,—once when carrying off the viscount, in reply
                     to a question from the nobleman, and again during the interview with Arthur
                     Maverick on the night of his escape.
                  "Earle!" he muttered; "this baronet married Marianne Earle, then! Who was she?
                     was she related to him—my brother of the Rommanye Rye?"
                  His eyes distended suddenly. The vagabond's enormous acuteness had placed him
                     on the track of the mystery. The woman on the headland was Earle's mother. He
                     had divined that when he went to warn Earle on that last night of his stay in
                     Pembrokeshire.
                  "Aha! Here is something!" he muttered. "It will pay better even than my
                     knowledge of the murderer of Giles Maverick! I am lucky! I came for the
                     baronet's silver: I find out something far more valuable than silver, I
                     think."
                  And folding up the pieces of paper, he placed them carefully in his ragged
                     pocket.
                  
                  Then he looked around warily. There was no silver of any description
                     visible.
                  "The skinflint!" he muttered, with a grimace; "not to leave a spoon, even, for
                     a poor gypsy!"
                  With stealthy steps he went toward the door which opened on the hall. Not a
                     sound was heard in the funereal mansion but the measured ticking of an enormous
                     clock, which rose, ghostlike, in the corner of the hall.
                  "Shall I venture farther? It is dangerous, but I will try it. I may find
                     something," he muttered.
                  The gypsy placed his foot upon the staircase. In the darkness he had not seen
                     the door leading into the room containing the corpse. The terrible odor,
                     however, filled the air, and for an instant his heart failed him.
                  "What devilish smell is that?" he murmured. "I had best get out of this
                     place."
                  He turned to go back, but at that moment a stifled groan reached his ears. It
                     died away, then was 
                        repetead
                        repeated
                     , then died away again.
                  The gypsy was even more curious, by nature, than cautious of his personal
                     safety. The muffled sounds roused his curiosity to the highest pitch.
                  "Something horrible is going on here!" he said, in a low voice. "Shall I try to
                     find what it means? I can gain the window again in two minutes, and neither
                     Wilde nor his hounds are here to follow me!"
                  He placed his foot once more on the stair: the solid oak did not creak. The
                     second step was as firm; and, rapid and noiseless as a cat, the gypsy reached
                     the second floor.
                  As he did so the groans were again heard, apparently from an apartment at the
                     end of a dark side passage. The moonlight half-illumined the corridor; he
                     stealthily glided toward the sound.
                  It grew plainer as he advanced. He reached the door from behind which it
                     issued, and, stooping down, applied his eye to the keyhole in which the key had
                     been left.
                  What he saw made him hold his breath for a moment.
                  A woman, clad in a dark dress, was kneeling and praying, with clasped hands,
                     and eyes raised to heaven. A ray of moonlight fell upon her face. The gypsy
                     recognized the mother of Earle.
                  For a moment his heart stood still. A vague idea of the truth came to him. The
                        woman was a prisoner—Earle's
                     mother. Was she the Marianne Earle of the marriage record?
                  The gypsy's face flushed hot, and, turning his head, he listened. The stifled
                     groans were only heard as the poor woman prayed.
                  "Now, or never, if I mean to act as his friend!" he said to
                     himself.
                  And silently unlocking the door, he stood before the woman.
                  She uttered a low exclamation, and shrunk back as he approached.
                  "Hush!" he whispered; "I am a friend,—I will take you to your son. Listen! His
                     name is Edmond Earle. It was I who came to warn him, you remember, of the
                     baronet's pursuit of him. I understand all. You are a prisoner here. Come with
                     me and make no noise."
                  She had listened with a nervous tremor in her frame, but this suddenly
                     ceased.
                  "Yes, yes, I feel that you are a friend. Let us hasten to leave this
                     place."
                  "Come, then!"
                  And the gypsy rapidly led the way from the room to the corridor.
                  "Make haste now!" he whispered. "The baronet has not yet retired. There is his
                     chamber ber. See the glimmer of the light through the keyhole!"
                  Suddenly the voice of the baronet cried,—
                  "Who is there? Who is stirring?"
                  "Run! Make haste down the stairs!" exclaimed the gypsy.
                  And he pushed the woman toward the staircase.
                  Her foot had scarce touched the top step when Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke's door
                     opened violently.
                  "Who is there?" he shouted, raising a heavy pistol, cocked and ready.
                  The gypsy's reply was prompt. He threw himself upon the baronet and hurled him
                     back, knocking up the weapon just as the report of the pistol rang out.
                  A moment afterwards he had wrenched it from the baronet, and dealt him a heavy
                     blow in the face. Then he gained the door at one bound; closed it violently and
                     turned the key in the lock; hastily descended the stairs; and taking the woman
                     by the arm, drew her quickly to the window, through which he assisted her to
                     pass, just as the sleepy and frightened servants rushed in to find the meaning
                     of the pistol-shot.
                  
                  Once in the park, the gypsy cried,—
                  "To the woods! to the woods!"
                  "But my son! where is my son!"
                  "He is in France."
                  "God be thanked!" she exclaimed. "Then that wretch wilfully lied! He is safe!
                     Then all is well."
                  And she followed the gypsy, who hastened on.
                  In ten minutes the shadows of the forest had swallowed the two figures.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  THE RIFLED GRAVE.
                  WE left Earle in the den of the chief of the wolves.
                  "You be come up out of the foam, master!" the gigantic Goliath had exclaimed;
                     whereupon, overcome by weakness from the wound in his arm, and exhaustion,
                     Earle had fainted.
                  When he opened his eyes the giant was bending over and bandaging his arm. He
                     performed this office with rough tenderness, and as the young man looked up,
                     said, in guttural tones,—
                  "You be safe here, master!"
                  "Ah!" murmured Earle.
                  "You be French—the flag you run out when they fired on you told that; but
                        French or no French, you be a
                     wolf, and you be safe here."
                  Earle quietly extended his hand and grasped the huge paw of the wolf.
                  "Thanks!" he said. "Yes, I need a refuge, and your help!"
                  "My help?"
                  "The help of the wolves, perchance—the whole fraternity. I will tell you more
                     of that."
                  And rising slowly to his feet, he looked through the low port-hole serving as a
                     window, and said,—
                  "Is it near daylight, brother?"
                  The reply of the wolf was, that it was scarce midnight.
                  "Then I will sleep: wake me at daylight!" said Earle.
                  And stretching himself before the fire, he fell asleep almost instantly.
                  The giant gazed at him for some moments with a strange expression of solicitude
                     on his face; sat down on a rough stool, having first hung an old blanket before
                     the door; and soon the nods of his huge head indicated that he too
                     slumbered.
                  It was long hours after midnight, when all at once the gigantic Goliath stirred
                     and muttered tered in his sleep. The vague sense of impending peril seemed to
                     render him uneasy.
                  Suddenly the influence appeared to master him, and he rose quickly, and went to
                     the door.
                  As he did so, two shadows which had hovered near the port-hole window, shrunk
                     back into the darkness behind the overturned hull, and all was quiet.
                  Goliath muttered some guttural words, shook his head, and returned to his
                     stool. With a glance at Earle, on whose face the glimmering light of the embers
                     fell, he kicked the brands together, wrapped an old pea-jacket around him, and
                     in a few minutes was nodding, sound asleep, beside his companion.
                  For half an hour nearly, the silence remained unbroken save by the whistle of
                     the wind, and the long roll of the surf, falling with monotonous beat upon the
                     sands. Then cautious steps might have been heard—two figures emerged from the
                     shadows of the hull, and one of these figures, placing his eye at a crevice,
                     muttered,—
                  "It is our man!"
                  For more than a minute he remained silent and motionless, with his hand
                     extended warningly toward his companion behind him.
                  
                  Then he drew a pistol from his breast, and directed the muzzle toward
                     Earle.
                  His companion pulled him back almost violently.
                  "You will get yourself and me killed!" he said, in a hurried whisper.
                  "Killed?" said the man, impatiently.
                  "The wolves will swarm at the sound of your shot!"
                  And Gubbs—for it was that worthy—looked at Wilde with horror-struck eyes.
                  "You don't know 'em—the wolves," added Gubbs, in the same hurried whisper.
                     "They sleep with one eye open; and this man is one of them, you know,
                     Wilde."
                  "Yes, curse him!" growled Wilde, lowering his pistol, "you are right."
                  Goliath started and rose to his feet.
                  "I swear I heard something," he cried, drawing a long knife.
                  The movement was followed by the unmistakable sound of steps retreating
                     rapidly. Goliath rushed from the hut; but only in time to see two shadows
                     disappear behind some bushes.
                  He darted on their track; reached the bushes, and stopped to listen for a
                     moment—not a sound. The mysterious figures had vanished, and with muttered
                     imprecations Goliath turned back.
                  He saw Earle coming to meet him.
                  "What is the matter, brother?" said the sailor.
                  In a few words, Goliath informed him of this incident.
                  Earle reflected with a knit brow, for an instant.
                  "Those men were sent here to murder me, brother," he said, "but their hearts
                     failed them; we are safe at present. Now for other matters. Is it near
                     day?"
                  The giant pointed to a yellow streak in the east.
                  Earle nodded.
                  "Come, then, brother. A sailor's first thought is of his craft. I wish to mount
                     that height yonder, and look out for the sail-boat that brought me last
                     night."
                  "Right, master! You be a sailor true. If she be wrecked—"
                  "I shall see her. If she rode through the storm, I shall see her.'
                  And he led the way toward the height.
                  "When that is done, we will talk, brother," he said, walking slowly and
                     painfully. "See, we mount! we will soon arrive.
                  
                  And he went on, followed by Goliath, and finally reached the summit of the
                     height.
                  It was the wild and lonely spot used as a place of sepulture for the dead
                     wolves. The rough wall of piled-up rock was clearly seen in the gray light of
                     dawn; and mounting to the top, Earle gazed out on the channel, from which the
                     mists were slowly rising. As he did so, the sun rose, and the curtain of vapor
                     was swept away as if by enchantment.
                  The sailor uttered an exclamation.
                  "Look! there she is, brother; she is making for the coast of France."
                  In fact the sail-boat, which had brought Earle, known easily by her peculiar
                     rigging, was seen scudding before a fresh breeze in the offing, toward the
                     south.
                  The gigantic Goliath had heard the exclamation of his companion, but had made
                     no reply.
                  Earle looked round. Goliath was crouching over the rifled grave of the wolf
                     whom he had assisted in burying.
                  "What is the matter, brother?" said Earle.
                  Goliath uttered the growl of a wild animal, and seized a board which protruded
                     from the hastily filled grave.
                  "This be the matter, master," he muttered in a low and fierce tone.
                  And exerting his herculean strength, he dragged the entire end of the coffin
                     from the grave. It was empty.
                  "Look!" said the wolf. "We buried him, and his grave be robbed."
                  As he spoke, he bounded toward the wall. A part of the shroud had been 
                        torn torn
                        torn
                      off by a sharp fragment.
                  "They went this way," he growled.
                  And following the foot-prints rapidly, he reached the spot where the wagon had
                     waited. Here the footprints stopped, and nothing was left but to follow the
                     marks of the wheels, and the horse's feet.
                  These led towards Westbrooke Hall, and Goliath was about to hasten in the
                     direction thus indicated, when the hand of Earle was laid on his shoulder, and
                     the sailor said,—
                  "A moment, brother."
                  The giant turned impatiently.
                  "I be on the track—woe, to the man who disturbed a wolf."
                  "I can help you," said Earle.
                  "You, master?"
                  "By leading you to the body."
                  
                  "You?"
                  "My interest is to do so. I myself need the help of the wolves."
                  "For what, master?"
                  "To attack Westbrooke Hall, where my mother is a prisoner; to release her at
                     the same moment when you recapture our dead brother's body."
                  The wolf started back, in astonishment.
                  "At Westbrooke Hall?" he exclaimed.
                  "Yes!—my mother, and all that is left of our dead brother, who has been carried
                     off! Come, no time is to be lost! I am a wolf!—I make the signal!—to my help,
                     wolves! to my help!"
                  "That is enough, master!"
                  And they hurried down the steep pathway, toward the haunts of the wolves.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  THE ATTACK OF THE WOLVES.
                  AT an hour past noon on the same day which witnessed the discovery of the
                     rifled grave, a singular scene took place at Westbrooke Hall.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was pacing up and down his library, with hurried
                     steps,—his face bruised, and swollen, his eyes glaring with rage, when suddenly
                     there came to his ears a strange sound from the park without,—the sound of
                     furious shouts, hurrying feet, and that muffled and threatening hum, which
                     rises from a mass of men bent upon mischief.
                  At that sound, the baronet suddenly stopped, and turned his head.
                  "What is that?" he muttered, with an expression of rage and apprehension
                     mingled.
                  
                  He hastened to the window. The spectacle which saluted him made him recoil.
                  In front of the hall was a confused and furious crowd of outlandish
                     figures,—ragged, with glaring eyes, fierce grins, brandished arms,—who were
                     hurrying towards the great door, shouting ferociously as they came; and in
                     front of them, beside the enormous Goliath, who led the attack, the baronet
                     recognized the pale face of Earle, who wore his full uniform.
                  "What devil has brought these wretches to attack and perhaps sack my house?"
                     cried the baronet.
                  Suddenly his face grew pale.
                  "Has she found him and told him all, and has he come to murder
                     me?"
                  He rushed to the door, and violently called out,—
                  "Wilde!"
                  The man had his hand on the door as the baronet opened it. He was
                     trembling.
                  "Mount and ride to the revenue station, Wilde! Say I am attacked by these
                     assassins—the wolves! Kill my best horse, if 
                        neccessary
                        necessary
                     ! Ride, and come back with the guard at a gallop!"
                  Wilde ran from the library, and disappeared at a side door. The baronet
                     hastened to the front door of the mansion, where a loud knocking was heard.
                  "Open!" cried twenty voices.
                  And the door shook under the pressure of huge shoulders.
                  The baronet replied by drawing a massive chain across the door, and dropping a
                     heavy bar. The door was already locked—it was thus triply guarded.
                  "Open!" howled the wolves.
                  "Who are you?" cried the baronet.
                  "Open the door! or—"
                  A tremendous rush was made at the oak.
                  "I warn you to desist!" shouted the baronet, in a hoarse and trembling voice.
                     "Who comes to invade the privacy—and violate the—"
                  A howl drowned the rest of the sentence.
                  "I am a magistrate!"
                  "Open!"
                  "This is a felony!"
                  The door cracked.
                  "I have sent for the revenue guard. Beware! Disperse, before they charge and
                     fire on you!"
                  As he spoke, the wolves, in one huge mass of shoulders, backs, and arms, rushed against
                     the door.
                  It gave way, the bar snapped, the chain was torn from its fastenings, the lock
                     was shattered; in a moment the wolves had poured in, irresistible as a surge of
                     the ocean, and furious voices shouted,—
                  "Our brother! where is the wolf, our brother!"
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke, staggered back, as pale as death and trembling in
                     every limb.
                  "The meaning of this violence?" he muttered. "Who is your brother?"
                  A howl answered him.
                  He looked round, expecting every moment to be torn to pieces. His eye fell upon
                     Earle, who, pale and still, was looking at him.
                  "You too!" gasped the baronet,—"what brings you?"
                  "Where is my mother?"
                  The baronet grew livid, and made no reply.
                  "Where is my mother, and the record of her marriage which you had stolen at
                     Martigny?"
                  The young man's face suddenly flushed. Rage was gaining the mastery with
                     him.
                  "I know nothing of her, or the record!"
                  Earle's teeth were heard grinding together.
                  "Where is my mother, and that paper?" he exclaimed, advancing as though about
                     to throttle the baronet. "Answer! Dare to trifle with me, and, by heaven!
                     though you be my father, I will slay you as I would slay a 
                        venemous
                        venomous
                      reptile!"
                  The baronet shrunk back, pale and trembling.
                  At the same instant, a tremendous shout was heard. It issued from the side
                     apartment, where the wolves had discovered the corpse, and they were seen now,
                     pouring out, the corpse, in its shroud, borne on their brawny shoulders.
                  "Death! death!" they cried hoarsely.
                  And they rushed on the baronet.
                  As he staggered back, a loud shout was heard without, and the clash of
                     hooves.
                  "They are coming! if I can gain a few minutes!" muttered the baronet, as pale
                     as death.
                  And recoiling from the mad crowd,—
                  "Beware how you outrage a magistrate!" he gasped.
                  The hoof-strokes came on like thunder, and men were heard leaping to the
                     ground.
                  "Wilde has met a party going the rounds: I am saved!"
                  And the baronet broke from his enemies.
                  
                  As he did so, a party of the revenue guard entered the great doorway, with
                     drawn pistols. At their head, tall and commanding, advanced the Viscount
                     Cecil.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  THE NEWS FROM FRANCE.
                  THE viscount entered the hall slowly, and his calm eyes surveyed the confused
                     mass of wolves, without apparent emotion.
                  "What is the meaning of this outrage?" he said; "and that corpse there—what
                     does this mean?"
                  The baronet hastened toward his kinsman.
                  "It means that I am attacked and outraged, as you were here, once; and that
                     wretch takes part again in the attack."
                  The viscount turned suddenly; at sight of Earle he could not conceal his
                     surprise.
                  "You, sir!" he said; "is it possible that you are here and thus
                     engaged?"
                  "It is possible, my lord, since you see me," returned Earle, in a gloomy voice;
                     "and as to my errand, I am not
                     ashamed of it—a matter I will explain to your lordship."
                  "It is well, sir," returned the viscount, in a freezing tone. "Wonders never
                     are to cease, then; and life is a play! I leave you in France, and come to
                     England; am riding out, and meet a guard going to protect this gentleman, and
                     take command of it; I reach the scene of the outrage, and lo!—the Baron
                     Delamere commands the insurgents—the terrible mob!"
                  There was an imperceptible shade of irony, in the nobleman's tones. One thing
                     at least was plain—the outrage to the baronet did not violently enrage him.
                  "And now a truce to all this," he said. "The cause of this outbreak? Why are
                     these men here?"
                  "I will explain in one word, my lord!" said Earle.
                  And he narrated every thing, connected with the robbery of the grave.
                  "Your lordship understands now," he added, "why these men are enraged. Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke has violated one of their most deeply rooted prejudices.
                     They look upon one of their fraternity, when dead, as sacred. Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke has violated the grave of one of them, and the wolves rescue their
                     dead brother, my lord!"
                  The viscount coldly inclined his head.
                  "And the wolves are right!" he replied.
                  He turned round to the guard.
                  "Put up your weapons, and mount your horses."
                  Then turning to the wolves,—
                  "Go home with your dead brother," he said. "You know me, and will not disobey
                     me. Rebury that body. If I have power in Pembrokeshire, no others shall be thus
                     outraged."
                  A hoarse murmur rose from the wolves; but it was plain that they did not design
                     resistance. In fact the Viscount Cecil was as popular with them as Sir Murdaugh
                     was unpopular; and at the word of the high dignitary and manorial lord they
                     bowed their heads in submission.
                  Goliath went out first, and as he passed before the viscount, doffed his
                     seal-skin cap, and said,—
                  "You be right, my lord."
                  "Go, and cease these outrages, Goliath. You are the master!"
                  Goliath went out, overwhelmed with pride at this recognition.
                  "Come on, there!" he growled to the fierce water-dogs, who were muttering
                     hoarsely.
                  
                  At the word from their chief, they moved toward the door. On their shoulders
                     they bore the corpse, and as the heavy feet struck the floor, the monotonous
                     chant of the burial service rose.
                  Then the wolves, no longer a mob, but in solemn procession, left Westbrooke
                     Hall.
                  Earle alone remained; his arms folded, his face pale and stern. He was clad in
                     his full uniform, and as the baronet glanced at it, his swollen face was full
                     of satisfaction.
                  "Well, the insurrection is quelled; the mob has dispersed!" said the Viscount
                     Cecil, with covert irony. "Pray what do you propose further, my good Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke?"
                  The baronet bounded with rage nearly, at the ill-suppressed satire of the
                     speaker's tones.
                  "I propose to arrest this person as a French spy, and have him hanged!" he
                     shouted.
                  "Arrest whom?"
                  "That wretch!"
                  And he pointed with a furious gesture at Earle.
                  "Ah! The Baron Delamere! And as a French spy, do you say?"
                  "As a spy! whoever he may be."
                  "You cannot, my dear Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke."
                  "Cannot?"
                  "For the very simplest reason in the world. Spies ply their trade only when two
                     countries are at war. Now France and England have agreed on the preliminaries
                     of a treaty of peace, hostilities are at an end; and Monsieur le Baron
                     Delamere, there, is on a visit simply to Wales."
                  He turned and bowed to Earle.
                  "When in France, I offered you the hospitalities of Wentworth Castle, Monsieur
                     le Baron," he said: "I beg you will do me the honor, now, to accept them."
                  Earle bowed low, but shook his head. His lips moved; he seemed vainly
                     attempting to speak.
                  "What is the matter?" exclaimed the viscount, for the young man had grown
                     suddenly white.
                  "Thanks, my lord," came from the sailor, in a low weak voice; "but I came
                     hither to—I must—"
                  He tottered.
                  The viscount hastened to him, and caught him as he was falling.
                  "My mother! That paper!"
                  And letting his head fall on his shoulder, suffused with blood, Earle lost
                     consciousness.
                  
                  Fifteen minutes afterwards he was in the Viscount Cecil's chariot, which was
                     rolling towards Wentworth Castle. The viscount had been riding out in it, when
                     he met the party of guards, and had directed it to follow; he himself mounting
                     the horse of one of his outriders.
                  As Earle fainted, he bore him out. They entered the chariot, and it went on its
                     way:
                  Between the viscount and the baronet not a single word had been exchanged.
                  So the strange scene ended.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  THE CRISIS.
                  NO sooner had the chariot disappeared with the viscount and Earle, than Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke fell into a chair, and called, in a hoarse and broken
                     voice,—"Wilde!"
                  The Hercules hastened to his master. He had kept in the background hitherto,
                     but now appeared, like a bird of ill-omen swooping down on the field of
                     conflict after the departure of the combatants.
                  "Wilde!" the baronet exclaimed, "we must go to work; not a moment must be lost
                     now. Where is that woman?"
                  "She must be in the woods somewhere, with that gypsy rascal, your honor,"
                     growled the Hercules.
                  
                  "Search for her instantly, with Gubbs; she must be recaptured before she gives
                     the alarm."
                  "Yes, your honor."
                  "Then to work; all is ready. In your absence every arrangement has been made.
                     At the port of Roche, two or three leagues down the coast, the bark Fly-by-Night is moored, and the captain is in my pay. He will sail
                     for St. Domingo, as soon as his passenger arrives. You understand?
                     He is paid five hundred pounds to conduct a mad woman to St.
                     Domingo. The money will close his ears, her ravings will pass unheeded. You
                     will go with her, and see her beyond seas, when you will return and make your
                     report to me. A thousand pounds will await you. Do you understand all now?"
                  Wilde flushed with joy and cupidity.
                  "Yes, your honor; at your honor's orders."
                  "But first to find her! to find her! That cursed gypsy has overturned all my
                     plans. Two things are necessary now, Wilde; let me talk plainly; no ceremony is
                     necessary with you. In a few days I am to be married, but before that day two
                     things must be accomplished. This woman must be out of the country, and that
                     man Earle must be—"
                  He stopped and looked at Wilde significantly.
                  The eyes of master and man met. Their glances were dark and meaning.
                  "Yes, your honor."
                  "He knows all; can send me and you to the gallows. She is the other obstacle:
                     she can interpose, and forbid the bans on my marriage day. One course only is
                     left. She must be sent away, and he—well, one thing only will silence
                        him."
                  And in a low voice he added,—
                  "You understand?"
                  "I understand," growled Wilde. "The woman first; that is the pressing
                     thing."
                  "Yes: go, now. Take the wagon. Find her, and send her to the ship with Gubbs.
                     Then return here; I will give you my further orders."
                  Wilde grunted obedience and hurried from the room.
                  "Things are hastening," muttered the baronet, "and all depends on prompt
                     action. That cursed dead body that brought about all this discovery, that led
                     the wolves to attack me, and brought the viscount here,—would it had been sunk
                     fathoms deep in the waters of the channel, ere I meddled with it. And then this
                     cut? Is there no danger?"
                  He looked at his hand, punctured by the knife during the process of dissection. It was
                     swollen, and he had bandaged it carefully.
                  "No: it is a trifle. I have more important matters to think of," he said.
                  And rising, he paced to and fro, his brows knit, his lips muttering.
                  "Well, all is touch and go now. A short time will decide all. If I can get
                        her out of the country, and close his lips
                     forever, then safety, security, a bonny bride, and triumph over my enemies. If
                     I fail—but I'll not think of that; the thought is too horrible! Now to make my
                     toilet carefully and repair to lady Worsham's. There my beautiful young bride
                     awaits impatiently her devoted lover."
                  A sneer passed over his lips, and the yellow tusks were thrust out.
                  A moment afterwards he had left the apartment.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  THE PATH TO WENTWORTH CASTLE.
                  THE chariot containing Earle and the viscount rolled on toward Wentworth
                     Castle, a great feudal pile crowning an eminence above the channel, a few miles
                     south of Oldport.
                  The scene through which they passed was wild and full of majestic beauty. Dense
                     forests covered the slopes of the great headlands to the right, and from the
                     wall of dark evergreens on their left issued a mountain torrent, which rushed
                     with a sound like thunder beneath a stone bridge which spanned the gulf
                     beneath.
                  As the chariot reached this point, the castle was seen near at hand, raising
                     its mighty walls above the foliage of its oaks. It was one of these old feudal
                     piles like Caernarvon or Dalbardon
                     bardon, which render Wales so attractive in the eyes of the historical
                     antiquary. All around it brought back the past and excited the imagination.
                     Even weak and burnt up with fever as he was, Earle seemed deeply impressed with
                     the scene.
                  "I see you are struck with my old castle," said the viscount; "and it is a true
                     relic of antiquity. Edward I. spent a night here, and his son, Edward II., came
                     near being born here in stead of at Caernarvon. Even this stone bridge over the
                     torrent dates back two hundred years."
                  Earl murmured something that was inaudible.
                  The viscount gazed at his pale face with attention. The dreamy eyes of the
                     young man surveyed the bridge, the torrent, a path leading to it from the
                     forest, and suddenly he said, in a low voice, with a strange and startled
                     look,—
                  "I have been here before!"
                  The baronet looked at him curiously.
                  "You? Well that is possible, sir. But doubtless you recall the occasion?"
                  "I do not," murmured Earle; "it is strange. But all is familiar to me."
                  He gazed around him with profound astonishment depicted upon his flushed
                     face.
                  "That path! I know that path. Stay, my lord: there is a stone cross in the wood
                     yonder."
                  And he pointed up the steep path.
                  "True! What does this mean?" muttered the viscount.
                  "I know not, my lord."
                  "There is the cross! See, through the foliage. It is built above a well in the
                     forest."
                  "The Hart's Well?"
                  The nobleman started.
                  "You astound me! Then you have really been here in the grounds of Wentworth
                     Castle?"
                  "I know not. I am in a dream," murmured Earle. "Is there a previous existence?
                     I do not believe it; but all here is familiar. I seem to have traversed that
                     path but yesterday, and to have heard some one utter that name—the 'Hart's
                     Well.'"
                  He stopped, looking with amazement around him.
                  "Let us alight, if it please you, my lord."
                  "Alight?"
                  "I would ascend that path, and approach the figure in stone of an armed knight
                     through the double row of evergreens!"
                  The viscount gazed at the speaker with unbounded astonishment.
                  
                  "The stone figure of the armed knight! the double row of evergreens!" he
                     said,—"then you have visited my house before. What mystery is concealed under
                     all this, sir?"
                  The nobleman's tones had grown cold and formal. Was this unknown Frenchman some
                     charlatan, then? Had he acted a part in pretending that he had never visited
                     Pembrokeshire before this autumn?
                  "Truly, something deeply mysterious, to myself, at least, is under this strange
                     recognition," murmured Earle; "but will your lordship permit me to walk? I am
                     strong enough, I think. If my strength fails me, I will sit down and rest on
                     the granite seat, with the Wentworth arms cut in the stone back of the
                     bench."
                  The viscount gazed at him without speaking. Then he muttered,—
                  "I will discover the meaning of this!"
                  Without further words, he stopped the coach, and directed the watchman to
                     proceed to the castle by the main carriage road. With Earle, he struck into the
                     path, supporting the young man, who walked with difficulty, looking around him
                     with strange curiosity as he advanced.
                  Half-way up the height they came to a fountain surmounted by a cross.
                  "Here is the well I have often drunk from," murmured Earle, pale and faint.
                  And he walked on, with the same dreamy and vacant expression in his eyes.
                  All at once the viscount felt him stagger.
                  "You are faint!" he exclaimed.
                  "It is—nothing, my lord. Let us go on. If I am weary, I will rest on the stone
                     bench. See, it is yonder, with the Wentworth arms."
                  And he tottered forward to the broad seat, upon which he fell, half
                     exhausted.
                  The viscount no longer said anything. Surprise seemed to have rendered him
                     speechless.
                  Earle rose after resting for some moments.
                  "I am—weak—to-day. My wound has drained my blood, he murmured. "But we will
                     soon reach home now; there are the two rows of evergreens. And look, there is
                     the armed knight; the stone is discolored since I was here last."
                  He went on, unaware that the viscount guided his steps, and kept him from
                     falling.
                  "The old firs! How well I remember them. There is the one that had an eagle's
                     nest in it!"
                  The viscount was speechless. The sailor was recalling things which he himself
                     remembered clearly.
                  
                  They passed through the double row of evergreens toward the huge pile.
                  "Here is the knight! One of his spurs used to be broken, and I found and played
                     with it one day!"
                  The viscount turned pale, and glanced at the statue, which rose from a massive
                     block of granite, in a grass-plat. One of the spurs had been broken off—he had
                     never observed it before.
                  He looked at Earle with distended eyes. Something strange seemed going on in
                     the young man.
                  "Why, there is home!" he exclaimed; "one half the great door is open, as
                     always! Is the picture grasping the battle-axe, hanging on the right of the
                     door? And the lady with the blue mantle nearly opposite—is she there? And the
                     fountain, in the small court, with the water spouting from the tritons?"
                  Earle staggered, and a mist seemed to pass before his eyes. He turned faintly
                     toward the viscount.
                  "What—does—this—mean? Where am I? Why, this is home!—home!—home!"
                  And he fainted in the arms of the viscount, who was near fainting in his
                     turn.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  WHAT THE GYPSY WOMAN HAD SEEN.
                  IT was not until the next night that Wilde made his reappearance.
                  He then entered the library where Sir Murdaugh was feverishly pacing up and
                     down; and from the haggard appearance of the man's face, and his jaded
                     expression, it was plain that he had just undergone great fatigue.
                  The baronet stopped and turned around eagerly.
                  "Well?" he exclaimed.
                  "I have caught her at last, your honor!"
                  "Good! where is she?"
                  "On her way to the coast in the wagon with Gubbs."
                  The baronet uttered an exclamation of satisfaction.
                  
                  "That is well!" he said.
                  Wilde made no reply. The baronet glanced at him. He was gloomy and
                     dispirited.
                  "What is the matter? Has anything occured? Where did you find her? Has anything
                     taken place?"
                  "Something unlucky enough, your honor. I will begin and tell you every thing. I
                     followed their steps—her, and that gypsy scoundrel, in the woods, till I lost
                     them. Gubbs was as much at fault as I was; but we inquired of an old woodman,
                     got on the trail of the gypsies, who have been camping about in the woods, and
                     found 'em at last in the big forest behind Maverick House, where they have been
                     laying low, to keep out of the way."
                  "Make haste! Come to the point!" cried the baronet, impatiently.
                  "In a minute, your honor. Well, we came on 'em at last. I heard 'em, and
                     crawled through the brush till I got a sight of 'em, there close to me. An old
                     hag in a red cloak was watching a pot boiling over a fire on two forked sticks;
                     and that gypsy scoundrel was talking to her, while she—the woman
                     we were after—was listening. As I got to my hiding-place, I heard the old hag
                     call my name; the next thing she said was that she could get you and me into
                     trouble, and then that gypsy dog, who can never rest till he finds out every
                     thing, plied her with questions till she let out—"
                  Wilde stopped.
                  "Let out what? Speak!" exclaimed the baronet, wrathfully.
                  "What she had seen near the bridge leading to Wentworth Castle twenty years
                     ago!" said Wilde, sullenly.
                  The baronet turned pale.
                  "She saw you?"
                  "Yes, your honor. How could I help that? I had my orders from you, and obeyed
                     'em! and now I am to get into trouble."
                  "Cease that growling! She saw—"
                  "Well, she saw me steal the child of Viscount Cecil!" said Wilde,—"the son of
                     his wife who died twenty years ago."
                  The baronet gnawed his lip, and his face grew livid.
                  "You paid me to do it, and I lurked round the castle till I did it," growled
                     the Hercules. "I saw the child come tottering down the path to the bridge, to
                     look at the water. How he came to stray away from his nurse I never knew; but
                     he was there, and I caught hold of
                     him, and lifted him on my black horse, and made through the woods at a gallop,
                     carrying him before me!"
                  "And—this hag—!"
                  "Saw me! She was prowling in the brush to steal fowls or any thing. I nearly
                     rode over her, and knew she had seen me. I ought to have killed her, but blood
                     is dangerous! I paid her ten guineas, and afterwards ten more when she met me
                     and knew me for the man that stole the child! Then she went away, and I thought
                     she was dead. I had carried the child to France,—you were at Martigny—and I saw
                     no more of her. Now she has told that gypsy and that woman the whole,—that the
                     Viscount Cecil's child was not drowned in the torrent as all thought, but
                     carried off by me. They know that he lives—is Edmond Earle!"
                  The baronet drew a long, deep breath. Something seemed crushing his breast.
                  "Well," he said, "what followed?"
                  "Why, Gubbs came up, and we jumped into 'em!" was the reply. "I knocked the
                     gypsy rascal on the head, and Gubbs seized hold of the woman. He dragged her
                     off then, and put her in the wagon, where she was gagged, and is now on her way
                     to the Fly-by-Night."
                  "That, at least, is gained," muttered the baronet; "and now for the other part.
                     No one will believe the charge of that old gypsy hag that I stole a child; many
                     will believe Edmond, son of the Viscount Cecil, when he brands me as a
                     murderer!"
                  He stopped. The sound of horses' hoofs was heard without.
                  "He must die! How to compass that!" said the baronet, in a low voice.
                  As he spoke, steps approached, the door opened, and Earle entered, pale and
                     tottering.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  THE LOVE OF AN OLD MAN FOR A GIRL.
                  TO explain the young man's presence at Westbrooke Hall, it will be necessary to
                     return to Wentworth Castle for a brief space.
                  Earle had fainted in the arms of the Viscount Cecil, as we have seen, and it
                     was only with the assistance of several servants, who ran out, that he was
                     borne into the castle.
                  The viscount, pale and lost in wonder at the strange scene he had witnessed,
                     saw to all his wants, and a sound night's rest seemed to restore the young man
                     to his senses.
                  He descended on the next morning and managed to swallow a little food, but it
                     was plain that he was laboring under fever. The viscount endeavored to prevail
                     on him to go to his chamber and lie down, but he refused, and in the midst of
                     his host's urging, a carriage drove up to the door, from which descended Arthur
                     Maverick and his sister Rose.
                  Rose entered, pale and pensive, and the viscount hastened forward to greet
                     her.
                  "My dear child!" he said,—"and you must permit your old cousin to thus address
                     you!—what has become of your roses? Your appearance distresses me!"
                  Rose smiled. All at once she saw Earle and turned crimson.
                  "You, sir,—you here!" she faltered.
                  The young man bowed, and his face flushed too.
                  "You did not know that my poor face would meet your eyes here, Miss
                     Maverick?"
                  "No, sir; but I rejoice to see you—"
                  There she stopped with a deep blush.
                  "And I to see you again," he said, in a low tone, with much emotion. "I
                     remember that night—what you said—have thought of it often! On the ocean—in my
                     hours of musing—in France, and everywhere, I have seen your beautiful face and
                     heard your voice!"
                  The young girl blushed crimson. The viscount, busy in greeting Arthur, had
                        heard nothing. Now he turned and
                     saw Rose and Earle conversing like old friends.
                  "You know my friend, then, the Baron Delamere, my dear Rose!" he exclaimed.
                  "Very well, cousin—that is—yes, we know Mr. Delamere."
                  "And are glad to call him our friend," said Arthur, cordially pressing his
                     hand.
                  Turning to the viscount as he spoke, he explained how their acquaintance had
                     taken place.
                  "You saved Rose, then," said the viscount to Earle, with deep emotion. "For
                     that alone you deserve and have my gratitude—my very profound gratitude, sir.
                     This young lady is my cousin, and all I love upon earth very nearly. My life
                     has been sad, sir,—her smiles have brightened it. She would live here at
                     Wentworth Castle, as its mistress, after my death, if I could compass that. I
                     cannot. This property goes to a personage very distasteful to me, Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke. Thus, my very dear Rose," he said, turning with a tender smile
                     toward the girl, "you will remain poor in comparison with what you would be,
                     had I my will! And now, the news! I am just from France, you know! How is Miss
                     Ellinor Maverick?"
                  And the viscount suddenly cooled.
                  "That young lady is not a favorite with me, to be frank; but she is your
                     relative, Arthur," he added.
                  "I am sorry for it," said the young man.
                  And he narrated every thing relating to the young lady, winding up with the
                     statement that in three or four days she was to be married to Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke.
                  The viscount knit his brows.
                  "I had heard something of this! But so soon! Then she, instead of
                     Rose, will be mistress here!"
                  All eyes were directed toward the viscount with surprise.
                  "You do not know the tenor of Lord Wentworth's will, I see," he said, gloomily.
                     "In case of my death without issue, Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke inherits my estate,
                     as, in the case of his death without issue, I would inherit his. Well, my
                     child," he said to Rose, "he is about to marry, and is younger than I am. Thus
                     he and his children will possess this castle after my death. I attempted to
                     secure you one-half, in consideration of relinquishing to the baronet the other
                     half now. He refused. There all ends. Would to God my poor son had—"
                  
                  He stopped suddenly.
                  "Your son, sir?" said Earle, looking at him.
                  "I had a son. I have been married, sir. Lady Cecil died early, and my poor
                     child strayed away and was drowned. We followed his footprints to that torrent
                     yonder, and he was never more heard of. But this is sorrowful,—let me try not
                     to cloud your smiles, my dear Rose."
                  As he spoke a servant entered, and presented a note on a silver salver.
                  The viscount looked at it, and an expression of vexation came to his face.
                  "A meeting of magistrates on a matter of importance. My presence is
                     indispensable," he said. "But you will stay and dine with me, my dear Rose and
                     Arthur."
                  "I regret to say 'tis impossible, my lord. You will come soon to see us."
                  "Very soon; but remain and entertain my friend, the Baron Delamere. I beg you
                     to do so. You are my own family."
                  And, with a courteous smile, the viscount took his departure.
                  Rose and Arthur remained until evening. With every passing moment, Earle found
                     himself gazing with deeper tenderness on the beautiful tiful girl. His wild
                     passion for Ellinor seemed to have merely smoothed the way for this new
                     emotion, as profound and durable as the first was transient, as serenely tender
                     as the former was passionate.
                  For the first time Earle felt that he loved indeed; and when at last the young
                     lady rose, and took her departure with her brother, Earle felt as though the
                     sunlight had suddenly disappeared from the earth with her smile and the light
                     of her eyes. He fell back into despondency.
                  The coach, containing Arthur and Rose, rolled away just as night descended upon
                     Wentworth Castle.
                  The viscount had not yet returned, and Earle sat down, gloomy and lonely. Then
                     all the violent passions, which the presence of the girl had banished, began to
                     tear him once more. He rose and paced the floor, burnt up by the one thought of
                     his mother. Finally a fever seized him; he felt as though his head were
                     burning, and going to a bell, rang it violently.
                  A servant hastened in.
                  "My horse!" said Earle, feverishly.
                  The servant 
                        hesited
                        hesitated
                     , looking with astonishment at his flushed face.
                  
                  "Well, my horse! My horse, I say! Saddle my horse, without delay!"
                  The servant bowed and went out, reduced to submission by the authoritative
                     voice.
                  Earle then coolly descended, put on his hat and gloves, and went to the great
                     door.
                  A horse, saddled and bridled, already awaited him. At Wentworth Castle the
                     master never waited.
                  "Inform the viscount that I have gone out to take a short ride," he said,
                     getting into the saddle.
                  And leaving the groom gazing with amazement on his agitated face, like the
                     first servant, Earle rode down the great avenue, and, crossing the bridge, went
                     straight on.
                  What was his destination? He scarce knew. His brain was reeling, and he was
                     burnt up by fever. Only a vague sensation of rage and thirst for revenge upon
                     the baronet possessed him. His mother—that paper—Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke—such
                     were the thoughts that flitted through his weak brain. And setting spur to his
                     horse, he rode toward Westbrooke Hall.
                  The animal broke into a gallop, and it was a miracle almost that Earle kept his
                     seat as the horse sped on through the darkness. He tottered from side to side,
                     his eyes half-closed, his bosom heaving. With heated brain and burning cheeks,
                     which only rendered more shocking and terrible his death-like pallor, he went
                     on 
                        at at
                        at
                      full speed, clinging to his animal rather by the instinct of
                     excellent horsemanship than any thing else;—and so, feeble, reeling,
                     fever-stricken, out of his senses nearly, reached Westbrooke Hall, and stood
                     before Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke the moment after he had uttered the words in
                     reference to Earle,—
                  "He must die!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  THE BLUDGEON AND THE ROPE.
                  AT sight of Earle, the baronet recoiled and shook in every limb. Then a
                     diabolical joy shone in his bloodshot eyes, and his mouth slowly expanded into
                     the hideous grin which was habitual with him.
                  For a moment, neither of the adversaries spoke. The baronet looked keenly at
                     his intended victim.
                  Earle was as thin as a ghost, and frightfully pale, except in the centre of his
                     cheeks. There a hectic flush burned, like a red-hot coal. As he had advanced he
                     had staggered. As he looked at the baronet now, his eyes showed plainly that
                     the young man was approaching a paroxysm of fever; that the wound inflicted by
                     Wilde had at last worked its results, and strength of mind and body were
                     leaving him together.
                  The expression of diabolical joy in the baronet's face deepened. But, spite of
                     this feeling, the face of Earle seemed to cow him.
                  "What is—your pleasure?" he stammered. "What brings you to this house?"
                  "To slay you, if necessary, as you slew Giles Maverick!" shouted Earle, "unless
                     you tell me where I may find my mother!"
                  The baronet recoiled.
                  "My mother!" shouted Earle, his hand going to his empty belt, "or, by heaven,
                     I'll have your blood, were you fifty times my father!"
                  "Then he does not know yet!" came in low, muttered tones from the baronet, as,
                     with his eyes on the young man's hot face, he retreated toward the right-hand
                     apartment.
                  "My mother!—where is my mother?—and that marriage-record you stole at
                     Martigny?"
                  As he spoke in his hoarse voice, strident and metallic from the effect of
                     fever, Earle advanced on the baronet, who continued to retreat before him.
                  In the baronet's eyes there was something frightful,—a venom which may be seen
                     in the eyes of the cobra, when he
                     raises his deadly crest and is about to spring.
                  "Your mother? I know nothing of her," he said, watching Earle warily, and
                     continuing to retire.
                  "Murderer! No! You shall not escape me! You are my father, but—"
                  He staggered. But for the table which stood near him, he would have fallen to
                     the earth. He leaned upon it, and passed his other hand over his brow as though
                     to clear his vision.
                  "My mother!" he murmured, faintly.
                  His doom had, in that moment, been pronounced.
                  The baronet had turned and whispered a few hurried words to Wilde. The latter
                     had disappeared at one bound.
                  Suddenly Earle seemed to recover his strength, as though by a miracle. On the
                     wall hung a sword. He caught it down and rushed on the baronet.
                  "Speak! Tell me where to find my mother and that paper," he shouted, "or I will
                     tear you in pieces, whether you be my father or not! Answer, monster that you
                     are, where have you hidden my mother? You murdered Giles Maverick—the very dog
                     who saw it rose to convict you! You robbed the register at Martigny like a
                     felon and a thief! Last, my mother disappears—you may have murdered her, as you
                     would murder me if you dared!"
                  "I dare!" came in a deep and sombre voice from the baronet.
                  As he spoke the door of the secret closet in the wall flew open: the figure of
                     Wilde appeared in the opening like a hideous picture in its frame; a bludgeon
                     rose, descended, and fell upon Earle's right temple, and he fell forward at
                     full length, deprived of consciousness, it seemed of life.
                  "Now for the rope! the rope!" shouted the baronet, hoarsely.
                  Wilde rushed into the apartment, and threw a rope around the young man's
                     shoulders. Then, at a signal from the baronet, he wrapped and re-wrapped his
                     arms, thus rendering him entirely powerless, even if he recovered his
                     senses.
                  "What next, sir?" growled the Hercules, breathing heavily, and gazing with knit
                     brows on the prostrate figure.
                  "Death!" came in a low tone from the baronet, whose face resembled that of a
                     corpse. "Death! He has forced this on me! Death! and death in presence of the dust of Giles
                     Maverick!"
                  The Hercules started and turned pale. Rough and unscrupulous as he was, the
                     words of the baronet horrified him.
                  "You don't mean—"
                  "Yes," came in the same low voice from the lips of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                     "What is the difference? It must not take place here! He must be lost sight of,
                     or you and I mount the gallows! He must die that I may live! He shall not first
                     put the rope around my neck, and then, as the son of the Viscount Cecil,
                     inherit this estate! He shall die, and—yonder! He has made himself the champion
                     of Giles Maverick! Let him wake to find himself close to him in the vault! Say
                     nothing! I have resolved on it! Refuse to aid me, and you hang! Two
                     horses!—quick! and tools to open the Maverick vault! Once shut up there, he
                     will not trouble us!—the dead tell no tales!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  THE MAVERICK VAULT.
                  AN hour afterwards, a strange, and terrible scene took place at Llangollen
                     churchyard,—a wild and secluded spot in the hills, a league from Westbrooke
                     Hall.
                  The church, ancient and weather-beaten, rose in the midst of a ghostly array of
                     tombstones; and the shadows of the sombre evergreens growing thickly along the
                     rude stone wall around the grounds, danced fantastically, as a chill wind
                     agitated their boughs, and sobbed onward.
                  It was a weird and lugubrious night. The moon was sailing through long streaks
                     of ebon clouds, reaching from horizon to horizon. At one instant the lonely
                     edifice, and the tombs around it came out with sudden brilliance.
                  
                  Then the moon disappeared and all was wrapped in gloom again, a gloom which the
                     sobbing wind rendered ghastly and funereal.
                  All at once, as the moon soared forth, lighting up the sombre tombstones and
                     family vaults,—for Llangollen was the place of sepulture for the gentry of the
                     neighborhood,—two figures, carrying between them something which they half
                     supported and half dragged, got over the wall, and rapidly approached a huge
                     stone set in the side of a knoll. This stone was evidently the door to a large
                     vault, and was secured by an iron fastening. Over it, cut in rude letters on
                     the coping was the single word—
                  "Maverick."
                  The figures came on rapidly with their burden, which, silent and insensible,
                     resembled a dead body.
                  "It is here," said one of the men. "Where are the tools? Wrench off the
                     fastening."
                  The other obeyed the order, and, inserting an instrument, succeeded in forcing
                     the vault.
                  "Open!" came from the other.
                  A huge shoulder was placed against the stone and it slowly revolved, grating on
                     its hinges.
                  Suddenly the neigh of a horse, from beyond the wall, rang out.
                  The two men started and trembled.
                  "It is nothing, only the horses; quick, help me to carry him in!" came in a
                     guttural whisper from the lips of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                  Wilde, panting and shaking in all his limbs, obeyed. The body of Earle was
                     lifted and borne down the few steps into the vault.
                  "He will not live here ten minutes," muttered Wilde, staggering back. "The air
                     is death to breathe."
                  "So much the better—come!"
                  And leaping out of the vault, the baronet gained the open air. Wilde hastily
                     followed him, and, at a sign from his master, closed the huge door. It went to
                     with a dull clash. The Hercules shuddered.
                  "Fasten the iron."
                  With a trembling hand, Wilde obeyed; and in a few moments the vault was heavily
                     secured. The baronet looked on with the expression of a fiend, during the
                     work.
                  "And now, come," he said; "but what is that?"
                  And he pointed to a shadow, passing rapidly beneath the evergreens. As he
                     uttered the words, the shadow darted toward the wall near the horses.
                  
                  "A man!—some one has seen us."
                  The words escaped the baronet in a horrified cry. He shuddered, and
                     exclaimed.
                  "Pursue him!—he must die, or we are lost."
                  Wilde had not waited for the order. With one bound he reached the wall; as he
                     cleared it, a dark figure crossed the expanse without at a run. Wilde followed;
                     the figure stumbled; a moment afterwards, they had clutched.
                  "You!" cried Wilde, recognizing the gypsy.
                  The vagabond made no reply.
                  "You saw, then?" gasped Wilde.
                  The words were followed by a cry from the Hercules. The gypsy had drawn his
                     knife, and plunged it into the gamekeeper's heart
                  "Ah!" groaned Wilde staggering back, "I am dead! but—"
                  And suddenly wrenching the knife from the gypsy, he drove it into his
                     breast.
                  The weapon disappeared to the hilt, which struck heavily against the gypsy's
                     breast-bone.
                  "We die together at least," gasped Wilde, in a broken voice.
                  And he fell, dragging the gypsy.
                  A moment afterwards, as the baronet hastened to the spot, he half rose.
                  "I die," muttered Wilde—"but he too—!"
                  He pointed to the body of the gypsy, lying on its back with the knife buried in
                     the breast.
                  As Wilde spoke, his head drooped, the death-rattle issued from his throat, and
                     falling back, he uttered a last groan and expired.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  THE MAN FROM WENTWORTH CASTLE.
                  IT was nearly midnight.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke was sitting in his library at Westbrooke Hall.
                  He seemed to have grown ten years older since the morning, and was livid.
                  At every instant he looked over his shoulder, and listened.
                  "Folly!" he suddenly exclaimed, rising and uttering a short, harsh laugh; "am I
                     a baby to start at shadows! All is safe now! discovery is impossible. My plans
                     succeed—nothing fails! That woman is safe on board the Fly-by
                     Night now, and the marriage record is burned! That man is—"
                  He stopped. In spite of himself a tremor agitated him.
                  "He too has disappeared! Thus nothing prevents my marrying Ellinor Maverick on
                     the day after to-morrow; and he will not be present any more than
                     that woman to convict me! Yes—all is safe. I marry and I inherit the Wentworth
                     property. The obstacles have disappeared—even Gubbs and Wilde, my tools. Gubbs
                     will go to St. Domingo, and never more be heard of; Wilde is yonder in the wood
                     where I dragged him and the dead gypsy. When they are found, there will be no
                     questions. My gamekeeper has fought with a poacher, and in the affray they have
                     both been killed!"
                  He sat down, pale and breathing heavily, despite his reassuring
                     reflections.
                  "And yet I tremble!" he muttered; "I start at every sound!"
                  The hoofs of a horse were heard without. A mounted man was evidently
                     approaching rapidly.
                  The baronet started up.
                  "Who can that be!"
                  As he spoke, a knock was heard at the front door, and then silence
                     followed.
                  The baronet seemed paralyzed. What to do? Should he secrete himself? Who was
                     this midnight visitor?
                  
                  "I am a coward!—shadows fright me! I will face all!"
                  And he went and opened the front door of the house. It was necessary that he
                     should do so. Beside Wilde there had been for weeks only an old deaf crone of a
                     servant at the hall.
                  A serving man was seen at the door.
                  "Well?" said the baronet in a low tone.
                  The man's hand went to his hat.
                  "Has Captain Earle been here, your honor? I was sent by his lordship to ask,
                     and say that Captain Earle, who is staying at the castle, went out for a short
                     ride this evening, and an hour or two afterwards his horse came back without
                     any rider. His lordship thought he might have had an accident, and something
                     might be known of him here."
                  The baronet responded in a low tone.
                  "Why here?"
                  "His lordship did not say, your honor."
                  "Say to his lordship that I have seen nothing of Captain Earle."
                  The servant touched his hat and retired.
                  The baronet closed the door, and staggered rather than walked back to the
                     library.
                  "Peril surrounds me on every side! The ghost of that boy rises to point to the
                     spot where he is entombed alive! Was I mad to do that? Am I then the monster of
                     monsters?"
                  He fell into a seat.
                  "Doubtless, since I do this monstrous thing! Well, let me act out my character!
                     I will go through now to the end! Once married, I will go abroad and only
                     return when the viscount is dead! Dead? If he were only dead now, all were
                     well!"
                  A cry of pain followed the words.
                  He had violently clenched his hands. The movement of that upon which the
                     dissecting knife had inflicted the wound, caused him acute agony.
                  "I had forgotten that!" he muttered, gazing at the slight puncture, from which
                     he had long removed the bandage; "who would have believed that a scratch would
                     cause so much pain?"
                  He pondered for more than an hour. Then he suddenly rose.
                  "The die is cast! Why draw back now!" he muttered. "All is decided. In two days
                     I shall be married and on my way to France!"
                  A smile of ghastly triumph distorted his lips as he spoke, and, taking a light
                     from the table, he went to his chamber.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  THE WEDDING AT LLANGOLLEN.
                  IT was two days after these scenes.
                  The coast of Pembrokeshire was bathed in a flood of brilliant sunshine.
                  The great headland above Oldport rose like a giant in the fresh light. The foam
                     danced and sparkled; and even the sombre firs of the hills seemed more cheerful
                     for this illumination, driving away the mists of autumn.
                  At Llangollen church in the hills, a large crowd had assembled. It was the day
                     of Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke's marriage to Miss Ellinor Maverick.
                  The selection of Llangollen church as the scene of the marriage ceremony had
                     been made at the last moment, and in spite of the baronet's persistent
                     objections. The fair Ellinor, however, had not been his opponent in the
                     discussion. The old dowager, Lady Worsham, at whose house the young lady had
                     "taken refuge," as she said, had been seized with a fit of piety or religious
                     etiquette, it seemed; and under the influence of this sentiment she had
                     obstinately announced that the wedding feast might be at her house, but the
                     ceremony must be at Llangollen church.
                  The old dowager had triumphed. The baronet found her immovable, and with fear
                     and trembling yielded.
                  "After all," he said to himself, "what have I to fear? A ghost?—men do not live
                     two days in—"
                  The words died away in his throat.
                  "So be it, madam," he said.
                  And bowing sullenly, he went to make his preparations.
                  The morning came, and the announcement of the intended ceremony had drawn a
                     great crowd, both of the gentry and the plainer people. Chariots stopped at the
                     gate, and discharged their burdens of lord and lady. A crowd watched there,
                     moving unquietly to and fro in front of the gateway. Among the crowd were seen many of the fraternity of
                     the wolves,—rough figures, brought thither by some stronger sentiment, it
                     seemed, than curiosity, and whose eyes were fixed on the pageant with
                     ill-concealed hostility.
                  At last the chariot of Lady Worsham, containing the dowager, Sir Murdaugh
                     Westbrooke, and Miss Ellinor Maverick drove up to the gateway.
                  From it issued, first, the baronet, clad with unusual splendor, but as pale as
                     death. Then came the ladies: they entered the church, and a great crowd surged
                     in after them.
                  In front of the altar stood the priest in his black canonicals. The bridal
                     party—if that could be called a party consisting of but two or three
                     persons—ascended the aisle, took their positions before the priest, and the
                     ceremony was about to begin.
                  From the body of the church, gloomy, in spite of the sunshine, a great crowd
                     followed the details of the scene, with varied emotions.
                  Many were there from simple curiosity. Others came from want of means to
                     otherwise kill the time. Others,—and they were numerous—gazed with
                     ill-concealed hostility on the pale bridegroom. Never popular, or personally
                     sonally attractive, the baronet had now few well-wishers, and was so livid as
                     to appear hideous.
                  One thing about him everybody observed—his head hung down, and moved from side
                     to side. As it thus moved, wary and fearful glances shot from beneath his gray
                     eyebrows; more than once he looked furtively over his shoulder as though
                     fearful of something. As he took his place beside the beautiful Ellinor, he was
                     observed to shudder.
                  She was radiant, and her splendid costume set off her dazzling and magnetic
                     beauty. It was plain that no doubts or misgivings affected her.
                     She was about to become the wife of a man of great wealth and high rank—her
                     worldly ambition was soon to be fully gratified; and in the dark eyes of the
                     fair Ellinor, as she rustled up to the chancel, in her grand white satin, could
                     be read haughty triumph, and the fruition of all her hopes.
                  The ceremony began. As it did so, a murmur issued from the crowd. They were
                     saying to each other, "How beautiful!" and "How hideous!"
                  But Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke did not hear them. All his powers seemed to be
                        concentrated trated into the one
                     faculty of listening. His face resembled the drawn and parchment-like outlines
                     of a corpse. He plainly feared something—some miracle, it might be—the
                     invisible fate seemed approaching.
                  It came.
                  The priest proceeded with the ceremony, and reached the passage.
                  "Into this holy estate these two persons present come now to be joined."
                  He looked up from the book.
                  "If any man can show just cause why they may not lawfully be joined together,
                     let him now speak, or hereafter forever hold his peace."
                  As the words issued from the priest's lips, a woman in a black dress advanced
                     slowly up the aisle. All saw her coming, and a hundred eyes were directed
                     toward her.
                  The priest gazed at her in utter astonishment. The hand containing the
                     prayer-book sunk to his side.
                  The woman came on, slow, silent, with the noiseless tread of a ghost.
                  Suddenly the baronet raised his head. His startled eyes roamed from side to
                     side. He glanced over his shoulder. As he did so, he uttered a low cry.
                  "There is just cause," said the recluse, in a low, clear voice, "why Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke should not marry. I am Lady Westbrooke. Here is the record
                     of my marriage."
                  And she extended toward the priest the fragments of the leaf of the marriage
                     register stolen from Martigny.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  THE VENGEANCE OF A BLOOD-HOUND.
                  SIR MURDAUGH WESTBROOKE tottered, and leaned on the chancel railing.
                  Ellinor Maverick uttered a low scream, and fell back fainting in the arms of
                     Lady Worsham.
                  The crowd in the body of the church rose, and towering above them could be seen
                     the commanding figure of the Viscount Cecil, who made a gesture to some one and
                     said coldly,—
                  "The moment has come!"
                  Then a shudder ran through the assembly. It opened right and left, and through
                     the space thus made advanced a procession of the wolves, bearing on their
                     shoulders—
                  EARLE!
                  The young man was wasted to a shadow. His face was paler than ashes. His eyes
                     were sunken and bloodshot. He lay on the brawny shoulders of his brother
                     wolves, as weak as a sick child, and as he was borne up the aisle fixed his
                     eyes on the baronet, and whispered rather than said,—
                  "That is he."
                  The priest advanced hurriedly.
                  "What means this scene? Who is this sick man?"
                  "Ask the witness I have brought here." said the viscount.
                  And he pointed to the rear of the strange procession.
                  Supported between two of the wolves, was seen the gypsy, as pale and wasted as
                     Earle. His eyes alone seemed alive as he staggered on between his two
                     supporters, and those eyes, dark and fiery, were fixed upon the countenance of
                     the baronet.
                  The priest uttered an exclamation.
                  "My lord! the meaning of all this!" he faltered.
                  "It means that the person whom you see there, has attempted both bigamy and
                     murder," said the viscount.
                  
                  And with his arm extended at full length, he pointed straight toward Sir
                     Murdaugh Westbrooke.
                  "Do you doubt? look at him!"
                  And his extended arm remained motionless.
                  "Did I need the 
                        testsmony
                        testimony
                      of his face, that would convict him!" said the viscount slowly and
                     solemnly. "But that is not needed. There are witnesses, Listen! people of
                     Pembrokeshire!"
                  And turning to the crowd,—
                  "Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke married in France—and there is his wife. He attempts
                     to marry again, and has stolen the record—there it is. He stole my child—the
                     only child of my poor wife who died twenty years since—to inherit from me, and
                     buried that child alive—there he is! But two days since all this was arranged,
                     as he supposed, securely. The first wife was sent toward the coast to be
                     carried abroad, and I met and was appealed to by her. The child—my child—was
                     knocked down and dragged to this very spot, and buried alive in the Maverick
                     vaults, by the murderer of Giles Maverick; and a poor gypsy who saw the infamy,
                     and was left as they thought dead, dragged his bleeding body to Oldport, where
                     he gave the alarm to the brave chief of the wolves there. They came and rescued
                     him, almost dying! There he is!"
                  He pointed to Earle.
                  An immense shout rose from the assembly.
                  "Death! death to him!" cried the wolves; "he tried to murder a wolf! Death to
                     the murderer!"
                  As they spoke, they rushed straight on the baronet, Goliath at their head.
                  "Death! death!" rose in hoarse thunder from the ferocious crowd.
                  And they were about to tear the baronet to pieces.
                  Suddenly Goliath recoiled, and the crowd behind him, felt the pressure of his
                     huge bulk.
                  "Look at him! look at the murderer!" he growled in terrified tones, pointing to
                     the baronet.
                  The sight was terrible indeed.
                  Sir Murdaugh Westbrooke foamed at the mouth, and his huge red tongue was
                     hanging out. His eyes glared around him with a vacant and animal expression.
                     All at once he began to pant quickly, as a dog does when he is heated, then he
                     snapped, uttered a growl, which ended in a sound like a bark, and rushed
                     straight upon the crowd, who gave
                     way with terror, as he came.
                  "The mad dog! He was bitten!—his bite is deadly!"
                  Some one uttered those words.
                  Their effect was instant.
                  The crowd recoiled, and leaped over the backs of the seats, to avoid him.
                  He did not attempt to follow them. They seemed to have disappeared from his
                     view. The wretched man, who had inoculated his blood with the mad dog's virus,
                     when he punctured his hand, in dissecting the corpse, bitten by the animal, was
                     now fully mastered by the poison, and turned into a beast. Hydrophobia—that
                     most awful of human scourges—had clutched him. He saw nothing, heard nothing,
                     rushed on, he knew not whither, snaping, and uttering hoarse cries. When he was
                     followed into the churchyard, it was seen that he made for the Maverick
                     vault.
                  "There are two men murdered here! One is alive!" he growled, tearing at the
                     huge stone.
                  Four men threw themselves upon him, and seized him. They were scarce able to
                     hold him. Tetanus had set in with mortal violence; and he was borne foaming,
                     raving, and struggling to Westbrooke hall.
                  Three more paroxysms assailed the miserable man before midnight.
                  As the last died away, he fell back a corpse in the arms of his attendants.
                  The dog of the murdered man, Giles Maverick, had avenged his master. He had
                     bitten and poisoned the wolf; and the dead wolf had poisoned the murderer.
                  The gallows was spared the trouble. Hydrophobia ended all.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  THE WOLVES CELEBRATE THE MARRIAGE OF THEIR CHIEF.
                  OUR narrative might here appropriately end, but a few words more may interest
                     the reader.
                  As the baronet rushed from Llangollen Church, Ellinor Maverick was borne out
                     fainting, by Lady Worsham; and a month afterwards they went abroad, returning
                     only some years afterwards to Pembrokeshire.
                  Earle, his mother, and the gypsy were led forth in triumph by the wolves—and as
                     the young man raised his head in the fresh sunshine, he felt his father's arms
                     around him.
                  Thereat the wolves uttered a shout.
                  "It be his son! the son of the good viscount count! he be the chief of the
                     wolves!" shouted Goliath.
                  And again they caught up Earle and bore him to the viscount's coach, on their
                     shoulders, in triumph.
                  "You be the chief, master, remember!" repeated Goliath.
                  And he uttered a second shout. The wolves howled in response, and the sound
                     rang through the hills like thunder.
                  It was still reverberating in the fir-clad gorges, when the chariot with Earle,
                     his mother, the gypsy, and the viscount, disappeared.
                  In an hour they were at Wentworth Castle.
                  A year after these events, Edmond, son of the Viscount Cecil, was married to
                     Rose Maverick, at Maverick House.
                  Lady Westbrooke remained at Wentworth Castle. Nothing could induce her to
                     inhabit her dower estate of Westbrooke Hall.
                  Arthur Maverick remained unmarried. Ellinor returned only some years
                     afterwards, and never appeared in society; dedicating her time to Lady Worsham,
                     from whom she expected to inherit an estate.
                  The gypsy, promoted to the post of head gamekeeper at Wentworth Castle, lived and died,
                     loved and trusted by Earle.
                  So terminated the drama—such were the fates of the personages.
                  The Viscount Cecil seemed, more than all others, content with the denouement.
                     He had regained his son, and that son was married to his favorite Rose.
                  The wedding was a grand one. No less a person than Lieutenant Dargonne made his
                     appearance, and laughed and drank his old captain's health. Then the cortège
                     set out from Maverick House for Wentworth Castle. As it approached Oldport, an
                     ovation awaited it. The wolves attacked it all at once, with loud cries.
                  The horses were taken from the chariot containing Earle and his blushing bride;
                     brawny hands seized the vehicle and drew it on amid cries of rejoicing. And
                     above the ferocious crowd, with bearded faces and brandished arms, rose the
                     shout of Goliath,—
                  "He be the chief of the wolves!"
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            A Catalogue of BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CARLETON & CO.,
            NEW YORK.
            Madison Square, corner of 5th Avenue and Broadway.
            1871.
            G. W. Carleton. G. W. Dillingham.
            
            
               
                  
                     "There is a kind of physiognomy in the titles of books no less than in the
                        faces of men, by which a skilful observer will know as well what to expect
                        from the one as the other."
                  
                  —BUTLER.
               
            
            NEW BOOKS Recently Published by G. W. CARLETON & CO., New York, Madison Square,
               Fifth Avenue and Broadway.
            N.B.—THE PUBLISHERS, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the
               following Books by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This
               convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Booksellers are not
               supplied with the desired work.
            
               Marion Harland.
               ALONE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HIDDEN PATH.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MOSS SIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               NEMESIS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MIRIAM.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               AT LAST.—A novel. Just Published. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HELEN GARDNER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               SUNNYBANK.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HUSBANDS AND HOMES.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               RUBY'S HUSBAND.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               PHEMIE'S TEMPTATION.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE EMPTY HEART.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Miss Muloch.
               JOHN HALIFAX.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A LIFE FOR A LIFE.—A novel With illustration $1.75
            
            
               Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell).
               JANE EYRE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE PROFESSOR.—A novel. With illustration 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               SHIRLEY.—A novel. With illustration 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               VILLETTE.—A novel. With illustration 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Hand-Books of Society.
               THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; nice points of taste, good manners, and the art of
                  making oneself agreeable. 12mo. $1.75
               THE ART OF CONVERSATION.—A sensible work, for every one who wishes to be an
                  agreeable talker or listener. 12mo. $1.50
               ARTS OF WRITING, READING, AND SPEAKING.—An excellent book for self-instruction
                  and improvement. 12mo. clo., $1.50
               HAND-BOOKS OF SOCIETY.—The above three choice volumes bound extra, and put in a
                  handsome box. $5.00
            
            
               Mrs. A. P. Hill.
               MRS HILL'S NEW COOKERY BOOK, and receipts. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
            
               Mary J. Holmes.
               'LENA RIVERS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MARIAN GREY.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MEADOW BROOK.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ENGLISH ORPHANS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DORA DEANE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               COUSIN MAUDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HUGH WORTHINGTON.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE CAMERON PRIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ROSE MATHER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               ETHELYN'S MISTAKE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               MILBANK.—In press A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Augusta J. Evans.
               BEULAH.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               MACARIA.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ST. ELMO.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
               VASHTI.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $2.00
               INEZ.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Victor Hugo.
               LES MISERABLES.—The celebrated novel, 8vo, cloth, $2.50
               LES MISERABLES.—Two vol. edition, fine paper, 8vo, cloth, $5.00
               LES MISERABLES.—In the Spanish language 8vo, cloth, $5.00
            
            
               Algernon Charles Swinburne.
               LAUS VENERIS, AND OTHER POEMS.—Elegant new edition $1.50
            
            
               Captain Mayne Reid.—Illustrated.
               Far West Series. 
                     THE SCALP HUNTERS.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE WAR TRAIL.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE HUNTER'S FEAST.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE TIGER HUNTER.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                  
               
               Prairie Series. 
                     OSCEOLA, THE SEMINOLE.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE QUADROON.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     RANGERS AND REGULATORS.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE WHITE GAUNTLET.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                  
               
               Pioneer Series. 
                     WILD LIFE.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE HEADLESS HORSEMAN.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     LOST LENORE.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE WOOD RANGERS.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                  
               
               Wild Forest Series. 
                     THE WHITE CHIEF.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE WILD HUNTRESS.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE MAROON.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                     THE RIFLE RANGERS.—12mo. clo., $1.50
                  
               
            
            
               Comic Books—Illustrated.
               ARTEMUS WARD, His Book.—Letters, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, His Travels—Mormons, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, In London.—Punch Letters. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, His Panorama and Lecture. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ARTEMUS WARD, Sandwiches for Railroad. 12mo. cl., .25
               JOSH BILLINGS ON ICE, and other things.—12mo. cl., $1.50
               JOSH BILLINGS His Book of Proverbs, etc. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               JOSH BILLINGS Farmer's Allmanax. 12mo. cl., .25
               FANNY FERN.—Folly as it Flies. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               FANNY FERN.—Gingersnaps 12mo. cl., $1.50
               VERDANT GREEN.—A racy English college story. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               MILES O'REILLY.—His Book of Adventures. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ORPHEUS C. KERR.—Kerr Papers, 3 vols. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               ORPHEUS C. KERR.—Avery Glibun. A novel. $2.00
               ORPHEUS C. KERR.—The Cloven Foot. $1.50
               BALLAD OF LORD BATEMAN.—Illustrated by Cruikshank. .25
            
            
               A. S. Roe's Works.
               A LONG LOOK AHEAD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TIME AND TIDE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               I'VE BEEN THINKING.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE STAR AND THE CLOUD.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               TRUE TO THE LAST.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HOW COULD HE HELP IT?—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               LIKE AND UNLIKE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               LOOKING AROUND.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               WOMAN OUR ANGEL.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE CLOUD ON THE HEART.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               RESOLUTION.—A novel In Press. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Joseph Rodman Drake.
               THE CULPRIT FAY.—A faery poem, with 100 illustrations. $2.00
               THE CULPRIT FAY.—Superbly bound in turkey morocco. $5.00
            
            
               "Brick" Pomeroy.
               SENSE.—An illustrated vol. of fireside musings. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               NONSENSE.—An illustrated vol. of comic sketches. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               OUR SATURDAY NIGHTS. Vol. of pathos and sentiment. $1.50
               LIFE OF M. M. POMEROY.—With portrait. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               A NEW BOOK.—In Press. 12mo. cl., $1.50
            
            
               John Esten Cooke.
               FAIRFAX.—A brilliant new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HILT TO HILT.—A brilliant new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HAMMER AND RAPIER.—A brilliant new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               OUT OF THE FOAM.—A brilliant new novel. Just published. 12mo.
                  cloth, $1.50
            
            
            
               Books of Amusement.
               THE ART OF AMUSING.—With 150 illustrations. 12mo. $1.50
               ROBINSON CRUSOE.—A Complete edition, illustrated, 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               By the Author of "Rutledge."
               RUTLEDGE.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE SUTHERLANDS.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               FRANK WARRINGTON.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ST. PHILIP'S.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.—12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ROUNDHEARTS AND OTHER STORIES.—For children. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A ROSARY FOR LENT.—Devotional Readings. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Richard B. Kimball.
               WAS HE SUCCESSFUL?—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               UNDERCURRENTS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               SAINT LEGER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               IN THE TROPICS.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               HENRY POWERS, Banker. A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               TO-DAY.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               M. Michelet's Remarkable Works.
               LOVE (L'AMOUR).—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.50
               WOMAN (LA FEMME).—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.50
            
            
               Ernest Renan.
               THE LIFE OF JESUS.—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.75
               LIVES OF THE APOSTLES.—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.75
               THE LIFE OF SAINT PAUL.—Translated from the French. 12mo. cl., $1.75
            
            
               Popular Italian Novels.
               DOCTOR ANTONIO.—A love story. By Ruffini. 12mo. cl., $1.75
               BEATRICE CENCI.—By Guerrazzi, with portrait. 12mo. cl., $1.75
            
            
               Geo. W. Carleton.
               OUR ARTIST IN CUBA.—With 50 comic illustrations. $1.50
               OUR ARTIST IN PERU.—With 50 comic illustrations. $1.50
               OUR ARTIST IN AFRICA.—(In press) With 50 comic illustrations.
                  $1.50
            
            
               Julie P. Smith.
               WIDOW GOLDSMITH'S DAUGHTER.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               CHRIS AND OTHO.—A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE WIDOWER.—(In press) A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Mansfield T. Walworth.
               WARWICK.—A new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               LULU.—A new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               HOTSPUR.—A new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               STORMCLIFF.—A new novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A NEW BOOK.—A new novel. (In press) 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Miscellaneous Works.
               FRENCH LOVE SONGS.—By the best French authors. $1.50
               BEAUTY IS POWER.—An admirable book for ladies. $1.50
               ITALIAN LIFE AND LEGENDS.—By Anna Cora Ritchie. $1.50
               LIFE AND DEATH.—A new American novel. $1.50
               HOW TO MAKE MONEY; AND HOW TO KEEP IT.—Davies. $1.50
               THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH.—By Charles Reade. $1.50
               TALES FROM THE OPERAS.—The Plots of all the Operas. $1.50
               LOVE IN LETTERS.—An interesting and piquant book. $2.00
               OUT IN THE WORLD.—A novel. By T. S. Arthur. $1.50
               WHAT CAME AFTERWARDS.—A novel. By T. S. Arthur. $1.50
               OUR NEIGHBORS.—A novel. By T. S. Arthur. $1.50
               LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS.—A novel. By T. S. Arthur. $1.50
               ADVENTURES OF A HONEYMOON.—A love story. $1.50
               THE BIBLE IN INDIA.—From the French of Jacolliot. $2.00
               AMONG THE PINES.—Down South. By Edmund Kirke. $1.50
               MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.—Down South. By Edmund Kirke. $1.50
               DOWN IN TENNESSEE.—Down South. By Edmund Kirke. $1.50
               ADRIFT IN DIXIE.—Down South. By Edmund Kirke. $1.50
               AMONG THE GUERILLAS.—Down South. By Edmund Kirke. $1.50
               A BOOK ABOUT LAWYERS.—Bright and interesting. $2.00
               A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.—Bright and interesting. $2.00
               WOMAN, LOVE, AND MARRIAGE.—By Fred. Saunders. $1.50
               THE GAME FISH OF THE NORTH.—By R. B. Roosevelt. $2.00
               THE GAME BIRDS OF THE NORTH.—By R. B. Roosevelt. $2.00
               PRISON LIFE OF JEFFERSON DAVIS.—By J. J. Craven. $1.50
               POEMS BY L. G. THOMAS.—By J. J. Craven. $1.50
               PASTIMES WITH MY LITTLE FRIENDS.—Mrs. Bennett. $1.50
               THE GREAT TRIBULATION.—By Dr. John Cumming. $1.50
               THE GREAT PREPARATION.—By Dr. John Cumming. $1.50
               THE GREAT CONSUMMATION.—By Dr. John Cumming. $1.50
               THE SQUIBOB PAPERS.—A comic book. John Phœnix. $1.50
               COUSIN PAUL.—A new American novel. $1.75
               JARGAL.—A novel from the French of Victor Hugo. $1.75
               CLAUDE GUEUX.—A novel from the French of Victor Hugo. $1.50
               LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.—A novel from the French of Victor Hugo. $2.00
               THE PHILOSOPHERS OF FOUFOUVILLE.—A Satire. $1.50
               NEGROES IN NEGROLAND.—By Hinton Rowan Helper. $1.00
               ALABAMA AND SUMTER CRUISE.—Raphael Semmes. $1.50
               CHRISTMAS HOLLY.—By Marion Harland, Illustrated. $1.50
               THE RUSSIAN BALL.—An illustrated satirical Poem. .25
               THE SNOBLACE BALL.—An illustrated satirical Poem. .25
               THE PRINCE OF KASHNA.—Edited by R. B. Kimball. $1.75
               THE LAST WARNING CRY.—By Rev. John Cumming. $1.50
            
            
            
               Miscellaneous Works.
               CHRIS AND OTHO.—A novel by Mrs. Julie P. Smith. $1.75
               CROWN JEWELS.—A novel by Mrs. Emma L. Moffett. $1.75
               ADRIFT WITH A VENGEANCE.—Kinahan Cornwallis. $1.50
               THE FRANCO-PRUSSIAN WAR IN 1870.—By M. D. Landon.
               DREAM MUSIC.—Poems by Frederic Rowland Marvin. $1.50
               RAMBLES IN CUBA.—By an American Lady. $1.50
               BEHIND THE SCENES, in the White House.—Keckley. $2.00
               YACHTMAN'S PRIMER.—For Amateur Sailors.—Warren. 50
               RURAL ARCHITECTURE.—By M. Field. With illustrations. $2.00
               TREATISE ON DEAFNESS.—By Dr. E. B. Lighthill. $1.50
               WOMEN AND THEATRES.—A new book, by Olive Logan. $1.50
               WARWICK.—A new novel by Mansfield Tracy Walworth. $1.75
               SIBYL HUNTINGTON.—A novel by Mrs. J. C. R. Dorr. $1.75
               LIVING WRITERS OF THE SOUTH.—By Prof. Davidson. $2.00
               STRANGE VISITORS.—A book from the Spirit World. $1.50
               UP BROADWAY, and its Sequel.—A story by Eleanor Kirk. $1.50
               MILITARY RECORD, of Appointments in the U.S. Army. $5.00
               HONOR BRIGHT.—A new American novel. $1.50
               MALBROOK.—A new American novel. $1.50
               GUILTY OR NOT GUILTY.—A new American novel. $1.75
               ROBERT GREATHOUSE.—A new novel by John F. Swift. $2.00
               THE GOLDEN CROSS, and poems by Irving Van Wart, jr. $1.50
               ATHALIAH.—A new novel by Joseph H. Greene, jr. $1.75
               REGINA, and other poems.—By Eliza Cruger. $1.50
               THE WICKEDEST WOMAN IN NEW YORK.—By C. H. Webb. 50
               MONTALBAN.—A new American novel. $1.75
               MADEMOISELLE MERQUEM.—A novel by George Sand. $1.75
               THE IMPENDING CRISIS OF THE SOUTH.—By H. R. Helper. $2.00
               NOJOQUE—A Question for a Continent.—By H. R. Helper. $2.00
               PARIS IN 1867.—By Henry Morford. $1.75
               THE BISHOP'S SON.—A novel by Alice Cary. $1.75
               CRUISE OF THE ALABAMA AND SUMTER.—By Capt. Semmes. $1.50
               HELEN COURTENAY.—A novel, author "Vernon Grove." $1.75
               SOUVENIRS OF TRAVEL.—By Madame Octavia W. LeVert. $2.00
               VANQUISHED.—A novel by Agnes Leonard. $1.75
               WILL-O'-THE-WISP.—A child's book, from the German $1.50
               FOUR OAKS.—A novel by Kamba Thorpe. $1.75
               THE CHRISTMAS FONT.—A child's book, by M. J. Holmes. $1.00
               POEMS, BY SARAH T. BOLTON. $1.50
               MARY BRANDEGEE—A novel by Cuyler Pine. $1.75
               RENSHAWE.—A novel by Cuyler Pine. $1.75
               MOUNT CALVARY.—By Matthew Hale Smith. $2.00
               PROMETHEUS IN ATLANTIS.—A prophecy. $2.00
               TITAN AGONISTES.—An American novel. $2.00
            
         
      
   
