
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). The Shell-hunter, or, An Ocean Love-chase .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6984
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The shell-hunter, or, An ocean love-chase 
            
               THE SHELL-HUNTER
OR,
iA ROMANCE OF LAND AND SEA.

s

BY NED BUNTLINE.
H1m)EIIC A. )T A T'Y, TNBLIS1R,
24 A NN S'1'hImET
NEW-YORK.


L

THE SHELL-HUNTERS;
OR,
TilE OCEAN LOYE-CIIASE.

ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858'
Y CAULIiWEII., SOUTIIWOIRTI &amp; WHITN f,
tn the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York'

I

CH APTER T.                  " Old Guard" at Waterloo - his mother died
They were but two in person, one in heart, )broken-harted soon after, one of the niilliot
who sat together in Taylor's splendid new   of victims to the wars which monarchs make
saloo'i shortly after it ias opened beneath to feast 1)ath and their own ambition on
thI nt'riit i ina 1[tel in liroalway.  Ony Eva alone could fill the blank in his heart left
to, thtou'hi more than an hundred people void by the death of his dearly loved wife,
were seat'd almost within ear-shot of t heml.  Eva, at the time which I take to introduce
I or th' liveI in a will of their own inmg- her to the reader, hal just entered her nine-
iii  t, briliht aiind blea'ufl, pled)1(  0only' l'by teentli year. She was tall, superbly formed,
themselves. Their shy was rose-tinted hyth'e with tine, expressive features-one who would
maiei1inl of lovi' at that pr'i(sent ioinent in any land this side of Africa be called very
th v lii not heed the dark clouds which wiri beautiful.
it betrin  ihi and fit taroun. Iits horizon.  Iher character could. almost be read in her
tva L-acbee   - in courtesv 1 open the frank face--she was ardent, impulsive in dis-
tal wvhii  mi chief heroine -swas the only  position, et the chaste stIeriness of true var-
Iahilrter, and sole eiild of Ales-ieuir Eugene  itue' could be detected at a glance.
Imi'ieittles a heiavv wine import  r, who first  Her companion at the marble-topped tallo
ecime til tihtis iuntiry as the ageit of a ti rain  at Taylor's, whito was quietly si iping a  slier-
Iirde.auxs. lIe son, himvever, saw :i ant olor- ryi cotbler,'' while his eyes drank Lethean
tuty iv to dro pis aigency and ti in iotien busi- diraughts of love from lers, was Ethelbert Vin
nesiii is own neacount, and he so iiianaged  Ness, the only son of Kuickeriocker parents,
liii siatll captlI it  rieat, td acted with such lust in his majority, with a snui fortune in
iii dt Vryi anl ih'tity. that hliI capital and proslective--fir his parents and grandpa-
'iieht irpiliiltly inirea-ed ; and ife r someii tiwent  urent Ciiih lie fat her's side, were yet living, itid
ii' te wt v-tive years i fhard omnericanitilt lbr, all extremiely wealthy, and to this wealth h
ii,' wa is it- ndi satisfied ti retire fromi Ihusi-j was the natural heir. But to oiisess this
nii'5,, a x ' rx nier mati  n. 1lie had iimarried i pi;rilperty i idito add to it as welli tsi t )keep
iw ietred bul s inei in his owni aecciunt, lint it in the famii ly, he had bemn more than once
his Wife si1on  aeti'itd away, living lit one tol that he irist marry his Cousin Kati'iine,
"rin+liit fii' his 'id heart-little Eva, sweet, whose ebanrms were so/il in every wia.
i   -. exit EvLa !Ant slie was almost idolized  First, she did nut weigh muel, if any. un-
rl i pt'raigly eeentri  fait tier----lie stieem-red der it io hundred tounds~-her fianre was very
ti feel ihut the isirit of Iis list an'el-wife vet like a thosiead dressed in petlonts; and haa
livii in her clild. Iva hal ibut to exirios a hioolps e Itinthten in faslihion, she would not
Suhi to tie it gratitiel, no raitter it what ex- have rneedd ths'e arfieles to extend her ample
tiens -. tn  ' one pinlt. - (ly, was .h' itithe' skirts. lber face was as round, red, aid cx-
'renlh ierehat t inaexoirable -hiliost harsh. iessive as the fill noumn on a smoky night;
She miai  not Iove aniotlier b  binut Ii imiself , ant around it, arid down alut her fat neck,
--must ever think of nuitriiony ; for he hurig in carroty curls rind tangles, her i'd -
couhl notmt bi ar the thought of losing her. So I his piiardion-her alnrn hair. lUe riiniid
far as li knew, hi' was his iiinly relative-on  was as heax-v as her holy, and as bright as
'rthi fur hi t'or, hadI bdeen an illy child-hlihs her faue n ieforo she had washed in the inory-
father hal lilen at th head of a company of .ing. If there can bo an ossification of tb

r
_rt
n
..       ,
.  C
,
: __
-. t


4             TIIE SIHELL-IIUNTERS- OR, THE OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.
brain withiunt life being enl ngered or It   story-eraft ; and I wil s t mity canvas aind
hlArs was a case inigrloi-piint.  Of literuture, crow I sail, as rapidly as possible.
musisic. thre bueauities of Nature, she had in  Ithelbert sat v. ry close tto Eva, on the lack
knowledge-car'ed not fur Lirds, or flowers, or' side of the table, where no one could 1 articu-
i',- tlhouus'uind. gentle things whieh iake vo- larly notice that he held her soft, white hand
mitan nrouanlly.and tfhnitize' her with our ht eas i is ow n ; arid they  mvett orrrs iii edin alow tt ne
tf:ilg1-nature. She had no conuciption of upoin the only subject    t resting to th ii
rmnuaice, i(r senititiunit ; but she wai a capital  - I in drivetihnroust dietraett d, dCear E' a",'
juleue if the iquahiti'ts  f kinut, liver-nior-t saiFd Ethelhrt ; ", and sonetinies I filc is d
''l-sausage, and buckwheat eikes      Shin' I shnuil, indeed, go nad! Once. rind    ne
cul stw atrwmahy an ai lermiian's allowance of tinl, did I hint to your fnthtr that 1 los d
th r, or all, and ai thmiu  don with a 'ti, aral i lil honor sought your Land. lie
 nart-ruig of Iser or tiler nithut any trou-  itlemii'  las e hits lis -mrn - ItI to nmtt r it--
ble. -" f Ipigs' f-t, she wa i- iint rdirately tin a; mI  snu 're thatIit'  n h ld chalknee ieit to t
inI aiiunutid l', ax   ti thimir, sIrhe loved  ineirtal cnil at, it rti iii I should cnturn t o
r t'   n ii  ithel trt. w lsh mi, fi t'iii liii eli ih- It pt  iiur anirite.  t tilt', I amajoist cuts
huni tup, sht S!in t t 'i ei tiuigii ttoionk ol+its  =' iii'nb  iusuuien  s t if mv ftnt Cen ilh,
in r fir' inre'ii huband. StHe t"-iin, in' Iian, tie  h ndi' y  arnrits truse nit'tr nitiniLha to nUitr-
tIui'ghteri f hiw atr' the ri''-  ,i r, aini l in in r ni liiir at le' ! We  n o hre I i'iull  iu-
own rightt our ti;'hr'' hiunlr'edI t hiouusaiulPl-  Iid-for sur father will not even Iskt ime
lirs whtichi thit 'l[hr Van Ni' a could netar r s it 5' u '
I  n, li'eart e   go  out  if thie ftiiiltv.  "   '' r  nil  hie  hI t any  o e  else '!"  said L u a.
I sail, that next tin htr flo 1and drink, she  "'Ihat  nitlmld lbe soine comfor t to yen.'my
l's '-ni' r h/.d would he a hI tte r tn ruth Irr E thuell it !'
''''u-in - leEtheilber,  AntI sewlit'as m im wtay .  (c mfrt !' said the young ian, liftti-lly
lck waru aunt showing it-for too oftentn- ' '' Talk of cinimlit t in riv carei'  I hue  Cou
iri ly, to i plsin  himt, sithe wou b Itestt h Ii' 1 better than lift----mnr iml u1l  iiy miyour ei i-i-
uul I utch chairs iii his father's house, by  Iri y- Set  tionly itrs itnn miIst I' stt in
ditipinig herself down i Ihis ha Ithrowinig |tiiis.  'a, It ut hnut an tuid to this. 'We
hi' r greuit, fuit tries aroundnil his nk, and kiss-  n'r '1th itenyoudt ur in inrit', Inyally mo i
:hriilt hlips as t hick indilnsi'ious as-  inrliy C ii nimumh rs of' ourt rn actio's il.d
.taen forgive the comisr  son -a slice -of    times.    e us      rt't e lave aiknotl ied
hle-che'ec' of he r own cutting. n Iichi no           arnitt can sntie; and  lace tut'-
ow,l 1iill return to Ethelbuert andi Eva, at - tl'ses, ly miarripge, Lr ind hrst eutit a, td
Tahyur's, Etlirthebmet lid nut leok like a iutch-  the ,l'essibiity of tiv  iture s  iaration!.,'
I ilt 'rtaft.  father was hei 'f tiHe Amrierican  ''tnh esllitrt, eu nowli  thaint 1 lo   ut do-
chlipr-huill.  11 is features were good : his uot eht' ."  Sm1'airv, suneriotisly. "TYt I In'
fae rather Inal' fromi hard situt-for he had  yi' t air, cet'(ntrie, 1rh fend anti gt t iicl
griaiduratd iat uic of ouur nirst  ttllegcs, anid hati Sither. I wstid nt sillin gly IrurlI  his hinst !
nuit droppIuedi his booki, as is genteriilt' the  'It marrytt  a ulit his consi nt, amh a  1f r 
e ise with students when  thixy hurts   teice  dit   eiin tI ioisnity.  It' it did iot, it vii1
tih' ir dihlunmus, anuld ciiii nte Ii. A. or A. I1. turn his lve fI r  eru inutio batrsd ;u ii I, itt
ift' r their nuanes.  ii form, fetature, ind  thue iir+ oiiif his tortue, would eofe to feu
r hiring le wuild it'  'set ldlowni by un v  piruler in Iosrty'l''
j'ulge of rnmaukinl, as a gentleminunan mistii atrn -  Fo ' p'nrnEtonrte. I Iwould trot tanret" sahtl
ii' ruf a alass irs dbil:'rerrt firi iroaiwatyi fop-  I'ti 11t-rt. 'It ssruin s-if 1  would wu (, rut
lina or the sickyi 'lif-h-is entoles of thein  ruir fortite ! It I titi d for mo a  .ii  I idd ult
lr aunit dta-, as nimo ure fromnur nirpuui,.  Ilets' mmi iarati- . ned tiltan a~'' il-hai'sl
  It u is through his w uiiusill, n-t her than by  e t usi lun   hnlh r' fri tunine-  I nut-lit!i'thiter till,
tlu' des:r't if Iis puratieiil meisrebant father d-  tb' hy thiniy, in tihn' ghn it of a coiui nii, t
-haut ht Irad lpissed tlirough  college.  hhe support ct i n a mywitt'. thustil Li i Stiiliit a
rcruohiitnd at the Ire of nimeteen ; andi'n   uti m- andl tire I us ianil rfia nthrI''
tutueuiatluy after, to  lhirse his father, madte  "Be patie-nt, rear I' mIthelirt--le latinit-
sn's ral a titg-s minnone if Ihis shihs, where he all will euis' right iim  ite.''
sun maitirteuri Ithe arts rif rnas'igrntin ri. soi-  ' Ah, Fua, you ears seliak of panti(rice, a-
S iianship, that ins heis listt sivtage hromuie fromnt tintlyv 'I'o on are m uetrt d as 1: i.  ittu
Ill Jii' ' atieir-rh-n ni Snte eahltaintan inates t 'have i kind untilndolg nit father.  s1 o  uerda
eur' il liwn with ifes r-he touk chiirge if yorui with in almost holy care.  This til' ah sir
thei ship, and hrught li r in wnith the slill iof 's to ke Cl o xiiisingle heirt i id hiril frt'.
ain eprienimcuei aiiriniur. 'l'rhus f  'Ipnia-  liut 1 atiimworried tin dhi tIh at h ite  'II hi tn
tiiX' of tten,1er'ri ,urotil chraracter of  thin'  trint-  ts' fat Ct~iii is  in atih hiriu  iilti ti nt'  mi-u  thet  -
c}t:il In r uf this stnny, auh nif his juunit inn.  in', as a s  e ,lsctv  1  niCuk In, itsft -, e -  r
w. reader, you are fairly aboard of in mitther boru the life out of Ime, showing ti.

TIE SIIELL-iUN TERlS; OR, TIIE OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.
sheets pillow-cases, coveralls, and quilts she seas are warlike and treacherous, and must be
'it inak for my housekee ,ing : and if 1 go kept in awe by a full crew and a good display
to thi t lre re fh irs 4thin; nmy father has to of arms.
t th e  hl,Ede 1n rt, howasoon  lmr-  Eva remained silent a few moments, seem-
r, it atmtrlile, und c'me into pusiiness mit ig to weigh the words of her lover in the
ry n'scales of her well-balanced mind.                                  Then,
't  droll watr in which Ethelibert imitated while her eyes brightened and her cheeks
lii atter, broken Englisl set Eva to lal- fuslehed,she said:
iosa -  rtouh her father spoke quite as ior  "I wish that I were a man, dear Ethelbert!l
Erindi tas did the elder Van Ness, though in  "'Thank heaven ou are not, sweet Eva,'
a ht erent style,                        was his reply, "IBut wherefore such a wish,
hit secirir a shadow of pain darken the m~y love :'"
hih, white brow of her lover, the warm-     Because I, too, would like to be n wander-
he arted girl instantly bCCame serious, and er in that gorgeous clime-in that land where
sai                                       frosts, and snows, and chilling blasts are alt
Why do yon not travel for a while, my unknown; where fruits and flowers are forever
Ethelrt Y"                               in the bloom, and mankin I alone is savage. I
And tius tear myself entirely from your have read so much of voyages in those sunny
dear ocietv, my' Eva? I have no pleasure, latitudes-of ndventure in those lovely isles,
no joy, but in these occasional meetings with that, with fancy's eye, Icain almost see ttiit
you t'now. If you go-and I know you will-I
We could correspond !"                shall envy you your dleaisures.  But, oh!h
SAi, Eva! words grow cold when they are my Ethlelbert, beware l"
written. It is only frontthe loving lips to the  "Of what, my Eva? "
listening ear that they are waar nmdprecious-   " Of the perils which will environ you,
when the light of glad eyes tell that they are Ethelbert-not alone from the treachery of
coe up front the well of truth in the deep the cruel savages, but front the famed beauty
recesses of foul hearts."                 of their princess maidens. I have reand, tihit
"'True !" said Eva, with a sigh.  " Yet in all the world their voluptuous beauty can-
world I rather hear abrief separation, though not ye excelled. Should you there forget
it. inade me temporarily wretched, knowing home and me-ialas, alasI~
thrat we should meet again, to he happy and  And a tear stole out from either one of
to part no Itmore, than to have you suffer so Eva's dark-blue eyes, and ran down the ala-
maucln."                                  baaster oif her cheeks.
(" Cotld you bsar this separation, Eva ?"  ' Eva, how unjust-how unkind !" said
" I could try," replied the fair girl.  Ethelbert, reproachfully. "lo you think
" Then I certainly ought to be as brave as that a man of any intelligence, used to refined
you.  But, to endure it, I should have to go societv-oie who had seen anti loved von-
so far, that I could not in a few days return to could'by any beauty, even if it were angelic,
you ; for the knowledge that you were so near coupled with heathen ignorance, for a mo-
wotill undermine all of-my fortitude. I have, meat ie tempted, even in thought, from his
at timiies, thuirght of making a voyage which, fidelity ?
if successful, would iake me independent of  " Love is capricious, and passion is power-
ray father, and plaer' at my own dispo-al fil to blind and to confuse its dearest neno-
enough of this world's lucre to keep us m i coi- ries !"' said Eva, with a deep sigh. "lBut",
fort for the rest of our lives, if not in luxury. sie continued, "I will not wrong you, dear
But the voyage would take a long tiue-at Ethelbert, with the unjust thought, that you
least two, anr perhaps three years !'     for a momrert could lhe false to me. 1No ; irs
Seven tlhat tiue, when we look through its soon would I believe that I could forget you
gloomy iist upon future long years of happi- -and my throbbing heart tells are that can
ness, cainlbe Onrluredl " said Evat, sadly. never hre !"
l  t what voyage do  u piosianie  a"    " Bless you, Eva-bless you for that confi-
a One in which my friend, Peter Myers, dence. You have not misplaced it. I will
maie a snug fortune-a trading voyage to the think of this voyage ; and when we meet again
islhndsin ir the-.South Seas, where pearls and I will give you my ntal decision."
rare shells can be obtained for almost value-  ''I know what it will be, Et helbert ; you
less trinkets. By representing to my money- will go ! Now see mae to the carriage ; for I
loving father the immense 1rotits, anid scanty must go to Stewart', to make some puirclases,
outfit required f r the trip, I can get him to to account to iy father for my absence .' 'it
give me the Shiotted Fawn-his large, clipper- has crown so euspicious of late, that whenever
stehioner now in port, which has been ii the I ride out he asks me where' I have been.!"
Ih vana trads  Also, to fit her out anid arm  The young man arose with a sigh ;- for the
her fir me, for the natives in those south-errl thought that now their interview must termi,


0           TiE slIELL-11[NT ,' of, TUE lf l:ANi   HE:-( jAS1r.
ajutenina^t atl e. 1ut1 I i  e'    t  '    to  -r"  hr , thr -h   her  ttiip  white  arr
han'i ''t ~r c ariatrl . 14  h ii  0:l'  44  1444ini  r't   abou'lit ih  a k .'k  arilnd  im printed a kiss of daugh-
the i tlttii.  A  lintrx'  lrive r hll the  b -l  i-   t'fort fn i . 4:i his thi  lips.
i dlth   t   )  i r e c a,  ai l 1 ft  bo n  irii.  f o" t  r a n   A ,  m ad  r/  r   a .  a  bt i ll e ,  m y  bl t a u. t i f u l
11 t 1   l ih e tJ r eie (tfu p   ii.  A s h e  h a nd4  i i'' t l oi  tch l l.  + r'   i' u  h444  b e i  4   It itn ,  w h'1 ile  y r
1,  h 1.1 lo  i t 1 i' res t a ,iee  t  oldt intot h'  el 4  f7r r 'av  w ait for1y ou '  asked the  g', i-
14:44411 tf  the  fottti rt,  ii4 ig t4 liit il4ii'ie' it'  ilt tlt'ritit.
l ie   e.'f ith fi   1  r, i e b h il  l n  itrtt li (n 1nt uf  '1' th e  a  ri ,  a rt d  m aki l  e  a  f a' ito reew fprd he t ' ,
t  cri i ri hra ino t i  k n o w,  ti at  to  t ' 'rxes   fits  h  i   aitit  he r   iet'  r pl t e l, 1 kisi neri   h is  wrintk l ed
s    n r   t.   ar el   4t e r e  ir iir tt i r r l l p it  -1  e  / / / s   '' r i ' .  u t  i4 i e e'  th a t   u r i 44'g 4 d  1 b 1 tom y
w it ,ii  lantdy-ie   iee  uirist  stari  ll  0w tli  I a-  ctr  tt a tr aly- 1  w l 1  c ai tntge  myt  d r' e ,
withf s r ad- ve.'', ht e t  trans'   ay ainht r'dix   bai tl ick  in i  a r  iett t sI."
wh  r vnIi t ,  w  u                     A ti + the  lov ly  girl  hurried  aw ay  to  htr
'lire is rwore pol icy to i'c onef inl vxe-riltat- toile't.t
t     o' r  m pt'rti  tol,, r. b er .  m t'i lt, ,  41144  ' " h,  Ilt i  !  ze re go4 st  ntei  littl ih n el.
.   tt --- ig rirt t:iit'ot  irfiiitit -- iiirti  Shet is ei   ze  samnt e eetrriein t/ aw1h4/km, atwtta0is  t v
44r f l t' r  ( ' rnt''  ari   o ft fe .  I 1 44 0 t uo t    d e a r  1 4'. e , : t  nt o wt  i s  d4e a  a n d  in  hl e ai   e .  A lt,
attlin ' r4 i&amp; xetv , ki -s  hri fy --ire-itsn-  Lxa  in  44144' alt 441
I o t   ' t   ia   t1'  i k e l,''  u ,  ki'  h'' 't  w t tfi ' f v r  -ii1't1 vt'el's  c f l tfll   el  i  lo nig  w it hi  th e  o l d
of a  finu'ter, j  this  of'-.i  a f:ir'r, praise'  m eireiitt, thatit 'ie  coul l o. 44441  ft en did, tatke
ii'ttclkliiithe liberty of spe'akiing m44 or'e pliily to him
-tthatnan                     ' e el44' 41' in  hist  p' lo'''yt 'e r'dtare'd to
'l AP'TER 1HI.             Ttel  ihnt r ittishe u1hl the pu114'ntaitsm of 144 r1
Mit-I,-hir E0m414'' La:i'selles was de'teri liitlrenat ive stection, i. i. a  seen iby her repiy to1
tislett hits t1 a t~it  k' t errl441i  i e rr it' lriii'e  it li :ht' 1444451cr'
it 'f t  r  tier  Itile, sh u  m' ri '   44144ee'  of'  '' lack  'd ints r  Lasci  les,'  sail  she,  "'1   doT ttini
t.  tx  f4 r  4i4' er ,iit nort n s, Ita ii ri e,  o r  frn :ln eltt  '  it's  ri'u t i d1 ni w ick ed  1 to  call  aiytl inig  h u n4444,r
nalti'lr '"fit' iltii'1t ne  els'exf'rt'.  cI  r e1a44la t  r  :tr m iime,'l-o'   14'of  (t 's  e44s4 anger .  IN lo
niiltfinte./4  re  14Itr 14444'ely'wel  nd4  iatt  s - 1]xsEva, is p4urty  as a 1 piete'r, rightlt well, be-
14lly1  irrianil'  d  , there' was  t ali lt it  4i l  t "'i 1iatl:it'tf  e:ca  rtlai' 114'1ti i  eI'-104't .h:trp, tlitr,
tInl ''   4444' 444(41' '1'g:iitly  ftirlli-lt' Itii tl, t t'':tirt)l  41tt~it.iiitl  1:'  444444t' itiuk  ltri' 'in  t1
iun tie '  i e  m1  el eri g   yf M i t'irr  I  :4  e ' ". 14 m i t e'  t h a n  I  c t  bl i  cr o wd in to41   m4   di   i i
laluttl a tal e  re '  n Ire's, il 1,1 wit b g m'ils  frt xye'ar ; 14t4  rter all, site's  iesh'and blool
Uf 4h ad  a 4 g a14t 41  o f i ' l t ,' i i i a d  alii ra r y  c o(' n -  -  l '  a i y a /,  a nd e414d41a nc e ls  isn 't  th a t,  w e  kit n '.
titini k  n hells  1lhiinost'-t every 4"  1 4' t -nu  ie 1'"' ''A, tha, 11essie!l how /444.r4' you zat '? e'A
1a4a4 'i'i.t  41414441 :414 li r-t,ir  'rilaite tmn 're  y11  v 4'teee o et  ngel P'
14:441 lit 144r'Itick4ofi ducatiii. An 14avilt .  "' "No'. sir, n4iot ien   un4 4aiiXwa ke! 11ut 'vC
ltl a  4'+41 s~r at'rtrc  ttt ucre'11aln  frin i's, mid  d144r414 ' tof  'm mti iIrt e'n ift v  t es."
11.4444 r, alef'tire,1 lit r  ttr'  1 1f p le re til'  it.  - A" AIl  w1at  14di41 3!4 outdreami  zey e wa i tt 41
utif'ira  Bitti+)l  44 litre'I lilk''        h,14.  i 's-i'-
c   a4 0  m e  4 ill  n k "  e   lo o k  t  t he  f lt i e r,  a nd4 1  " L ik e l  m a s5  m1414'lir e  ei ,  w ith  gl r ea t  w in ,
S t   w 144.4   w'  i '   i e atin ., uni lt l  s m1 t  i4 hil  ft  e  s ,  s ini ii '  i s  if  th e y 'd   I 1 4  i
I te   h 4: w   e t -ti i '  m t 'l il-tS-41 ti"l i r  eftd'  t h e ' s )',  i '4'4I,   r   i hu e ti 1 4
4.  4i 11 b -t4 a  run -prt'ti ps  nit 1 m 11r141 l r i   e iklk 1 4  tl)'  14  , e,  sIi('sie I  Ne  arei'.
tiun i. ben     al.reel  wis. xc  1  u 4  smaitl, lieht'a14ds441 e.14' wm ('n4 ''
141441ud)th il) '11   o'us   '4 4nr )S 'tt  1'   4e4rt  "i .  'N  ,. it'r !  W'e 1m4e1n 14e4 d'' 4 44 rem  of w oener.
}ll f-I   4' :444w' ,olfitti.   eI r  ' '1a  "  o   tdtn 4 i t  u t44i  ', 1. 14tner  dii.''
414t"W'   ilist r w 4t, 4hit i r  alt ' da41 il 4 ily it wr en1" 44 itt  '' %ti is  r st'41 ti rtg'- ery  singl'lar i " saidl
to  4  4444h ' a IltoL slte '1,41an1  1hil 444 ithat hiiis  Moneisielr' L~ate_'tlles, with  a  iinerry  twinkle iin
.itt''tit , i4 ln 4'et't'n'. l144 t'P14ck, 144441 setI Is t''t'.
t14)  t + r tai-  ,e  1u  nekV e t t  ri tu   a3'  L l t'   h   ' e li  'l'lt' v l  e n tr n c e o' t f  Ev ii,  in  a  ftailtl e s s c i in g .
ftr itlt  r  a  4  t e.             r bi' ,  n4 w   uiit  l nl t n Itt ito  th is  disc tlssinttl   n 1441
dang t er lit11 4 w i p n'. 1 reckon, sir1'"  sail  1 e trio  sat  lowlin t o41   '   tieir Itlut a. 1e4n--
f   te   ' n e 4 u t ai '-''l e ' i p p i n 1 ,a 4 4 r   -i i  t l4 4 4   w' 4 4   1 1 1 4 r -   i l l n g  I  h 1   I t i rh s l te n ar l   1 ,  w e  w i l l   l uI t   o u r   h e lt   t
rt e , h  et r ,t '   wx  '   ' x w,   4' s  l a  l e'    s i   h'sr41 ,  a ndIl , '   b ,4i4 4   1 4 4   .41 ' ta w y ' f r  nu  to t h e r   h a r ho '.
tlit'r'ht1.4.-  Len''14 Istis e, 1  n wt'1 r  44  'l 'CAitT IT
an' ]  144h r r4.u \  il l  i a  i ' 411l et h o ru c h -htiut' : 4 1 4 ' '   1 )D il e 11 1 4  xilt   w s t hi e  l d   oulia s e  1444  Ule e c k e t
lit  n 4414$  a4 41'  in ,'iof w'  i frnit 'ne Ith  dot', r  ei it, in  w init'll 1 41ri :p  ''an  Net's, the father
4ti4-  tllt'V4' "t' 4 -' 1  gnus  It':  -lo  .  of  't Itll 44rt. lived  I)nteh wai  its furniture ;
n lt    ven 4444"1  i 'itp   g i t 1'' 'i'e'talc '4  fir a  1(it '1h  its c'totervt'  I utehm  th l nieituring' g el'
vt"eitr 0 :titler  l~' tr' -jilti.e\'t men4'it,  t really  sfbiten 1'itere, h1  ' ntll  uIit  llth l It--
fri iint     t 4r n 1 and  as i er'f' fthim  ra c  h   e little  it  1  1 nt f.r'  t!.  .'t t  I  At  th   a n''

THlE sI1ELL-llU LITERS ; OR, TIlE' OCEAN LOVE-CIIA$I.

54

T

hour when Eva sat down to the neatly-arrang-  " No ?" And Katrine opened her sauce-like
eti tea-tafle im her father's mansion, the Van eyes very wie.
Ness fainily were preparing to seat themselves  " No ; and the savages take prisoners and
at a table loaded with cold pork, sausage, fatten and eat them. Yos are so fat that
elheese, crullers, sourkraut, pigs' feet, and they d run every risk to capture you."
other delicacies.  The twvo fat old grand-   " Bhtzen 1 1  never go d're," said Katrine,
parents were there, Vari Ness the elder and as she took another pig's-foot.
his frau were present, and so was Katrine,   Ethelbert now sat down at the table, while
hl:al in a satfron-el ored dress, orniaienited (:) his father, eating at a 2:40 gait, kept re'l'v-
with hge ntbows of red ritbolns. ,i lthe stijeet over in his mind.            After
"I 'vonder vat der4 tuyvel keeps Edelbert about twenty minutes' rapid action of jaw
ava !" muttered Van Ness the elder. " IHe and brain, lie suddenly laid down his knife
cares noniore for his supper as nothing Come, and fork, and said
old folks, come, good fraud, and Katrine, ve  " Etellbe'rt,, you seali have der schooner. It
vais no loger."                          villkeep you axay frotsmdat tuyvelFrenchinan's
Anil the old  an took his seat at a board gal, dat 1 hear you've peen running' after like
where every one always helped tlieniselves to a pig fool! ! ou shall have der schooner."
their own likingitr, and'fell to work with con-  " And the money to lit her out, dear fat-
mendable industry. Ilis example was instant- tier?"
ly followed by the rest.                    "Yaw--you give me a note for ier ten tou
h'lIe play of knife a4nd fork was suninterrupt- sand dollars?"
el fir several minutes, /ant Katrine had fin-  " That I'll do with pleasure, father."
ihdi a couple of soused pigs' feet, when Etli-  " Uid you'll marry 44e as soon as you
elter4t cae4 m.                      4gom4es back ?' asked Katrine, wit lher loving
" h' ow you pens lieben Cousin? " she asked, mount h full of kraut.
.w5 well as she could with a full mouth.     " I'll wait for you as long as that, most
 ' 're you peen so long, my poy?" asked likely," said Ethelbert, evasively  " And I'll
the father, who was really proud of his fine- bring you a string of pearls a fathom long."
looking s44.                                "Is tdey gouat tin eat ?"
I Iave'been looking at the 'Spotted      " Not exactly, though they come from oys-
Fawn,' our clipper schooner, father. I want tears " saidEthelbert, with a smile at this cvi-
you to lendli hr to mhe for two or three years." deuce of knowledge and the ruling passion of
W   uhat you want nmit her, pay ?"     his cousin's life.
"o go on a trading voyage, father."      " Oysters is goo, und so  re glams," said
Der tur    t Y  lown want to go avay to Katrne, smauckimg her lips as if sie had a clam
trade en dere is bttenty of trade right down between them.
in her ohs store 14 out street ?"           " You makes ready mit der schooner right
" Let 44e take the tripI 1 propose, ani I'll away to-morrow, uni4d der day pefore dat ?"
nmakmore money while I am 4 gone than you asked the seniorVt 'a Ness.
can in twice the time tat the stote."        " To-niorrow aud the day after that," said
"Der tuyvel ! h ow you'll do dat, elh ?"  Ethelbert,. " Ani the next day, if provisions,
"'Trading for pearls and rare shells with arms, and stores are all aboard, I will sail."
tlt South Sea Islanders. Pete Myers made a  " Dat is goat !" said the father.' "Dem der
fortune at it."                            Frenchman's pooty taiughtuer mIay look for
SYnaw'; I hear tell of dat. But der outfit-  some odder fool to marry limit her. You scall
where you get lit ?"                       go yust aa soon as you likes."
 Oh, it will eost but little. You lend me  "And you'll let 44e have the four six.
the schoorte', and fvt thousand dollars to fit pounder cannons that you took from the
her out with, and I'll give you ten thousand wreck of your Ciina ship when she was cast
dollars when i coe back."                away on Sandy hook, last winter?"
"Dat's a goet interest, my poy ; hut vat  " Yaw-you )may have denm an4 cder forty
vill Katrine do all dis time. She wants to muskests and pistols tdat were nit her."
marry nut you.''                           " Thanks, dear father-I have nothing more
" Oh, she can wait for me till I conne back to ask," said Ethelbert, as lie arose from the
wit Ii plenty of money to dress her up with !" table. where lie had supped on a single cake
said Eltielhirt, trying to force a laugh.  aid a cup of te, mach to the wonder of his
".ynot I go nmit you along, Cousin Eth- delicate cousin, who, after dieiolishing four
citert ." saill Katinne.                  pigs'-feet, was busy on a huge cold sau-
Olh, you'd lie of sea-sickness, and he sug' alid a plate of kraut. Tea was a bever-
half-starved, sometimes. 'her's no cabbage, age which she did not like, but a huge tank-
no kraut, no sausage in those lands," said ari of beer very frequently found its way to
Ethelbentiher ija.

A

t
}
r i
{q}{
k r
8

L

.


*            TIIE 61ELL-IIUNTERS; OR, THE OCEAN LOVE-CIASE.
" Edelbert," said she, as he rose, "if you  " Your fair cousin, I expect," said she ; and
vants any mlore itney, I tend you snoIe on a smile caine out on her sad face like sunlight
der slneinderest as LUncle Tromp does ." from beneath a cloud.
" 'Ihlnkt, dear coz," sa idhe, laghting. "I  " My fut cousin you mean.  WSell, you are
ebal I not need any more than my father has right. But when 1 told her that cabbage, sau-
offe r'l ni-.''                            i-ate, head-che(se, and kraut were not to be
Al Ie hurried out of the room, to avoid had there, and that the savag's had a penchant
any further demonstrations of her affection.  for killing and eating fat folks, she quietly
lacked out, but gave te a token of her love
by oftering to lend me sone monitey at lt)1per
CIIAP'ER IV.                 eet interest. Was she not generous ?"
The afternoon of another day rolled along.  " liot h prudtent and generous ! Is your ves-
fldinli i' n ar th lii alo sa an whih was mention- sal safe and comfortable
el i the tirt chapter, i:teliert watched the  " She is as staunch a craft as ever floated--
ari 'us leiilsote equipiages which 1aed swift as a s a-bird on the wing-has elegant
altg Iroalwi. At :it, he described the ttceomimiodations. Sihe was built at great ex-
n at and well-known live ri's of the servants pent byaitfa-t young 1brike' for a yacht.
vf M stir  tI Hc -t and in a miiment after, Ilis 1ace was aht ad of his meams, and she had
tih loX cly face of Eva grt retl him  a itlh a to go at auction. Thus, at h s than half her
sotii , tis eli liel the cheek-string of thile value, she catte into my fat her's hands. She
ctrrt:tee ta till thlie river tot d ieraw up te- is just the thing for my voyage. I shall man
sil thle promtetnatle. 'lie footmann sprang and arnt nther Well-put a good library on
ftom his Itandttiilintg-oard, sutpposing that sie bard, ndi strive as e er to yet in1iroo my
intended to aliiht. tint she tmnottied hint mid so as to ie the iture worthy of you
back, and addressinti Ethelbert, said :     when you are my wife. Ah, Eva! it is t erri-            H
S Take a seat eiide tc-we u ill have a he to I titk of this long seprtttiont-only the
drive up-t in n, anil can tconverse letter in the hole of a safe return and a glad welcome will
c'irriaze t hant elewitre.                make it entduralet."
' Thanks. hear lady,'' said Etlhelbert; " but  E' a s:id nothing ; but when Ethielbert
tay inoit yitur fat hr iteet tand see us  "  looked, tns lie often did, to her eyes for a reply,
N-I have s nt him away' oil ti Flush- when let' lips spoke not, he saw that she was
ing ti tiuy mite omae ttre plnttis fir the ciin- vry tale, itd that tears were quietly trick-
st riatiiry, tind he wtoill not be hack until lintt down her cheeks.
night."                                       " -  'aytbut the word, dear Eva, and I will
Ettilbri t male no further objt'et ion, but not o," itd ht, feelingly, as unrebuked lie     H
ghahly stetiteti iio the carriage. 'Tie foot- passed his arn around her slender waist.
mat elowiti d  te doo ir, and the drivt r, as if  'I nill nit say the word, Ethteltert," inhe
pre' iitsly inst ruietd, tnied lis cartiage tind replied.  "I Do nttt notice my childish weak-
i rwi, up'tit tnttrd tise nid and ileitas- ntis; I will be stronger bty'-atib-y. I did
ant ta tllum s, wiei' a's y t ihi  t ernt ttn- n oitihat know how entirely ty heart was bound
di r if di wn-twn buititiines hias lit reticeti.  ip in ou until the certainty of our septaration
" Wlien dt   tot sail. EtthI lhtrt '" asked appeared d. Were it int fiti m  a-dar old father,
I ' a. itoo a'l'thiii Ie carriage turtt I.  ou shtouldH haive a vluti iwhio would risk
,hi twit or three tay s, dear Eva," was his being eatu ato go wntit you. and to whom the
repily-.                                   liis of such llxtris si cabbtge attend sausage
site turned palt, ats sie t'asked -wottul not lie distri -sin t.
i u.on is that "                        " I wtuld give a wot 1, were -ou to be my
' 1t° if I Iiit i ttr mutself frit yot, I must ctmpattion, (eiair Es a,"nsaid he, entitusiasti-
dlit it whlil+ I have' sutlienit re"sofuition. Ny cally.  - h, het mty wife, now !
tat' hr has loaned mett hits schoo~ner', I have atl-  "'Nit until you nri turn," said shte, decided-
re adly rt eiv' d thu men-v fir mitiv fit-out, anl lv. " It is till the better-the trrip amind theI
ni first ittte, houui~ t Iat 'y'vrrell, who alitsIi t'emltatitiosi ivon must meet will test your con-
it1  di t father', =tmplov fir these twetnty stat'v," sail site, forcing a sniule.
'ears n. a htm an mtiate, is tftsy in selecting a  Again tititti relipsed into silence, and tthe
gotl en w fir ite."                      carriage ritled ahtng up the dusty loloatig-
Evati rmtitndl siltenit fir some itite, while dale linad, fur then no Central Park offered
the earring" trts e raidtiutly on. Aid Ethel- its etarnis to those who sought pleasure in a
trt, ito, was silent, ftr his heart was heaving drive.
n itlh the thontht of parting front her, lie  "Will we meet again after we part to-day ?"
wa tht fir-t ti hiremik sile-nce.         at last EtelbErt asked.
"   ii doi  utilt think was a v-oluntetter for tie  " P'rtap  so," said Eva  "  Where does
vuiy age., dear Ls a '" he asked           ytour schoenter tie ?"

i


THE SHELL-IIUNTER ; Oi, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
m At the pier. foot of Iebrosses street, near said Tyrrell. "He left me no instructions in
Rabineau's Iiatl-house"                   the matterr"
'If I do not see vou I will write," said she.  In a few moments Ethelbert reached the
It will be har] to'part formally-perhaps a side of his vessel, and as he looked up and
few hues will do as well."                 saw how trim, neat, and war-like she looked,
1' a now pulled the check-string again, and his apathy passed away, and a glow of satis-
the driver turned his horses toward the city. facton settled on his line face.
lIoth role back without, speaking. Their     "The schooner looks like a picture, Mr.
hearts were too full for utterance.        Tyrrell," said he.  " You have made her
look more like a man-of-war than a Shell-
---nlimiter!"
"Thank you, sir," sajd the gratified mate.
CHAPTER V.                    "Boy's for'ard there, give your new captain
The "Spotted F'awi," like the gazelle-eyed three cheers to make his welcome aboard."
fan is f the forest, was indeed a beauty. As  The crew, bounding to their feet, gave three
she lav at her moorings at the pier, uany an times three ; and the young captain, after
adhairing glance from neighboring vessels was thanking them in a few words, ordered his
cast upon other taut and raking masts, her steward to give them the materials for " sphic-
lengthy spars. and her sharp, wedge-like hull. ing the main-brace."
Not a'neater craft, in rig or model, could   "here is a young gintleman that wants ti
ho seen afloat. And inboard she was as neat know if you'll take passengers, sir," smid
an trim as a tunker's parlor.           Tyrrell.
As tat Tyrrell, her first officer, walked the  "Probably tie does not know where we are
d1k, glaneing now and thn up the wharf to bound," said Ethelbert, glancing carelessly at
see if his young captain was in sight-for lie the stranger.
expeetelhim m a visit of inspection ; he  " I was just afther tellin' him that, sir,
glanced lwit an air of pride on the rigging, when you hove in sight."
newly set up, on the fore and fore-topsail yards   " Yes, captain," said the young man, in a
-squared by the lifts and bracts ; on the deck rich, musical voice, which made Ethelbert re-
as yhite as snow, and the four brass six- guard him    more attentively than before. "E
pounders ; it her port-holes, which had been know whether you ire bound, and a spirit of
burnished until they shone like gold. Every  adventure proiiipts me to ask a passage with
rope was coild snugly down t; around the you. I have means, amt my own master, ani
macts bright pikes sanid axes hung in their seek excitement to drown the sad and lonely
bekets, ant she semel ready for any service. thougthts which often till my mind. I will pay
Some eighteen or twenty stalwart young men, liberally for the use of a staite-rpom on your
in 5 ameini's garb, were gathered tgther for- beautiful vessel, and keep myself as much
ward, discussing, with good appetites, the out of your way as possible."
quality of a bet ter super than usually falls  ' Your name, young sir?" asked Ethelbert,
to the lot of too-often abused, and deeply- evidently pry-possessed ii.the lad's favor.
-roinged marinirs.                         " You may call use Ernest Stead !" replied
While Pat rick was turning on his heel, near the other.
%euc main-mast, a fine-looking young lad, of  " Your parents dead ?"
apparently fifteen or sixteen years of age,  "My poor smother died when I was young,"
eteplped on board,                       said the lad sbut lie l id not speak of a fattier,
"Vlmitlher is this vessel bound, sir?" lie though lie looked confused and blushed.
a-ked of Tyrrell, rather respectfully touching  Ethseibert thought that there might be somse-
his cup.                                   thing in his pareitage which it would pain
To the South Seas, young gintleman !'' him to reveal, and with generous delicacy
Ssweret1 the mate, touching hiis tarpaulin in forebore to ask more. The youth, whose cap
rn.                                      was drawn closely over his furows, soemsl to
SA re von ier captain, sir ?" asked the boy, feel grateful for his forbearance, ani sad
whi 'vas very genteely dressed.              " Nane your price, captain, and I will pay
"  . sir ; I'm sly first-imate, after more it, and order my baggage on board."
than litc-au]d-twety years of pitchin' and  " You can send your baggage on board,
tinsi' ibotmiit on salt wsat tier! But there comes Master Ermiest, atnd aft r we have become
tie captainI-bess his warmn heart. A better better aequaisteil, I will think whether' it is
one nver bate undeii a woolen jacket!"   best to charge you for your passage or not.
" Io yue  tiniik he'd take a passenger ?" You seem to be educated--look intelligent,
asked the ysiunmg lad, glsucimg anxiously up and probably time pleasure of your company
th' wtarf, dowi which Etheltiert was slowly  will be all the compensation which I shall re-
'ilkimg, with lis eyes dowmeast.     tIquire."
4 " There's no knuwm' without the asking ! '  "A tlhousansd tluiks, generous captain ; at

L

IT

r

i
t


F

12

TIIE SIIELL-IItNTE1; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

a
G_
°
A
_
_:
r

pi

TIIE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

13

least accept this, to purchase additional cabmi- i  for they had voted in a bosy to see the young
store--for I expect to have a famous sca-ajpe  captain off.
title "                                      And we will accompany Iem to the wharf to
And the young man, placing a lank-note perform the same duty, it you please, reader.
for five hundred dollars in Etielbert's hand  The wind was pleasantiy fresh from the
horrid away, and was out of sight up the north. a little westerly perhaps, and the top-
wharf, before the latter could call him  ack; sail, and top-gallantsil of the  tiotttd lawn
for he had no idea of taking the utoney.   had been loosed, as well as her jibs and other
Well, the youth has eu idently been well sails, and hung in their buntlines and clew-
bred, an lproabitthly used to luxuries. I will lay lines, reanly ft' sheet ing home, as soon as the
in sone additional delieaeies with his money, scl tner's wharf-fasts should be cast adrift.
and tit up his state-room in better taste, and  'fhi pilot was aboard ; the crew w ere at
niore comfortably," said Ethelbert.        their stations ; Mr. T'yrrell forward to look
lie seens old for the ears his looks tell out for the load sails ; the second mate, Mr.
of. Ile stakes business right up without any  Tabor, a Nantucket whalemIan who had be-
hlor I" said Tyrrell.                    fore beein in the South Seas. was ini the waist ;
"lie is a file smart-looking lad. lint I atnd Ernest Simead, the passenger, stood ti ar
dislike the color of his hair. Such a fiery the helmosipI looking  ithi a serious fhle-, hut
red hetokens a hot te iper i"         ,a very tcrry eye, at tle p arting-seene on the
'Ilot-tempered folks are iot the worst in whart, where Ethelbert stood surrouidedl
the world, sir, sure !" replied Tyrrell.  I 1f his relatives- grand--paternal ad ituttena
they ltt mal qmek, they're soon over it, couimage. patemal at intaterial who hal just
ald don't go griowlin' about fir a w ek, desceinded from tian curt iagts 1ringing  t rios
kokin' like a tlhunder-cloud all the time !'  parting-gitt. The grtlidt her Irodlit Iis
l Youre about three-thirds right, Tyrrell. rusty Netherlabnc sword  v h tielttl (10
But I muist go dowi to Pleaants and tum-- service a ceinury before. 'iei gradniot her
mings' in (Lauders street t, to lay insoic bintt    iatone woolen itight  tit aint
itre stores. Send a cooul he of hands along; sttckiitiLs ; his fat tier itrouttiliut a Itanisotie
w   tie t o hiring  uch things by hand as1 do  air of pist ls, and his mother an addit ional
not care to sent1 by dray  ''i undle of aotilen chthing, a hiLich undoubtedly
Ay, v,(sir'! if not too bould, may I ask wnul be srviccttble in rounding Cape Ilort.
whenrWell sail?''                           lint the gifts of his cousin l atriie iut
At la\ light ii the morning-with the fi st not Iet 1  ftl  tr.t fh evidently look ai s
of the ebb-tide. I am going to clear at thte mue   e to the comfort of tte idaer otitas tie
Cuituintllounethtis afteritoo."          othe rs hadl to thes otti ci' inisi ideal.
C AuItmui' f Ith e'aitain of the s iotteti  1ir, she lifted iut of the carriage a huge
Fawn!"said a tail, who hail just camte on ioard. bunch of Ii it u sagttids. \t large keg.
Ethelliert receognizth lelhand-writiitglie-  "-hat is Kraut, I dlIti.' said site  " VYiu
forEhelal  i mirtr  ti  sie .  It wis froti  Eva,  tell iti re  is ie ,ranit or sa uage  yre  von
and mt it sie bade' htit farewell. iand asked hi  goes'
to spare her antimIiiitself the 1ain of a pier-  Thten she lifted out a large jn.
sttial parting-scene. s'le prayed tod tot bsless  Iit is sCiptptitsihE l-itithie  tsetintituted.
tottni 10 Serve httu-filel.O it lie'stf ti t undying   sNttyitu triink.Situ dariit ofnm.'
frith ; aid ttei, in hitrti'  etrlil straiit. lbile ' 'ertitl v, di ti' lcit-in,''said  Ethic11 ut,
him tiik out fur the wilts of thtise island beau- who could scarcely keep from laughing out-
ties, who sentt ittto Paris fr their fishi. ns, right.
but looked to Nature for their aliirnenii-rits.  i' idilire," cntitued .Ktir-ne, luiitg
Etelie  trt would have glad ly seen eri once't  iot a jau' if her favorite dl icatey, "is stote
ftt ire, . Itht idiitt awishto tut &amp;ro'tierdsiris ;pigs' fitt"
-ndt i ettit litntt htt a rik tie rtlg r that it  '' TInks to you all-a thousand thanks;
awas tre wtitdoml in her to avoid suttit a pamiit- tId n 1 must ie s t.eil'!'cried tuyitung tail
fiu scene I as thtat in Itict hioth,ttairfully. itmust tat undi lhe' hasteitel totiaee hlis rela.
s.\ atgatinatd a igyin  .rewell.         tiv, s. couttitetieing with the eldest.
'Wn.hen lie arrived at Ra rine, she threw Ier
-..                    intense flit arts around him, aitd fairly lift-
ing himt off his feet, hugged him  till he
C1AIPTER VI.                 grimutted. T'Ihel hug of one of'Barnut's Iocky'
The Van Ness family, following the oild Mtunttaitn grizzlies would be tenderness to
Kixoukertiockcr styli', (ie veor early risers----- tat emibtace.
at iisually, in thu ' wint-r-tiioe, at- theirti ateik-  "  oot-pvc. Edelbiert---goot-liye !" said she.
fto bycahlle-light, e're the dh  ito Idawned, " ' uomies yn ouhack sooi as nee 'r you can for
tn the otccasio of Ethelbert's delarture, to marry iue.'
Rtought it was-in summer, they rose yet eartier,  As sioe as le was released fromn that ing

Ethelbert leaped on board his vessel, and with          CHAPTER VII.
all the voice he had left, said, while some of  Down the beautiful bay, past Governor's
the crew were passing his presents on board : Island, Bedloe's, and the forts in the Narrows,
"Stand by to cast off all shore-fasts I Look leaving the bright shores of Long Island on
out for topsail and top-gallant sheets and hal- one hand and those of independent Staten
Bards! Cast off, sheet home, and hoist away ! Island  on the  other, sped' the  Spotted
Up jibs and fore-staysail, Mr. Tyrrell! Get Fawn, under every stitch of canvas which
fore and mainsail on her as soon as you can, would draw. The crew, as well as the officers,
Mr. Tabor ! Pilot, take charge, now !"     seemed perfectly delighted with the evident
Not until these orders were given did Eth- speed of the bonny clipper, and not a face on
elhiert notice the merry smile on the face of board wore a cloud of discontent.
his young passenger.  That smile recalled    " She goes well, does she not, pilot 9" asked
some one to his nind, yet for his life he could Ethelbert, of the hard-featured and quiet man
not say who.                               who stood beside the helmsman, now and
"Gliad to sre you abo-rd, Master Ernest," then giving an order regarding the course.
. aid he. "How do yetu like your state-      "Like a witch, sir! Like a witch! I've
room ?"                                    been iii and out here from apprentice-time up
It is superb, captain, superb. I can miss till now-full thirty years-and I've never
no luxury when.I leave tihe shore. I have been on board of a craft 'that made better
heen looking through your library, and protu- way. You'll have to shorten sail, soon, for
ise myself intfinite delight in the perusal of its ' 'Washy No.2 "* will never catch us outside to
hoimc voluimtes, if yon will permit the liber- take me off, if you go at this rate. I don't
ty," replied young'Smead. '               often have to ask any craft to shorten sail for
You must not consider it a liberty-make her, either."
yourself completely at home here, and you   " Your wish shall be attended to," replied
will afford lte most pleasure., Come in the Ethelbert, giving Tyrrell directions to take in
cadn and take a glass of wite with me, in some of the canvas so as to lessen her way.
pledge of friendshuip nud hopes of a pleasant  In a short time.'tie schooner was clear of
voyage. -My fat cousiu almost hugged the the bar, and the pilot-boat having -come up,
life out of me, just now."                 the pilot was discharged.
"She seemed very affectionate," said the  " Run her off the coast until the highland
young ian, with a smile, as ie followed Eth- Light can just be seen, and then 1'll take my
clbert down into the spacious cabin-      ' distance and departure ' and  shape my
" Altogether too muehso, for my comfort," course," said Ethelbert, to Tyrrell, as they
said thue captain, as he called on thte steward  once more set all sail and filled away. " Do
for a bottle of wine. " Alt," continued he, as you know anything about navigation, Master
his eve fell on a guitar-case in front of tle Ernest?" he continued, addressing  young
state-room assigned to Ernest, "you are a Sniend, who stood looking landward over tho
ntmitean."                                tafniul.
" Partially so, but not accomplished " re-  "No, sir; but I should be delighted to
plied Smead. " But I thought a song once in learn, for I might then be of some service to
a while migtt cheer us on our hong viy age." viu if you were taken ill, which heaven fore-
-'t inspetak tiuty, ity dear'-boy. lThough  feind,"
I am inot a musicians, 1 ant passionately foid  " Well, come below, and I'll give you a first
,        of musie ; and I knuov you have a good voice lesson. I am about to lay out my course on
from its tone in coiveirsatioi."        the chart, and shall soon take the bearings
t Your gout health and a pleasant as well and distance, which will enable me to prick
as prosperous voyage, sir," said the young dosiun my starting-point. After that, our dais
man, as hue ruisetd onte of time glasses which  ly position on the trackless sea must be learn-
thestewar lt tiled.                   ed by observation of tle sun, moon, and
'aiik you. May the voyage be pleasant stars ; and when they cannot be then, by the
to yun, also, aid your wish for adventure be ' deal reckoning,' as it is termed."
agreeably realized."                         " May I ask what that is?"
'rhey drank, andu then returned on deck to  "Certaimly. Each hour the officer of the
M        take abrast look at the Teutonic group on thte deck itotes otim e log-slate, which is after-
S w arf.                                    warI copied imto the log-book, the rate of
speed which tihe schooner hiss kept during the
The vessel, now fairly off, with her sails hour, her course, and the apparent leeway or
fil hnig to the breeze, began to move swiftly drift which she has made. At the end of
down the simxoothi river--timere, two miles wido, each sea-day this is reckoned up, and the
- yet here, in my wildwood houme, where this schooner's position judged from the reckon-
story is written, only a babblitug rivulet w -mich -
a child may leap across.                  i*Washington No. 2, then a very fast pilot-boat.

.-:
_.


14

TIE SIIELL-IUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.

ag.  Olservations of the celestial bodies en- in a rich soprano voice, which thrilled to the
alde us to correct this, if wrong ; and between  very centre of Ethellert's heart, these words:
the two-though we sail three or four thou-        Let the hunter love his forest home,
sand miles without seeing land-we can tell        Where her-s of the moose and red-deer roam;
to an -hour when, anid within a isile where,     lat his rifle's crack their death-knoll he,
And his casmp-ire song Is sung ia glee!
we shall birt see it as we apl)roach our desti-      But giveto me the sparki ngea
ration."                                              Ani a home on its bosom free'
" It is a wonderful andi beautiful science,    Let the farmer love his rustic howers-
and I shall isten to mister it," said Ernest.  Let the maiden tend her blooming flaers-
"Now we sill look at this chart," said Ethi-  Let the merchant o'er his ledger bend-
Let the shephrd to his fleece-flocks tend
elhert, unuirollinig isne 'f  umnt' lare chart-      But give to me the fioaminag sea,
' I am hound for the Pearl Islands, which are        And a homse on its bosom free!
somewhere, ii longitude, 14t?     west from       Let the lawyer wag his oily tongue,
Greenwich, and about 20  south latitude.  If     Ani the hymna of the - establishedd church" be
we have good weather, I can iiike the entire    l      net the orleed, and sose, andlpurgs,
ruii aith thse uwoI indi writer whsill I have on  Wnleo his victims client their final dirge !
board.   If not, I miay have to stop at Vlpa-       But givns to me the azure sea,
raiso., or at the Samlwicl Islands. Of pro-        And a houe on its bosom free'
vi-isns I huive sat last i two yea s' store on  Let tseprinterrstick wo sivo sik's i f tve-
Ioard, and] if we are lucky in getting fre.ali  I.et the realsmreal hi the grai is n rise-
lert the lIstissl onish   riisk when use Issiinig gale
msta' , turtles, lish, fruits, ansi vegetabl bs s  aest     h   suarthetas issischeet turnpale
there, c'iinughl to list me home again. My          Out give to me the wi i, sile sea,
curgo is not large, nor in a civilized country       Antiahimsuis  osossree
woull it he valuable.  But it will answer my   Until the last trill of the aceomopanyisg
lurl ise fosr trade and 1d er."            gitiar-strings died swiy, Ethlbert remained
Whil saying tis, Eithelt was busy with  silent, and thenai deepi sigh iescapech  is lips.
a scale and hividers shaping his course ; andi    Ii1 not mssy song please you " asked
when, not a great s while ifterward. 'Tyrrell Ernest.
eaie to announce alit the Ilitihlasnd light  " It was splendid-both  in sentiment and
was getting Iswdoss i to winwisarl lie went tone. But yosui' voice is so like one which I
on dsek, andh tsok its bearing and distinicie, have heard before-so like that of one whom
innd shd it not ed on the log-late. Anid noW  I shall not suer for iiaiy as longanti d weary
the  syaige was iirly commesunciieel.      iionth, that I thought o  lier an  sighed,'
All hands were cille-, tis hes atelss divided  replied Et hIelhert.
andh int,s  ehe of rul es and regulations read  " If msy voice brings gloomy thoughts to
to the crew. which Ethellbert advised ttheis you, I wsdl sing no motre '"sa i  Eriest.
tric tlv tot obeyV, if they would have a leiis -.  On the coitrarv, my teair i'', I shal ask
unt vivage withhiinm. This done, on  wateh you to sminig er t'often. For though Iuamsad
being oll lty and ithe otheisr at rest, the when I think  if her, 'iery' neiiory linked
/miin-bracs"' sms duly spied, three iceers with her is sweet and precioues to me ! f you
fsr goond luck given, nims- everytiniig was only kinew some of her favorite st gs.
quiet, with ithe irutimse of a ntregularvoyige'   ' 1's-i ciain reeibiier them, sir. ,'ite thiem
albne to interrult it.                       uff for Ime, and 1 itoill sing them with pleasure,
IlowIssi d  yous like this kimd of life, so far, wen you desire it.
Master Ernest f 'asked Ethelbert of isis pis-  " '"Ahi Erncs-t, ymu are like a brother to me.
seiger, as tkey turned to go into the cabh-in Ireallyv Ieies't Sisalhtrovitlence threw  ioa
agaiinm- Si'                                         ii". Vnsust nottiik youslf a
I" Far btter than I expected !" replied the aisssesnger, not even a guest, but a full bro-
yiit h.  " I fearedl sea-sickness iiore than  thier, in possession of a brot her's friendship or
atsathsig ces'cvt feel tsot themsihts  ~iS'ls
anyissh if iheetl                   stsluhanks, my kind friend, thanks I Now,
"i-l ou  ayescape it-abiout ive out of a if your will p ernsitu  I will gosons sicknto look
hunreder-n- 'dout heavy weather may        on the novelty of seeing a water-kissing ho-
-ct yu to citing up accounts with old Nejp- ris-zi s-f sky encircvliegds all aliut, with no
time.'                                        rs-ughi Band~s to bsrseak is curlve~d ine of beau-
, I hope not,' replied Ernest.          t    D
"',sian -iu not fsav me sse with a song ."  " Do so, mi- ybo,' and feel at louse. I mast
asked Ethslh tit. telling the steward to open comiience a diamry now--for it is my intention
a settle cf wine.                            to keep a diary reguslirly, for the ispection
I ens tri !" sail Ernest.  Ani witlhut of imy lady-love when I returns
an- of those sickening alolosies which soimlAe  " Ah! heave you a lady-love ?" asked Er-
tele mikcake cI hsau-itsg a cold, an istrumniseit nest.
out f sine, or of feeling inissled- , he sang  " Yes ;an angel, who cilyr waits my ste.

THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
eessful return to make me the happiest of would have pined and died before your eyes, if the
Ien                                    one she so loved-banished by her own decision-had
_   men -                                      gone without her !            Youa Eve."
" It seems to me she could not Bare lovedge
you very dearly to let you go off alone on   "Well, what does all dis brove ?s She ton t
suc    long voyage! Itf I had been a wo- speak of my poy, Edelpert
man, I would have gone with you!"            "Read you ze postscreept, Messieur Tromp
"You wrong her, Master Ernest! I can Van Ness-read you ze postscreept !"
never doubt her love ; but she gave good     "Oh, yaw-voinan-like, she makes a tail to
reasons for deferring our union until I re- her letter!"
turned. But this is a matter not open for    And the old Dutchman read the P. S., which
discussion. Let us go on deck !"            vas :
"Fear not for my safety. My Ethelbert will not
know that I am near him, for I am disguised ; but 1$
CHAPTER VIII.                  he did, he is the soul of honor, and he would perish
The whole Van Ness family were seated at ere harm should reach me.
their-dinner-table, precisely at twelve o'clock "Dunder and blixen, she was dat poy-bas-
-their usual hour of dining -when the senger !" cried Mr. Van Ness, dashing his fist
I)utclh girl, who did their cooking, washing, down on a dinner-plate, and shivering it to
etc., and also attended the door, announced atoms.
that a mad Frenclsman wanted to see Mr.      "IHimmells ! Himmells! Ie run avay mit
Van Ness right awasy.                      her, and marry not me!" shrieked Katrine,
"Me, Tromp VanN ess--me he ask for ?"    as loudly as she could through a moutlh pretty
" Yes, vou, sarc-you, Tromp Van Ness, well wedged with a chunk of fat pork.
share !" cried the "iad Frenchman," wlso     "1ou see now, Messieusr Tromp Van Ness,
proved to be no other than our friend Mosi- vezzer or not your son raskale 'ave run away
sieur Eugene Lasecelles, advancing.        wiz say daughtare-eh?" cried Monsieur Las-
And the girl was not much in error-for celles.
his face was as red as the comb of a rooster--  "ler own letter says she runs avay mit
Isis hair disheveled-sis iat set awry on his him. Tat he ton't know she's dere, de pig
head-and his whole frame tremulous with fool
passion, made him look verb like a "imad     "No mattare for zat, she 'ave go wiz him:
Preuncluinan' indeed,                     and if I get her not back, queek, I shall die
"Vell, vat you wants mit me?" asked Mr. wiz one heart all break,-like your plate yon-
Van Ness. While the rest of the family, with dasre ! But you tell me where your son go to.
full mlouths and eyes wide open, gazed on I will buy one sheep, and sail on so sea, and
Mr. Lascelles.                             catesh him and take lies back to sy home, so
"My shild-ma belle, my beautiful Eva-- desolit agsin! Osi, I will do sat, if you tell
tell in where is she ?"                   sue where 'ave be gone
"I know nothing apout your child. Dere    "lie's gone to de Sout' Sea Islands in a
vas a time ven my poy Edelpert was such a siehcooner faster dan der tusyvel-witch, dat
fool as to talk to me lie wanst to marry smit rides a proom-stick. But py Saint Nicholas,
her, but I have sent himt off to sea !"    I will take one of my fast China-trade ships,
"To sea - to sea, Tromp Van Ness-to and follow himn too ; and I'll tike Katrine and
slit " sahnost shouted poor Laseelles.  a bresseler mit ue, and make him marry dish
" Yaw, to sea  Vsit of dat?"             nice little gra, his cousin, der sinmute Ifpoots
,      "0 mnon Dieu!' groaned the poor French- eyes o     -bins?"
man. "Your raskale infernal eon pupsee  "You will do sat, Messicur Tromp Van
'ave carry off my daughitare to sea wiz hin !"  Ness?"
"fDas not so !" said Mr. Van Ness, with    "Yaw-ven I say I does a ting, I does it 1"
more than usual spirit. "And you yust 1e    "Messieur Tromp Van Ness, I beg you one
a little careful how -ou call my poy a rascal, million pardon. Iwill be your front firevare i
"    sr I sakes you brove him to be dat!" rasca  I will give you so argeit-ze lmsoney to-what
"But, sare-Messieur Tremp Van Ness-I you call-buy ze eat and drink of your sheep,
know sihe 'ave gone to sea wiz him !" said Mr. I will go to all expense, and you shall let me
Lascelles, weeping bitterly. "Read you zis go wiz you as a passengare, to find my
lettare from my shild-ma belle Eva a dsugldare- eli 1.
-,    The Ditch merchant very quietly took the  Mr. Van Ness was as srudeist and saving as
letter, and read it. It ecostaised these words : he was weailthsy. Iy that, rather than b ny n-
* "IARsEST AND hPesT or FATaERS: I leave you for trrshsllel oseiil.letsigs
a little while to follow and watch over the safety of but an inst ant before lie rplied
one who is dearer to mse than life. IDo not be angry  " Yaw, 1 will do lst ! I will fint der ship -
with me-do not hate me! I will return to you iin you fint d Ie rcbrvi015ns  Ilalf der crew I
h two or lhree- years, as pure and good as I strive to be
now. Do be contented: gn oetsy Peck will  pay-half c    crew  on pay ; and we go to
care of yon; and you will again see your child, who der 'ca'l Issiltl. you fos' your gal, me nut

5 .

55

I-


16           TilE SHELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
latrine for marry her mit my tam fool poy !"  " Zat is what I mean. In two or three days
" Certaemeint, c'est un affaire arrange ! cried I shall sail on ze sea, and you too, Bessie!"
the delighted Frenchman. "When shall we     "Me, Mister Lascelles - a d?"   almost
start-to-1 orrow-eh?"                    screamed the housekeeper.
"We can't fit out der ship so soon Es dat!  "Yes, you Bessic-you!" replied Mr. Laa,
But we go so soon as never we may !"      celles, quite as loudly.
"'Ten thousand tanks, Messieur Tromp Van  "13e you crazy ?" asked Betsy, looking ad
Iess. Forevare, and more time zan zat, will him cautiously, as if she feared personal in-
I be your frent.                          jury.
"Dat is gout. Now sit you down and eat    "No, Bessie-not - But zat which I sayI
some dinnare nit us."                     mean. You shall get ready ze wardrobe of
"Sare, 1 tank you several tousand times, J Eva, and of yourself, and prepare to go wiz
and I kiss your hand. But my heart is right me a voyage to ze Sout' Seas."
up in my mouse-it shoke me, and I cannot    "I slant do no such a thing! Me go to
eat. I shall go directly to buy ze beef, and sea at my age, indeed! me that never crossed
ze pork, and ze beans, and ze bread, and ze bigger water than a mill-pond!"
runt, for ze sleep.                         "You will not go-elh:?"
"And sausage, and callage, and pigs'-feet,  "Ao-that's flat ! 1 won't goI!"
and kraut, for dey grow not dare !" said the  "Zen you will go somewhere else, Bessie,"
thoughtful Katriie.                       said Nonsieur Laseells, very quietly, but
Oui-yes, ntam'selle. I will, for your sake, very firmly.
sink of rose indispensable artikales!'      "Where, I'd like to know?" she asked, in
And the half-happy Frenchman dhneed out angry tone.
of the room. But in an instant he returned.  "To ze devil for all rat I care. No longare
'"Messieur Thromp Van Ress, I shall 'ave to shall you stay in my house, if you will not go
take viz me Bessie Peck!"                 wizr me to bring tack my Eva."
" Who ier tuyvel is Bessie Peck ?" asked  " What ! Turn me, etsy Peck, that has
Mr. Van Ness.                            worked fir you nigh on to twenty year, away?"
My house-keepare, sare-she is so good shrieked the housekeeper.
for se cuisine, ze cook. Zen, yen I at seek,  "[Ys--I turn you, Bessie Peck, zat has
she is my duitaro. And she sball take ze work for ate i twenty year, and 'ave been
wardrobe of my daughtare. A very smart well paid for ze same, away, if you will not
woman, is Bessie Peek. She is olt, but queek go wiz nie to look for my lost Eva-my poor
like a young woman! I must take her !"    angel child !"
"iYaw-she will be goot for to wait in der  'Mrs. Peck burst into tears. She knew
Eabin. You take her nit you in course. And tiat anger would produce no effeet on her
if you come to der store in South street in master, and thought she'd try brine.  Its
two hours, I will show you der ship dat we effect was not at all potent. Mr. Lasceles
will fit out for der cas-c."              walked up and down the room, and whistled
"Ef, tan, Monsieur Tromp Van Ness, I the Marseillaise hyitin.
will lie tere."                            "Well, I s'pose t must pack up and go off,
And now the Frenchman left for good.    and be a1 lone wider agin !" said she at last,
-wiping her eyes with her apron. "It's too
CIIAPTEII IX.                bad, after I'e worked here nigh on to twenty
" Alt, la, Tessie-ah,t. ! Once Tore am I years
a verte 'alip tntn!" criedM nsieur Laseelles,  "At ten dollars a mount, and evare so many
as h ie entered his hious, an half hour after his presents frotom te and my angel Eva, zat you
interview with Mr. Van Ness.              care not for !" chimed in hr. Laseelles.
How's that, Mister Lascelles?  An hour   "I don't care-I won't go to sea, amongst a
or two ago, you was the most mi'er'hle eree- lot of nasty, swearin', tarry sailors ! I won't I
tar that ever groaned.  ave' you found that -  worN'!"
'ere runaway angcl 0' you're ?" said Mrs.  And Mrs. Peck's voice rose higher at every
Betsy lck, in a slightly satirical tone.  word.
"No, not ret-not ret ; but I know where  Mr. Iascelles very quietly went to a desk,
she 'ave gone to, and I shall 'ave a sheep and which stood in one corner of the room, took
follow her, anti bring her back !"        out an account-hook, and opened it. After
"A sheep to follow her with? las she gone figuring for a few moments, lie said:
to griss, like old Nebuchadnezzar that I've  "Bessie; I owe to you seventeen dollare.
ret.ai about in the Bible?"               Zere is ze money! You may pack your troonk
"No-I'mean not z. sheep rat eat ze grass and go so soon as you please!"
--I mean ze sheep at sail upon ze grand mer, "'What! send me off-right off?"
ye sea! You un'nere tan' te now-eh, Bessie ?"  " Yes, Bessie. I shall discharge nil my
"Yes, if you mean a ship."              servant till I conic back wiz my Eva."


p

TRE SIIELL-HtNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE,                    19
e Bessie" had another god cry, and then fore we reach Sandy Hook. A nor'wester
she wiped her eyes again with her apron,  has been coaxing itself into a mad gale for a
"Take your money, Bessie t" said Mr. day or two, and I reekun it'll make out by
Lascelles.                               noon."
I don't want it, sir--indeed I don't. I'll  "It will blow strong,eh, Monsieur PiloteP"
go to sea with you, sir-I'll go to the very  " Yes, sir !"
eend of the airth with you to hunt after Eva,  "And fair, Monsieur Pilote, fair for ze
dear Miss Eva !" said Betsy.             course we must go ?"
"Ah ha! now you speak senseeble and      "Yes, sir!"
to ze purpose, Bessie. While we are on ze  "Eh bien ! sat will delight me! I amcon-
sea 1 make your wages twenty dollare ae tent I"
month !"                                   And Mr. Lascelles walked quickly up and
"Oh thankee, Mr. Lascelles, thanked! I'll down the deck, whistling a lively air.
go to fixin' right off!"                   Meantime the first boat approached from
And the housekeeper bustled away as if the shore, bringing Mr. Van Ness and a
her life depended on the haste of her prep- preacher, whom he had advertised for, being
arations unable otherwise to find one who would leave
"a charge" on shore to "go down to the sea
in a great ship." Miss Katrine could not be
CHAPTER X.                  persuaded to come in that boat, but would
The good ship Kinderhook, Captain My-n' remain to come off with her precious mar-
dart Van Tassell, formerly in the China trade, keting.
owned by Tromp Van Ness of South street,   Mr. Van Ness was the first on board, and
lay off the battery, with her anchor almost was received by the captain touching his tar-
ajpeak, her ssils loose, and hanging in the paulin, and with a warm grasp of the hand
clewlines, only waiting for three of her pas- by Monsieur Lascelles.
sengers-nanely, Mr. Van Ness and his niece  "Captain and Mr. Lascelles, dis is der
Katrine, and the preacher who was to aecom- Reverend Mr. Snodgrass, a breacher, what'I
pany them,                               have prought mit me to marry my runaway
Monsieur Lascelles was impatiently pacing poy mit Katrine !" said Mr. Van Ness, intro-
to and fro on the quarter-deck, while Betsy during a tall, pale, lank-featured and lankly-
Peek, who had an utter horror for "nasty, formed young man, who shuffled up the side-
tarry, swearing' sailor-men," or so she said- ladder after him, and now stood in his thread-
was'below in the cabin, arranging her medi- bare suit of black, with a roll of dirty-white
cines, clothes, and stores, preparatory to an muslin around his long neck, looking like one
expected and much-dreaded term of sea-sick- of the "very last run of shad."
ness.                                      "JElihu Snodgrass, of the Baptist persuna-
The captain of the Kinderhook was Dutch sion-a poor journeyman in the Lord's serv-
-not Gcrman. mark you, but Dutch, of Hol- ice  said that individual, by way of further
landic derivation. So was his crew ; and as explanation, and speaking in a strong, nasal
it was their nature to take everything cool, tone.
the whole of them quietly smoked their pipes  " Der cabin is dere !" said the captain, by
and waited for the owner and his passengers, way of reply; and lie pointed to its door,
as serenely as they would wait for the con- and turned to other duties.
ing Christmas.                             The remaining boats, loaded almost to the
At last, in a carriage, folloived by a cart water's edge, were now close aboard. In
containing baggage, and a market-wagon one, seated on a huge pile of cabbages, like
filled under the very careful supervision of a rural queen on her throne, sat Katrine, not
Miss Katrine, Mr. Van Ness and his charges seeming to notice that hers was not the -saf-
appeared.                                est seat in the world, especially as the gun-
"Man you dere tree poats mnd go ashore wales of the boat were but a few inches above
for do owner and all what is mit him !" cried water.
Captain Van Tassell, as he saw the cortege  The coxswain of the boat either did not
on shore.                                order the men to cease rowing quick enough,
Without removing their pipes from their or else there was some fault in the steering,
months, the crew manned the boats quietly, for aq the boat came alongside, some of the
and went as ordered.                     starboard forward oars caught against the
"Monsieur Pilote," said Lascelles to the side of the vessel, and in a second the boat
pilot who stood aft, ready to commence his tip) ed so far to larboard that it went nearly
duty when the anchor "broke ground" and gunwales under, and Miss Katrine, losing her
the ship was adrift, "'Ave we-what you call balance on her green throne, went with a eon-
{heem-a fair wind, eh ?"                 siderable quantity of her cabbage into the
"Yes, sir, and we'll have plenty of it be- dark depths of the North River, and with


TIIE SIELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

such momentum, that she instantly disap- larly provided, crouched in the cat-harpins,
peared beneath its turbid waters,         clo-e beneath the top.
Captain Myndert Van Tassell was a single  When they were all ready, at a given sig.
man-had he been married, he might not nal, the slipping nooses were quickly passed
have been so gallant. But instantly, pipe over his wrists, while he waved his hands in
and all, he leaped from  the head of the glee ; and when, in surprise, he tried to spring
side-ladder, whither he had gone to help the to his feet from his sitting posture, he found
lady aboard, and dived head first over the that his feet, which had been dangling over
boat into the water after her. In a few see- the rim of the top. were similarly secured.
bonds he rose, and the two great arms of the lie had scarcely time to utter a cry of alarm
damsel were clenched around his neck with a and anger, bt fore he found himself hoisted
strength which would have proved strangu- up and ntd, literally, a ' spread eagle " of.
rv ha l not the boat's crew been ready to That is, his hands, stretched wide apart, were
lend both a helping hand.                 bound to the topmast rigging, above his
They were soon aided on board ; and so head, and his feet, stretched also wide apart,
quickly had the whole matter transpired, that were fastened below.
the captain's pipe, yet held in his month, haul  " Mon Dieu ! what does mean zis ? Sacre,
not gone out, and he continued smoking as mille tonnere !  Let you me go !  Diable,
if nothing had occurred to disturb his equa- inserere-what you mean ?" shrieked Mon'
nimity.                                   sieur Lascelles, as he in vain tried to extri-
"Did dey lose any cappages ?" was the cate himself, his struggles only drawing each
first question which Katrine asked ; and when noose the tighter.
Informed that they hal all been saved, she  " It seal mean dat you pay your footing,
went contentedly into the cabin to put on mynheer," said one of the sailors.
dry clothes.                                " Diable ! you 'ave take me off my foot-
Captain Van Tassel did not think a change ing !"cried the troubled Frenchman. "What
necessary, but at once had the boats hoisted you mean; raskales infernale ?"
sup and the capstan manned ; and in a few   "To keep you dere till you gif to us money
minutes more the ship was under way and for to buy us two or dree gallons of peer-or
stanliier down the bay in charge of the pilot, a chug of rum-for der brivelege of coming
with al the canvas set which she could car- in der top. Your blaco is in der cabin, or
rv ; for the pilot wanted her out of his hands on der deck-not oop here."
before the blow, which he had predicted,    "Am, ha-now I un'erstan' you, shentil-
would begin to show its strength.         men! I pay you one jug of rum for ze priv-
elege to conic here and sing, zen you let me
CHAPTER XI.                  go'
Right well-pleased was the pilot of the   "Yaw. Das is all," replied the sailor, who
Kinlerhook, when that ship was hove to out- acted spokesman for the others.
- side of the bar, under shortened sail, to give "Eli bien, I shall do zat wiz one grand
him  a chance to get on board of the pilot- plaisir! Yon untie me and let inc go to my
boat which waited to receive him. For al- cabeen, and I pledge you my hoinare zat I
ready the wind was blowing nearly a gale- will send to you one jug of good brandy, zat
the good ship, though reduced to her top- was import by me from Bordeaux in la belle
sails, with courses hauled up, and only the France."
topmast-stavsail set forward, and the spanker.  The sailors, who had only fulfilled an old,
aft, lay down till the water was three streaks time-honored custom, which even the writer
on deck, as the yards were braced up and she hereof, when a new-fledged middy, had to
was brought to the wind.                  undergo, at once unloosed Mr. Lascelles, who,
lint when the pilot-boat was clear and the as soon as lie reached the deck, faithfully ful-
helm put up, the good ship veered away on tilled the conditions of his release.
her course nearly before the wun; and ithen  Meantime, as the ship bowled off from the
Captain Van Tassell put the courses on her, shore, and the wind had a fair sweep, the sea_
and her top-gallantsails, for she yet could rose higher and higher; and the vessel, re-
hear them ; and she ran off the coast at a iiot quiring two helmsmen at the wheel to keep
less rate than twelve knots an hour.      her steady, pitched and rolled in a manner
Mr. Lascelles was so delighted at this, that which, to those unused to the sea, was fear-
he climbed into the fore-top and commenced ful.
singing his favorite, the Marseilles Ilynmn, at  When Mr. Lascelles went below to send the
the top of his voice, lie hal not long been steward forward with the brandy, lie heard
there, when two of the Dutch sailors crept very groans and belchings, heavy and. loud, from
quietly past him into the topmaet-rigging, the state-room of Mrs. Betsy Peck. The Rev-
each with a cord, having a slipping noose at erend Mr. Snodgrass, of the "Baptist persus-
its end in their hands. And two more, simi- lion," was on his knees in the cabin, with q

THE SIIELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

bucket before him, not praying, but render-
ing un an account of the state of his stomach,
which seemed to be very bilious.
Miss Katrine, however, did not seem to
utte any-in fact, she had not time to do
so, being engaged over a delicate lunch of
pig's feet, sour-kraut, and Albany ale.
"Are you seek, Messieur Snodgrass ?" ask-
ed the Frenchman.
"Wofully-wofully !" moaned the member
of the Baptist persuasion.
"I shall gif you some brandy, eh, sare, to
make your stomach sit down and keep still?
Shall I do zab?"
"1'd do anything, I feel so awful sick, but
I'm a Son of Temperance and dasn't 1" said
Mr. Snodgrass.
"But if you are a son of Madame Temper-
ance, shie is not here ; and if she was, she
would be a cruel muzzare to say you shall
not take zat which will do you good."
" You don't understand me, mister. It's
against my principles to tech ardent sperrits,
except in desp'rit eases; and I do begin to
believe this is one. If you'll!get me a leetle
brandy-just a leetle-I believe I'll shet my
eyes and try to swaller it. Saint Paul told
timothyy to take a leetle drop for his stomach
sak, and I don't see as a poor journeyman
preacher of the Baptist persuasion can do any
harm in follerin' the example set down in
scriptur'."
And when Mr. Laseelles brought tumbler
N full of fourth-proof brandy to Mr. Snodgrass,
the latter closed his eyes, and drained the
glass with a deep sigh.
' The Frenchman looked at the empty glass,
and said:             I
" I sink, Messieur Snoodgrass, zat you will
not'ave much more seek at ze stomach. Zat
brandy is fourt proof."
"It'has done-me good already, I verily do
believe," said Mr. Snodgrass, brightening up
rapidly.
" I will try some, but not so much, on poor
Bessie Peck," said the kind-hearted French-
man. And lie went to attend to his house-
keeper, having sent the steward on deck with
his present to the men.
Mr. Lascelles was not long in Betsy's state-
room, before he heard a most terrific voice,
in the cabin, shouting out an old hymn, com-
mencing :
"Ye sons of the main," etc.  a
" Al, ha !" said he, to himself. " Messicur
Snoodgrass begin for to feel his leetle drop of
brandy."
CHAPTER XII.
Not an incident occurred on the Spotted
Fawn to mar the pleasure of any one on board
during her voyage from New I ork to Yalpa.

21

raise, which port she reached just seventy-
three days from the time she sailed. She
had crossed the equator without frying in a
a complete calm, and doubled Cape horn
without meeting an adverse gale, though she
had not had quite as much wind as her mas-
ter would have liked.
Fearing that wood and water might become
scarce before he reached the point of his des-
tination, Ethelbert had determined to run
into port to add to his stores of those indis-
pensable articles.
"What do you say to a run on shore, Mas-
ter Ernest ?" asked Ethelbert, with a pleas-
ant smile, soon after the anchor had b en
dropped, and while the crew were yet furng
the sails. ''Tis said the Valparaiso girls are
the prettiest in the world."
"Their beauty is a matter of indifference
to me," said young Smead, rather contempt-
uously. "I never saw a woman yet who was
worth a second glance."
"0 you young heretic ! You ought to
be confined in a harem, for the term of your
natural life, with a hundred oriental houris
to tense you out of your senses I"
Such pleasures might suit you, Captain
Van Ness," said Smiad, quietly ; "but I
would refer a cage of white bears, chattering
monkeys, or horned owls. But who is that
coming on board ?"
"TThe captain of the port, I presume. I
must pay my respects to him, and then call
on the American Consul," said Ethelbert, as
he glanced at an individual in uniform, who
was approaching the vessel in a well-manned
barge.  "After that," he continued, "I'm
going to have a run among the girls, and
you'll miss sonic fun if you don't go along."
" Perhaps so ?"
"Why, how serious you look, Master Er-
nest. What are you thinking of?"
" Of the inconstancy of men, Captain Van
Ness, as-exemplified in yourself, for instance.
here have you been all the voyage lamenting
the separation of yourself from the lads' you
say you love in New York-sometimes almost
weeping when I have sung songs which you
say she used to sing to you ; and now, at the
very first port you enter, you begin to talk of
strange beauties-to sigh for their company."
Pob. Ernest, pol-I shallinot fall in love
with any of these dusky maidens of the South.
But even if I did, all would be right when I
got back to New York-a sailor has a right to
a sweetheart in every port he visits."
"Indeed !" said young Smead, rather sar-
castically. "Suppose your lady-love should
take it into her head to forget you until you
returned, and accept the addresses of sonne
'sailor' who wished to have a sweetheart in
that port."
"Ernest, I've half a mind to get angry

p

2)

L

.


STIIE SHELL-IUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
with you, and cut your throat for suggesting Those who did not join in the dance took seats
such an idea as that."                    on rude benches placed along by the walls,
"You cannot gainsay its justice.''      and boys and girls, with chia, wine, and ci-
" I'll argue that after I've received this Don garettes for sale, attended to their wants.
Whiskerando," replied Ethelbert, as he walk-  Ethelbert watched the dance for a time,
ed to the gangway to meet the Chilian official, laughing at the remarks of Ernest, who was
who was now in his boat alongside.        quite disgusted with the scene, and at first re-
After the captain of the port had asked the fused to participate in the amusement. But
usual questions, received the customary an- when the friendly captain of the port. who
swers, and taken a glass or two of wine and a spoke very good English, came and told him
bunch of genuine Havana ciga's in the cabin, that the prettiest girl in the room had fallen
he took his departure, and then Ethelbert in love with him, and was half-crazy to dance
again approached young Smead, and asked with him, he rose and went arm-in-arm with
hit if he had not changed his mind regard- the official to be introduced to-her.
in a visit to the shore and a cruise among  The eyes of Ernest followed his steps, and
ti ladies-adding that he had received an in- the young man could not but acknowledge
vitation from the captain of the port to be that the new partner of the fickle captain
present at a grand fandango that evening.  was indeed magnificently beautiful. She was
"I will go with you just to see how easily  (uite tall, her tigu  exquisite in its propor-
you can forget your New York love, and re- tons, and there  xqw e in her every action.
emit your fading affections on the bu4nty of I1cr hands anr.d feet were very fettle, her ankle
sonie Chilian belle," said Ernest, carelessly. almost as slender as her wrist, while her short
" Excuse mue till I dress---my sea-toggery ean dress exhibited other proportions that would
be improved I think."                    hive beei chosen by a sculptor fora model.
And so can mine, I believe," said Ethel- Hr comile xion was a rosy, transparent b-
bert, laughing. "111 het the iriee of a a - nett  tiher- ees large, jetty-black, and very
ket of champagne that you're over head and lustrous, when she raised the long, silken
ears  in love yourself, before we come off front lashes which at times droajed ainrly down on
the shore."                              ier cheek; ter hair, bl  i  and glossy as a
"I accept the wager, Captain Van Ness," raven's wing, was braided in one long plait,
said Ernest, as lie gfitly turned on his heel an i wound about her beautifully-formed head,
rtid went into the cabin.                untillreseiiblhsl a crown, and it left ter su-
What a strange boy !" muttered Ethel- pierb neck and drooping shoulders free for the
bert to himself. " Wise beyond his years, admiring gaze. She was very beautiful-*
c-cimplishel in almost everything genteel, vry i
witty as a woman, and as cool and cutting in And Captin Van Ness seemed to at once
his sascasi as ever Randplph, as reposted, drop into the enchantment of ier beauty and
was. Ie is an anomaly to in.e'          tier s"les. lIespoke but a few words of
And Ethelbert also went into the cabin to Spanish - she hut a few of English which she
__d learned froni the American naval officers
CfAour Pacific squadron whotn she had met at
CHAPTER XIII.               1hills. Yet with this and the language of the
Some of my masculine readers may have eyes which, alas ! is uiversal as it is danger-
been preset at fandangoes in Mexico, Peru,  us, they at once went desperately to making
ant Chili. If so, a description of one in Val- love, while they danced the most voluptuous
paraiso is unnecessary, for they are much the of dances. They danced until both made fa
saiue in all countres where the bo!ero is tigue an excuse for taking seats. These were
dane d, and the Spanish language spoken.  taken as far apart from alt others as possible,
Others, perhaps, would like a picture drawn aiid shielded by her fan, the lady threw yet
for the eye of their fancy to dwell upon. thicker the arrows of her enchantment. while
Well, here goes:                         Ethelbert seemed to be utterly oblivious of
- Look with me on a large-or, rather, a very all but her in the room. y
long-roomir, with a cemlent-floor, nearly as  Ernest looked on this, and his brow dark-
hard as marble. At one end, on a slightly-rais- enetl and a bitter sigh welled up from his b-
ed platform, was the music, consisting of some som, as he said :
ten or a dozen guitars, a couple of snare-  "inconstancy, thy name is man !"
drums, and about a half-dozen bugles. To   A muttered curse from one of a couple of
this, played indifferently well, sonic twenty or dark and malicious-looking Chilenos, who
thirty couples danced with a vigor altogether seated thieniselves ieiar him, attracted his at-
unlike the dreamy waltz, or pleasant contra- tention ; and glancing at them, lie saw that
dance--the dances peculiar alone to fandan- they were casting black and sinister looks at
goes. And not over-smodest were such imn- a helheit and his new-found charmer. Not
4i-efore excuse mne in 1articuharizing, eujlmnonm that the A merican understood their

THE SHELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

23

language, they conversed freely, and Ernest overheard a plan to murder you when you
soon learned from their talk-for he not only leave this house !"
understood, but could speak Spanish perfect- Ethelbert could not but be struck by the
ly-that one was the affianced husband, and serious manner and the words of Ernest.
the other the father of the Chilian coquette. "I will disengage myself from her a soon
"By Saint Jago, the Yankee shall never as I can, and join you again, said he.
reach his ship alive !" muttered the enraged  "Have you any arms ?" asked Ernest.
lover. "See how he fairly eats her up with  "None-not even a pen-knife!"
his eyes. And she, Teresa, looks on  im as  "Then remain here until I go and get
fondly as if she had known and loved him for some. I am not suspected, and will soon
years. My knife shall tickle his ribs this come back prepared."
night, or I am no true Catholic !"          And the young man hurried away.
"A few inches of steel will cure him of his  "By Jupiter, he is a trump! I was wrong
disorder, and save her from further folly," to doubt his information, or his motives," said
said the approving father.                Ethelbert to himself, as he returnedbto the
"I can hardly wait till the fandango is side of his charmer, who, now rested, pressed
over," said the lover,                    him again to join in the dance.
" Patientia !" replied the father. "The   "After we have taken a glass of wine,
captain of the port is his friend, and a disturb- beautiful Teresa 1" replied Ethelbert.
ance here would land you in the calaboua !  And he beckoned a girl to his side, who was
Wait till lie goes out in the dark, then a quick selling wine and fruit.
blow in the right place will send him to pur-  "Do you really think me beautiful ?" she
gatory, and no one but ourselves will know asked, with true Chilenian candor.
who sent him there."                        "Very-more beautiful than any one I
"True," replied the other. "But I can- ever saw before I
not stay and see them making love. I will go  "Do you know what I think of you, senor?"
and get some aquadiente,* and then wait out-  "No; yet hope you think well of me."
side till he comes."                        " Ah! if that were all !"
"Do so, and I will watch them here," re-  And the lady sighed deeply; and her eye..
plied the father. "And mark, you, Joaquin, lamhes trembled with the weight of a tear.
i     strike bit once, and let the blow go home 1"  "What do you think of me, lovely Tertear
"Fear not that I will miss my blow!t" said  "That there is not so handsome a nia in
the other, touching the knife which his sear- the world as you are?  Oh, senor I I cannot
let sash but half-concealed, as he rose to go help it, but I love you !"
out.                                        "And I-oh Teresa--I adore you !"
Ernest rose, and sauntwing off in another  Ernest Smead, who had returned to the
direction, so as not to attract the attention of room, was so near Ethelbert when he spoke,
the father of Donna 'Tertsa, finally brought that he hard this declaration. He turned
around within speaking distance of Ethelbert. deathly pale, and looked as if he would sink
"A word with you in private, if you please, fainting to the floor. But in a moment he
captain, before I go on board," said he.  recovered himself, and, addressing Ethelbert,
Ethelbert seemed not over-pleased at hay- who until then had not seen him, said:
lag his rite-a-tite interrupted ; but he rose, . "Come, captain, I am ready now I"
and went aside with Ernest, after asking the  "You will not leave me iow-no, not to-
lady to excuse him for a moment.          night ; at least, not until you have seen me to
"For Heaven's sake, leave this place, cap- my home ?" said Teresa, clinging to his arm.
tain, and come on board the ship. Your life  "Never, until you bid me go !" said the in-
is in danger !" said young Smead, urgently.  fatuated man. 'Then, addressing Ernest, he
"Poh! my young friend, you jest-you said, coldly : "You can go on board when
are jealous of my success with that lovely you please, Mr. Smead. I am capable of tak-
girl . Is she not an angel ?" said Ethelbert. ing care of myself-!"
"I jest not, Ethelbert Van Ness !" said the  "Just as you please, sir!" said the young
young man, with an unusual sternness of man, retiring to a dark corner of the room,
tone. "I have overheard a plot to murder and there seating himself.
you ! The eyes of jealousy are on you and   "Delighted at her success, Ter6sa now en-
that coquette there !"                   tered the dance with Ethelbert, with a spirit
"Yes, your jealous eyes, Master Ernest !" and rest that much exhilarated him She
said Ethelbert, almost angrily.           seemed to forget all fatigue ; and he, all dan-
"Not mine, sir; but those of her affianced ger. Pausing only now and then to take a
husband, and her father ! On my soul, I have  glass of wine, the moments flew away until it
was not more than one or two hours from
. dawn. Then, the dancers having, couple by
Acquadiente-Native rum.. couple, left, until not a dozen persons re-

F

I

k
i
i
:ti
'

f
_,,4,
,l


9

LI

THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHAS.

mained in the house beside the musicians-
and many of the last were asleep - Teresi
proposed that they should cease dancing.
Of course, it was understood that Ethelber
was to escort her home. In a few seconds, hi
had carefully wrapped her shawl around her
and, entirely forgetful of the warning which
ho had received, stepped out into the darn
and narrow street, with her leaning on hii
arm.
He had gone but a few paces when he heard
a footstep close behind him ; a man brushed
by him, and, at the same instant, a light
from a ship's lantern flashed out from under
the cloak of Ernest, just in time to reveal
a Spaniard before him, with his arm uplifted
and holding a glittering knife in his hand.
"Joaquin !" screamed Teresa, as she fell
fainting in the arms of Ethelbert.
The would-be assassin irestantly fled, while
the father of Teresa stepped up, and said, in
Spanish :
"Senor American, I will take charge of my
daughter !"
"You have saved my life, dear, generous
Ernest !" said Ethelbert. "But what does
this man say ?"
"lie asks to take charge of his daughter,"
replied Ernest.
"Is that man your father ?" asked Ethel-
hert of Teresa, who was now recovering.
"He is ! Leave me, senor, or you will lose
your life !" sobbed the beautiful girl.
"Since it is your wish, I leave you, Te-
resa t" said Ethelbert. "But we will meet
again. Buena noche !"
'e poor girl made no reply ; for her father
hurried her away, uttering no benedictions as
he went, on the \Yankees, either individually,
or as a nation.
" Well this is an adventure, I must say,"
saidEthelbert to Ernest. "What do you
think of it "
That it is sometimes dangerous fir a
sailor to have a sweetheart in every port. Ihad
I not hurried down to the boat and got weap-
ons and this lantern, it is likely that you
would, crc this, have been testing the realities
of another world 1"
"True, most true, dear Ernest. To you I
undoubtedly owe my life, and a debt of grati-
tude which I can never wholly repay ! I
was for the time infatuated with the beauty of
that girl, and flattered into a delirium by her
avowal of love for me. But I will never see
her more. God forgive me for my thought-
less infidelity to my dear Eva
"Amen !" said lrnest, in a voice which
trembled 'nith emotion.
"I will "ot soon again forget her, or place
myself where I can be so tempted, any more
"You promised to see Donna Teresa
again !"

"I shall break my promise. Better for me
a to do that, is it, than to wrong one who is
more than worthy of my every thought ?"
t   "Here we are at the boat, and the crew is
e awake, and ready to row us on board," said
Ernest.
"Where I shall stay until we get our wood
and water in, and then 'twill be up anchor, and
away for the Pearl Island
"Where another sweetheart must be found
1 to keep up your adage !" said Ernest.
"Do not reproach me any more, even with
t a jest, my dear boy !" sail Ethelbert.
"I will not, captain--I will not, truly !" re-
plied Ernest, and seating themselves in the
boat, they were soon rowed alongside of the
schooner.
CHAPTER XIV.
"You will take all the boats, Mr. Tyrrell,
and go ashore for wood, and also hire two
water-tanks, or three, if possible, to some
alongside, and fill our empty casks and
tanks !" said Ethelbert to his first officer,
early on the morning which followed the night
of the fandango.
"Why, sir, I thought you said you'd be after
stayin' here a week, sure !" said the mate.
"I have altered my mind. I've a right to
do that, have I not ?"         g'     t
"To be sure, sir. A captain aboord his
own ship is like a king in the ould country.
He can do no wrong!"
And thus saying, Mr. Tyrrell departed from
the cabin to obey his orders.
The momentafter, young Smead came out,
smiling and pleasant, from his state-room.
"how do you find yourself this morning,
captain ?" he asked.
"In good condition, and as full of gratitude
now as I was three hours ago, for your gen-
erous services. I have not been to bed, but
have occupied myself in writing home a good
long letter to her whose memory I so wronged
last night, in half-forgetting her charms in
the presence of that wily Chilenian siren
"I hope you did not confess your esca-
pade !"
"Indeed I did, my boy! Concealment of
my faults shall never make me less worthy
of her! Nor did I forget to speak of your
noble conduct, nor the great happiness which
your company has afforded me during the en-
tire voyage. Though my junior, you have
often been my mentor!"
"You took a lesson in flattery last night ;
and, in all truth, made rapid progress !" said
Ernest, with a low, musical laugh.
" I'n all ready for going ashore, sir!" said
Ty rrell, at this moment coming into the cabin.
"have you any further commands, sir 4"
" Yes-thc country is warm where we are

THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.25
going, and the water may not be very pue. self. "The water is all below, so is the wood,
uy for me a half-dozen monkeys !"       and as soon as I've paid these bills, we'll man
"Monkeys, sir ?"                       the ch ip-tackle, and run the anchor up ! I
"Yes-and make all the haste you can. If want to be out of this port 1"
possible, I want to sail by mid-day !"     "So do I, you may well belave, sir ! It's
"Ay, ay, sir !" said Tyrrel, muttering to nothing but blunder wid me this morning. I
himself as lie went off: "I wonder what the came within next to nothin' of gettin' into a
divil monkeys have to do with water ! I never broth of a row ashore this morning, wid an
knew one that could swim yet, and, like some ould woman who sold me vinegar and water
men, divil the drop of water will they take if and called it aquadiente !"
they can get any thing stronger !"         In a half-hour after this, the Spotted Fawn
'The voice of his captain recalled him to the waa standing out to sea under all sail.
cabin.
"Mark all the bills you make, and send
tiem off to me at once for payment," said
Ethelbert. CHAPTER XV.
"Ay, ay, sir !"                          The gale in which we left the brave ship
"And go to the American consul, and pre- iKinderlook, held good and strong for many
sent my respects, and say that I would call days-or she " carried it with her," until she
upon lim before I sailed, but I am rather in- had nearly reached the equatorial line. Mon-
disposed this morning."                  sieur Laseelle was in "glory," as the happy
"Indisposed to call on him, d'ye mane, shouters say they are, at camp-meeting, when
sir ?"                                   the spirit gets loose among them. lie spent
"Indisposed in health, you goose !"    a great deal of listime in the fore-top, where
"Is that all, sir ?"                   he had become an especial favorite since he
"Yes, all."                            had so liberally settled his footing. is voice
Tyrrell now went off,-again muttering:  could there be heard from morning till night,
I believe the captain has taken a drop too nearly, singing gay songs ; for he was assured
much this morning," said he. "I thought so by Captain Van 'I'assell that they would be
when he ordered me to buy a lot of monkeys sure to overhaul the "Spotted Fawn" at Val-
for him, and now he calls me a goose, instead paraiso, if she sjiould stop there for ivood and
of a gander ! Sure if lie wasn't my captain, water, as most likely she would ; for the ship
I'd retort by calling him a faymale donkey." had averaged nearly eleven knots an hour
from the start, which was "tall running," so
Before noon the bills for wood, some fresh steadily kept up.
provisions, and the monkeys, came on board.  "When shall we see ze line-me equatore,
The man who brought the latter "bill also Messieur Captain ?" asked Mr. Laseelle of
brought the articles with him, in the shape of Van Tassell, as the latter laid down his sex,
a cage, containing six as mischievous "ring- tant, after ascertaining the meridian altitude
tails" as ever climbed a tree. Not having sold of the sun, and thereby his precise latitude.
the cage, lie set the animals loose as soon as  "If we runs on at dis rate, me shall cross
he got on deck ; and the first that Captain de line in ynut treehours more,"said Captain
Van Ness saw of tliem was when they were Van 'Vassell.
aloft in the rigging, chattering like so many  " Ah, ha-- must we not eut heem to get
imps !"                                  across ?"
"What does that mean, sir ?" he asked of  "No - old Neptune will do dat, and take
Tyrrell, who had just come on board, and he tell from dem as never crossed der line
pointed aloft,                           before 1"
"Why, sir, they are the monkeys you or-  "Neptune-se god of ze sea ?"
dered !"                                   "Yaw-der olt duyvel himself! You shall
"They? They?     Are you a natural-born s e him pyi-and-py, mit his oakum hair and
fool, sir? I wanted the clay monkeys which plard and it his harper and frau, and all
the natives here, as they do in Havana, Rio, dat !"
and all hot countries, use to cool water in !"  " Ah ha! now I begin for to un'nerstan'
"And why didn't you tell me in plain why ze mens object to my use ze foultop on
words what you wanted, sir?"             ze "forerastcl for to sing and smoke zis day.
"I did !"                              Zey make preparation to receive ze god of ze
"Then, faith, I behave I am a fool ! But sea--zat is it, ehl ?"
I'll ate thim monkeys, and go and buy the " Yaw, phat was it !"
other kind at my own expense !"            "El ibien, I shall go and communicat ze   .
"You'll do no such thing !" said Ethelbert, intelligence to l'essie Peek and M'essiour
laughing himself into a good-humor at the Snoolgras!  Auying zat is news will be
Manner in which Tyrrel haid expressed him- agreeable to seam, I 'ave some doubt!"


_ t
s
t
j}
_t
s
6
2

THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

38           THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
And the worthy Frenchman went quickly information that Mr. Snodgrass considered
to the cabin.                            himself toll-free.
"Bessie Peck! fMistress Bessie Pick !" he  "We scall see apout dat yen Neptune
cried, as soon as he got below,          comes apoard !" said the captain, with a grim
"Wall, sir, what's wantin' ?" asked that smile; and he found some business forward
amiable lady, who had completely conquered of the foremast soon after, where the men
her sea-sickness before this time.       had raised a canvas curtain some six feet
"Where is Messieur Snoodgl-ass ?  I 'ave high, which extended from side to side of the
some news particular to impart to him and sh p.
to you !"                                  Behind this, most of those who had not
a s'pose he is a-prayin' in his state- been employed about the usual work of the
room!" sa-d Betsy. " I do think lie's the ship, had kept themselves during the early
most speritual-ninded creetur that ever part of the day ; and as none but the officers
preached the gospel."                    or crew had been forward of the line aL.
Oui, certaincme3 t, Bessie ; he mind ze luded to, their employment was to all others
speernt of cogniac brandy a great deal !"  unknown.
"Oh, I don't mean that, lie may take a   But what was most singular was that Kat-
leetle brandy to keep from being sea-sick, as tine and her uncle had b"th complained of
I do; but I mean h. is chock full of the spent being unwell, and kept their state-rooms,
of grace-of religion."                    whither, es1 eially to the room of Katrine,
"lie is generally very full of grease aftare enough food and ale had been sent from time
lie has eat his dnnare ! lie have one los ap- to time during the day, to supply a general
petite/ But I must see him. Messier Snood- hospital.
grass-Messieur Snoodgra'ss!"                               ___
"What is wantin', Mister Lascelles?" asked         CHAPTER XVI.
the member of the Baptist persuasion, as lie  It was some two hours and a half, or three
entered the main cabin from his state-room, hours, after Mr. Laseelles had told Mr. Sn9d.
his unsteady step showngthat he had not grass and Betsy Peck that Neptune Was
yet got used to the roll of the sea, though all coming on board. The wind had died off into
the pallor of sea-sickness had vanished from a very light breeze, and the sea had settled.
his face, which was becoming suspiciously into a mill-pond smoothness. The lack of atr
ruddy, considering that he knew the way to below had ingueed Mr. Snodgrass to come on
the store-room, where Mr. Lascelles kept his deck, as it had also Mrs. Peck, who evinced a
brandy.                                  decided fondness for the society of Mr. S.,
"We are to 'ave a visitor in two or three whom she thought so full of grace. Mr. S.
hours-a very important visitor."         had laid aside his suit of black when they en..
"Who-who ?" asked both Bessie and the tered the hot latitudes, and now appeared in
reverend Elihu, in a breath.             a suit of pink-striped calico, as particularly
"Ze god of ze sea-ze god of ze sea, mes Yankee in its cut, as it was in quality. Hnat
hers companiones !"                     trowsers were short at the lower end, very
God is everywhere, and has been here all high-waisted, and so tight to his slender
the time l" said Mr. Snodgrass, very sol- shanks did they cling, that it was a mystery
Cenly.                                   how lie ever got his huge feet through them.
"Outi-zat is very correct, Monsieur Snood- A calico jacket-the same material as hispan-
grass, when you speak of ze bonh Dieu, ze good taloons, short and tight in the sleeves, and a
God, zat was c eat ze world. But I 'ave al- broad, standing-collared calico shirt, com-
lude to ze god of ze set--hon Neptune !"  pleted his body-covering. -On his head he
"There is but one God, and lie is Jehovah!" wore a limpsey straw hat, with an immense
said Mr. Snodgrass, yet more solemnly. "On- brim, which flapped about his ears whenever
ly one God, nid I. Elihn Snodgrass, of the the wind blew any.
Baptist persuasion, a believer in immersion,  Mrs. Peck in her "full dress" had sought
ant only a poorjourneyman iem his service'  to revive the fashions of twenty or thirty
"But, snre, you will see, by and by, you years before-lher leghorn bonnet protruded
'ave nake one grand mistake. when Neptune at least eighteen or twenty inches forward of
come on ze hoard wiz his barbare, and make her head-sie had a great turkey-tailed fan
you pay zc toll !                        in one hand, and a smelling bottle'big enough
"No Neptune will take toll from me, lii. for a huntsman's drinking-flask, in the other.
a preacher, and entitled to go toll free every-  A short time after they had come on deck,
where-"                                  a gruffvoice apparently directly ahead of the
"We shall see, Monsieur Snoodgrass-we , ship, which latter was'now nearly becalmed,
shall see !" said Mr. Laseelles ; and he went was heard to shout
on deck, to make further inquiries about   " Ship ahoy'"
N eptuue of the captain, and to impart the  "Iallo Y" responded Captain Van Tassel

27

through his trumpet, he having just appeared
on deck dressed in his best suit.
"What ship is that ?" continued the voice
"Der Kinderhook, from New-York, Myn-
dert Van Tassell, master !"
"Heave to-I comes apoard !"
"Yaw, Mynheer Neptune, I do dat so sdon
as never was, und you will give us more wint
py and py !"
And the Captain at onee had the main-top-
sail and topgallant sail braced aback.
Considerable bustle was heard forward for
a few moments, and then the canvas curtain
was suddenly taken down, and.a curious spec-
tacle was made visible to Messieurs Laseelles
and Snodgrass, and Betsy Peck.
A very quaintly-dressed old man, with a
long beard and long straggling locks, which
looked'very like oakum, advanced aft. lie
had a wreath of sea-weed oil his head, and a
huge harpoon in his hand. A strip of canvas,
shaped something like the skirt of a tunic.
covered him from his hips to his knees. It
was dripping with salt water, as also his hair
and beard. He wore no other garments. His
features bore a strong resemblance to those
of the second mate of the ship, and they
might have been related ; for it was the boast'
of the mate that he had been born at sea, and
never had been ashore more than two weeks
at a time during the whole course of his life.j
Behind this old man cane a dripping and
very hard-faced representative of the female
sex, and an individual who, dressed sonic-
thing like himself, carried as implements of
his office, a razor, the blade of which was
made from a piece of iron hoop, and was at
least a foot long. Also a bucket containing
a compound evidently more tenacious than
saponacecous, for it appeared to have a good
=*        deal of tar in its composition. For a shaving
_Y       brush he had a well-worn broom with a bro-
ken handle.
"You are very welcome apoard der Knick.
erbocker, Mynheer Neptune-you und your
frau und your harper !" said Captain Van
Tassell, ad vanecing and shaking hands with
the jolly God of the Sea. "Will you all
drink some rum mit me and smoke a pipe?"
"Yaw-we'll do dat und den examine your
passengers what 'ave nevercross der line, and
paid inc der toll!"
"Mille diables-Neptune speak Dutch to ze
Dutch. I wondare if he will not speak French
wiz me ?" said Monsieur Lascelles, and ad-
vancing, with a low bow, he said :
"nComment vous, portez-vous, Monsieur
Neptune ?"
The jolly god looked nonplussed for a
moment, but then in an instant recovered his
self-possession, and replied in Dutch:
" N ix forstay
x            "A lha-lhe does not reply to me in French,

6"

but in Dutch, which I do not understand. I
shall write to ze Courrier des Etats- Unis, zat
Neptune is Dutch,-all se sane as Monsieur
Colman, eir particular frent of ze opera 1"
The rum and pipes were brought into re-
quisition, and for about ten minutes Neptune
and his suite occupied themselves with those
articles with great apparent gusto. I should
have mentioned that some half dozen Tritons
followed in the train of the Sea God, to aid
in the collection of his dues.
"What do you tink of se God of so Zea,
now, Monsieur Snodg'ass, eh ?" asked Las-
celes, of the reverend Zlihu, at this juncture.
"It is some mummery, but verily I cannot
understand the drift thereof !" said Mr. Snod-
grass.
"Was is dat you call me, you mister mit
der towel on your neck ?" asked Neptune, who
had heard the reply of Snodgrass, at thesame
time striding wrathfully toward him, with his
harpoon poised as if to transfix him.
" Aroint thee, Satan-avaunt!" shrieked Mr.
Snodgrass, retreating until he tripped and
fell against a coil of rigging.
" Who der duyvel be you anyvay ?" asked
Neptune as he bent forward over the fallen
and terror-stricken man.
" Elihu Snodgrass, a member of the Baptist
persuasion, favorable to complete immer-
sion ?"answered the terrified preeher, hoping
evidently by lis last declarafon to uollify
the water-god.
"A breaher-man ! Come here frail and see
a broacher man what gets his livin' by doing
nothing! lie breaches dat a man musn't
work on Sunday, and den takes money for
working' dat day all de work he does 1" cried
Neptune.
"Make der fool pay two tolls den!t" said
tho wife of Neptune, coming up and looking
at the trembling Elihu with an expression of
great contempt.
"Preachers don't pay toll nowhere. I never
did, and, please grace, I never will !" said
the Reverend Elihu, picking himself up and
trying to get to the cabin.
This attempt was however frustrated, for
while he laid on the deck, several of Neptune's
body-guard had been posted as sentinels in
that direction.
"Dat man needs to be shaved ! A breacher
man has no pizness mit a peard !" said Nep-
tune to his barber.
In  an instant the Reverend Elileu was
struggling in the grasp of two of Neptune's
aids, who forced hn on his knees, while the
barber, first lathering his thin and almost
smooth jaws with tar, proceeded with his
razor to barberize him to the extent of his
ability.
Whenever the unfortunate man opened his
mouth to yell in angry agony, the barber

1(


THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

f

2.$          THE SHELL-HIUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
would quietly dash his lather brush into it pleased ; and in token, Captain Van Tassell
and half suffocate him.                   said, had sent them the pleasant breeze which
There was too much tender sympathy for now filled the sails of the gallant craft, waft-.
the "man of grace" in the bosom of Mrs. ing her along on her southward course right
Betsy Peck to permit her to stand by, and merrily.
see him thus treated without her interference. " Zat Messieur Neptune was one fine shen-
" You brutes !" she cried, "Let him alone! tilhomme !" said Mr. Lascelles to the Cap-
If you don't, I'll scratch your eyes out !" and tain. "But never would I desire tq be shave
she rushed at the barber, who very quietly by his Barbare, nor do I tink zat anybody
met her full in the face with a broom full of ever will elope wiz his wife for her beauty !
tar, and said :                           But I was very content for to pay my toil,
"Voman, onu keep still. It is your turn and now to feel zat I 'eve ze libertec of ze
next, 1 will shave you yen I am tone nit der sea!"
broacher !                                                   ..-
"Shave mc--E ?" screamed the half-choked
widow as loudly as she could, through her             CIIAPTER XVII.
lip-coating of tar and grease. " Oh you hen-  Rightly named is the Pacific, though it,
then-Oh you wild cats-Oh you miserable like the very best tempered woman in the
creeturs !"                               world, sometimes becomes ruffled. For many
You just holt your jaw, olt voman !" said days after the "Spotted Fawn " left Valpar-
the wife of Neptune, taking 'a huge quid of aiso, she stood on her course with light, but
tobacco from her mouth, and casting it dex- fair breezes, such as enabled her to set "stern
terously into the open mouth of poor Betsy.  sails " below and aloft, giving her crew but
The latter gagged a moment-tried another little work at the braces, and still less about
scream. anid thin did the best thing she could decks. They occupied themselves as thorough
under the circumstances, wilted down and seamen generally do in such cases, making up
fainted away.                             light clothes for'themselves-braiding sonnet
Meantime the shaving process had been for their hats, and making up varioustrinkets
concluded on the face of Mr. Snodgrass, to use in trade among the Kanakas, as all
which resembled somewhat a beef-steak which South Sea Islanders are termed.
had been hauled over a coal-heaip. A few    At night, they would gather in a group for-
buckets of salt water were thrown over him, ward, and sing jolly old sea-songs, or listen to
and a quart or two put down through a speak- some thrilling "yarn " spun by one of the
ing-trumpet tunnel.                       most experienced of them.
")ere-seein' as you are a preacher man,  In the cabin, Ethelhert would enjoy himself
mit der privileges, we wiM share you nothing in reading, or in listening to the music of
for your shave ; but if ever you speak one 'Master Ernest's voice, which *as really su-
wort against Neptune, just look out for perb. His execution on the guitar was fine
squalls ' said the sea-got , as he directed his also. So that all went pleasant as a maiden's
aids to release the unhappy Elihu.        dream, on board.
'Now !" said Neptune, "  we will see apout  Some forty or fifty days elapsed before any
der voman !"                              land was sighted from the deck of the schoon-
Shientilmen, and Messeiur Neptune, if it er, but at last the lofty peaks of Mendana's
shall phase you I will pay ze toll for Island group, or the Marquesas, rendered
Iessie Peck, so zat you will not shave her !" classic by the gifted hand of Herman Melville,
said Monseiur Lascelles. " For her anti for in his "Typee " and " Omoo," were discover-
myself I will pay ze toll, fir I wish not to lie etd  Yet as these were not the islands for
shave at zis time ! I suppose I give you one which Ethelbert was bound, lie gave them a
five galon of brandy, eh-zat is currency in wide berth, and still bare to the southward for
ze sea, Mtnseiuir Neptune ?"              Parmotie--the Isles of Pearls.
"'Yaw-yaw, dat will he goot !" said Neptune,  The enthusiasm of yung Smead increased
and Monseiur Lascelles was allowed to help as they moved along in telescopic sight of
* Beesie Peak" into the state room, while Nep- those mountain-backed islands, which seemed
tune anti his train took charge of the braitdy, to have sprung in flowery verdure right up
which he sent up by the steward.         from the sea. There they were, often so near
Poor Snodgrass was loud antd bitter in his the coast that they could distinguish the
lamentations when he got below ; but he took smallest trees and even shrubs, yet no sound-
good care it to speak against Neptune, for inigs could be had in thi deip-blue water over
fear of flit' threattenel squalls         which they smoothly glided.
After Mr. Lseelles hal brought poor      After the Marquesas hail been left on the
Bets- into a state of ctnsciousness, and a starboard quarter, Captain Van Ness aund his
conviction of present safety, he went on deck  mates began mote anxiously toscan the hori-
where he learned that .Nettune had left we,  on ahead, and to make preparations for de.

I

fending their vessel, as well as for trading. or 'twouldn't have spouted fire !" said Tyr-
Their six-pounder cannon were fired, well rell.
Cleaned, and re-shotted with bags of musket-  "You think he is at the bottom of all vol-.
bullets. Every musket on board was put in canoes, do you ?" asked Ethelbert, with a
complete order, and loaded. The battle- smile.
axes and pikes were seen to, and to each man  "To be shure, sir! Hasn't he charge of
was given a good cutlass and a navy revolv- the fiery regions below? And don't the
er, of Colt's unsurpassable patent, which he volcanies spout brimstone, the very commodi-
was commanded to keep' in constant fitness ty which the ould heathen uses for a hot
for use.                                  bath, every day, for himself and the nisera-
Ethelbert had not only provided Colt's lit- ble divils that he lays hands on?  It's me-
tie pets, for cabin use, but had also laid in a self that'll show him a wide berth, if there's
dozen of the incomparable double-rifles made any good in the howly Church ! Shure I
by Ogden Brothers, of Oswego, with which never go into port without givin' a praste
a competent marksman could, "knock the something, so that he'll pray for mne."
spots" out of a man-eater at four or five   "Why don't you do your own praying?"
hundred yards. All of these preparations ashed Ethelbert.
had been made because the treacherous, cruel  "Shure, sir, it's not my trade ! I'd a hae
character of the savages was well known, and rather pay them that make a business' of it.
the great risk which all traders among them how the divil would they live, if we did our
ran of being cut off in an unguarded mo- own prayin', sir ?"
ment.                                       Ethelbert could not gainsay Patrick's ar-
At last, just when Ethelbert had laid down gument, so he went below to write up his
his sextant, and while he was "working up" diary, and enter his observations, while the
his latitude, the masthead look-out cried : schooner moved slowly in toward the land,
'Land ho !"                               which, being high, was yet a long way off.
"Where-away ?" asked Tyrrell, who was in                  -
charge of the deck.                                  CHAPTER XVIII.
"Iead ahead, sir!"                       The IKiderhook entered the harbor of
"All right! 'Tis Panmotu, by my obser- Valparaiso, just one week after the Spotted -
vation, as well as reckoning," said Ethelbert. Fawn had left. So her captain and passen-
" How does she go by the log, Mr. Tyr- gers heard from    the captain of the port, of
rell?"                                    whom inquiries were made as soon as he st
"Only five knots, sir. There isn't much foot on board. So, had not the affair con-
more wind than would lift a feather."     nected with the fandango occurred, in all
"We'll not be in with the land, then, be- likelihood EIthelbert's stay, prolonged in tc-
fore morning ; but a good look-out must be cordance with his first intention, would have
kept by the whole watch, below and aloft, enabled his pursuers to conic up with him at
for there is but little dependence to be placed that point.
on charts here-they all disagree--and the   The chagrin of poor Lascelles, at having
coral-reefs grow  into danger-spots every so nearly aeompijlished his hopes, and yet
year."                                    failed, wa  excessive ; but when, on visiting
"That's so, sir;.and I've heard tell that the otie  of the Uited States Consul, in
the 'Old Boy' himself has a way of heaving company with Mr. Tromp Van Ness, ie found
{       up rocks right out of the wather for a ship letters there which hid been left by Etiel-
to butt its head against; and that sometimes bert to be forwarded to New York. and saw
he sinks an island, in the same way, and it's that one of them was directed to "Miss Eva
never heard of more, while ye can sail over Lascelles,".bie consoled himself by the thought
the spot where it was by the chart. How is that his daughter had, so far, preserved her
it, Mr, Tabor?  Yon've been after sailin' in iiieognito and disguise, and was not yet mar-
these seas before."                       ried to Ethelbert, which he would have eon-
"Wall, I've known such a thing as big sidered an irretrievable less.
rocks and small islands being missed from   The first move of IKatrine was, to ask Cap-
where they used to was," said the second tam Van Tassell for a boat, in which site
mate. "And once on a time, when I was a might visit the market, for her store of eab-
sailin' in the Jerushamiah, a whaler, out o' bages, pigs'-feet, and sausages had given out,
-        - Bedford, we anchored betwixt two islands and she wits suffering for those delicacies;
one night, and the next mornin' there was though there was yet plenty of pickled
another right in' the mouth of the channel kraut, salt pork, beef, mackerel, ham, &amp;c.,
where we'd run in the night afore, and 'twas &amp;c.
spoutin' fire and smoke worse than a sperm  The captain, who had evidently thought a
whale at play I"                          great deal of her since the hug she gave him
"Shure the ould boy had a hand in that, under water, off the Battery, not only let her

29

as

{

t


THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

have a boat, but went in it to aid her in her
selectione nod purchases. These were enor-
mous; for, when the boat came off, it was
loaded literally to the water's-edge.
Mr. Snodgrass having evinced a desire to
visit the shore, although he considered it
Worse than a heathen country, inasmuch as
it was Catholic, asked Mrs. Betsy Peck if she
would not like, also, to go on shore.
The lady was not loth to visit land again,
especially under the protection of a man of
grace, like Mr. Snodgrass, and she at once
conuented to go, as soon as she could get
* fixed up."
This last idea suggested to Mr. Snodgrass
the thought that he had better put on a cleri-
cal garb, else the "persuasion" might not
be properly represented in his person in that
heathen land. So he went to his state-room,
and donned his suit of rusty-black, swathed
his neck in a white handkerchief-for Bets
had washed and ironed it herself-put on his
bell-crowned, bek, sad napless hat, his best
cowhide  boots - making   himself "shine
again," as he thought.
After a labor of nearly two hours, Mrs.
Betsy Peck came out, with her hair curled in
wiry ringlets, her cheeks quite blooming, her
whole appearance captivating. She had a
black silk dress on, which was stiffer than
the mainsail, and rustled, as she moved, like
a field of dry, standing corn, when the wind
shakes it, stalk and leaf; she had a white-
apron on, which came nearly to her feet ;
the leghorn honnet, before described, was on
her head ; and she again carried the turkey-
tail fan and smelling-bottle.
And she also produced a huge, green cot-
ton umbrella, which she begged Mr. Snod-
grass to carry, for fear that it might rain.
Under her belt was tucked a hue silk hand-
kerchief, of many colors, scented with laven-
der-water; and she made the Reverend Elihu
a present of one just like it, also scented,
which so pleased and delighted him, that he
said he never, never could think of "wiping
his nose on such a precious relict!"
Having made all their preparations, the
eccentric-looking couple appeared on deck,
and asked for a boat. Captain Van Tassel!
at once ordered a boat to be got ready to
carry them on shore. Mr. Snodgrass now
bethought him of a bundle of tracts which
he had on board, and hurried below to get
them, not doubting but they would achieve a
great deal of good, as they were printed in
English. He had saved them for the Kana-
ka. thus far.
CHAPTER XIX.
Mr. Snodgrass and Mrs. Betsey Peck hav-
ing been landed, commenced their perambu-
lations of the city, Mr. Snodgrass holding the

green, cotton umbrella over their heads, to
shade them from the intolerable heat.
Spaniards are almost universally a very
polite people, and less afflicted with an ex-
hibitable curiosity than almost any others on
earth ; and in Valparaiso they were so used
to seeing Americans and English, that the
appearance of either in their streets never
attracted any attention.
But the outre rig, and exceedingly odd ap-
pearance of this couple, caused them either
to believe that they were masquerading out
of season, or else were from some new and
unknown region, where people dressed most
strangely ; for quite a crowd of young chil-
dren, of both sexes, and negroes, and Indians,
followed Mr. Snodgrass and Mirs. Peck, as
they went along, rather to the annoyance of
the lady, but not much to that of the Rever-
end Elihu, who was not destitute of vanity,
and believed that his personal appearance
"drew" the crowd.
"Let us stop at the corner of this big pas-
tur' lot," said he, as they arrived at a plaza;
"and I'll say a few words to the benighted
ereetors, an give 'em some tracts."
"I do wish there was a tavern, or suthin'
where I could go in and sit down i" said poor
Betsy. "These creeturs stare me all out o'
face, and I'm so warm."
"Wait, beloved sister, until after I've ad-
dressed the heathen on the necessity of total
immersion, and given them a few tracts ; and
I'll try and hunt up one, for I begin to feel
the need of refreshments-a kind of a sinkin'
at the stomach, as I did when I was sea-sick."
And the reverend Elihu having found a
square stone, mounted it--while Mrs. Betsy
sat at his feet-and commenced, in a loud,
nasal tone, his exhortation. Though none of
his auditory could understand a word of what
he said, their numbers increased every mo-
ment rapidly.
Acting as if he thought-and, perhaps,
really thinking-that his eloquence was thus
charming the multitude, who now began to
think that he was crazy, Mr.Snodgrass spoke
yet louder and louder, descenting upon the
talsity of all beliefs but his own, and sending
every one down, down to the lower regions,
who did not believe in or practice complex
immersion, etc.
All at once, as he paused to recover breath,
a small bell was heard tinkling in a street,
which led into the plaza ; and, as its sound
reached their ears, the people of the vast
crowd were seen to sink to their knees in an
instant, and all were silent. This movement
rather surprised Mr. Snodgrass, although hi
first thought was that he had made a whole-
sale conversion. But when he saw a proces-
sion of priests, with lighted tapers, bearing
the image of a crucified Saviour on a cross

THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

,nd the chalice of the Sacred Host under a
ee.nopy, and the images of several saints be-
aide, his astonishment vanished, and his anger
increased-or rather his zeal
"O ye idolaters !" he shouted.  "Why
bow ye down to wood and to stone !"
Just at this moment a guard of soldiers
approached ; and the officer who commanded
them gave him some order which he did not
understand, as it was spoken in Spanish. All
that he could make out was calaboza, and he
had heard on board ship that calaboza meant
prison.
He did not, however, heed the officer at all;
but, as the procession came nearer, shouted:
"0 ye minions of Rome I see ye not one.
who is anointed-"
His remarks were suddenly cut short by
the not-very-tender prick of a bayonet on
that portion of his body which would first
have come in contact with . chair had ho
sat down.
"Oh I" he yelled.  "Don't do that --it
harts!"
The sword of the officer made a sweep in
the air at this moment ; and Mrs. Peck
screamed fearfully--for she thought that the
reverend Elihu was about to lose his precious'
hL.ad. But it was only his hat which the
officer knocked off, and which fell directly in
front of the priest who carried the crucifix.
Elihu rushed after his precious tile. The
priest kicked it out of his way into a mud-
puddle. Elihu was flesh and blood ! That
hat had been worn by his father, and his
r grandfather also. It had been a Sunday-go-
to-meeting hat for near a century, and now
it was kicked into a mud-puddle by a Catho-
lie priest!
Elihu looked at the hat-'twas but one
brief, fiery glance. His ebenezer rose! Ho
struck straight from the shoulder, and the
bundle of bones at the lower cd of his right
arm landed full in the face of the hapless
priest, who went down much in the sty e of
Sayers in the presence of Heenan.
The reader may well believe that "iRome
howled" about that time. The soldiers pitch-
ed after Snodgrass, who, having got his hand
in, went to his work handsomely, as the ring
reporters would say-instantly and ably sec-
onded by Mrs. Betsy Peck, with her closed
umbrella, which she wielded more to ward off.
blows from him than anything else. Down
went priests, and saints, and sinners in a
heap. Torches flew hissing through the air.
Shrieks, and curses, and yells reverberated
among the stone walls of the streets and
plaza.
But numbers were against the success of
Mr. Snodgrass, who-with his second, Mrs.
Betsy Peck-was soon overpowered, h be-
ing almost beaten and trampled to death,

81

Had not the American consul and a high offi-
cer of the Chilian government, who were pass-
ing with M1. Van Ness and Monsieur Las-
celles, at that moment arrived, and interfered
when they were recognized, the unfortunate
Snodgrass would have been killed on the
spot ; and perhaps Mrs. Betsy would have
met the same fate.
As it was, no interference could save- them
from being borne to prison, which, in truth,
was about the safest place for them at that
moment, such was the intense excitement
which they had raised.
There, under the care of a surgeon which
the consul had sent to attend to their wounds,
Mr. Snodgrass had time to mournfully delib-
erate upon the expediency of interfering with
the religious belief and customs of others,
and the policy of raising a free fight with tlE
odds against him.
CHAPTER XX.
All night the schooner had been slowly and
quietly gliding in toward the land, and much
of it had been spent by both Ethelbert and
Ernest on deck--for not a cloud obscured the
sky, and they had the light of a full moon,
so brilliant, that scarce a star could be seen.
In truth, it was almost as light as day ; and,
through their glasses, the captain and his
young friend could distinctly trace the line
of undulating coast, the tall mountain peaks
back-the valleys ranging up among them,
wooded with palm and cocoa-nut, and many
other beautiful trees of that gorgeous clime.
It was only at the suggestion of Ethelbert
that both would be better fitted to enjoy
pleasure, and attend to duty on the morrow,
if they had sonic rest, that Ernest relin-
quished the deck for his state-room: and both
had not slept more than two or three hours
at most, when the steward aroused them for
breakfast, and the first mate announced that
they were on soundings.
"How near to the shore, Mr. Tyrrell?"
asked Ethelbert, who, in nautical parlance,
had "turned in all standing."  In other
words, had ;lain down with his clothes on-
and was up the instant he was called.
"About six or eighttniles, sir," replied the
mate.
"How much water have we under the keel?"
"About eighteen fathoms now, sir--at the
cast before the last, sixty; and the 'east be-
fore that, twenty. The 'ottom is as uneven
as the face of a pock-marked nagut."
"Ay, we must keep a good look-out. Go
on deck, and tell Mr. Tabor to have the lead
cast every five minutes ; after breakfast, I
will take the deck, and see if I can't pick out
an anchorage."
The morning meal was soon dispatched ;
and after that, the captain had all handed

I


F R

Ii

C2           'ITIE SHELL-IIUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIASE.
called to work ship into port, and himself "What effect dees that seem to have on
took the quarter-deck.                    them ?" asked Ethelbertof young Smead ; for
"have you ever been here before, Mr. Ta- he had been too busy in directing the men at
bor?" asked he of the second mate.       the guns, and in conning the vessel, to look
"Yes, sir; once on a time I was, in a seal through his glass.
or out o' New London, called the "Sallie    "All the canoes but one have returned to
Brooks ;" but 1 don't remember much about the shore. That canoe, with only five per-
these islands-for we could do nothing in our sons in it, seems to be slowly advancing to
line here, and only stopped for wood and wa- meet us! A person standing in the stern holds
ter. But the bloody Kanakas made us fight up a green branch !'"
for that, and we lost two men here afore we "Is that not a sign of friendship, Mr. Ta-
got away from 'em."                       bor ?"
"how long ago was that ?"                 "Yes, sir -but they are great on hanging
"Aout twelve or fifteen years, sir."    out false colors
"They may have got more used to white     "Stand by to take in sail, I shall not an-
folks since. I believe you speak the Mar- chor very close to the shore, until I learn
quesan dialect, do you not ?"             what kind of creatures we have to deal with !"
"I don't understand you, sir."         said Ethelbert.
"I mean that you can talk the language   The schooner now moved slowly up the
they use at Nookaheva."                   bay, which became more narrow as they ad-
0 yes, sir; I can talk Kanaka like a book, vanced, and the young captain was about to
I ran away from a whaler, the Jerushaiiah, give the order to clear up, and let fly sheets
once on a time; and was well on to three und halliards, when onthe larboard hand, a
years amongst 'em."                      small circular bay, containing an area of per..
"I am in hopes that the people we meet haps about one hundred acres, opened from
here will talk the same language-if they do, that, up which they sailed by a narrow chan..
I will put you on an extra salary as inter- nel.
preter, for it will favor our trade immensely."  "There is the spot for an anchorage for us,
Thank you, sir. We shall have to keep if there is water enough to get in with. It is
our eyes closely peeled amongst theso chaps. completely land-locked l" said Ethelbert, as
They have large war canoes, which carry his eye fell on it.
forty or fifty men, and there's plenty of fight  "There is water enough, sir, or was, when
in 'em. They proved that when I was here I was there last. I remember it plain, now.
in the "Sallie Brooks," you may reckon In the little cove at its upper end, where the
high !"                                  trees stand so thick, is where we had the fight
"True; on our vigilance 'depends our when I was in the 'Sallie' !" said Tabor.
safety."                                    "We'll stand on, and try it - but in top-
The schooner was now gracefully sweeping gallant-sail, lads-down flyingjib, and broil
in toward a deep and narrow fay, which up the foresail. We'll shorten sail as we go !"
looked as if it would afford excellent anchor-  The canoe which Ernest had-spoken of, lay
age, and he almost entirely guarded from  in the main bay yet, a half mile above this
wind or sea, if a gale should arise. The ap- nook, so well fitted for an anchorage, but when
pearance of the land was beautiful to an ex- those in it siw the schooner suddenly luff up
tree. None but those who dwell in a land and run into t'iat spot, where her sails were
where frost is unknown, or those who have all furled, and her anchor dropped, they pad-
visited a tropic clime, can fully realize how  dled down slowly toward her.
beautiful.                                 Ethelbert now took, up his glass, to examine
"We shall soon have visitors, Captain Van the canoe and its crew.
Ness !" said Ernest, who had been looking   "hoist a white flag forward !" said he. "It
shoreward through his shay-glass. "I see one they show signs of jeace we will not be back-
very large, and four or five smaller canoes." ward in our reply !"
'll let them know that we carry metal  When this was done, the canoe came nearer,
which can bite or bark when it is need- but yet approached with great caution.
ed1" said Ethelbert. "Let the gnn's crews   "By Jupiter, the one who stands up in the
go to quarters at once - I'll fire a salute ! stern of the canoe is a woman, and a beauty--
Draw the ~shot, for I wish to do no harm un- a Venus fresh from the sea, though rather
tit barm is offered to us !"             dusky !" said he, not removing the glass from
His orders were rapidly obeyed, and a so- his eye. "What a bust - what a figure -
lut of eighteen or twenty slits were fired what hair !"
from  the small cannon, which thundered    "Another sweetheart for another port,
through the bav, and echoed off among the captain !" said Ernest, in a low tone, smiling
hills and valleys, with probably, more noise at his enthusiastic encomiums.
than bad ever been heard there'before.     "Ah, you promised not to jest on that sub..

1 /

i
{
t

I


T1E 1l1ELL-l TtTET    : OI, AN OCEAN LOV-Cmt.
pt, Mater Ernest !" said Ethelbert. "But natives of those seas. She tried
you cannot deny that she is a beauty!"   Ethelbert repeated it, at lastshe
"I am not much of a judge in that .ite, the matter, by calling him "Nea
captain !"                                 " What name y ou  r my name
"I'll warrant she's either queen of the tribe, she next said to Silet
or else a princess. 11ow erect she stands,  "8mnead !" ho replied.
with that white robe drawn about her like a  "Smeedee  Good !" she said,
Rloman toga !"                      -    a wild, merry laugh.
The subject of Ethelhert's remarks was now " What for you come ?" she a
within an hundred yards of the vessel, but the elbert
four warriors who paddled her canoe had    "To trade for shells and pea
ceased' to row, and appeared to be afraid to swered,
be afraid to come nearer. She seemed to bea  "Good--plenty me got! Wh
angrily expostulating with themt, judging aka h- we ? Mte hear him talk I"
from her gestures, and she spoke quite loudly.  "Thet officer," said Ethelbert
"Can you understand anything she says, Tabor.
Mr. Tabor ?" asked Van Ness.               She at onee spoke to Tabor i
"Yes.sir---she speaks the same lingo which dialect, which he answered with
they talk at Nookaheva! She is rating them faculty, Through him, Ethelbe
as cowards, because they fear to come on catedhis wish to open a trade fo
board !" shells with her people, saying
Hail them, and tell them that, if they dealt fairly with. them, he woud
come unarmed, they shall be welcome 1" said them, but if they offered any ha
the captain.                             in the least manner like teacher
Tabor did so.- But the warriors still hesi- to punish them severely,
tated. The female suddenly unwrapping the  Pittipenee promisd that evr
robe of white tappa from  her person, and be conducted fairly, and offered
holding it above her head in one hand, leaped board as a hostage during the
from the canoe, and swam toward the vessel send for her three slaters, whon\
with all the ease, and more than the grace of to be younger and prettier than
a fabled mermaid.                          "What do you think of the of
"Lovely - lovely !" said Ethelbert, as ho asked Ethelbert half-seriously,
saw her dash aside the sparkling waters, whd e when Tabor interpreted it.
her long, dark, brown hair floated in a glossy, " You are' captain, and need n,
wavy mass behind her, her perfect limbs for advice !" aid Ernest, quietly
cleaving the water, her whole appearance al-  "1 believe that you are made
most like a moving statue of gold.       said Ethelbert, ahuost impact
Jn a few moments she was alongside, where, you ever see such a magnie
Without aid, she lifted herself on to the nar- kfhe Italian who won immortal
row portion of wood where the fore-rigging sculptured figure of Veus neve
was fastened to the side, or as a seaman would model as this to work from.
say into "the fore-chaiis," outside of the bul- softly dark, and full of passion
warks, where she modestly drew her white glossy hair, such classic feature
role once more around her, shook the water plexion is not more dusk tha
from abundant, glossy tresses, and then with Southern octoroon, and quite as
a wild, glad-looking smile, sprung in hoard-  Pittipenee seemed to underst
anid as lightly and all as gracefully as an Ells- personal beauty was the theme
ler in Sylphide, on the deck, did she alight.  enconnums, rnd she drew herse
Seeming at a glance to know that Ethel- tishly to her full height, and t
bert was the commrrander, ahe advanced with luxur'iant tresses which bad falle
an air of mixed timidity atnd dignity, arid by Iover her neck and bosom. Young
her words p~rovedl that she hid at least before not appear to regard her as very
met with those who spoke English.        he blushed and turned away.
low do you, captain ?" she said. "lie princess laughed.
very well -- me Princess 'ittipenee  what  "Smedee no like Pittipenee
name you ?"                                Maybe he like Pittipattee, hot
Van Ness, beautiful princess !" said Eth- got a jacket!"
(lbert, advancing and accepting her out-   Ard again Pittipenee laughed
stretched hand, w hich he shook quiite warmly lips, showing very white teeth.
fur a first introduction, especially considering  "Me like you, Nessee! Me m
that she was a princess.                 you get old, then me marry S
bTh name seemed to puzzle her, as does all continued
tnmes not eading with a vowel, trouble the  thelbert laughed immoder

to speak it.
compromised
Bee!"
Pittipenee !"
and laughed
asked of Eth-
irls !" he an-
o speak Kan-
, pointing to
n her native
but little dif-
rt comritunii-
r pqurls and
that if they
l do well for
rm, or acted
, e was able
thing should
to remain on
trade, and to
she declared
herself.
fer. Ernest?"
half in joke,
ot look to tne
of marble!"
nltly, " Did
nt creature?
fame by his
r had such a
11er eyes so
- such wavv,
s--her corn-
n that of a
transparent !"
and that her
of Ethelbert's
if up coquet-
rew back the
n completely
rg Smnead di'd
modest, and
The merry
!" she said.
r sister. She
through rosy
rarry you till
medee !" she
lately at this

Y}

=


r,

TIHE SIIELL-IIUNTER; OR. AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

idea, and asked thte prineeos ito it int lth' - i nuiicated that her visitrs. shovcr ti:i
cahin, to take some refrhmslileintis, nil to i- liei Lecn, luau uo t striven to improve h ri ii i-
ecivt' some triesents, He in is ti d upon h it- als, lut rat her ti delete her. In t rut h. Ii
int, !'est aetompiany theiii, hut the y\iutli who will give rum and its masty hiceoiin i-
I - - 1   lIe evident ly did not like the free-  ent toI t civgea hto knows not the evil of
dII   -f manner ind the lavish disphly of the two acci roed thi gs. hell-born, is lower ii
theauties usiadorned " which the IPi ineets ura l grade t han the gre asest lottentot that
Pitt pence elistlave-evel.ri stesucked mud our lii 'eI tid vermin.
Ethelhert, however, was not so sqsuCamtuisht.  1Pititpeice  will go and sleatk her pleople.
Ile asked the princess if she would like otte She l'ealc '. m to be good-tra tair.
wine, when she went into the eaii.          I bien  he conie hack to i  see, mindlr irug
" Me like rum !'' she saidM. "  e drink rum, Pttiipattee ti' umedee !' she said. Amd ibrcusu-
and mc dance ! Mte smoke tolaic m;ae n1 it lg hit r si carlet robe over her gugniieel
heads ; Ime want ribbons; me want calico! firmi, shei mnt on deck as full tf Iile' i  if
Me want powder and     msuskets, for make     she owned tithe universe.
war !"                                         St I, ekotied to her warriors in the a
Ethelbert's idea of the romance of her char- to ote fi for her, ftr they vet had kept al-of.
aeter began to run down entiderable, for he At first they hitstated ;list wli en shite cm-
saw that she wats keen on the look-out for landed the'm to come, threatening if theity
self, antd as apt at hi gging as an Esquimltux. did not, that her friend  Nestsee "Woul
" We'll talk' of those thigs when ne opent iake ls thunder-guns kill the ii, they came t.
trade, to-morrow,' said tie.  ' NoW, as a token  To eaieh of them  Ethelbert gave  a 1 rut'
of fritieship, I will nake Pittipence some pwi ee of tobiac'o and a strilug of heads :mind
hrestt.'                                 the-i he dti-is-sed the lpriic cc, tellingII hue- -
I e' gave her a piece tif splendid scarlet though Tabor-not to coie iagaimi holire the
muslin, smutficient fto tan elegant robe, oime su rose t ltnext day.,a wh  hse would a, mu-it
gay ribbhons, a lookitng.-lass, and a quantityau  te Iiitives att itnile, nditl no  me. to ctset- iut
of coltoredi eals. Also, a necklace of color- hoard to trade.
ed glass heads, worth, ierhiaphs, twic nty-five or  This exteumive caution did lt   ms fto
thirty y cents, at honmie h;-ut to ier s plrc- pleast the hri-cess very imuch :iand he asked'
cios as if each belitd hadi been a diainiilnd.  roughh I'abor. if Ne-ce would nte iue in
Around hi r neck us itwri a string   f tshre, antl sc her and hir chiefs in their t ii-
ieairls, worth not lies than a t, hutisand dtllairs, laget.
pirtobabuly Iiuch more.                      'labutur repulieil, iy direetwin of Ethe'll-t,
These'shetook til' aid htandedl to Ethel'ert, Chit he would lhe  he became satistied,l 1y
aii actually aeht whenli e tried to refuse their conduct, that they wid heper aent
the-n, nor would ite rest until he accepted -frierls ; tihit hte htheamir-u vil   abticiito ' i-ut
thei.                                       ftit.tth 1 hat they imu-t pr flie their good
tootd Nes-re," she said, lien, to 1ihase ws! ill iefire hIe would fully trust fitt.
her, hie put tht'-i in lis pocket.  ' 'le liie t i'lltis ten i it itsatisfy the lovely prinel -a;
Nisetce; h my husahndtilso o1n ug as hit' sti iibihut it-seitiwolit iitto It' until slit had ii
'atiniotu!"                             blhraced atnd kissed Ntsee, uutah alis NSitleusit-c,
And she ebiuhraced and kised tie' ounti  niuch to the disuitittuire of the hatitr, who
captain, with a fe-ri-t' whttich cotutld hatvs bhlun-hed and struggled to get awai hiairder
shiotked it hid shie nut been young and si than a t'iutry girl would, if htc i-i, O  r as
hiandsmt.Ke.                             trving tft kiss hter '' right ou1t ef-rei- f-h s
Persuuadimng ier that rum  was not a fit   hthethlbert laughed heartilv it Ere st, who
drink fir ma piniciess, he' git her tt take at was iathnut angry, when PIttihpei 'ni l.,
ctiuple of glass' if wine  m , and thenlie  geitly  '  odutii v Sit-meete! Me ibrimg ' tiltuP;t-
hinted tiat shie had-h better g  --in sr', mtpttii iiieu fir a wife, mtrrow .
pre1are her tribe ifir tratditng un t- next lar.- AndSh away she' sprung, with a 'ay iai,
llis tnxiety fir hier to go ii slur' s,'n'i-dinu -  liging at a bounttldh iu her Ctliie'. Sht Ii. ia'y-
rathertr t astoinish Pititti enslite ; fur mott hlik-l'  ug a ptahddle as if it were a scseptre. slit st-i'd
ths fe s'{thser white mten ahts haud visited h In d tilieamti.ted a will ind pretty Ir    m  a. ii al
islanil huil shown iore aixiety fir her nteitt 'lear, 05nt coict-ie, while it r'wamorriesn 1a ldis
patiy than he  IIer taste for rut and tInae- aiway.

THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.                          3q
CHAPTER XXI.                     "It is to sing me a song, Ernest. One of
What thought you of our visitor, Master your own composing. The songs that one
, test ?" asked Ethelbert, of young Smead, has heard and can hear anywhere and every-
afur Pittipenee had left.                  where, are tame to me compared to those
"That whatever intercourse she has had which come fresh from your budding heart."
thus far with white men, has not tended to    Without hesitation, Ernest took up his
improve her morals or inculcate modest hah- guitar, played a brief prelude, and then a-
its !" replied Ei-nest. " Whether she or her comipaniel his voice to these words
eole will become any better front the visit   o
1 0 .".Tis only when we're far away
of the Spotted Fawn, will depend entirely on     From those whom most we love
her e-iunander."                               That recollection claims its sway,
.. Ro. 50.                                     And strength of love'doth prove-
11    -        . "The truthful heart trill throb and beat
\Tour exam plew ill be followed by your      Like waves which never sleep,
offers and then. Your orders will be'obey-     And wand'ring back in thought will greet
ed liv them."                                    its friends across the deep.
" len will you take orders for the church  " There is no love when mem'ry sleeps-
--or have you ctiote out incr. as a mission-   For truth can ne'er forget-
arv' ?" asked Etitelbert, ratther sareastily.  The eye which nerer, never weeps,
-    Which ttes dolls never wect.
Ernest made ito reply. But there was a       No index true of love can  e,
volume if reproacht in his almost tearful      No sign of welt-kept troth-
glance, its tie lookdtl Et hilbert once in the  Like bubblesI floating on the sea,
face, tnd tnmi tilted iald went io the cabin.  'uIs made of air and froth!"
Ettellet lit that look. It went hote to  " More truth than poetry there, yet enough
his heart, tin toll hiiti that the youth was of hoth, lear Ernest," said Ethelbert. "I low
right and he w is wrong.  l1e followed him is it that you who sing so feelingly of love,
into the ealilt.                          never speak of it but in your songs ? lave
. Ernest," said he, " I crave your pardon you not left sonic love behind you, as I have
for my i -tempered and badly-timted jest. dont ?"
You are weeping! Forgive me, my boy, and     "No," replied Ernest, with a sigh.
I will be guarded in future, and strive not to " Ah, you deceive'nic, Ernest. Else why
woiunul your sess'itive nature."           that sigh ?"
Ernest extended his hand ; but the tears   " I often sigh almost front habit, uneon-
still rolled down his cheeks.              sciously," replied Ernest. lie seemed about
You know how sorry I am," continued to say more- but the first imate anme intothe
Ethelbert. " 1 know I ant as rude as a hear, cabin to receive instructions regarding the
and as careless as a monkey. Cotme, forgive watch which should be set during the night.
me,,and let us he friends "'              and tie took advantage of this to retire to his
"I am truly your friend, Captain Van Ness, state-room, from  which he did not return
else I should not speak so plainly as I sonic- that evening
times do,'' replied Ernest.  "~To see you
llt'hi-i'uls ant htappx' would be the greatest       CIIAPTER XXII.
pleasure of tt .desire."                 By pitying ten ulIbloons cact to satisfy
" I than yo-i, sincerely-, Ernest.  Your the authoritiess atil the outraged dignitaries of
actions pri e that you ieaii all you sty, the Church--whicli sum Monsieur Laseelles
Accept from lme this necklace of pearIs. very readlty advanced rat hcr tliin subiit to
Pittlpenee would make use take it in cx- delay -the indignant Sinogtirass (journey-
change for the paltry gifts I gave her. I did l (man of the Lorid ane mener of the Church
intend to keep it for my Eva ; but I would militant, of the Blaptist iersuasion) and his
rather vou should have it, as it is the first friend and alhuirer, Betsy Peck, were released
litot'eils of my trade hire. Keep it fir luck,j from eontfinmenlt ; for he was yet wildly ea-
and i token of my sincere and unalterable ger to find his child, before, by any mischinee,
esteem !"                                  Etlheliert should enetrate liii' disguise, as
"I will keep it fir her for whom you first he did not dotubt in tie least that the boy-
destineil it," saud Ernest. " A gift intended passenger, whatever others itight think, was
for her should niot go into oth'r hands ; and his daughter.
I will only be the guardhitain of the treasure,  Though it toek the easy-working Dutch-
h 1inug ind believing tiit, should she ever mamn a coupii if lays longer to wood amid wat-
beciomite your bride;-she wil wear it as a bri- ter ship tithan it hail the active crew of the
dal ehaplet."                            I Spotted Fawn to ido the sante kind of work,
" Have your will, kind Ernest. And now she was ff itat sea Ilgaii after a three-days'
I crave a favor!"     -                   stay in -p-rt, bound for the Pearl islands,~in
" If in my power to render you any plea- the wake of the clipper schooner.
sure, you know I will not hesis ee."         Mr. Snodgrass, with a woful physiognomy,

ti                   5

I
!I.


38            THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
his eyes in mourning, and his nose as large more delicate, and, if possible, more symmet,
nod as red as a well-peeled and done-boiled real in form and feature.
sugar beet, lay in his berth, where he was   Agreeably to the contract, eight of the na-
frequently visited by Mrs. Betsy Peck, who, tire warriors and chiefs were allowed to come
considering him a holy martyr in the cause on board at a time, bringing pearls, shells,
of the Protestant religion, felt so much sym- and shell-work for sale, or rather for barter.'
pathy for him that she quite forgot her own Pittipaenee exhibited hr authority, by pre-
bruises and recent tribulations.           venting the nearer approach of others, though
Though she did not feel at all sea-sick, he hundreds of both sexes swarmed on the beach,
did, and made very frequent calls on the bran- or sported in the tiny breakers like creatures
dy-stores of Monsieur Lascelles ; for he thought half-amphibious.
that brandy was the only cure which could    Pittipenee presented Pittipattee to Ernest
he depended on, antl had to be taken in fre- ,very drolly.
quent discs to do any good, at that.     "Here, Smeedee," said she ; "here Pitti,
Poor soul-how he does suffer!" said patted e. She no talkee like inc. She good
she. '" If there wasn't so niuch grace in hin, for lovee. You like Pittij attee by-by
asit believe he'd die ! The President of the  Ernest, noticing the coy and graceful mod-
United Sttates'll know how the poor man esty of the young creature, at once took no-
has been abused; andl if he don't make war tiec of her, and spoke kindly to her, through
with the cruel Spaniards, he is as lad as the assistance of Tabor, who acted as inter-
they be, and ought to he made to learn the preter.
Book of Martyrs all by heart! Never did a ian  She seemed grateful, but did not exhibit
sutler -o uas lour, dear Mr. Sntdgraa-s. lie is her grat itude in the same manner that Pitri-
se(a-sick all the timue-then he had to be a'- penee laid ;lbut sail, in a few words, very
ilst killed by O11 Neptune and his horrid sweetly chosen, that sie " would like to hav
st t, nd thae e. il-ininled SpanriardIs well nili such a i hbrat lir as Sieedec."
finiltl the job. Dear me ! I wish We were  ' You shall be my sister, Pittipattee," said
or er with this wild-goose chase, and back Ernest, through 'tabor. " And  vu shall
again inV ork."          learnri me to talk your language, iaid I will
Andl etsy went and mixed herself a toddy learn yon to talk mine. I will learn your
ta ke afa romi getting saCisick, believing in a airis en ary day and w r te themi down,o ard
ain eventive as well as ai cure.          thus ae sion can talk, and be ale to do with-
M3'aanwhile, the good shailp, with light winds, auilat an interpreter.'"
nadfe a slow Iroa ress suitlhward. Monsieui ar  Pittialttee was drelighted with the idea. and
Lascelles, as usual, spent the mist if his her great hazel eyes were lewav with gratfl
tine ini the fort-top, looking ahead through a tiars when she kissed the hands of Ericst, to
spv-glat anal siagiimg.                   sigiifi her joy.
\lr. Trip Vin  ess slept ahaiilt sixteen  Aiither tliouglt struck Ernest now, and
hours asuit tif the twenty-faiaai', aa.i nduase  pi alie wnenit below into his stateroomi, where, ill
tbe rti-  if the time in eating, and drinking one if his large trunks, lie strangely ftund a
hit favorite hereraee, A lhanyav al-. IHe slepl-lit ciiui1lete suit of female apparel. This he
sa iamuaalh imat la ie isi not ntotiea that Katrine laid it in slahI a way that Pittipattee wull
andrai 'alltaiii Viii Tau-sell ladaI lii beeaianw anaiaa'r- phri'hally kilw haw fta pit oil tlt' garieits,
.ud1/y ae-tle, eanasid-riaag his intention ofatn hhthen ihe had labor call her down, andi ex-
imaa'r'ing his niece to Ethelbert.       pilained to her that he (Ernet)wished her to go
Whell not eating, ar drinking, or sleep ing, ill there an iliiut on the drels which she would
Kt nut- was invariably t o be found in tomi- there find.
anly wit Ii the gallant captain who had tislied  Pittiaattee looked in and staw the dress and
her up froi the bottoi of the North Risi'. its iplaplutenaietas, and a wild cry of pleasure
escailrl lair hp1as.
-'IAtikeXII.Sh' told E"rist, through T'abor, that a
CHAPTwElaiXXIIiawman dressedin that ay had bteen lo one of
Seare'ly lad the sun riseln aind tinted sea the slhilps that haid ome teo the islasdas.
anal lan i with its tir.t rsv ra's, when the  Eri t aidal thre iiate iautw left her to make
taih a arat to the seihoonr was se, ni taas o be elir tih er tslI, maid in abioiut one-tenth the tine
ae  a rd w aitth tile native'. 'rtiara- liher woarl., whieh it would take a BihIoroaw ay belle to
1'11 inilace eliat' tiff, 1rssed iii her naw sear- ehaise a Caistmnine fair ii her daily aronaiinde,
i s  rbit, h"ri tbe atifil hair Iboiunsll up an railP1aittipaate waa dressed ' for cainyr.''
a    .lrnd w sithl peiris. rare shell's anal tIwasa' rs.  1Ernit ut tared a cry oaf iastaais'hment at
Wait ii lier aieia lit Ipijatte. a l wi'" as younrarigrer, ilt transfoirmatiin which the dress nade,
arid Iein lmurore miode-t., ui simoire agriieea hle Pittiaaattee, douloly beautiful in ler bnashrfui
tlani Ismr-ifto  iti lErnaaest and Et hellert. modeahsty, looked like sine trausecndently
She was also more beautiful than her sister-, beautiful country-girl, for the first time aG

TIE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.                          89
tired in a fashionable garb. Some few errors  And he went down to his state-room to
in the arrangement of her dress there were, find a rig for Pittipenee.
it is true ; but Ernest was as handy as a    "Strange-strange boy !" nmurtnured Eth-
French dressing-maid, and soon    had  all ,elbert.. "I never can fathom . him. I al-
square and right.                          ways hated red-headed people before ; but
One thing he could not induce the sweet someway my heart clings to him as it would
girl to do. Pittipattee would not put on the to a brother."
silk stockings and fawn-colored gaiters which  And he turned again to his trade, which
he had laid out for her. IHer feet were small was far more profitable than ie expected it
enough, and very prettily shaped, but they to be. The demand, however, for knives,
had not been used to confincnucut, and ahe and hatchets, and iron of all descriptions was
would not put them in torture. .           far greater than it was for beads, paints, or
Pittipattee was taller by about six inches gaudy calicoes ; and ie sold half a dozen.
than the one for whom  that dress had been old muskets of scarcely any use, which would
made, whoever that might have been; and be more dangerous to those who used them
consequently, its voluminous skirts--longer, than those whom they should be used against,
by far, than those of a modern ballet-danter for at least five hundred dollars' worth of
--were of sufficient brevity to exhibit an an- pearls, each.
cle, and tapering proportions above, which   The warriors tried hard to purchase more
would have excused a balgworal wearer, at any arms, but Van Ness had none to spare, and
time.                                      he began to look with some distrust on their
Ernest and the mate went on deck, telling wish to get so annny weapons in hand. Yet,
Pittipattee to come up, carelessly, a few main- in their deportment, all seemed friendly and
utes afterward, to see how much she would fair. They strictly kept to the agreement
astonish Pittipenee.                       made by Pittipenee ; and though hundreds
When her sister came on deck, the latter of lovely girls swam off within a cable's
was coquettishly looking at herself in the length of the vessel, and many a languishing
mirror which Ethelbert had given her; and glance was east toward the seamen on board,
which, though an oval of six or eight inches in not one ventured to break the taboo* which
diameter, she wore suspended from her neck,  had been placed upon them.
Pittipattee went up and looked over her    Pittipenee, aided by the active and now
shoulder. Pittipene, who could only see somewhat experienced hands of Pittipattee,
the reflection of her face, laughed and turned  was soon arrayed in a tolerably fitting dress,
to look at her. When she saw how strangely, which, however, she would not wear precise-
and yet how splendidly she was arrayed, she ly as Pittipattee did hers.  Ie r bust being
was for a moment utterly speechless from  large, rather More than filled ti1e dress abovo
astonishment. Then, looking at Ernest, she the waist ; therefore, she dispe sed with the
asked her sister if Smaeedee had given her use of hooks and eyes, and exhibited the sa-
those clothes. On being told that he had, perb, worked cherisette beneath.
she cried:                                 She, too, ignored the use of shoes and
"Me love Sneedee, too! Me love Smee- stockings ; and, being yet taller than her sis-
dce a nheap !"                             ter, looked like an Ellsler, or a Taglioni,
And she sprang upon him with the fond ready for a trial dance before admiring thou.
ferocity of a tigress, and almost smothered sands.
himu with kisses.                            There was a marked difference in the de-
In vain did Ernest strive to tear himself meaner of the two maidens, also, as they ap-
from  the loving arms of Pittipenee. She peered on deck. Pittipenee was as proud as
hugged and kissed until, in half-exhaustion a peacock; Pittipattee was as modest and
and half-despair, he cried out to Tahor to coy as a-village-bred lass at a city ball.
tell her to let hium go, and she should be  "Me got two more sister ! One for you,
dressed like Pittipattee.                  Tabree ; one for Tirlce! Good wife them;
Pittipenee instantly ceased her caresses on but must have dress !" said Pittipenee.
this assurance.                              "Faith, if they get one from me, it'll have
I should like to know, Master Ernest, to be canvas !" said Tyrrell, with a laugh.
how you came to be provide $with such ar- "I've not got a store of such duds, as Mr.
tiles ?" said Ethelbert, looking Sniead in the Smead seenas to have ; and calico has run up
face.                                     jin price beyond the reach o' my manes!?"
"I might have intended to trade ; I might  "I'll go ahead of you for a dress, Tyrrell,"
have thought of wedding a princess ; I might said Tabor. "I'll rig out my sweet-heart in
be a missionary incog., whose duty it would be a jacket and trowsers, and them I have on
to feed the hungry and clothe the naked !"
arid Ernest, with a laugh, as he turned away  *Taboo, An oraer which they must net break. A
from the searching gaze of young Va  Ness, tatooed article must not be touched by them.

3

3


40            TIIE SHELL-IICNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.
hand. When I was in York, I w+ent to the -for the luxury of the climate, and its pro,
1}owe'ry Th'iat'r, aind isw a itIcal-dreetid that dtctionS, told  poii their senetti and daily
way willaicid a hortipipe~ htter tlani all tade them more And more ve '.-to toil anid
creation! I he htier a fivet'-lollar gloldlf pitc', tlaor r        cxanyt hg which hor en a faint
"litn I ho1leret to her to dance it once tmore, resemiiance to hardlit .
and shedtitanced it tie for te. Oh ) hi wan Pittipenee tried to inlueQ Ethclbert toas-
purty ! P'urt  ias a ho)llylhtoek in July !"  r sum ie the s rame ~trelati~to ito her  hich the
I                   '. 1'n~~- Prty ?Asif a Zwomna~n r rgged ot in an ib owtl oiret  o her Nifett rs ; Ihutt ty ung cap-'
I      ~~~a maniA 's rgn' couldIhe 1purty "tin w oulnto              qui(llte so far .as t o (contract
3 '                 t~~ti+1 'And Trrell turned hilyp'g nse  p   evn   a °  11  11" br(oom-stiek m Iarriage" With lort--
inchire t tht eiu e      ndaiw  id thiii, and then  mh to her irorrow, and to ti' edvi  t tla-
whtilted aw ay in digifiiisgut.Ireof E            irnest, who tok a ingut-laril Iteet
I                                                f i~~in the p1rresetrvation  otf Ihi"  fidelity  to  is e  n-
agenlgItiunt wittI Ev a I aiseellet.
('\PTER XXIV.                    A titte tadlvancet. of cootu trade fill off,
The spotted atw1nn lil h, tn at Pamtiotut fitr the native loon iha)rt tlawayo wihl th -'
tover thiset'n ks ; lna n tmrked and nons- hadint   hand, :ainl they nere 'too Iazy to hlook .
!                 I ~ ~ ~ ~drfuil Ih tnL"e had ,'orr(d in all t11lnes since tfor morett'(.
til first three or fontlr lx  if thlt'lit'erarrival.  EttelhItert lt'gan tit think of changing his
h                 ( ~ ~ ~ ~os ineilt,1 of t cornplete friendline'ss of 11te  ovation, tand going to snwtom w spo 1 whre
ntiliv i ', hl'.ttohrt-aiin-t tho aIxe' 1 f  r- irtilie ain  ou1  ld11 e leik. Iut xhin Le
-ne   tadtoi  p  riittte ithis( -w V to  fr ly'  s i-it  1w itiomtll i   iititnti)ti  tolihis 1 ti n ' , thiey
the  I r; allltt r the atif   i t+' eo I ri It  i thoulhtltthati 'itl'  tI 'ititheisto    titr o idIthsr-
gotis t a4 il' t   pb i l  to nill  tifrl  tilw t' ito 1; I l e i'ri 111 tittii  Tlv',I  ohi  t u htI  lii-i 111 ' t  irtk-
'amr ll hit ttef, v  t frili ntly,s-  i d  itl Ifti- i i i'i it"#.ebard--h al sr stw d k
p   rni=  a d  h lI  warrioro,  in  tlt' it 'rt  it i f  i  ll111,1  illd ei  ndIitli' iul  di ,  ii  liic (I ri t rri l  dir ] ,  a ,:Ind
niw ih  ortt -ifnt  i firli i a t   Io   ai n l lsalw i  C  I   .i 1. A  rixet it tl of  wor , tWhichi  uistin-tt in-
et t  lhint,                          I uret'  ie'i:y.r
T    ith   r   In istranes ir  Ifl'rt  it,i Et ll riti' it iA llilti' t e  reali tlly  fti liu t  nolchi of tii
w illtaenlio' i t i  .r fr l  at t ii n.  xi  uhin t -utiIwo'rk u n x ''(If-ry,I ilt l 'rt  t ed i'to  it,
hel ' t  'thenit  i hih  t it fotr  r i   t txhiiit -io,+  a f Its   11rds, t xi ioutI ll tI  cithe tt do it Iis sp' ee dily
tfr  PittiattIf s--ihii liii  i wa-  ettViint l i of  as th i tcoul.
lth   pi'i  :ii il l 'l .  t!ttilhI'i          itttioi n tttnritig-t'e.e  fo  tt.
's~~~~hat the' NHnso n ftsh r, tweretInchanrtitigly }ClI'iPT :I  XXV.
enitiln,   H otiI-  t 'l ftied.\\x inorktiwh ii li   a lrie  irv atin s should have
rlui - ltier,, uii strlamIs of  til andendoti- n eitni 'ii atx bistcte  cti'r a ftutirasi, otem-'
ruhi ttw it  abr ut eakeh it' to-h:nty neltit.i tied the msaioite-s and cew of  the' "anptted
i                      4and  beau}tful  rt s  niit.the t 0.   t oitfs 'a n"f r r tenidays., Atl sty  dint of
t ~~~~~~hand. iThe'fsench s I, 1a5 aicla'ss wI'r' V. ry E1.tt'l' t let+'irsonal super'ivision an're(it-i erat-
I~~~~~t'bautifuil, andit  all Ito  frienditly-theit Warriors  ed  ctalnnands, aill that wts sdesrmed  n'ce'scary
exlil l  s }Oin s ja oVyor di'trust ; limt, ton the  n asit  done", tthe sc'hooner-t's1tanks illetdowl i t w -
ct'nt rary, hv  iuniinat t enlt''Ion, .r  e met'+ a w iih t it r, wsv dt otlitin, andi t he siw a ts ad iforsea.
toi p)s'liristotwth ab  hf of the('  lhut n1w zI  10mlhrt  begaj n  ft)o se'  liow  w iso
sinernit y f their friendship~ .        had N en il th dice of Ernet'tt, t o yreve'nt thel
I saild(that iErn, +ts i ts  ed atnebed f- Ito  Pit -  tn n  fr im f:ees'intiercourH'e ilwih  t  ore.  Fitr
tipFatt, t".  IIe  waa St), :antheii  aotttachm nt  ap-  I tt he mii' sates andi the  men abntost mutinotus-
p)t'ars'+lI tberec(iptre'n!.  'Thi'y were' s t -ther  ly 1vexpIre'ssed  a t ermt'iIintlion -Inot, to go  to  sea,
ahlntst :all fith is'.e exe )tpt durlti in tealtour'  wfitout flt  0 tre allowed;"t  to take' their native
ait edttt  fo'r  rst, and  had  mutua l ll y v s sf. r  Wives  with  thtemi  --  a  mesurbtte  which,  of
1, arned  each:  ofti h+r's  higualte, t iatite 55rI' coretiI ', Et Ihe'lhert suns no, tpr+"tepared tolisten to.
l ~~~~~its orf llThr Swere 'ne lonlger nte'+eed as an Nst ts spak o1tf tthe waste of provssislis
Y                 tin~terptrter'!.                       jwh-lich  woul i nhe', thet' prt'esceof  so  many1
t                 li~~~~Bth itof the n ma Itl adg nth~ lrough  w~il  tlst ith w  m 1 t hnrd woutild  et)   jet lalousie-s  and
' ~~~~~the ntalisst a       t ceremonytt  o it + f marriatge n ti th theit'quarre~t, ls.-er fore- he' would notfor ain t-
t                 ttt't  t t l tt iung  ister '  oa  i P it t l'('ilst'.fi ts!and  sp nt 4stanit  Is it hi l tteir w'ses   ilinh t rspect-s , hbut
F ~~~~~~as amuchtof ltheir time a is ivth'ould tou thors' !he' all tootlenienitly allowed tht ittthrc days
-for lE.tlhlbert, thotughit lp1line wtias: rnt-  mo~sre It t arrange 'o+r  ti-ir depairtutre--giving
:                l's' ~~~rehne 1. i ,tt  ade11t1.'thes-ittandt a reguttlari'   sit is te o rerthttall houldbets'readly to
a ~~~~wthon bI 'ard,                                  tiiii]at daylight ton the morning of the.'fourth
sy ~~~~Mst ffte cewi, fssllstwing the cexamle day, ins
ot ffthe mat. s. Ihad chot a itWits amon~tttg the i'Ii': natiy es-thes ment, at least, of them-
' t ~~~~lveclit          t of the 'island!  mideitns, andiStts'+in'd se not  qu ttitceso friendttly, when they  heard
ve-ry iudlifferenit about ever going to sun agaiu - ithatlte schooner was to leave them ; and the


r

I                                                                                                                              TIE SIIELL-IUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIASE.
women, especially the new-made wives, were and try and run her out un
very loud in their lamentations.          topsil. But there comes a
Even Pittipenee, who had hitherto, in a shore,"
thousand ways, sought to bring Ethelbert into " Yes, with Pittipenee an
submission to her charms, biecamue less assid- in. Maybe they will help us
itous in her attentions, and was very cross " Little help Will women b
with Pittipattee, because she still clung so "I don't know. They're
devotedly to Ernest.                      lv as well as mentally, sonme
At last the morning of the fourth day as quickly be embraced by
dawned ; and Etheltert, who had been led to as by Pittipenee, so far as str
*ecxpect sonic resistance to his orders, hut did ' I believe you hace bad a
not dream that it would be very serious, arose going power. But if they
and went 'n deck to give orders to get under- can work out of this hole ir
way. To his astonishment, the deck was en- and we could run into some p
tirely deserted-not a amn er officer could be ship another crew, and conti
seen, on watch or otherwise.       .        having these ungrateful vil
Ito went down, and looked into the state- life which will not satisfy
rooms of the mates, both of whom had been four or five months at most,
on board when he ret ircd the previous night. In a few moments the two
Neither Tyrrell nor Tabor could be found. le side, and on board.
went into'the forecastle, and it also was de-  Where are my officers a
serted. on examination, he found that the Ethelbert of Pittipenee.
mates and men had r, moved but little of their  (in shore. They going t
elothiig, and none of the arms and anmuni- say. Eat jig, and yam, c
tioni, tnd now lhe saw through their plans. fruit, and banana. No wor
They thought, by thus deserting and leaving Nessee come, too ?"
him single-handed, they could force him into  ' Kessee is going to seai
their measures. Alone, he could not raise an was Ethelbert's reply to Pitt
anchor, or manage his sails. Nor even with  " Good ! Me go, too !" wa
Erncet to hlp him.                     and ready re'joiinder of Pittip
Whilepondering in his perplexity, Ernest " Me, too-me never leave
cane on deck.                             poor Pittipattee, her eyes fil
"   What shall I do ?" he asked, after telling " He make me know goedi
Ernest what had occurred. ' "I deeply regret make me know where God i
not taking your advice before-now be sure "What ti you say, Emnest
that I shall rely on it n contidenitly as I ask bert. "' Shall' we necept the
it--for yiu have always proved yourself'my poor girls, and try and work
superior in wisdom, as well as prudence !" some port where I can get
Can von not run the schooner to sea, honr. I mean no harm     to
-lone, or with my help " asked Ernest.  The bring them back to their pee
natives are not well disposed toward you, I good as they go.
feel confident, fromt hints which Pittipattee htas "I believe you, Captain
throwni outt. I should hav e spoken of this as we tire situated, I cannot
before ; but every time, lately, that I have do bettr than'to accept thei
in any ntinner offered counsel, I have met   Very well, Ernest, I sha
with unkind retort from you."             to be sure of safety, in cisc
"I hav e treated yoit cruelly, 'Ernest. crew should come off to deta
Once miore, i ask youi to fogi   t e !'h   o r   tih winid sol
thingI you suggest is not utterly impossible-  all the arms securely away
IT                                                                                         could slip the cable, and with yu  eprnep      htw    ar ~oto
tip the jibs ; and, as the wind is fair, could then, as the breeze begins to
'get her to sea: but it would betiu                                                                                         utfr    hcl     h   inl   al    y
:us to hoist and Imaae the lre                                                                                                aladwt       h   ntdhl      f
tho ugh the fore and maIiinsails andtpalaegrmkescsilswl
all hoisted by cog'-whel  n  rns  fw     u  fteby and    beynd
hadt only two or three men whoweetuIprithchhycamke
would try and get along."                    " We are ready to obe
We cn run oErnest wit a smile. "
and then, when these mutinousow that I can s
that you really intend to leave them, they their language, will convey y
may repent amdcome off!"                  the girls
That is so.          as the land-breeze  "Very well   As soon as
grows a little stronger, I will sli the cable1 the arms, I will loosen the s

4s
der the jib and
canoe from the
d Pittipattee in
5."
trong, physical-
times. I would
a Siberian bear
length goes.
trial of her hug-
will hell Us, we
a little while ;
ort where I could
tnue mty voyage,
tins to enjoy a
hen niore than
if so long."
girls were along.
nd men ?" asked
o live there, they
Ocoat-nut, l)read-
rkec any more?
n ten minutes !"
pence.
 the unqualified
eentee.
Simteedee !" said
Iling with tears.
from  had - he
ves. Me go, too."
?" asked Ethel-
services of these
the vessel into
help ? On my
them, and will
ple as pure and
Van Ness ; and,
ee that you cat
r all."
ll do so. And,
that any of the
in us, or at least
'ail us, I will put
in ssy room, cx-
tr persons ; and
serve, I will in.
which we ride,
yourself and the
1 sootn sweep us
the reach of any
e"
orders, sir," said
vil aid all that I
peak so much of
our directions to
I have secured
ails, and to hoist


TDE SIIELL-1IUTERi; Oil, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

them will be but the work of a few mo-   "    tell you a secret, Smeedee !" she con-
~ntit't ."                             t 'tinued, " " t' tell yt  i in whisper."
A r1Vtt lhirt hastened to attend to the  Andl te threw one otf her plump arms over
nork L  t. Lii.                     Erieits shuttoultr, and wtiipered toinethitg
in i itear, which mattde h}i start and tlush
more than h' ha eIver lone heiore, while on
board that craft.
CiIAITER NN  V'."''1 "               thtl't  cret, Pittipence! Vsaid he,
lthtliert 1aitn tw dittlto achatm iw  "ei it,ni and it n in t ou't ahalt-dozen
t'ret z.  b'ltin1 gtily frtm the hu, i itettIttt beautifuldre  a when we lot  tto a port
v tl  iutitmtt strngth t to  i'ttcarry  the  h n  whereI1t t  ti tti it r  t'trnOh cai'e b   .  .I ae to  t-
quit r iht i  il thr uhi t  i   e  sOt  ittiI  eat  ri I  '  "'  Nt l tt til h ak plit  i . ,"ste reph tiedt,-" smi n e
t  '  f tthi .'r'  itat in td  the able.andl th   ixxt-tm'tu eeieetgaveh   litriidtre- why  e v t-
-    l  it l i'ne t, i n i the   t-r   ft keep Iitit  nit'  ytilt' \ittitt he kttlei p lit  good  . ittitt   l ii
Frui -~utttlrti                 titit  tntr, c'  it ertt  ltmidr-
the jibt, mi n.  ~ t, , faite fort autlnil iup+tnher.  \Andl the  wildl   ie  ttr  ary
\\ + h  -!.e  s  'rot  it en  to  Ibe  uoiler  ;nih, hlau h, andrlmit lher tunger  ur Ih, r  l  ,to vig-
tl  itt  mtj   av.' :tit k   dt nir  inthett e wi t  a - nift e l nt-hityat tWere  h' i .
ti   ni ti  :t   laci p'rhac.fad /nMt Ect l camte  foI  d i  ife'wi tt en, tt
'their t'u  - rti,  da  m. ea tt' ni't r  w'ast1at  full  hiter, Oand ,'at"  l'rt.  et  lit e c inpa:i s-e,it' u-~
spiedl tto the vitlatte, 011h n brort itntr,'; and we st la nior'th, wich 11he muttt ak e t raich
by  the  t imoethe  sch,+o o r  hadl  run thlrut h  (tith-it,-'.,,
the natlrrowe1pa-ag' lat fir  tdr erte,' andut " I w ill L" ":ude 1utee"the top caeulant sh,'
ri ae  t he oub t tr  t av, htundreds w ter"etiow  n sa t 'id e -ml t ry ti a mil(rt the fotreroil ton the
niy  o  n1 mnu i  i lnt ge t i t i  +n +s i thr,+tr,  anitt ben-it   ill  rt lthe  +':, i  t  w
-1pro'ne  into  their  can.lt . andiii  follt"wtd  the  i hi I ho, rw,-I.  If  ith,'wind  hohit   ur  t,  ml
echiitner, Iamton  w 1ti l  i  'b111  t  Tn c   til ronel', t4 ,will nmake t'the  run  in  a
ttingmtehtratme  ofit'  ii  rew. y    (Viiry'fluwt' arin , it l a i t over lhv't  or' s  huon'-
B1ut t!  br a" -fr. -ha+ ni  ed  the  " Spitted  Idr' tinah 4 , Ift un nmeh.  I havemit yVt tsctaled
F'annt"tdr, w  oll'flthe  land, a i n  spt 1ite oft'the  tIa i t''w ,h-tance, but will when  l  hatve more
t xt rtit'n, of t h  mn 'ati  eshe sooihutt   tthem  far Ilet-ilue  '
behil~l                                    'lii',,  tt indlt' n tel looksif that cloud-
"  W  dill  yiu take  the  behn, t.while  f go 1t'-le  bnk t o l't- telr, sir ."  tsks, d1:rm ttt, pot ~ t
loiw  to l il'k at  nti% ebaurt, andlhape a  coutittr-s  iin  It 'atilow ust  , wry b't1 ula k  ranttie tof c lu s,
for tabein, ,uh l re  I hople tio  ittiltanA mei-t a l tuth  we',re rapi  y \'rt-l ti ':tinst thet' wmdt.
caniI  main-,f-w art,  r 2t  h asttoiiiship  a  crt w  :~~  "  N  tti a It"  ,i'itlt t    a r 't t o u ng  the
tail I-Ethelh rt t a  1:rtio tt.      e  uoN anxuou  y.  "It Iuhs dark  arol thr, t-
~  WVilliniglc.capttain," replied yund m~uead.  en,'ting  "taay Ituthere.  I is titwiv'hadl moere
And  heit' 1 k t h  h Ii m I tth  ai i con'ti~lt e s'a-tt"un,  ""9  ", re  won  au1W  t ro t hi i,set'
ht:tel, for lhe  h hnltitn't' lotn  iat  ,  t hatt  hei e tlatil-.  It swill hbt'tanytthmtir  buit tpleatsat to
,'oul  l  l s  ite  cole~is"  a  s  l11 t  a y  be  an t m a a  lt' ts  sth trtanled ats swe are!.
t' A. 1,'' that teve r simun, -larticle ,stand  nuts  a I  wstil  -tt itor'te s la t'non-ce ien  if tie  have  to
ver'."fair "tat teatorin tithal.;eult     iaway  b I+ -:tnd-by,  'for  wi't nui/i et t mia-
It   oiu  really wlcI i   t '   leave your i~ibutl-  Iroonis  or I1t. dmen t  ashotre', ita galetaktt~" eus
homelt'  'it ipalt' t t  " he t-litd+i f tiwt'    ''lv t "vtly  that we cannot carry  sail, and claw
girl nho stood  n meair  himuI~,loinig  Inot shotre-  tf'11  ltt attel-..
wairdl   i  i  IitA                            ,'  Vhm.  ti"""n  e tam tlthur'ied aloft  to
y', s w d:., mty  brother.  Me  lave  lute the tiplt Ltiti ant lb
Smett'tt1,  ! Smt e  's Godis miliaGod !  WhV e re  \s  s-itn  astieIwi ret urnted  tothelt'deck 1t, 8 t
iSmt, n'e 'lie ', IPit'it'at te  w sill live  !t  "  I+tst' i t, nsi lt  'llumed  honw  tlw eret",- anle'
Th ltc 1'otr  girl  little  kntew  how  near lher  Ibytih,' wshnme  ttlu a  l f bo th Pittip'att i and
wotrds  atnd l her  ft'intes  were  ihket hosi,"'of  htr tr  i.  Altetr that wsdolne'.hIi' sise eth ti
Iltuth, tnlhr itshe '  mnanet"  Natomii:  "  W lhithetr..  in c- ttt ing te for, v:ttl, dt helfli'schoom  r, 1m1bth r1
seever 1th'ii c est, It' rrein ill  I  go  t :  lt thyG d it' Nen +a itha , tmade y' et  faster way  I thought
Iabail  bie iun  (.u,1"  te-            the  wtetr-
Frnlet  e yes'''glistened wttith emotionf, atslht ° t nihdt h l'ecloudlt!rot' fat'ter 1' tolewaird,
sil .  'ittupattt e shall nevser have caus t o   t' the lbreeze wis eb 'Ie"'nte from  h ln ard s t lw gan t
regt'i he  d e  ictiomn.  Stit ''l'"  w'll always  tto  d e t a '.  andl tl 1t l Iet lt' i  ian  muct o   t
t,''t ht r like a sis'tr."         y  featr flntthG  e  woubs'ttl r2eachh Iim  bleft'ehis
\''Witby'+not;a ie fe,eh'l, Smte'e ?"asked Pt'i t e sIel  aliot of tojnht of the,' nowe--drfeded
tipee . Crocks of Uit                         nmotuit' .  Bt  conce aling  ltis fears
Ernte-t made naswertv'.           unde~lr :a eahn te rior, Ihwwent aft. andtere-
l'itt 2+ipee,  lookIedt  him  in  the  eve  with  al °it dte't  rnes't at the behott.  .
tuiscievous glace.                   ( T'he latter, followetld-y Pittipttee, went

TIIE SIIELL-ITNTER; Oi, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.

45

forward to watch the 'ising storm-clouds front yet to linger, that they might prepare for the
the forectiastl, while  Pittipienee  reinined terrible battle, Ethelliert hurried to the sail-
near Etheibert.                             room and hugged up tic fore-storm trCi-sail--
-uo see that a great storm is coming, ti a small, biut stout anil-twhichhlie hurriedly
Von not? 'askedI'rt'est oft is copIianion, as lnt to a half-dozen of the upper hoops of
they stocd by ithe forward rittil and looked oil the fore-sail ending the fore-sheets to its
it the darkenitg ht'oriz,'n ahead.       clew, and the lialliards to its head.
i Ves, me see it '" said Pittipatt ie.'  I henl all this Was dotne-that tri-sail only
-- D hio it f'ear it-ar' that we m tibe heing set, and all the rest stowed or furled-
wrecked'a utlact our lives ' asked Ernest.  Ihe ftoun  time intl words ti express his satis-
" \hT me fn' ?' asked the lovelygirl, action, at hiing so far pireipared for the tem-
' You t'elli' your God is great, and good, pe1ot, and1 to thank h:s amateur crew for their
antd livs every where ! lie save us en the- sea,; reaely- and valuable help.
aill sanne" as save us on the- land'!''  -'' We hadl not a moment ti (pare 1' said hie.
"   s,'' replied I'Ernest, 'in Ilin we will  Look-look at that wall'f fomi!it i' he add-
trust!1''                                   ed, pointing to the northtward, whence the
-- storti camtte.
Anl asE rnest anl the Indian girls follow-
CIIAPTER XXVTI.                i ed the line if hixs eve, the' sa lelow the
It initht havebeen a  alfhour.o nt , otIre, 'clouds of itiky darkness, wii'  made utter
froimi the tiite iwhn Etlelliert set the tol- night ii the distianc, a wall of foam, as
gtilan ititti i , hhxit-jilt, andilfotsai 1, a litttheu; cituiui 'iwhiP'ticasthe ct'lk it'the lyad. It
wind  t txerly I i tdtwi, leaving the shiuooner seetiti t he rolling iore than bullwark-
idly ro lling and  pitching on the waves, with igh towardi teli: whil ai1 dull,heavy sound,
nit hing to steady hei'.                    like the rush of a herd of iulialo tVer a htard-
"liTis' sails iitust cuiie in, and that in a sdoddieda i prairie, reached their ears.  Ernest
isirry, for the gale is coming umitta I tIoItr and Ethelbert sirang to the hatches, closed
bani!" said the young capitituta, and lie turne'td themt, and fistenedte them  tinut iiwell sI tiIithey
to lhi ftr nEritC.                         could. 'IThet' slide and door to the cabin was
faut that indiv ilat had disaplieared slud- alsi elised and tastened.
dunlywi,  the t wi intti-girl'; had itltio left  ('totnh hiw behind the bulwarks, anit
the, 1Ick.  While Etlhelhxert wondlered at tois ', eling tot the etandting-rolpt4!i' cried Ethelbert.
andti iwtile lie was in the act of lowteritatnlc And  e litha' ito hotut ,iittake imiisteIf heard ;
itiwing the frt'sail, Ernest came 1ack taitl  r the noise of t it' rmii was fairfully in-
il lthai nIs, tand  let, tred  nix'thatai; fr cAndas hespoke,herushedtofheshelm,
lie Iniw ifuil as well as dul Erteliert, that the white ie pliatd a lasting w liibiIttundhitil
vti'- it he It  ine meaced to thnle lin t tosibulfleit ilt  wheel, Si that lie could not I iiashed
spa i  Iof ctntvas ti wiit 'stamil Ifhite fim y of the from it,
gal, wilit was nitt so raiilly rising.iar  'Vthe next instaut, fite vt 'oilwas in a hit-
" ik ittfIonrii' the lowir sails if you can, ig ttass of dtaini a d iiof spray -uriie I in
nto i the fire-riggitin, " 1 will gu:aloftl t antd try  under the water. Vith a sutd which could
to fiurl the ttop-cml antopagisal lant sail."'  hitrdly be he"ard amid! the ter"Irible turmoil of
it a   wivmtt'st he was tilt the mo-t-gallant wiid ail wate r, the ttp-gallnt itast' and tpit-
'trirlt, hanitoling up the light tilvas, and uilsts were lr'ken at titril' cati, autu htunig
xtat tstoniishtd't,aminutute aft'ewtrdt, toisi ew'o daniIlinuu   byti'  tieir igciing int the ti, and
att iiiged utiltr-hiovs, i  haetstu a itr-  tt the lwer ma-t, which still held
si'urryttiiing aloft, asnitmbi lt It mutntt ikervxs, firm.
to htism istac'. At a tirst glhtuee he ill not  t1iw schottn'r, as I said, at first semetl to
rect "giz ithe t w  aitt's, wthomtu Eniest hill he prssl btil Idownut in tiftui thwatrt'. but au
ptrovided w ttith sucelo thing, so a:s to) entale tht't ri-slail, whie'h wais madle for lpressurei like
5 hum ili wit ti uvdituil tig' w itlmot itinfriit- tlila, Iiile, lt ' htw slo'w ir 'itti'away, nc
in th tuile's ohtuf mthodest'. '-         t slue beat' 1 totn to gtr htltteatway. I ut., to
Wttchting thei  manunttri i which Exth'l lbleriSftiet  lt" drtd1 of Etlhbitrt, slit' aid ill to traid-
gatmered upl the tlacek of the sail, filed'i it tio lys ; anid though he pult his bhn harnd-a-ice,
the' vsard,, tand tid te gaskets, Slte-twit-g-ir l  s would uno t answer it, !but ran oft before
readily iuitated him  'and inl i a tir' short the Winh at a ftarful itte
time, with tttei' il, he securethellit' lxiiatwlolare ,' lTe to-himtutilr aloft nmadeiher utterly
sails, andi then hastened below to stow the utnttimtttihie. Ile knw that it tmualst come
headt-sails.  ttwt, or telty were Surely lest. ihe vessel's
Scarce a word was spoken until every sail ducks were now fred fitri water, as site rode
was furled ; anti then, while the stotor eeiliet off before the gale ; andl  e crept along to

I

41

'i

'I

a
i
;i
,
..
, ,
_;
'
,:,,


THlE SHELL-lNTEIt; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE.
where Ernest anti the two Indian girls clung small as it was, arove the sharp vessel inte
to the rigging aroundil theI maninast    the teeth of the sees, as if it would dash into
lie  jinte'd to the cabin, and shouted for foam wiiat it c(ull not cleave asunder.
them to go in there.                           Ethelbert could not restrain a shout o
" What are ou going to do?' asked Ernest, triumphant jo, as lie saw that his efforts had
in a shrill tin'                            been crowited with eoullete success.
"'To cut away the loose hamper aloft; if     And at the same instant. a heavy head-sea
we dtt ntot get it out of the way, we will be struck the vessel, dealdened' her way'comlet-t'
driven ashore in a few hours " repLied Ethel- lv, and made her lurch fearfully to leeward.
bert.                                         ~ Ethit lhetrt was east from ls Pail hold, and
" Let me help you, cattaiin,"              while a piereing shriek Ice fruit Ernest, who
"ila cannot. IItre your lives will be in  stood in the companionway of the cabin, his
dan er from the falling spars- below, Von liV ftll, like the rush tof a dimg seaitiril,
wil ie safet"h it n the f                            aning yeat tf waters.    Ernest
" I seek nt safety, while you iniur langi', ,'i/ at c ttil of re lbi hii  i was fat inhoar,
Etlielbrt Yan Ness ! Your life is as dear to  quick as t btouhtit buind ihe end around hi
mws as insown l''                            aiIt, l    leapl overbo1rdintto the wa 's- -
"Thanks ,tv dear bov-a thousand thanks. where Ethelbe art ltd tditsalpeared. both rtse
lottsam''tiets e te     Yucgirls.  Viican d imet' tthe fi f  f the water at the' saint instant a
nto ,seible sovi'e : vu iican save them ! For inoment later ; but tie taves had miad+' a
ry sake d   as I blegtll '                  I tesint ular transft mltation in Ernest, who
Aitt 1 riet t gra p I the hanls uof the two lilace tlt ire lt'in his other hand. The red
girls, anti led theimi unwillingly away to the' hair if tett' veuth laddtlisapplieat'ed, tttand i
alim.                                        pice' tf tttg he'wig which thie  waves had so un-
ca a thing the hetlm hlard-a-lee,= Ethelb ert se- yeeremnioieusly appilreli'aatedl, the lonic, glossy
cured a smattl 'tharp ax n.' tt aa hetlt art it idhis licks if a ft'male' Iloautet out t tuotilnTi the w ate's.
a aist, ail with fearful risk from the  dagii' The' false eye-rnws, tot, ptroted niot proof
iar'. wIthich willy dashiedt t'toi fro, com. -!ac;inst still water ; and hitien, a moment after,
ui nil eeedeing the' rigging.             :thelbert regained the dec , and helped her
te'lt imle ' "were his tnly wtrd', andt twt  hadty ho' I' forthiioglt an  coolness
tev  1 r was neded prayer morein'ceir, t'.  nin \ieit dt t'tihis life, tor the bulwarks, be
Vith mi tinitt' tiil, ai nlt without btruices, rec'entdized h'r, tan  erie i:
he succeedled in getting to the foreuast-ht'ai.,  " Eva--Er u. mtmigel! Is it indeed you?
an Sttstn gait his eork of mut ting away the Il tn'bleindl have benti'mitt te bivae ien('trat-
riLglie. Sit as It Il ithe lrilen spar t  fill t  eI ,\ e urli  deisuiiie'tI b etore. Againmi too, amu I
the detek' tr si rbitarl. It WiS a lie n t wotrk, indebltte fto  it for flife--tnge that.s ou are
but he kt"w thatt ach imottnttt the' ve se altii  Ie low c tan I ltmek ytu"
drat inig ift ly tiwa ineri titale It'estruet ii '' b ynot prai-ing elilt' ftr my selfishess.
on tii'h rtcls t.Itorwar. siand hea rkel with )tt I inot saix eIou for myis '11f
a giant' sttrength, a dwart'fm inilit, and a  " ''s ! Andc ihadl li I a tluiuanil lives thte'
tr nt's will  a 'will that knew no chee. were all yotur own-every tomenit of myi, life
.ar   after  s   ,r  fell toi   the  del, rwte n t  t e siall Ie etit e'd  te 'etu
It etarn ; aln after thirty minutes of inc'se- '" Exct a lit tle' tillmow' and theni for flirt-
ant tell, tie foremast was clear tef its hamiper. ing with the sweet-bearts which an ientranee
Anti itow the' vessel began somewalit tit t     t every new irt entitles you."
ans wer l r ieli, an cameit'itt , within t wt'ee  " I w cill  yo'ull'lt crtue, Li a, dii I not de-
or ftturt'een ,oints of the windi.           serve x'tur eiesut'r."
I he gaiiel tit" deck, and ascended the main  " I mutant it not in censure', Ethellert-I
shrtuds tot clear away the' main ttp-iast -  Sinlt'stitly.''
witch alone remained aloft of all the broken  " S" -lady  kSteee let out her own secret,"
dears.                                       said 'ittilpenee, laughiiig, a sl anti her
Iily footing here was not near rc secure is sister aptlprachedu urmi hero and herouie.
it haladoioi tie ficrt'fii p  1mm' Imainly tilt'   bs !i youkept it well, good hPittipenee,
lnarrw' ertis-tree's ti statiI tinl, andil a sltinte'r-i an 'iou shatill hav'e the dresses. Only am ac-
ed iait-hetto cling to. Bulit h' hIily s ent ci tit e:,posed mile !" said Eva-for ntow u'S
to his wtirk. A ft w sharp blows if his axe. alsoa ill lrop thIe imttash.
and the last lrtken spar fell n ith a sullen  " I)id Pittileipe diseoet'r 'our sex h-
dilun e into the seething sea below, while theit fore ?" asked Etheliert, in wticiodr.
cs.'l freed from hanmpe'r, rose on the n  'w  ' Yes-loing ago !  And kept it kindly,
trt'ielenutits wave,1 ani littchi d forwartd udmiter Why mare yu   silent, l'it tipttee ?"
a nt'w ipetus : for the' tri-sail tilled anl ills-  " Ytou not Sutiedee, any longer !" Ant poor
tendetd 5alhite'st to burstingy, be'ld fat anld, lPittip'attee burst into tears as she said this.

THE SIHELL-tJNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.                     47
"But yet your sister, dear girl," said Eva,       CHAPTER XXVIII.
kindly.: And she threw her arms around the  Night drew on--black. ragged, wildly ter-
weeping girl, and kissed her.             rible. The wind increased, instead of dimin-
"Thank Ieaven you are with me : but I ishing. The waves, inky black at base,
wish this storm was over !" said Ethelbert to were white with foam atop. The clouds flew
Eva. "I long to see you in your own-garb like fiendish spirits of darkness on the wings
again.  Ah, God of Mercy! -- what was of the howling gale.
that t"                                     Ethelbert, well versed in everything in
A loud crack, a  of some breaking spar, seamanship which could be of use in saving
eaunsed this last exclamation to escape from the vessel, had got out a drag of broken
the lips of Ethelbert. The answer came but spars, water-casks filled, etc., fastened by a
too soon-a second erash, and the chain-plates hawser ahead, not only to keep her head to
of the starboard fore-shrouds gave way, and wind and break the seas, but also to lessen,
the broken foremast went by the board-- her stern-way as much as possible.
leaving a stump not over a foot above deck-  It was just closing for night, and Ethelbert
and dashing furiously against the side and was sadly gazing through his glass at the
quarter, as the rigging on the larboard side black peaks of Paumotu, now plainly in sight,
held,                                     when an explanation from Pittipenee caused
"Good God, pity us now !-we cannot work him to look around. She was gazing seaward,
off the land under the main-sail, nor even lay where the white sails of a distant ship were
to with it!" said Ethelbert.              plainly visible.
Seeing also, that if the foremast lay along-  Ethelbert uttered a cry of joy as he saw
side pounding and thrashing, it would soon it; but his heart saiik when lie saw that,
set the schooner to leaking, he seized an axe' under close-reefed topsails, she was crowding
and went to cutting it clear,             canvas to work off from  the land, which,
This was soon done: and lie then sounded undoubtedly, had been already seen from her
the hold, and found that the vessel, as yet, mast-head.
was perfectly tight. Though she lay head    When he communicated the discovery of
to wind, she was slowly drifting astern toward the vessel, and also the intelligence that she,
the land : and well did the young captain staunchly and bravely-, was working out of
know, if the wind did not cease altogether, or danger, the latter as -ed, if he fired signal
change. that before midnight her keel would guns of distress, they would not attract her
be grating and grinding on the flint-like reefs attention?
of Paumotu.                                 "No; she is, at least, six or seven miles
lbe had but one large anchor-the other had dead to windward. In this gale, which whis-
been left behind when they slipped the cable. ties through her spars and rigging bven louder
And it would never hold her a moment, even then it does here, it would be impossible that
when they reached soundings, in such a any ear on board of her could hear the sound
gale,                                     of a gun from us. And even if she did, it is
He looked gloomy as ho came aft to where doubtful if those on board would risk their
Eva stood, with her arm yet around Pittipa- lives by running down on a lee-shore to aid
tee-who had ceased to weep.               us, when it would be so hard to work off."
"Be cheerful, Ethelbert," she said. "It is  "What vessel do you suppose it can be ?"
ever the darkest just before day I"       asked Eva.
"Alas; dearest," said he, despondently,   "Oh ! some man-of-war, doubtless. No
"!we may never see the light of another day ! whaler comes into this section, and she is too
If this storm does not abate, we are lost."  large for a trader. 11cr sails have a man-of.
"say not eo ! A merciful God rules over war cut, so far as I can judge, in the dimneas
all," replied the heroic girl. " I feel calmly of this twilight," replied Ethelbert.
confident that Ie will save usI"          "Perhaps it is tmy dear old father in chase
"Yes-he same God on sea aslie is on land. of me," said Eva, with a smile.
Smeedee tell me that," said Pittipatee. °- " Or my fat cousin in chase of me," rejoin-
"Even if we are doomed to perish, Ethel- ed Ethelbert, with a laugh.
bert, we will have one comfort-a comfort for  Little did either of them dream  how near
which I forsook all other comforts, braved a the truth their random jests had hit.
father's anger, unsexed myself."            But the darkness swiftly came on; and the
"And that-"                             strange vessel, as well as the land, were in a
"Is, dear Ethelbert, that we will not die few minutes moore shut out from view by the
apart, but loving and clinging, unto the last, ebonb and of Night.
each to the other ! Death is only terrible  With difficulty Ethelbert now persuaded
when it separates us from those we live !"  Eva and the two island-girls to take some re-
" Bless you, my brave Eva-bless you for freshment ; for during the entire day no one
those truthful words l"                   of them had tasted food or drink. lie had

'I
I

-


4S            TIlE SIIELL-IIUN TER; 01L, AN OCEAN N      LOVE-Ch1ASE.
firet to Pit tiltheca'le, ill' 1011 '4, (l-e  I1to -'7i:t I' .' rt'nP tf tll' : lf lii the roek.
%1+1  till  itt iilx ' fell  0  1 t ' xIitr flch tt «Ililib  Cil ic1.  '" L  illCt icth   tlic1tI Iill (E, (Our bours
hal k1 p  III  i fi f l icil tl iiirtt tr1111110cr.  a: tc isiii tP411 iP+c 1111  itii '
Afe  l t'yh d 1tn ict  IIIa  ha  tto   Il,  '.u (t  ntill I trL  's iii  LI  n  I I's1?1('said;
a  a  nll  c  'r ((1Q1  Ii (1111 0 tliilt'it to  w"atit tI ic  c1 1  tI a  top (ltil  t(1t1t(n  lttto +t'  It  O~'
'II ill of F eeP~ t' ne"'cl~ .  lc111t'   a (l101n' iti at1111ito' 'ito' H (''0t l  a- I ~III   "til. -i i  lilged
Cull I  t"  (Iv'tvi s" « t  1;( t ven lit  t re-  l1 t O 0 + 1  ti a I  i 1  P 1   i  n a I heatII a; rotlletr
sct r.I rticl, as rltstprtilbi ty luVwold inl tll' I '' Ti'cuca too hs1 tt t '' ChlI ti tl'itcrt, in
1'11r1'whcat the1y1 IX11111lito ii \t iii 11IIf ;  tll 1lui 0C' III II 1d11  i lil.ich111 hP IIti ll)
ca eu I i vt(  l  r 1 I lfI (P'tl te ti h r  t t he1111 CII1111  tli-il  f1 t1 1  rric rt I , i ii  1 .iitIlit' I Iekinai W o  I
unilvet tl'tl~~clcl a t   P i efa.  ill'fa'-lititsIt  ft'111rr u 01  i  tc1111.  u ttlred ii
cha 1n, 1o11hatiI 11iii il tchI  entin.  e'hP  iA  1,1a1 ' t  If ,at~li'Ill   i 1 1011fur iI' 111that
tirn ir upI' irf sh e  hu 11 11Illoll daubt, whet theli 11151 fue  that hoflecks ingld
Ih  tutu t'11 i14  rii'oiitIgthat  I eta, tliof  d va,''l ,1I it 111tar 111f1111c trl' w 1i1111  tolou(' tha
sai tiri i s  t heClici 'f.             l grlClni'  i t n 01 ii IIIs ti  llt.1 h il11tll ft if utterlleId,
knel +I  'wn i l tsi   tic  "1''ii ctr sl It i  i ti i t1 i'l i f  I  ilt   t I ,01111cll «' lt«ail  ,lCltd -"
ic rM 'r'                          ih  I+   'c-rlL     h~t1 1  .1+ 'lains
P1111'1i til  I'iilk0'P'  Il  1'  stIt'k Isolemn'  i 'c Itlit a1141 s P iiti111  ,a11 it '  11111amountaher
l5- I;I ani tilt ti, whi' r0  '1111to C'tlI Iit' haill in 'l  Ito' 'er wit  P(1)  ii  l OIPIitt  Ith t  e t u r
l111  of I111',4111rut' 1tau111h  t   lii hI, alt t  fo w -hslliCII:11,  (141  1111 144 the4Ii i   l I of'1 undying11h1 loveii~
on tli t ki t''-.  t ' I ll -I0 Iit  aIllCO l n at  ' tI ie' oF i o~tl  rtit' s tlltlP 11'lf  t  c   ol
llite'lItiet i i sll' nd411 gi l   c  i  ail lamII ' 1 1'  "1111.1 ill iitillI "t, Ill ii eit .1' It'll it elpifess
nulteypt1,.     tn  iu t"Il  h y tl'   t   aho ltt  l'11 t , 'tileH  11  lo~t t I'clH  (1Crttetrie
rti'  asi he  d i  the  ifli llPric ~  h i  t-tlf  1lir  o  ud  h  n lelctul--
oftie  Laf lt. 'I.  (taltrte   ''ilgt  lt  ives.  11'P  '41 1 it st  1'(11  ltO ii  t
win l ltuwie1'l, otu1 t'hTe  ?"  'sl II lvrsi-i,  -s1IO llX' A11111 i it r'l t111,  it ' l it opa.'rashw  likthd
'a1aitis litt' 0  R-t-i's l)+11W, I IIted'  tl sic t' lC$  of  a  'tw110 ae it '   ut  1'1oll  ti i rlt tllt014ll t ltiIan
t a   itiu ° it toi tgd5  1 t'let~ ji l 'l lia  the tA'ritn  I biicotin.' hwa  lift- I o uly  n rie-


E
A

s
t
z

0

THE SWELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE,

her, and dtench her with foam and spray, yet It was evident that if the voyage lasted much
her stout hull lay firm anti staunch. The longer, he would net.
noise of the surf and wind were still so loud  At last, however, he was gladdened, one
that no words could be heard, and Ethelbert day, by the captain, who, after taking his
could only by looks, and by the pressure of meridian solar observation, told him that
his hand, assure Eva that he still hoped for they were within a day's sail or a little
safety.                                   more, of the Pearl Islands. The little French-
And she, as if confident of it, and feeling man actually danced for joy on receiving
that, with him, no dangershould appall, again this' news. He asked and received permis-
laid her head upon his shoulder and slept.  sion to treat all the crew, officers included.
And he pressed her dear form to his bosom He utterly horrified Betsy Peek, by embrac-
with all the tender care which a mother feels ing and kissing her right before the Iever-
for her babe. Never, in the wildest fancies end Elihu, who groaned in spirit as he be-
of love's Young dream-not even, when amid held it.
the luxury and beauty of her city home, she  "Be you crazy, Mr. Lascelles ?" shrieked
had confessed that she loved him, had he felt sister Betsy.
such complete happiness as he did then and  "We shall see my Eva-ma belle Eva--in
there, in that hour and place of peril. Come one or two days; Bessie I" he shouted ; and
death, or stay life, she was still his-unalter- he danced a hornpipe extempore, lighting,
ably his own.                             after a superb pirouette, on a corn belonging
----                   to the seven-by-twelve foot of Mr. Snod-
grass, who yelled out a word which sounded
CHAPTER XXIX,                  like " darnation."
And now we will go back a few hours-      "I don't care if we do see her, you've no
only a few hours, reader, if you please-and business to kiss me right before folks ; sad
visit the good ship Kinderhook once more. I've a good mind to put on my bonnet and
Baffling winds and calms had been her lot go on shore I" cried Mrs. P.
since she had left the South American coast.  "Ah ha ! You walk ze water, eh? You
These did not disturb the equanimity of her 'ave more faith zan had Petare !"
Dutch crew. Nothing ever could do that And the now happy Frenchman laughed
but hard work and a short allowance of pro- merrily.
visions. Nor did they affect Captain Van "You want some brandy for your stom-
Taasel. He rather liked it; for he had more achique, eh, Mes-ieur Snoodgrass?" lie con-
time to make himself agreeable to Katrine, tinued. "I give you one gallon now-five
who now stuck to him as lovingly as a erab more when I see my Eva. I shall now go on
to an oyster. Mr. Tromp Van Ness slept the ze mast, wiz my spy-glass in my eye, for to
most of the time, and neither knew nor cared see ze land."
how the voyage progressed, seeing that he had  And he hurried away, to the great relief of
Katrine and the preacher on board, and ex- Mrs. Betsy, who verily believed that he had
pected to overhaul his son in the course of gone erazy.
time.                                       All the rest of that day, and all that night,
Mr. Elihu Snodgrass, of the Baptist person- Mr. Lascelles remained on deck, much of the
sion, was still sufficiently affected with sea- time at the miast-hiead; and the crew on
sickness to require tender care and a great watch kept more wide awake than usual, for
deal of sympathy from Mrs. Betsy Peek, who the Frenchman had offered a reward of fifty
made heavy draughts on the brandy of Mr. dollars to him who should first discover land.
Laseelles for poor Elihu's "stomach's sake."  Bright and early on the ensuing morning,
Neither of them eared much how long the he wiis at the mast-head again, having washed
voyage lasted.                            his face with cologne, and his throat with eau-
But poor Mr. Lascelles was utterly miser- de-ic; and his only drawback to joy was, that
able. lie teased the captain from morning the breeze was ligh tand ahead, and' that the
until noon, and from neon until night, to ship made slow progress, and that not quite
know when they would reach the Pearl Is- on her course.
lands.                                      Little did he think that the very breeze
He worried the mates; he bothered the which made him so impatient was, at that
crew. He sang no more, but wandered about moment, wafting his daughter out of the dan-
the decks. He would go to the mast-head girous harbor of Paumotu ; and that not
twenty times a day, and look out with his more than ten or twelve leagues of space
spy-glass for land.                       separated him from her.
Alternately he would pray for wind, and   At last it grew calm, and then he almost
nrse because it did not come. He could not raved. And when he saw the captain look
eat.  He eschewed wine and brandy, and anxiously astern, and then heard him call all
took to behea. He grew thin as a shadow; hands to shorten sail, lie asked, angrily

61


TIlE SIIELL-IILTNTER ; Oll, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE,
"What you shall mean, sari, by takitr       ' Yaw-I aspectt so."
short ze sail ?  We got no Wit n '.  X by   "And:ol sall sake ze head of your ship
we make short ze ash, eli '                 g ze ozzare wa:
We'll have nere aint     v h ou'sll like, in    Yaw."'
an hour or two Inure," sil CUaptani ai Tas- ;   Whai:it for, Messi, tr Capitaine-whlat for?
seil.                                       'I th litre you to an to me what fur :"
" Plenty aint, eli?  Plenty of ze llon ?'    T' heep from rninisg on tshre rcs in der
" Yaw."                                   dar,"s ail Captai Van Tassell. ' Urace up
" Al, ha !An     it will be fair to make as ,barp !tnt 1I r ilhe als, und lti dr ship
toward ze Pearl hslanl ?"                    clue lv him' ist
" Yaw. 'ou fair, if it conies to a gale."   Mr. Lase-lies, erstwhile so happy, was now
I am  delight ! Capn  iie, on chi ami. agais in a"5i
yi nsiut gui( wiZ msie to iny state-romi, t|  "N, tise-eivnre seT' I  y poor dautgshitarc
take Sotie brandy !' "inure '" he graned. ''Zere were ze island of
Nut now. )ere is a tuyvel of a gale a Pearl-wie ire r sisriiht for zeim Letore us;
prewin', dere assay, und I ista'  uake dier , and niow we go z ozzare way !  sn Dahies!
ship, r'ady.''                              Nietart ' htiirei isiangel Eva"
'Eli lien ! I will 'ave one bottle brought   A i1 the pour Frs'enIehnsimta weInt weeping to
to zi' ideek !"  .his state-romiii, w Isle tIheis good il iS' sit ship,
"GOst I I drink mit yin here.''           we1 -iiann d, i ell-risainaged, and Iell-titted,
Ani, calpitaine, you u ill make ze ship go asr io'l f thu' isangeru'nus lee, as oily  a
toward lan-re Pearl island, eh :''         stautichi-luoilt e lper e' could.
" YaW , so long as iisit tosn't plow too hard.''  Ad 1sus sh wn'iit, sii'ecarried ilbut isne uan-
" Ahli, ha!  Capitaine', you are one Isn hallpiV siuul with htir, and thit wais the wrsetcl-
homic-one great. good man ! I admire youet  Ither of Eva, who could nit eomphrehend
sutlietintly !  I hve you  v'ery ti mlich 1  h' ni''eessity of the shsitp's hail lheig tirmtid ii
shral Iriaent ti  oC Oto, two, tree irrl of from the shire to whiiehi sIhe uw:s i  iiear;and
schapsihl so soon  iWsac w irrive its New York, aho eitittr dil nit, tr wonduld not, undih rstaul
lack, wiz yi' daughtare !"                  the fearful ilan er if having a will  aiin-
And the hsappuy Irn"chman went below to known coast under his lee when a gale was
order il th' birandya for the captain, aid to blowing-.
take a tip himself.
t'tumnnig soon afder to the deck, he again
ascended to his look-out stsatiun it the fore-           CIIAP'IER )XXX
tip, where tie tadi already spent so many      blessed is lght  ~-itIc sc unto the eves of
weary, rotiths hours.                     thei wi.ary,, ws huh have grown heavy'in the
Ilire lie riemainetd, tit heeding the rising  larhines blessied to the' earnest seeker, who
stourmit, or the' prepuaratils nmade t meit it, I ti nls thsetsin the  t sInisdom which enlightened
eaing the glass a  his cj e ahnost all the  tl' Si fi 1is il IIi' light which  ornieth to
time.                                        ertifteitnn fruss the great Architectt of the
'rThe wind ineresed-so did his hunr ; and '   Iis nere !1h ss, i was and is Hle', forever-
nc(ieu more his shrill voice pipted out the  more, who siul: " Let there be light, and
" Mnrseillnise."                             there was light !"
Froni the tirmoe the gale struck the slhit uns-  'Ti t ielert, Time seemed rare dull than
til her canvas was reduced to three close- the slmy snail, or a Jiuiy afternoon sernion on
ref d topsadnts wit. not a great while; aii  charisr. It epth Witihi tiledi 1ac.  iut at
shet flew altini satiftly on heerl curSe, at this ,last it eae  i ni he laid the head of Eta
fir sumie hours. At'last, when it was not far u''yt l 1o  onhi its t 5  hhe lapof ittipatt'm,  who
frts  ighit, the nm so smt ut the topsail seipt l-isan it' ctinisst ii   ie ob th a lie wheel-
trees, sime thirty feet higher udotitan Mr. lui    andl thin hie rose to see how they were
LaseulI s, shoute, '' Land. ho !''        sit   ti.
"Z'e tifty dollar nart 'yoirs ;and I se hi I,  t ie saw, to his joy, thtat if the gale grew no
too !" shout' i Mr. I.arcelIe's ; anil h i fairly st rmiion ', aiu t iese isid nut rise, t ie sehouier
danced for joy, narrow as was the space itsue m a com'a:irativ'  taf' tand though herI hull
the thi.                                     wats 'itunoubt s di' seriously injured, ind her
"Man der lee braces! !Stand y ot ly to sar guint, her large launch maiidsiips was
jat ier ship aptout !" shouted Ctapttmin Ya'ins l  et sate and sunid, sand, if he could get it
l'asseIl to this crew -                    ithl.at, night yet sere to icrry them to Ota-
Mon Daiu ! W\hat shall hie nimn ?' cried  iit'-
Mr. Lascelles, and he hurried down to the i   flte veassel, pravidentially, iad been driven
quarter-deck.                               upon a sinirle high rock in a reef about two
" Are not ze' Pearl Islandls before us. Mes- or three hutitdrd yards from the shore, which
sieur le Capsitasine ?" he asksd.          vas now plainly 'isible, as was also the place

TIHE SIIELL-IIUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE,                        58
of their last anchorage, a couple of miles von have no superior, Ethelbert!" said Eva,
distant. Between the vessels and the shore with a sweet smile, es she seated herself at
the surf ran fearfully high, as indeed it did the cabin table, and poured out the coffee in
all around. Outside, or to seaward, the mass true hostess-like style.
of timber which he had used for a drag had   The young captain replied with a smile,
caught on a projecting rock, and it served to and the entire quartet discussed the viands
break the force of the hnge waves which rolled before their with appetites which toil, ex-
in from the main ocean. The scene was in- 'postire, and danger seemed to have sharp-
describablv grand. The gale aws at its h1eilht, cued.
and the reefs and beach, s far as the eve
could reach, were white a with drifting snow,          CITAPTER XXXI.
so high did the foaming rollers heave.       Aft r breakfast, Ethelbert repaired upon
As vet no natives lad dho'dl the wr ek ; deck again, whither, in the course of fifteen
for though Ethel-err scanned the land so fhr or twenty minutes, he was followed by Eva
as he eou.1 se wit ii his glass, not a living and the two princess maidens. Eva, though
being crossed his vision.                  she hal not resume her niasculine dress,
Ihis next look was seaward, to see if the  lad rigged herself in a kind of bloomer cos-
vtssel which they had seen the ni:'hlt before tumea, which admitted a freedom  of action
was anywhere in sieht.    lie looked long, which expanded erinoline and towing skirta
stesdiltv, and with anxious care. Not a speck will nut allow. For well she knew that there
coull he see whii'h faer coul tornre, or would yet be'need of the services of all on
hupe ictire, iito a sail. Nothing lut a rag- hoard to extricate themselves from the poei-
ing mass of waters and driving clouds could tion in which they then were.
be seen.                                     " We are discovered by the natives," said
One in a-while a glimpse of the morning Ethelhert, who had been looking through his
sun coll he sedn through chinks in the brok- glass at a large mass of them who had gath-
en clouds nothingg else could that was not erd together on the beach, a mile or more
wild and cheerhes.; distant. " They are coming this way. Thank
Seing that his wearied companions still heaven ! they cannot get on board at pres-
slept, Ethilhert, with kIinil forethought, wentt cut, friendlyor unfriendly"
to the cook's ealhlioose, or house, lighted a  " Had you not better 'see that your guns
fire, and began, with great skill for an ama- and ams ar in order, if they should act utn-
teur, to get up a substantial bireakfast, to be friendly, and strive to injure us when the
realy when they should wake.             strm abates?" asked Eva.
Ile felt secure from all danger and sur-   " Yes," replied Ethelbert.  " It is well
prise wtile he worked, now; for no hoat thought of. I will at once scale our large
cotld live it the foatiiing surf which sur- guns aid get them in order; and also load cv-
rounded thetm, atd the schooner remained ery musket, pistol, and rifle on board. We may
almiuost as irns and immovable as the roes vet have to fightifor our lives ; but, if possi-
upon welihe she lay.                     ide, I shall get the launch ready so that we
lie got as coniplete a breakfast as his cant depart in her as soon as the gale lulls.
stores would allow,' pre ared the table iii the By cutting away the bulwarks' and making
c bin, and then waked his lived Era with a ways to slide her off on, I think I can lunch
kiss. tlushing, she rie, glanedl around. her, her with the help of the two girls and your-
andu saw how the vessel Ity, and then went self. She loss a good sail, and would carry
-  uiekly to her state-room.            plenty of water id provisions to last us to
" Where Sinedee ' askedl Pittipattee, when  Otaheito, or even a more distant port."
lie woke hter anid her sister.               And he hastened to prepare the arms.
"\'ou must not call her Smnedee-call her   Eva, meantirne, took up tie glass to look
Eva," lie replied,                         at the natives who were coming up the beach
a cEve? Good I Me call her Evec. Where toward a point opposite the vessel, in great
she gone ?"                                tunbers,
"tIuto the cabin. ' Come down with Pitti-  For a time she regarded them intently, but
peneu atnd eat souse breakfast."           in quiet ; then with i cry of horror, which at-
Ethelbert went below, followed by the isl- traete I the attention of Ethellsert, she laid
and-girls, and waited for the coming of Eva. down the glass.
It was iot long 1b-for sh'e imide her ap-  " Wlat'is the matter, dear Eva? What do
pearanee dressed mi the habillitments of heroin you see ?" asked Ethuelbert.
sex, and hooking very, very beautiful-so     "They are carrying human heads, stuck on
much so, that lth s t  e' tieslanda-girls, free poles! It is horrible !" said she.
from the accursed envy if civilian ion, titter-  Young Van Ness took up the glass, and
ed cries of admiration'anid delight.      hastily looked at the approaching savages.
"As a steward and cook, 1 must say that    "It is true !"- said he, with a shuddeae.


54            TIIE SIELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.                          -
"And    they are the heads of white men! make all the rest.good f r you! Suppose you
Soine, perlips all, of the crew have been paid not kill Montarce, he will kill Pittipenee and
for deserting me, by the loss of their lives! all you!'!
Look, Pittilpene, and tell me what it means !"  "Then the life of the old heathen is not
And he handed the princess his sty- lass.  safe for insurance in a Wall-street office !"
She looked for a few moment, and then re- sail Ethilhert, with a smile. " If lie shows
plied :                                      his head again, I'll bring one  my Charley
They have killed the white meni    The tglens to hear on hum.
island is not mine now ;omy bad uncle, Monte-  Every one of the islanders who could crawl
rec, I see himt at the head of the people, in his or run away hid now disappeared. A pile of
war-dress, has  ade them all bad like him- tead bodies marked the havoc made by the
self! lie has tri td to be king before, lie guns from   the selhooner. Elsewhere on the
wants to kill all white nien. lie coie here to island now not a sign of life was visible.
kill us aot ! Bad mait is Monte ree, and a  Veli.titer all of his crew had been slain,
great warrior ''                             Ethellert knew not.  Among the heads on the
" lie will lase his own bad if ho attempts poles he htad'itot recognized the face of either
to do us harm !" said Eth-lbe rt. lie and tie T'abor or Tyrrell. It all, he had counted but
polple must keep their distance from us, or nime ; while there were between twenty and
I will speak with my tliunler-guns, and send thirty men of the deserters.'
showers of d atli noiting- them!",
The sivaes were ntt long im reaclting the
point oppsite to when the stranded sehtlon-           CHAPTER XXXII.
cn liy. 'hliiy wtre eat ir ly comptosed if mi-en 1 Durimg that long ant weary day, the gale
-not a finale was atin "st their. lixel on still blew with unceasing force. No Indians
lbng p'Ies wir' the eds of several white aItpeare1 inear the vestI. hut imas-es of theni
men, wlose faces Ethettlhter recognizel as men could lie seen onm the beach at a distance, where
of his crew. The gestuni. s of the islanders trany great war-canoes wer brought, ready
i crc threatening ani isultimg. Thy cvi- for lauiehig when the surf would adroit,
dniitly threatened to board the vessel and the- This showed theit evideit intention tit ittatck
sIr'yti h- t'who Wert u1.n it, a soon ats the the ves-sel so sion as the stro aaited. As
sttrim went down. (Or such. hittipenee said, they could muster htundredes of wild, savage,
was the intention expressed tby their gestures anid powerful iTen, it need iot be denied, that
-for their shouts coull itt he hI iailln tilhe tell supipliel with  rmits as lie wits, Ethelicrt
iar of wiI anid wait-. 'Thy even wert sin r+-gartded his pteril with anything but iidit -r-
fur as to fire several musket-shots iat the  enc'-.
iehttiner.                                    'Ihe smoke of fires rose in several parts of
i t thy will have war, I wil give them a the islantltn theit loftiest peaks, which Pitti-
pninary leson," said Ethelht rt ; ' Otne which  pt-nue smid were liglitel as signals to call all
will thmi their mbl rs, anid show them  that the islanders in the group together.
we ar' nut hlllt's."                         "e muest leave here if it is within the
Anid lie traiuwd three' of thi  six-plounders, reach of ptssibility !" said Ethelbe rt to Eva.
which were ltdd with bags of ttmu-kit-bhalls, j '[he muiotetit the sturm atiates, we will have
in a range a it iitheii ihickeiit of thie crowd.  more than ourtr hanis full to leftmend ourselves.
hreseitly he applied a mintch to tIme first We tiny kill miniit, but they will swarm uton
gun, which, with a terrific report, stent a show- us i'm a iitilt itutde, knowing our weakness iii
er of death airongst the yelhng savages, 'ev-  nunber, anti crush us y their mrme weight."
inril if whmt fell dI tha.  Others lanci iaout  "  nIt itdet Is1tond !"s sid thie brave girl.
in the agmny of their wounds, wtihoII ie et, " I feel a trust im thit Irovidetitc which hsit
as if stupetied with terror, huddled yet closer aliens  sui el us from ttwo fearful perds ; and
togs ther.                                  if we hut do tur duty, all will vet be well.''
lthelb t-r  fire-d his second gun into the  ' I will se i hut we ean do toward moving
il-isst rises. It literally tire a row of life the Iaunhi. said Ethtellert, cheered b' thie
tdI in ttnitirl  thtii,                btav outr ti obele- eal iii of Eva.  "If we
lie- nr  -gam ; anit every main who could can bt tinte g, t hr ttaway from the wreck,
fly bel fir lis life, iti at lett thirty or forty with a gtodl ire-ee tlwmi g siseaward, we could
wer'letvtit    flight forever, sot distance tlieir war-canoes, for she is a
I Do rut in- gamin--they   mai lit us almne swifl sailer."
ainw an  lifethill mitt lie sacrifieed without;  " Wir-eanoe got sail, too," said Pittipe.
great r i-n, said Eva, merciful as woman - ae.   Gttt sail, sid nut swiftlike a bird with
alnit  italway is.                      wigs.'
"  IllMntart-e---you nit kill hunii ! I see  " We may get off in the night," said Eth-
him run sita," said Pittipenee. " Suppose elbert-
xou kill him, then Pittipenee can go and       "Night all the wors for us. Then Mont-

TILE SIIELL-IIlUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-ChASE.                        S
re watch most close. Bad devil is that Men- known by pulling the rope in the same way
laree. If Montaree had been killed, I would four times.
go to my people and make them good. If I     For a few moments after her graceful form
go now, they will kill me and eat me all same had disappeared in the darkness of night and
as white men."                             water, those on board the schooner felt the
"Eat you! Are they cannibals?" asked most intense anxiety. Ethelbert held the rope
Eva, in horror.                            with a trembling hand.
"Yes-all Moanaree's kind eat white man-    "Thank God, so far she is safe !" he said,
eat me more soon than eat pig."            at last, as the signal agreed upon was given
"Then they shall find us ready cooked," on the rope.
said Ethelbert. "For sooner than be captur-  And the trio stood there on the deck, and
ed by them, I will blow the vessel up with my now watched anxiously in the direction of the
own hand."    '--                         canoes. In a short time, even amid the roar
"Could we not destroy their canoes? " ask- of the surf and the noise of the gale, they
ed Eva. " I can see through the glass that thought they could distinguish the sounds of
they are drawn up close together, and if once savage yelling near the' shore. And soon af-
on fire, they might be burned."            ter they saw fires lighted in large numbers in
"Good thought for Evee. When it grow the groves back of the beach, which fronted
dark, me go on shore and try," said Pittipe- the stranded vessel.
nce.                                         "1 fear that they have captured poor Pitti-
It will be impossible for you to reach the pence," said Ethelbert.
shore in this surf," said Ethelbert.         "No; she smart ; they not get her ! They
No ;Inc swim all same like a porpoise. come up here to watch us and dance war-
You give me a long rope when it grow dark. dance !" said Pittipattee.
Me swim to shore-me make fire to canoe,      And it seemed to be the fact; for far back
then come back to rope, and you pull me on among the intervals of the trees groups of
the ship again."                           the savages could be seen leaping and dancing
The plan is possible, but full of peril-.. around the fires. And at times, when the
too full of peril for a woman," said Ethelbert. noise of the.gale lessened in a lull, their wild
"I will undertake it."                     yells could be faintly heard.
No-van die, Evee cry and die, too! Pit-  " I have half a mmd to give them a little
tipenee die, nobody cry for her. Pittipenee music from our guns to help themon in their
will go !" said the brave princess, firmly.  dance," said Ethelbert.
"I go, too," said I'ittipattee.            "You may yet need all your ammuiltion,"
"No-one is enough ! One better than said Eva.
two. No make so much noise, get back easi-   " Look! See fire!    Good, Pittipenee--
er. Pittipattee shall stay wiith Evee and Nes- good !" cried Pittipattee, in delight ; and she
see. Me go."                               pointed to a light blaze just darting in the di-
Nightdrewon, and Pittipenee, who was firm  reaction of the canoes.
in her resolve to go, and to go alone, repar-  Another, and then another, until a dozensor
ed to undertake the perilous feat. Ethtelbert more blazes were seen to spring up, greeted
provided her with a water-proof ease contain- the eyes of Ethelbert and his companions.
ing matches and cotton soaked in turpentine  " Brave girl-I!eaven grant that she may
to aid her in making the fire. lie endeavor- return in safety to us!" said Ethelbert, as he'
ed to get her to wear an inflated life-preserver, gazed toward the new fires through his night
But the wild girl laughed at the idea.   telescope.
"Me all same as a fish in water. M  lived  "The canoes are al-in a blaze," he added.
in wate' a week. All the people of Pau otu " Yes, amid the Indians have discovered it--
the same."                                 t ey dance no more ; but I hear their yells,"
And as soon as it was dark, the brave gi' said Eva.
east aside such portions of her dress as would  "They are rushing in a mass toward their
impede her motions in the water ; and with a canoes. Look, you can see their forms be-
light but strong rope tied around her waist, twee us and tie blaze as they leap along the
which was to be slackened away as she went, sand. How can poor Pittipenee escape being
she boldly dashed into the foaming surf to intercepted ?" said Ethelbert.
leeward.                                     " She go hide in the bush till all is dark
In a moment, she was out of sight; but the again," replied Pittipattee. "Then she creep
slackened rope was fast to her. and a signal back and pull rope, and we see her soon."
was to be made by her twjtehing it smartly  "I hope so," said Ethelbert, still keeping
three times, if she reached the shore in safety. his glass fixed on the now blazing canoes.
If this was done, she was to fasten the inner "Can they reach their boats in time to save
and where it could be found by her on her de- any ?" asked Eva.
sire to return, which desire was to be made " No; the whole mass is in ; blaze, and the


-o

THE SHELL-UUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN. LOVE-CHASE.

Ilians are not half way to thien. They have, deserting crew only left us the whale-boat,.it
si muticlh gun about thet tiht they burn like would have sufliced us two, at least, for a fair-
dr el shavings. Not a canoe there will he weather voyage to Otaheite. But as it is, all
saved. I can see that all are in fire, for the looks dark, very dark, dear Eva!",    ,
blaze makes all around them plaihn s day.'     " Not so dark, my Ethelb.rt, as it would its_
"Is no person yet near them I" tsked we were not together. If we must die-there
Eva.                                         will be no separation now !"
"No," replied Ethelbert.                     " No, thank God, to !" and the young cap-
Then   Pittipuenee in thi ibush  all safe. tain pressed the dear girl to his bosom.
They no catch her no more than crah catch a   The night wore on, and they watched all as
fish," said Pittipattee, quite contentedly.  anxiously and as sadly for Pitt ipattee as they
had for her sister. Hour after hour passed-
ChAPTER XXXIII.                   such long hours, and each brought disap-
Minutes passed, anti they were counted by  pointment.
the anxious trio on that  pray-washed deck.   But at last, when it was almost morning,
A half-hour went by, and though the fires Ethelhert started with an electrical cryeofjoy.
-haalackeel dwn uintoemlrs at the canoes, The rope which ie had fastened to is wrist
aid htd. utfel  v fresh fuel, nearly gtoe was pulled distinctly four times by some one
lwn in th woosEthelhert received no sig- on shore.
nal frnt Pittipen e, though he hell the ruth  " They are there'" he cried, and both he
cons'anitl i i  hiatnd A. An hour more, adu and Eva hrtace I1themselves to the task of
though tlher retaintied silent from anxiety, no drawinig whoever was at the rope on hoard, a
siuttn, to t'tuch if thin rope, no sign cane tto matter not to be considered easy, through
let them know of lit fate of Pittipenee.     such a surf as wits rlliig.
Thy Ireded to speak, fir ci-l fared, if  TIhey soon f-It a weight on the rope, and
they said that hope fir her safety wa' gone, commtienced pulling in as specl ily as they
thie'ithetrs would echo hack th- words andIul   d till. Yet lung ttinutes sceeted to pass he-
thiught.                                    fre their efforts were crowned with success.
Another hour crept by-yet no 'sound or At last,, however, Pittipattee, half suffocated
sign.                                        by being drawn through the water, was
"What ar you going to do, Pittipttteo ?" brought to the side, and assisted over the bul-
asked Etherlbet, for he could dimly see by warks.
thie aid  f the hattle-latterts which he kept  " Where is Pittipenee ?" asked Eva, as soon
lighted insie of the bulwarks, that the Indian  as the poor girl was sufficiently recovered to
girl w us biiug tup her hcng tresses, ant di- speak.
vesting herself of articles of superfluous cloth-  0 Prisoner to Montaree ! The people hold
ing.                                         council ! Me hide al hear 'emi all they say.
" Me gi lt -k fir Pittipenc-ie find hter, To-morrow they burn her in sight of Oins here,
or ite die ti i" sail the brave and devoted  suppose we not save hert Site tied down and
sister.                                      guarded by great heap of warriors, so I could
Andi lhfire either hei or Es- t could utter a not itlp her. Thiun I caine away to tell you,
word of ret linstrance, or stretch out an arm  my friend ! To-morrow I go too; and die with
to retrain her, she sprung into the raging Pittipenee ! Pittitpeneeo iot so good as Evee,
surf, an IdisaCppiariei in the shoreward ldark- don't know rod all the saute, but she my sis-
ness.                                       ter, and I will go and die with her, if I can-
-ii will hi list - hotht have sacrificed not save !"
their lives f r u!" sail Eva. Andb fir tih fir-t  Nou a tear fell from the great black eyes of
titnT sinSe the coinineicenent of their recent that hereiie girl, while she uttered these worlds
trials, ste wept.                            -nit a tremor was there in her voice. She
Eth hurt s'rove to coamtftrt iter witit the spike with the quiet determination which
i'i that boith wuii I vet escape, an I cont  marks the will of the puire tan  lofty stul,
ti themItn. Yet ie diinot believe htis ownit whitchi fears nothing earthly, while the line of
words.                                       duty is belure it.
lut whEn, a few moments after, three dis-  "~he mutcst he saved! I cannot see heuur
Stint lulls w re felt on til rip, ieto ld Eva, perish, whit hin didared and done so much for
joyfully. that PittiattSe had at least reached us !" saih Ethelhert.
t't shire ims safety.                        "What cant we do ?" asked Eva. "Cannot
"Yu will ntu now le aIle to get the we buy her life ?"
launch iverb"ar I'" said Eva. sally.          " Will the- not accept many presents , I.
SNu-hut we t-i can possibly escape in will give them half, yes, all of the cargo. hnt
the catce which the sisters came on botarul in. the armta and provisions, if they will sp are
and which is yet safe in the launch. Had the her life, mud let us depart unmolested from

THE SHELL-IIUNTER; Or, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

57

the vessel and their island? Will they not do permitted the noble sister to depart again for
it, Pittipattee ?"                         the shore.
The poor girl shook her heal, mournfully,  She took no rope with her this time; for
in reply to the quest on of Ethelhart.    one could be floated with a bridge to the
"The~y say when storm go down, they get shore, in daylight, at any hour, and be seen
more calnoe, and can swim off. They will by the sisters, if thev were s.t free.
come in hndreds and take the vessel, and all With an egile bound, when Pittipattee was
that is in her, and kill and eat us ! I hear  ready, she leapt into the h oiling surf ; for a
them say that in council. Oh! had man is moment disappeared in its snowy yeast, and
the great Montaree ! Bad man, who makes tien, rising gracefully on the erested' break-
all the people bad like himself'"          ers, swam toward the shore, as strongly and
"By Heavens they will find little but death steadily as if there was no peril.
if they make the trial. I will destroy the yes-  "Were we in safety, I should  nvy that
sel and ourselves, and all that are on board brave girl her accomplishment al most as
and around her, before they shall triumph !" much as I admire her skill and grace," said
You swear that by your great God?" Eva.
asked Pittipatt, , earnestly.                "It is wonderful!" sad Ethelbert. " Our
" Ves-)es, 1 do !" responded the young belles at Newport and Cape May would hide
captain.                                   their 'diminished heads ' if they could see
-"You put that on speaking paper-put it how she parts the tumbling water's."
down what you SWesr, so that one nhite nian  By this time Pittipattee had reached the
that's left, Tahree, I think, can read it. Give shore. Site gracefully waved hi' flag, then
ate white flag, and I go to the council. I will turned down the beach, and ran toward the
tryto luy my sister's life, il I will tell Mon- main village as tietly as an antelope.
taree, if he give not her Lack to us, and let
us go, he will lose all, and not be rich as lie       CIIAPTER XXXIV.
hope !"                                      Once only did brave Pittipattee look back
I a wil," said Ethelb rt. " For I have hope after site left the beach-that once as she was
in its success. You risk your life, it is true- about to enter the dense grove which would
but will risk it less as a messenger for terms, hide her front those on board the schooner.
titan in any other way. Try and buy peace There she paused a second, breathed a pray-
front Montalree until we can get away front er to Evee's God, waved her lag, and then
these shores, and I will yet hope for our ulti- boldly entered the grove, where she was met
mate safety !"                             by yelling warriors, who had watched her
Write the talking-paper, get me the flag, motions sine'e sthe left the vessel.
and 1 will try," said the heroine. "If they  "Take te to Montaree, and let him call a
kill Pittipenee, they kill me, too. If they no council. I have a talking-paper for him from
kill us, we will come to you, and go to your the'white chief ern the ship," was all the re-
country, to live with your God !"          p1ly she would iahe to their jibes, insults,
Ethlbclert went into the cabin and wrote tti  threats of a horrible death with her
out in plaint terms what Ie would givefor the sister.
lives of Pittipenee and her sister, and for a  Pittipattee, less hold, and not so tyranitical
chance to depart unuolested from the shore. as her sister, haid hitherto been it great favorite
And t tsavages, his offer was almost -bound- with the people of Pauiotli. nBut now. con-
less wealth. 'l'o these terms he appended his sidering her 's being leagued with their ene.
soleittn oath, that if they did not give up the. mies. antd wild with anger at ti ltss of so
sisters, and if they approached the vessel lie- natty of their people, her foritier favoritisni
fore ie left it in safety, to kill all thait he was not rentetib erel by them ; and, for a
could before he died, and then when they utite, it seemed as if they would not even
were about to triuphtit, that he would set fire spare her for the fate hestined for poor Pitti-
to his magazine of bowler, anti blow the vies- penee, but would iinmolate lher in their pres-
sel, and all in it, and about it, to nothingness entrtil.
in the air !                                s But Montaree fortunately came on the field
The language he used wats plain and strong, iat this time--firtunately, I -ay ; for, though
and he read the " talking-paler " over toi blool-tiirsty atnl rtust wic:ed of them all, he
Fittipattee, so that she could tell the chiefs was cunning, and d enied it policy to hear
its content as well as if they were read, in whitetfe a iiie chief hand to ofter.
ease the white man vet alive could not read,  ie Ihl id altiti- as a despot; anl ordered
or was not permitted to.                   Pittipattee to ho safely guarded while a coun-
By the time all this was done, day was cii was convened.
dawning.   Inclosing the paper in a crater-  idithe chefs w. re already asniebled, it
proof can, and giving her the flag, EtIhellert dl it ita.e Ig todp t di   ; Ca.a  onc, in a

,1

_i

1


THE SHELL-HUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

b9

3
E

vaat circle, the innerpart- of which was form- 1  "You may take white flag and make signu
ed of head chiefs an d the most noted war- t for him to comeeon shore. I will only talk
riors, while hundreds of other warriors gath- with hinm,ot with a woman," continued the
ered outside, the two sisters were brought wily chief.
face to face, bound; while Tabor, who had    "lie has spoken to Montaree with his talk-
been spared from the massacre, alone, of all ing-paper. The next time he talks it will be
his comrades, because he might serve them in with his thunder-guns," said ,ittipattee, firm-
future as an interpreter, and teach then how  ly. " I will not aid to betray him "t
to use arms, was also brought in, under      "Then you shall burn with Pittipenee 's"
guard, to re id the talking-paper.           "Very well orn ! I will go up to Evee's
At the command of Montaree-a grim old (Tad, and pray to Him to burn you forever!
wretch, whose naked ody was a mass of tat- lie has a hell-all fire-made for such men
toeing and scars-Tasbr took the paper which as Moitavee w
ittipattee hiad Ibrousght, and, reading it first, The old chief was annoyed by the firmness
translated1 it carefully, word for word, to the of the two girls, and deeply troubled with
chiefs. The ian laid weight, too, on every the fear that he should losetthe rich store of
syllahle, for the murder and fate of his goods on the vessel.E lbl  t atosave then, iid
wretched comiirales had stricken him with  yet take the lives of Ethelbrt, Eva, aiid the
horror, and his only hole was to escape from  two princesses, was his study. how to do it
the hiassuls of the cannibals. If Ethelhert was to hun an utter puzzle.
escapedl, ie  et hoped to be so far forgiven tIIleaddetermiiid ti try to force Pittiperc
f" h' d iertion as to have some ship sent to  and her sister to aid him, by the danger of
his rescue. Andi thee hopes he hal, ii a iimminent death. lie felt assured that if, by
few brief wir.ls, imparted to Pittipatte", who, fear or otherwise, lie could gain them to his
if rslit w~iS rhle see , wais to convey them to side, and isake them faittis'ss to Ethelbert,
pt sii  Van  Ne is ,  w   othealatter would             fall into  his hands.
Meitaree lkt ved to all which Etlielbert  " We have talked with these women long
ba  writ.in. a itti a grim, quiet iaitier, pe- enough  lie said. " Leagued with our ene-
culiair t nhim, wahen  s  was st ing   iisctie f.   mie, iand  the  murderers  of our people, they
cuSup o'im we let this white chief go, how  deserve death. Who is there that dares to
do we know that lie will not carry all his say n e to Montaret  s  e"
ge Is with him ?' he asked of Pittipattee, in  No  te -ejike.d 'fte silence told the sisters
their own language.                       that they need       l not expect aity aid or sym-
Ile can carry nothing but himself and his patlsti froii their own peoplf.e
party if three, with a little provisioins, said  "Tiey'hall die in sight of thewhite chief.
the girl. '' Iss boat is not large enough to lie shall see bow the kith of Pauiotn pun-
carry mure, lie tll me to sav-.ive him  ishes traitors, and leark whatihe iay expect !
the whialtbuat his men run away with, and be (1', get wod-I will take theprisoners with
will not take the large onu which li has on my own guard, and seea if the white chief will
his SnI."                             .    1"t,t thunder-guns at them and at his white
I Ie ittsit think we aret fo Ils tai give buis fhagP
his life aft, r ht han killed iiaiy of our 'aie oil wretch said no more ; but the yell-
Felli    ~aiil M tiihrt e, 'rri-fully.   ing horde around lim hastened to obey ha
"Try t tak- hs i life, anih lie wt illyet kill orders.
tent tie a, ansy, ' sail litt pattee.CHAP
,VYei, tweinty furtie Ik hitiuiiler-guns        C'IAI'TER XXXV.
tre all Icm  t IIsist Is n1 Iiiistatt11   t o-Nattleavingthe tdeck, even for refreshments,
it  s' alt I Smith,,eewill lBoot till they dare Etlselbhert and Eva remained ttowatch through
tire   I andmlst is ts e d  Il w   theiryve  a-r ti  1lt  e s,  sjtv-Chiss s for  the  r appearance  of Pittipatti.
ti r  thgo i n t he 'b uo  thke i'  vsi   l' tit  e,'c ,  p t  uich  ti er  an  hli r  hail  they  to  w ait,
and  g t ii iii thesike  firt!said tinita- I           nere they saw an t nihinnse crowd of the
r  "e  m u i uptnh i   m k r t!snatives"eals       r ing  fain  the  grove  into  w hich
ree, nuillcu.tk after vonhdie,ryouoshark!"1the uric girl aledl een seen to enter.
"ai   i \  u l  'm k ateriy ontupriiet   s   y ou ain er it issioi  im ust  have  sueceded,  for  they
if  te i shit't  chief will  give  tiphall  h  is hav'it the  white  flag  hoisted  !'  said  Eva.
armse, and all his goods then I will let hin '  1 fe o  iit" relitt Ethelbet. "If they
g    ad,' -MilOtintaree, after a thoughtful silence luh tleciredrn pecer they wsuhl have taken
ti' tm is iisis it.                     linger to arrusnge tennis. A peace-congress
Il e  i' itta ft  ill  lie  will not pnasm'  him- io nfotever  tilide rating,  while  a  war-party
"E Lf  is n oM t  'ae' f  d ot ern  adl  trust  to tp a e   searti"   wati ks  re  it strikes.  Peace-men, so
T mif Misitare to let dt go !" said Pitti- fir as I hive seen hiem, are too slow and lazy
tI . '                                     to bo anytlmug elat, *"  -

Eva smiled at this idea. She knew that and sces to be almost naked. His hair  s
manly a thing, much flutist r from the truth, white :it, must be Moatar. e !"
aThey are coming rapidly this way at any but tht it is him. There   is a white madoubt
re,"  replied Ethbrstanding near him; but he looks as if he were
aYes," replied Ethelbert. "Aind it will us prisoner!"
not be long before we can distinguish their  "lie is guarded but not bound, as the girl
intentions. I hops they will accept the terms are ; I eansee that," said Eva.
I proposed, for the gale is evidently about to  "By heavens! the old wretch has struck
break up. We shall have a terrible struggle  one of the girls ! lie shall die if there is any
when the waves and winds go down, if we ime certainty i- my aim " cried Ethelbert; and
not beyond the reach of the incarnate fiends !" he liid down the gliss, amd took up his hav-
Nitier of them 'spoke now for some time, iest globe-sighted Ogden rifle.
but kept their telescopes fixed on the amass of  Camiefully lse rested it over the bulwarks,
nistives whol0 Wemre advanmcimigutihle beach, made alloanace for variatiois of wiasdmiisd drop
Eva was the first to break the silence:ea 1i  distance.
They would not cOime within range of our  "Watch closely" said he; "watch close
guns so fearlessly, if they were yet hostile !" for I am al out to fire
staidhle.                                    " My eve is on him," cried Eva.
"  ot unless their intentions are treacher-  Alhost simultaneous with her reply, Ethel-
ous ; ansi such apparent boldness is meant to Bert fired.
cover themI"                                  'The wretch is bit! lie staggers l li falls 1"
The hindians had concealed both Pittipence cried Eva, is delight.
and her sister in their midst, so that they  Ethelbert made no answer, bat carefully
couldti nt be seen aIs they moved up to a pos- reloaded the trusty piece.
itiiri front of the schooner, and about a     The natives staid anid stare one at anoth-
half-tile distant.                         er in stuniid wonder, while the villain rolls in
here they halted, and a portion of them  agony,"continued Eva. "'The',' evidently do
rush d off toanrd the groves in their rear. not understand the manner iii'which lie re-
These were soon11 se returning, bearing loads ecived his wound. Alh! the white mansprings
of fuel on their acks, which they piled in two forward ; something bright gleanis in his handa
he    'ps upon the ground, around stakes which ! ---he has cut the honds of thie two girls, and
had been driven dowe n. all ti hr                 of themsi e tsoudiugdowntoward
Merciful God ! it mitust be that Motitaree the hiech. O(h, can they escaie ? Th e had
means to execute his threat on Pittipenee, a few yards the start---they still hold it hut
mind to burn  oth thie poor girls " cried. iall thesitives, mcc erisg from their stuor,
If they attempt it, I will open fire on the ire in fuha esues l oI canaveelI  tsem,
crowd with m guns. It will be better for the Ethelbert Y-for the sweet love oflhe ,
-r girls to die by ball than in the flames !" how 'AN we help them"
cried Ethelbert.  "We can, it least, avenge  Ethuelbert's -answer was from the nuzzle of
1-hum,, and cannot help them  in, any other his rifle, lie fired into the thickest of the
way ."                                     crowd ii front, just avoiding the huie of the
Auh he hastened to train every one of his fugitives, whon lie knew by -the white flag
large guns so as to hear on the mass of sav- ; which Pittipaittee had snatched from the mat
ages, muad also brought as mumsber of liig- wiho held it as she turned to fly.
rnge rifles and muskets on deck for use, when  'Tie hall evidenuitly told somewhere fatally,
reqluuiredh.                               for the speed of the crowd was cheeked for a
Meanwhile Eva dhid nit move her eye at all emoimeit, tund thaist of the fugitives so increased
from the crowd of savages. From time to thatt they could now slaimilyl le seen from the
tinme shi announced their msuovxemlents.  vsel a ithsout the aid of the glmms.
I se sthe titwo ltor girls now !" she said.  Ethelbert snatched up another loaded rifle,
o'l'i'' stanil nemir thm hilt's of hood. 'htir and threw another hall amnitug the psuisuers.
attitu le is haughty and defiant. iHow bv s'c Blit the savages, seeing that their prisoners
thix-o .. An oilh man, ill warrant it it must esscae if not speedily taken, now stop-
- Moisaree is talking to them-using also threat- peal for iothsiig, and uimadly rushed on. Ethel-
ening gestures !                ,"        bert fired among them as fast as Eva could
c'oint huts out to me. If he is in rifle hind him guns. )oubtless every ball took
range, I nmay assist him in posturing. A half effect; but those in fiiopt knew not who fell
ounc"e of lead will ie alt to make hn more behind them, and yet dashed on. Van Ness
quiet ii his utttumair," al Ethelbert.  would have fired a large gun, but its load
"Take your glats : and look him out. lie is would scatter, so as to endanger friends as
at least a head taller than any of the rest, much as foe.

a0

t
t jjj
5!'1
_i3
t
4 f3
a
it
,'
4
i

TIIE SMELL-m7NTErt OF, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

58


'I

f4)          TITE SHELL-IIUNTER ; ORI AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
Closer-closer to the leach came the pur-- modesty into the cabln to dress themselves.
sle ! Alas ! all too elite were those who fol- Eva followed to aid them.
lowedl !'nc huge warrior was just reach i                               I
out iris hand to granp Tal) r-who, thougCh           CITAPTE     X   tf      m    fi
ailed and rg.eId by the tui ii £irls whi aoul I  Are you the only one lfefIrt f allbmyor,
nit i t  him,n  san not n ar si tti t as they. cer- and crew. a iisk
A ball from Ethelbert's un rring rifle sent the awhen tEva anl the girls went below.
Warnir ti eartlh never to ri4- again.      "I irionly am beft, capitaI. 'wa as tine~mate'
t lh, if t    y wullthint east th,'muselt"  reply. " All the rest have been  -rb ni'
down 5o that I   nculd fir  a grat gn rver  Anid aft er a chokting pause, he stidderiuwly
them, and throw a shower of dea't in tiir added '    -: "  ilh , risti , and eah  4) sir
rear'.ren I 1Ftli h lrt. ,it was terrile .'They triedi tiuak.-- inc ea
rEr as1-i up.: 1  i n  the  top  of  Lt  helI-  of  tihe  tt i sh  of m y  com il r d e ;  b uit  to  Bate  y
hit e an i I g.,t ur s ia-t ii! lie rseIf flat .n 1ift,  iold iiint.  1 hey beat me cruelly be-
its roof. solnwedt them what Ethellert wantiid. cause I woulld not,  -1"r"'
Th    aw r- guii to avail them-eb is f the  " Por feltew  ! v In hav e viideel sist -red.
hint. AndI I Etheli.- t wi-, as qik tt ,iri- a sai dLtheltert, entirely forgetti  the liut ill-
lar e  in ov. r ti i as they threw tht ei lvenuhis  d'n gof  Iabr in hiss x ipttn fib hiin.
flat on the frotiunl.                        'lhe cruelwr'chets, h yi r, hatia  not Coic
A f.-arMtl ,a.th if dieaith was thero. TI  nnninhied. lii you think I killed their
gnniii Itair  1-- nIlit' rall\i iin t  t in LLitita  1.ia  elott
inn   ii a 1s it ralT sn iiowr- lirt   ch--   fiir nit, sir   iwas slt throu h the
fr a momnt.an I stool murtiionit the diiat and tliebIn. I hadI oly tine to ; tthat, iin ti
d  in i rr, ttlute.                       tiimthit  cistrie te'imc  that I  i  ltae  i the, tw ii
Mim uinr fri. nu ti ku-u-p ditiw, Eva'"  girls aniI  yself.  o I cut tinut hoaie, uit
cridt l[ti ib.rt, ra'riinasi'j-o.        w':in fr iit!  \ ou knoa the rest. sir'
!tie to 't istatii I tire, anth ii'irrisui-  " \iotu acti  I iioist ouly it avin g then,.
tin of uch' e as tolivel nas 'ha in,'lia No maitt w'mhat I revius offeni n  yti ui hgit
ii itmnit .l thit cold hi i o, ttrurnd ainl hae i'given, for that 0m' rave annultrougitiut
ti fur tih wioiIds,twh le thit tw nriite girl, act I wonl I forgive atll -
a   ompu     byto Tbo, aalkid quietly n     " V on arn more iiii toi m, sir, than I de-
to thii-i nei.d-turl I Iv n  uittir ipurit  s-rve. ulit if (ilspuares mite ierti atr, I aill
Are i thire, tih rt 'sio-I itto Iti a i-.  it-ite found either iunrtefil or unfaithful.
la tt-~ir, riathr. a gitnronus rivalry -a' 'iti in you not tiink the stirm is going -lown,
wtth- t-httul hI i the tilst ti rimai--fur bot sir."
on icouol '   drawn tirughi the surf at a  " 'us; very fast. I aliiost Irn al totliiii
it, fur thti' -ati tug.- can yet cuniit Irtirudrileof
At l'it.- f r-eu-  v hvliith th 'idt.-r, Tah ir dperate mi. t and riay tn oe u s ttrotule
allow ia"thi,'- rip ii he ti=I ir mtidl his aMit ; tlhi tie water gets sniotlI. It  it' Clii get
iidI wiIlrig ut int. ti stiurf, waa, son dr , Ii awi t  hIInelhiii  ati sIt1 dal Iutt o seti the mo-
on binnar by tte unite1 strecnt th of Ethe-lt-rt ineit tliitt it i- saf" ti atrndvaird
'   'V c  it   heI-i  i r .t  i   a stin lan-ti  ind-
lb tilbl noit npriu wr-hri he1- was liftI ,!over tackle, anl thei fit biolut Itleaiding tog ti "ind
the bliiwarks i lt kiitIt Ifiore Ettellert ai  las, sir, I suull t i
t I hope so. When the sea has  uoeidownl
wept like  a  child!.                                      ltn  h-et   i tbl+'t I  ~ 
- Iiavensi. hiw he has suter-dl  Iris hair -ii thtat slii can lay tilontgsite i ithonit it
hos turned white as snow !" sad lEva,i in a civ- to atoms, w wrrlit rs it-  I hat i' tilt tal
tine of lilt v.                             gut i- isil utip ant purouv cilns, water :il a
-l-se, 'l'abor-thank fdt1  you ar' safe  iiico tiass. sixtant aid chart awimdibe i-reay 'wen
Rise, I itust Irelp the pioir girls on ltird!'" they u-nn ie usiel
said Eth--eIbert.                             WVe mutyi ne-d arms, too, sir. N enr e-c
Andh arain fastening the role to a light for lidi I se e such fearfully-saviage ieni as are
flat, hIt  twi--I it overh-ar, that it miigiht ths na-iititniIs '
drift ti the sinhre.                        - .\rims ainil amuitnniti-in are inclui&amp;dd iirong
Win it reached them, each girl triel to imy pripranontit -is!l' sid Etlbei irt.
p.ersutie rn sister t go tirst. Neitler wituld  Eva adi tti o I girls now cain ia deck,
yield. At last, Pittip.u-eee touok the rptltt, andi andEtihelberti til  aIbo toi i down hit' the
liuiitnd it airutndii them-n ht Ii- h.Tablur now tnok  'ati anti g.et f-auI am1 rink, fur the poir fel-
holl iif the ropue, an-I as the sisters aided lowi i-e1.-nils'tivid-nt de them. 9 ke-i.
tmuch by swiiniig, they, to, in a few rio--,  I how Ityo  f: ifh, Pitt ipieinee I" askeil Eth-
mnts wi-re on the di'ek of the schoiiicn. er,i-lh rI, as thme smihing puruireess appjrotched
whieice they instantly hastened with new-born  him.

THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

61

" So good me like to kiss you once, only      " Good Nessee, you kill a heap bad mens,
£ve  n like it, I fear '      '-            and make sick great many more I S'pose
Eva laughe i, and said she would not object Evee die, me marry- you, Nesse, 'cause you
to a sa ute on that slecial occasion.      fight strong. The man that fights strong,
I'ittipenee took it for granted that Ethel- - sure to love strong!"
brt woulJ noti object ; and tirouwingi her arms  The ideas of Pittipeace, extravagant as
around his neck, not only kissed hun once, they generally were, were not always ineor-
but many, many times, while Evastood laugh-i rieet, nor her judgment of nina-nature false,
ing at h-s ell-rts to esaepie from the trmbrace as her last remark would tend to Irve.
of the happy priness.
d twoityn fe-il,  ittipuattee ?" he asked          CIIiTER XXX1VII.
of her sisui, after he had ugit free front Pitti-  The gale which struck the good sip si in..
hui tut i-.     -                             derhook lasted so long, that her course itnd,
." Me feel as if the gui of FEe was very  way made, brought her so iar to the island
gud, and ver    trit. Ae pryn- to Ilini, as of (tniniheite. thit tne npiltain made tip his
-ee teach ie, and now I live ! If I had Initnd to runs for ti at island.
prayel to tie gutI if Panmiotutit, I wotul haNint e  ataist/ hiis rniscs  -were, that l'g so
het .lThey- no god ! Ie' G (itod all good  net-ar, it wutildi I- well to inquire ifdli tepot-
---i-ti ruirong-sery great. Me love to pray  tent -nawru hal bleen tiere: lut rsnat'lly and lin
to !!litn !"truth -'nif the truth hat It ei tliatiped out
Y ou good, too !" sai itPit tipte to Ethel frsmti the deep Dlutch sinpperuu--he wesnt in
li-rt.   V \  uit  ld Mh anrt aCu-utint lie lay  tlre for ti e pujrpoise if getitinig scae frsuh
(tl  -n, andi roi iant tuu  ill. titlstoe  elike Ci h oug lr nitd-vut tbge si isforI iis dab-Ir u-latrine.
with thrat ut-, Tabrteit good, t-lie cit ior lie nwtt -losede inflit cuin  f Ethll r
theroles--hlit miakne us fri ! a rie niver as nimuiirwCchas litecot:ld love. And sine it tinured
gool ian. Me marry 'ialrie for that, eaitse his i.  how ciiublshe  elp it.  ind not
I nmblodyil else I at-s efi !'               his strong tini1rtibtht htt' eli ouit of the
Ant the prmer- us oiiled- swItsuet-yt orn Tahur, slimy lnri snv i ters i te iYo EYunhiay ? lad
aie ie- t   n leek t tutu juncue-          t ii vcrit-cn mintdftil of the giants of her
le hrithr rI niitiark ;inrt thi utgh lihe rtaude  itimuchli
no rctly to her'. Ethdlhert hacrdt lum imutter  'its u i i ist ceonsidernio wias (nough tio
ini air indnrtone :                        id I r tou tlurn foi sier. Ie nbt ii h1e ci nuI p
" I reckon  out, Miss Pittipenut, I lireitt  is in tseile --pt di i d irulmilait i rv-ie. Ili g ughit
V otaiCrii.  Youn iiight Itt  uait nesitui  - i jit-h to'jin(lry. J1iirt i-nirk und eteen.--
tte, ant  wii atnt I toe sueat mes- t   'uilit-, -r iti ot1cf  tnt in krutut r.d nsi  ipi pi tgs ' ftittt  Ji -
utir  ort, if  - fe r I - tn i t unto  tiu s fix  " iheut!i  i. s gine rnrt:s  } 1 er hnt, ttut t iss nit  lt.
lltr,iii it i  fr-i sht-I, nilIthutt waittiig fir  litowi this I nugi uf  e could etini  th
tuns-us. ii uttntte  ug  ni t i l-lun-  sile  es s  f trii l:-. in.-u" tit Nivecc   u ttl il sitra
orders, W -i to genttolg uplt he p1rari r 't ekks !,eyt' iof M2'.  1'It n  itiA nn  sr es uml stem
fir hlistmg euit the b t.intl  Ethe iiret. went t« hiittntiirge ti tleii- ritd r. if' a e didt it in al
lis tit-isttance; nntah.inn th i tnt-i if art hrounn, ctit:il  uaniy, tht the lintaitter  gnitinr
t i-rxthing t ntu made ren-ad  fir hoisting her;- slut  :dit i-itthr uir-fitiths of his tiin e nr it-ig
out,- wn liti ii idut  anti sea should so falls its - u his slate--rci inn. ' Innuthernfifth W itt en-
f-unit mi-i-e it sate.                         ! tid in eating annd dtliltinrh; and i iwile this
)i-tan-lilt-. Eva tfte n mil nxi lyitci lokuiuud  opiedctit-di, tin txis it tin pli to till lit v lit
ttoiward these srt-i i-us-c it th iuntii e- sithstlned  hli  sr sn-aci hts hInte, nrd iltihis as  ito
anyci sitin of r-utiiing i sthititeisuiant inx-  it ilunt the inlu-ic fi fnulift . fink, na iiplatti r.
Iuusly, tou, t o s-nt int tIt ieuts--- for ste re-  Piorn Al. EnttsceI, loi In- I ren in ninthart'
tutuinnmb.rit-il theip tie- hid nsie-n toff the  intesresit- iin tieh inlitt. i wiich lie wits nuout
cast in tie stormt.  ni  xyt ho t haillit 'n re- wias si cunutantlylo nft tillirig for sails ru dt
lienuc- might en-I lintim hilp fr o c set-atm- hland, that he ne er nu-thicd the nf  t ln  l-iel
saridu                                        linke h inift midii until the galnt tan.ttrIil
It was a painful sight, even savage and a s cliselyt as tiiin nurnnsiget s.
e-rela-I is ithuy twt rC' k"nowuin to be, c-to see tue  When'h thIe shil entie di thet- Iiit of 'Inl.itl,
writhimnug wirii-"lti-is o hut  nwundudl'a. el m nrotg as it is siinetimnu s cnn iI dMr. l uset i sithr.
the hi-a oif iedt oin shotue. Sromi coiiuld b el ti ey of jouy froimti Iis + rli in thIe fr ielitip.
en rihiig inn a  ty,  itsling ai naritIing--  H Ite sawti three I'renech l  snh f cu i  a n rut .nel  r
others crawitle sliwlt tit iweurily towardthe   thiere--knruuowing thm nun at ice lty the tri-color-
'oidis---stmei few gettiinn; tu re, !rut fir more  ede flag of las /u/a -France.
dying i-in the- want-.  .Now,"' lie cied, "I shall Itoe arsistancie
It aas a sickueinig sight, ali Esa turntl ti look fii nunia be-le Eva, iny sitet chld t
from it with a sigh and a ihudethr.     - ix cuyntrvme-n ar evarce genereuse, eaire
But Pittipienice looked ont it with delight.  chivalric, evare noble, they will niot refuse t

L

a
F
t


TE i aNTl; Onl, AcvOC1:AN LOVt-C1A1
.,               ;' :       son n'a   L  cl ,-' ~a  u-'. 1tr r. ,  c r v"thioc was nal l  tlt--ifl
w tit  'rr  'r.' :ii i'  t Iii! ll  iI'  e l  a  Lint  i li, .  siiin.nil I't' ~gn Wutl ith
and  o tu -'i.Li.i'  iiirt  i' i  I"i  i ~  's hi l~o   -le  'ov.'a  ii  urali  gaset, up to
intint rI'iiinnr 1o a ill p t, b ispers 'amn i  (it s i lair g-ti  to
we d r p                           a e asme w       lahitw r  : big s' ' -P
ana                          ye      etpnat a         her olos    n   ahirt
fa e r                 kmtii' : rrt 't1er ii w  z t + 7 il  I  loiil'. it  ornly'  fort tie' w1 rttri  of  rid. lde
rill  go  i1  'i  ' tne  bradiri  ' NI. -si er  tie  a l  ilt eli l io r a  tree  sea n ri m i  ru  sr  do-
S i r t, or i" t a n   ' l tie a v t  mu'1 f   r I  ii   in I a ' r a  o re' i f  i s  chi   ma  ti  a,  w he r  t e  ltn a-
su rceS"o i  'l+o rrae IA   :I r  i1 'lif ' thl  sign  of istr s   tis l it.h t
ecr ta Ire  a is ie to se            iii care' the freite, ste, eating so lout s?
know  h{ w                  from  ho   woUl lrun ichse utsdter  or t r n   ai5  z 4l
hetr. o a'i  a i  1 i i                                            riOu  i-- a  i  rir  iC oie   an  -i'i' I'ai  i
ne  ar e ' w-                          on  iii r  irk ii'  'iiit"  iii lii mi' iafter-ri, hii'hrg on  0-tt
nevarei t. liii'iii  nliiseur  Las e, l e  iillanrt  lh -i-hi a i  miid  a . t idl-rn-
r e  to '1 t ihi i '  . i t  a-  or  f'ria  d  ,fmeeesr, w it. a trumpet  ii  his  hanl.
n~    i1 n 'ar p d,    1 ifore the A  the' a-1l appun'ero'd Sri rrhin , b
as hean r fr             srhruted through the irunet .i
a i i. .a                      ,.it it"s'in?'  ' hip, alit  I Iay, w here yen coi
'   ry  f (r  ne-ir fronm  -where  oue go to  I  see you  lose  ur i-
di tt  rii t i  ur it  n  ' a ll at'  "i    in-oti  Yinoul want  nsir  tiig--
di , p i t I r i t ui''  'lr t  a vohtitl'u'  to  rat  Whli te r  iore Ie titeded  to an.y ,wa sl t
.rehiofiriint. te    rtuiit ri t itt', i i  in  lth'  di tnce ;fr  not a  sheet i   trila as
hse  o   arvi iitri.'tr'i-" i'  dig  It i- 'ze  ion  lifted-I In t i brace tiuch!rr  on  ,oard tie frig-
of  Fra -e  rs     rae'il l'atr le"-'   ire1 era'  a  .i uit"- nid  she  i-lot  yl  us  at  ten-kno t  s eeld,
f  rne             t; re  ti  j  v,' ilrie'   ' ping  i  iti aa'ny on her cours' ' us if  ie hail
tuy c'ititpr  tilt -itI  sh1ali  nil Ie I ine zI r--.  1e n  lui'   I a  1 ibut  if ft rrr  c -e' -s.
ntrtaai t.a-I aitriii r''              ( rpt im  I ltin   ~d IhhuiltMor   i'  Mc cciii-
n ro   a  SnIi  i a a rt h,    ri   m niisi i i 'n n  mi a ndi l e,  s i l ed  ti e  ttre   iii um p t  fr o mn i  M .  M u re ,
have  furl .Iir -i ''-ii  tiher a t  i.  a.\nd  our  fr-t-  ; riat' rind.  iii  terms  a n s i n thie
li~e  t 'in I  in r  Itc h.  leaving ti hltIt. h Id  no, a  ry  or pijdet nni ,1 '   co r itdte
1"'r'niteii tt'     as t 'l 'vi  I  nirlriuiietv s -  'in  tire  polite i rr'  n huinirrini  to  a  ut  ill  hoter  latitude
i-l'  ine'.ii  l) iiic  ni'ui  woi  u ~pi. a  ini than  1di eI   1  mitr.  rm oh.
m outh  a.a                                   ao'rling  t irs . r'.r i jir   Vi4e  w iees i"   ti 'l  s eating  aro l ndto
the  ian1'..                          11liii nun  frio refit.  ladiltin' ttuhi'ts y  if sire
wea 'rm   u    s  '  hr'Frchin ( en creal. Ie coullmiave'' sO ai'e
I' r'  nh    --t'' 1   I . iirk  I  uill gu  be-  u s. in  a  few  hours, that we cou   'i'  eo
tse  - 1 mh i'n' it+'' n xtreiril' toilitti-if '  t '  t ine-i  ut' Cruise without thel necessity of go-
itlilt,- 71  I to.'i''   o n unI rs, n  I sball Is  in  ig  intu tort.
ote  hr tee  fir  iran  e  a   oai t  wa heir  e y  asr'   I hall  w e  iet  him  disable d  arl   ben  eour-
d u e   te  r u ' s i l: '  '?     S { l V s a  i n n  r i d  r ,   i t   w o u l d  h u a   v e   h  c nrl n i n s i d r -
Anel  hi leut lirir  t  a  lea'1  narch   ,  as  if  t   leup  ttd  a i l esranit  dut '  b i  s  to t tis it  in pot.
ti trsisr re i   a i   l -  hut  this  iii  ' 7thrt a o
timewiththe'ir mvi unnI         'imy tiry. n I' fill awaiy and rebaie rmy
tstCII AhI'Tlllm XX\'II.  cnureingu-n.
T h el CcAFr r   Pt n t h u  r   Xi   X 'c  'l  c - i r i ti - \ Vc 'r e n  a n .  lIas e ''l h   r  ene d  t h e   d e c k   o f
Ti e s   I .  a s   a  g o  i   r-d I l l  i t ' a e v r  g i e n e r o u s ,  n d  t h u  l  r g   I -t  ' m n e r ih   v s se-r  r - L   I h ngi  a e - a
rt'Ivto   nr al nid ervie. 11 inn i -n ri 'ateof the hirst class, he was delighted to
str  1ns i  ii  ,u ' r   I e s a  1r ! c  ' :   'nr nt fimii  nni   o uinmn'1d r M .  I)unrrsunivile , an
llr  lt~tI'.  ftt  i  il as nd  plr'l,tlrfts i tmay  '.fthtd  m  hea(r  commtn a  i , MI1
ttinessr titare re I bhuer riti!rii niu t- in old friend, whoe haid ben thie recipient o mis
tns ir  ith y a e                    pinr m r ly  hlo it arlnity  in New  Y o;rk,  ninny  a
I  r e i" n '" uh'i'r  cike ,  'in n I  'a'w  a  '  i lI  ,. "  d u h ~ii'  of  years  befir'  ; anid  w ho, ahe  rat
I      re  b r o ii cie ,  ni i  I ist  . th a t'  i g  t h ati   ti re ,  was  ae ry  a t er ti v e  to  E ta ,  t ne  o v e-
o       tn  rs inlt  'susp- -tiu liirnil. a ,rih' cruin  I Ihinrs  of iris neilthny  entertainer.
t r uc k ti   d o w n)   it   u oi     -  W ' n  . mn n v'ill e  h a rd  h y  M r.
irat s jut th is'out ich nitw;ar f   ti '  lsl '  P if   n ae .  "e  c el les  had  lIft  i is  h om e  and  all  its  attemn uhrrt
i ras t   ne r l t eall  utr   riigh t   s 1  nvre. nut rl ' r y  e ar  -  lu x uir i e's ,  to  e n c'ti n t  r  th e  p e rils  o f  th o s '  -e s ,
I st Int e rl ri  a l ot l  tc  areek .   lli truth ,  wn  i'.  v re  h ne  a t  once  pro tleretd  h is  id  ;  an d  sa i  thirt,
s nea at  a' o tais ril wg  t i a  it l  wre  r ita t 'S   IWais  withu iis w'hiole tleet, ie  would  scoir the aris-
th a t  es a pu d ri ;  a rl  i thii g  i it  'l i u mit ui u ri-  i pie la 'gso e s  o f  th o se  se s ;  un til  t e  lo v E v a
t1ate  scdk i f   nur  first  ii'u tenant  siay  d  us. airs  found  are   restored  t(u the  arms  of he
All  thus  occurred  inrst ie irirhtn T ei m at  father.  lIe would  ail that very  night-
Ailrn tis! wccrred smr tre 'unrhi  aboumt, nil-  )Ir, Laseelles was uo oa'erjoyedl that he
miiit In, wheIen we W re .' hnenna lii ndid-look- wept freely. re dranuik i-eva'eral glasses of cog-
in  Fri' cle. tfri-gate         d noati suit clin  e  ho  rise with rut aou ter-a thing  rarely  donu , in'
wndward of us, Tie sa1uir'ltlrisd evidetly'sir ed  y hn.

L

TIIE S1ILtL-IIUNTEI ; Or, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIASE.
Captin Dumonv le was vehement in his    The only thing he could do'was, to make
Aenunciations of Ethelert 'Vany °5s, whom  every preparation for lefence, and to keep
lie, as also  id Mr. Lascellks, considered an rhis eyes open. lIe had caused his crew to
abductor of the darkest dye. Durmonville make. while in the lazy latitudes, heavy board--
vowed to have his heart's blood, on the point ing nettings, ot f riarline stuff, which could
of his sword.                             be hung outside-of the vessel, and would
"For me--for ireshall be reserve rat make it hard for people who did not under-
pleasure "cried Mr. Lascelles. " I am not stand what they were, and who were poorly
young   lut my  ionniare shall nevare grow  provided with knives, to get through in the
old   Nev are, until I die, shall any one right night.
for my honare but myself!"                  These Le nowhnng entir'elyaround the ves-
Wishing to show his 1uteh friends that lie sel, and then lie persuaded the two Indian
could now be dependent of them, if he wish- girls and ''abor to go below and take what
ed, and that he hadi found powerful friends, they inh neededue-rst.
as well as old acquaintance s, he invited M.  Ile tried to persuade Eva to do the same
Dunonville arid h-s principal officers to go but she preferred to keep watch with him,
on board the Kinderhook and dine with him. and would take no denial.
So, as Ca ptain Van Tatsell was about to go  And they paced to aid fro on the deck,
On shire, like a certain corpulent Alabamian now no longer washed with continual spra--Y
friend of mine, in each of "pork and greens" paced there, arm linked in arm, talking of'the
for his sweet Katrine, he wa' astonished to find past, and hoping sweet hopes for the future.
his deck invaded by a dozen or less of glit- Tire surf did not now enit a deafening roar
tering officers, whose hairy faces, jabbering --the gale did not howl its wild war-cry
tongues, and many grimaces, seemed to re- around and overhead.
iir him of some of his East Indian adver-  The hours pasted on, and they had talked
tures.                                   themselves into silence. "( ated near the trf-
-  Got in Himmel! monkeys ! Monkeys, by  frail, on the lid of an arm-chest, Ethelbert
jan !" he muttered, and dodged back into the held the reelinini head of Eva on his bosom.
cabin to tell Katrirne to keep in her state-  Sie slept; and her sweet breathings made
room until ie camnse back from on shore, for her'bosom rise and fall as regularly as the soft
there were inonkys on board,              heavings of the ocean, when tire winds have
Meantin1e, Mr. Lascelles had taken his gone to rest. Etrelbert felt happy, even with
friends below, and produced his wines and peril vet all around him. For had she not
liquors ; and had also given the steward a said in no case should they he separated.
golden deufeur, with orders to prepare a good Death would net be terrible, if it took not
dinner from his (Mr. Lascelles) own private -her away from him.
stores.                                     While ie was listening to her low breath-
Mr. Tromp Van Ness was awakened suffi- ings, ire distih etly heird sonie hard object
ciertly to receive an introduction ; and then strike the vessel. In arn instant Ire sprang to
ie took a huge tug of Albany ale, and went his feet, and discharged a pistol, which was to
to sleep again,                           le tire signal in ease of attack ; and, at the
The Reverend Elihti Snodgrass, of the Bap- same moment, he heard vells from inuner-
tint persuasion, hail a holy horror of men of able throats, and kin w by thermr that the ve-.
tar-he was a peace man; so lie kept the al was almost surrounded by savages.
privacy of his own state-room, and "groaned  The great guns hail ll Ibeen provided with
In spirit" over a demijohn of Mr. Lascelles' locks, ani were' already primed and capped.
brandy.                                   They had also been run out of the ports, With
So the good little Frenchman had his their nruzzhs depressed, so as to sweep the
friends to himself; for Betsy could not be water.
brought to look upon men whom the Rever-    To spring from gun to gun, and discharg
end Ellihu held in holy horror.           each in quick succession, was only the work
of a moment.
CHAPTER XXXIX.                   And while their deafening thunders rever-
Once more back to the Spotted Fawn and berated across the waters, hie saw that'Tabor,
her penil-envir'olred crew.               tire two Indian girls, and Eva were near him
The gale gradually decreased during the with the small-arms; -and all five went into
day, which was made so eventful by the tie deadly work. Wherever adark face Show-
essape of tire two Indian girls and Tabor. ed fienrdishly over the side, as its owner strove
The surf on the shoreward side of the -vessel to get through the nettirgs, the flash of a re-
also abated a good deal; but when darkness volver or rifle was seen, and the face disap-
came on, tire sea outside was still rolling in peered.
too heavily for Ethelbert to think of attempt-  For only three or four minutes did this fr.
ing to launch his large boat.I silade continue. At the end of that time,

a'


^ilLSItL4UN       {;Ot, NOeI:ANTLGVL-CKA5I

tb. r  t'  V t t i''lu  (t  flri  nt.  'iii' oat It"( 't i  nth it  trh  i lit', it'lip t t'  ti ~talci ,it
oh  i  'it ' i. ilt".  n   t ' it  i   i1'"+  1 +1 ,at'1.t'L i  it '  itam  ( tii  l 'l t lt8
,    t tti  ' 'i   . ii: t t tlt'' ti !/1)i'  t t .   t .  '  lt't  '1i-i~ -'lt  i -  t  o
l  it .  it   .'i1It rt I   til t1  hoW I  il'i'1  'I  1:. 'i itl  a c' "  t ft  ii t c ntlt
iL't  t j '  : t1t i it-'  I1flint  15il  IL' ' lit  ctilt i nt' t  it tiw ti' c'ntlt tat'di-
tt ti 'iti11,10t'  c  t  XI  V i.  l 1 t  i d it . 11it1 1 ]tit  iiIit t  th1 I)i'  it' ' i f0 L nli  a t1ii
h dr  I It:lltt  +i  t r  i 1:mI'u. ltt4' i' .  t  i   iiIt I'^ t   t i ,  I'f it-t  It  itd at1hiW
"  li  ,'  ,it r t    l  vt,)t,  itltr''"   lit  a  iI' ' '!  r' I 1t  l t  i-itt t  i  i iot  it' i11l,1. t  lt hit
wi  tt  l't ii i  - ~  t. telt't t 'l"lt lt t ' 1  Ii,'littist Ilti lt)thi' 1 e ti t'f ,"   is''
tiIi --" s att  ti  lt t'  .tV .,tta  ' ' i '' 1 t1 t  l t' "lt 1hi'':ilit  i' ' it t "',*Itttl'andl
at itt  it t~t~t '111 It~t1 lit  i  I  t  t itli'f  i ' I  'ti '''Vii  If itt1 it'r1 i'Nllg t)
c '; (( '/ti1  tt, r 'l ti 1.t'  W elt-10.itl11i1itIiitt'.i1t1  1 )t  a
a t t , r ''1 '1  i''  I  t it t  c1,  '.1,I1  t1a^th 'It i  i tt it  t i  rl tii  llitr' V to  lit ' tli li  til
t                         i
141;' '~ ~i(I t      ill't+ i    ii10tillii rt a  t": iitititit1,5itheittgiitat'
.1sI.  r  i,  ii  att  l r,  li ' i li t ii itt  i lt  '  t o  i L itt:fo  itt  it

a I t'  ii A  r +  : a t t, t ' I  t
(t  t }  }~ll  t' ti  ilt  I t'dii rtiti
I'  I  .  ii t   i  2 il' '  \\It
I  itt 'Iii~ t'  II  it .lit t  a' ' ii tt-'
ttI a.a~  i .tv
'I.'  'as'-a"  'lt  liii  t ' t''" t'it"I'
i  '  it  ;}ti    - at'   t' I
a.riot  '1/  i   \  i  t t ' i +S
'Ij       i i   i

ot   it 'I  +I'iii it i ~t '~
a  I t'it'itoa  tlioutii tof lils structk
t  ii _ t  i  t1! ' t't't' ~ i ci'  ' ,
I'it  .?'  '  .  itt  ?  til ±titi 1P  tt  lit.  t u  I t I
1iLei  it t    -- u Idof  lt tt  L it
t.  i  1  :.1 t O   t tiI it   ('ti l ut t P " itt t
x  .:Ii t- ,  I tt  l   it ;' iiiact  itt  ' \'t il
=1   r it-lit  t' -  .'t'l1tr   lit it - t

l i

t1
l1i
0i


r'

THE SIHELL-H1UNTER; ORl, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
SIJShe is right," said Ethelbert; "she knows ville, and zen you may go to Z
best how to nianago her canoe ; and that is the self, Messieur Capitaine I'
only boat which I can launch and use."      "I dinks I see you take de
"~Then go, and God help you! Give me tain Van Tassell, contemnptuo
your glass, that I may watch the vessels. If count one, I and tny crew are m
they alter their courses, I shall know.that you "You and your crew are m
are safe." 'h?                                 Vas -at vat you say, M
"Iaunch canoe on smooth side schooner. taie ?"
I will come soon I" said IPittrpenee, darting  "law, I say dat, and I mean
into the cabin.                             "EA Men, zen, tree times, M
Tabor, aided and directed by Pittipattee, tnino. I am number but one
took the light canoe, nnd carefully lowered friend Capitaine Dumonville,
it over the lee quarerof the scon, here here present, I wish one, two,
all was perfect smooth. Meantime Ethel- men to protect my rights as a F
lbert provided himself with sonme rockets and will give zem to me. Will you
blue-lights, to epse outside the reef, and also Dumonville ?"
took care to wrap them in an oil-cloth, to save  " Yes, and hang these Dutch
them from spray.                          own yard-arms, if they offer
In a few moments Pittipence    returned, wrong or insult," said lionsieu
dressed in sailor's garb.and grasping the light, fiercely. And he spoke good E
but stout paddle, sprung into the stern of the Captain Van Tnssell fully unde
canoe.                                      "Eh bien, encore !" cried M
-Come, Nessee. sit down in-middle, and eelles. " Now, Messieur Capit
shut your eyes till I get outside surf!'  sail wiz me in ze Kinderhook di
Ethielbert pressed the hand of Eva, arid Pearl Islands : or shall I relieve
then, without a word, entered the canoe, provisions and myself, and let
whih Pittipenee fearlessly turned to meet nosing wiz your ins ?"
the waves.                                  The Dutchman hesitated a
but a moment, Ie knew that
CHAPTER XL.                  resist the force of a ma-of-w
Captain Dumonville was as goeo  as his that lie could not revictual his
w.rd to) Mr. Laseelles; and on being intro- deprived of provisions, ie ha
dueh to C'aptaiin Vaii Tssell, upon the i-e- obstinacy wans as much in his a
turn of the latter from the not very success- it would be in that of a donkey.
ful marketing expedition-for the French had  Ie thought of Katrine.  S
muoAopolized everything there lms-coi- live on short allowance.  Lov
}                                   iunicated to the Captain of the Kinderhook prevailed.
bi intention to go to sea that very night, "Get you ready,' lie said, t
Ie uind for the Pearl islandls.            " I will sail when you sail.'
What is dat to me where you go, Myn-    " Very well," replied Dumon
hoer 'asked the imperturbable DJ)utchman.  that vou s em inclined to act
Why, share, Messieur Captaine, zat we go will have some fresh stock, a
wiz zissheep too-alo !" said Mr. Lascelles, vegetables, sent to you from
sharply.                                 am making out orders for my
I goes not to-night. I goes not until I we are all getting ready for sea
hoy- plerty of pie, mid fruit, and greens for  Yian Tassell grunted omit his
"                                                                     der ship! 1 goes not till den t'           still fel ill, to think he had bee
Zen, share, you will go, nevare! Ze French his furst position.
ave share of zese islands, and zey will not  But Monsieur Lascelles, eve
permit you to huy, if yuiu go not at once-  forgive as he was to get angr
direcklee, wiz ame and wiz zem !"       tended his hand to the captain,
1Dr French may go to der duyvel "       " It is now bon-all good ca
Hr bien-youi say zit ?"               you take one glass of randy ws
Yaw, I say dat I"                        "No-schnapps !" was the re
"Ehi lien, once more, zen !"            Van Tassell-given, too, in a t
You ton't own der ship !''            he was granntg than receiving
"No, sare !" replied Monsieur Lascelles,  The "schnappe," an article
king a prodigious pinch of snuff-a sign men universally detest, was o
that he was very angry. " Ko sarc, but I ido and the fetud was settled.
own all so prov ision zat is in her, arid hrave-
e- bills and receipt in my pOkeCt now. I will          CHAPTER XLI.
take my provisions and put zem on board ze  Steering toward the blue-lig
irich frigate of my friend, Capitaine Dumon. still kept burning on the vesse

diable your
!" said Cap-
rusly. "You
iore as dirty."
ore zan tirty,
fessicur Capi-
dat !"
[essieur Capi-
but I sny to
is gentilman
tree hundred
renchmnan, he
not, Messieur
men to their
you the least
r Dumnonville,
english, so that
stood.
honsicur Las-
aine, will you
s night for ze
e you of your
you live on
moment, and
he could no
ar-ho knew
ship there, if
ted to yield-
atural line as
he could not                   f
re and policy
a Dumonville.
ville. "Now
reasonably, I
rid frimt, and
shore. while I
squadron, and
thanks, for he
n beaten from
r as quick to
y, at once eX-
and said :
pitaine. Will
'iz me ?"
ply of Captain
one more as if
g a favor.
which French-
rdered, drank,
ats, whish wers
l in the ofling,
j


r

TIlE SIIELL-IIUNTER l; OI, AN .'CLAN LO\E-CI.E

though tits  on  r.1  the schoit. in. r bt  l i i  I -gan to  hoitw  the  acetin o' the  he:id- tr i'
uxtniituu h.d  iyt D hel' lh rt's  tirli rn. ail  i. ii  .1  e Ii".Iam .
nu: ti  Ie  lighteil until  lie 1a m ia I  ri. "1   uni1 " hisd  uit Ah   x  r  inyo in  ant .
fruii thi fri ate  P t , wa i h.t I  a ti i  vard .1-'r   u-his c-I  I lt i''er~.u", stuno us the
and  i  a bich  it. ry u-timiis l  the 3t ti ' ' il  a  r  t h u t urboi' a  e-ile' 'titl' '
captain. facet the  m-lea mi g  wa av s  if  ieo   i n. i   '-1r lie-i -  lct0-duid  l.-iii  our
al a racn of ftrfi 1 reah  iua h a hl it  t  lf  ihe
oter th. rt-f.  'f ei timt. uiit r li  nil   it lt aer  orh  d ti  r
tt  ia tic  secun"tleil  ttilie  sht.t .-.l r'kt,  i  +1,I'  i ri' -  ins  iai P   i t ':i ttv1 riiiiii  rti'iii' r ,~r
+:t, slakiig  the splra',i frms heIr bruonntr  -  mi un lii tie  ut lii  rI'uT-e~ l t- ri ilimiteIi-
tli  gy  e  r  lngle  1  nt',  -~ii-.  I. li   th-  -I  .ii  lifs', she It is  sioi'aly
_"+,the  gav  dr it hm-i1hed ; andl, k, ein~g 1lrr  !llut  the  1-i  s
eno es l d ito  w itil and  sa, drlvl ' ix' itttilt a h  but Clii ly  tlaiin  et tdiii'  s tis il Ilii' tli
ly  on.  Its 'serc'c ue ts ,'1  ni   frist  eii i 'por  ti'   s;I r  tii
ct site  iied  it forwurd  s-it swi ft ,I that  iiti iii  mithe,a nitl a  'e eoa se -
It waiv  tutifsl  it iut s oth er , an  elevii ,  : an d i  t  m  a   r i
tit etieer. eiirr' 1                 ii- ui ite i.ttidciti ~
rt  way  therou lithe iocr notherWO w vec  of the  ''l fu , lilt'  s  I u i al ti tniti c h i n
It-Itetmit xshcn  licre  ttan a itil'  ifi cii  ii:-x lI  itti  l t tto he lu- r  tt titt usmu. i:-e
thfiumi rt hd ii', Leeilte i  r t h fiis d  n   is  1 irthe  liei  thel t
girl tie ' exel it  r ist ;   pi' a dh l c  t  moren letirltani iii  tr ii:t i t e sc t ub
raplye   i than  an  orii i ry  sl p 'si  bi out could~l   u-hut  lit"  fr i  rnl ih ard tilth  i n ,  li  l tiibrain g  him,
rrowetlhy il th  bst of crst , enc  itti i wilet,  e an 1:a re .n  e low  t
a   t    htalien  more  than  a al ,ifeven Villen an i l oe    uler   tutu'h  t mrrilrle i tn ii  tire
m i  ,  frI  hi  e r-e  f  hti h 1  rtifo d  t he i  rrttsrna iii rt.un d s Ite ue i i   ti-i-lr m d ir  c thI ol i
yoate lsti   lar-I-th   Iifri t!  i'''--   i   b ar si .  lStS'  Itt  u-lilt.astilhails f  ttttl , a e a l h i
lie int-tanutlburned la  bilueliht, ti/ nl itv  aiS " 1-ruun  t  olt  rter,  nle 1)a it  iti
i' he ult -I;t ind: a Is th ems se"- ' r e I  un , s   hi  tut-  eit  ru  arehl  ourii  se
.d,'itthe til t uf  tas vfit Ice  li t '' tiart' itsamx  r, uu1iii' e ui ai e
I i ar i ds . wnstl  ou l .it -li l i' lii undmi t'. ir' its   ur saviii r' u-sf   -x uutY Ot te iil  mlw i ilr i s l  it l
v    i   are liiis ! i  11i ii     sit f ir s  akihie,ts  h'tt   lii st '  i i-eelsmiship.mlr u ,1 st-i  ta lof
il r  thur  i"  ilt '  if s titi-ab ar tt.A ''  ' tr  it .  i ' tr sit ie t t ui l ow   can  vWe   th nu-I \' smC -
Thie jI ering wth.lichi' n i'reaIf, a shati lt ism how rei ardoSit
oc ulr srsl on  the  t-i 'of  liatel't tIf  in is i  ''  y  c IsLiarr t i i  it ii ,afi ri  e 't urk,''
p.it. i t   Ic t  I r must-c lii  I. , . i' ~iie it' _ ' iti  lt  iitfi  ' V h i sil t1  fit'' ItillOIse  iif, 'usi, '  u s  -1 tl
i  iir w tin  t h ing to  ch  -     ' Ia  I Ii'  S tot eC-lltm' sii  ItI Iir
'hetl'lv vpisitairtiandal                              my
lier  hetlm  wt :Cas ut  leet, and that  in1 a lhur-  eewt buit one  unloi e en  *  '(1  tlsih ftb
rv  , blut t r   sira , w e  t i  c e il fo   t  'h  I  tet' ,fii tl r.i  I  t'  l'r lm s  iii
Iniea m ntstee dtit o bstie 'olteil ilir th nnI i m ' '-lit'  n .ott  sceuls  to  ssrr iel.i   a, ti   e'' tud
of lir xliit.. -lteeof  mn  . and, a-he u  a 1t'reullini, thoughyu spea  ihetangu  '
hli rt- s t tar n fl writ 1.1:ilsi - rtlt t l :r -1 'rk, ia° 1  n hellr  V  in
.al   - l'lhgceum1~i  l lt' 1 ai  I  tti  a  "Ni  -;I ani~i An knedeani, from N sw  \ ork."
moit. u 'I iii i Iutse imte ur de' truc e555 , by  drift-till   IAh ,''   ai l  -li ina i -i f  uIrts',..i
Iril--Is' hth 1'                 oiti  te -rwn - nd lthl r
mi  Itthe s  rf i.almost'ce.'rtaiii  f t ''intuitsi' t ' litauti i i I ttahiontI
t   ile tlu-its  s  o I  t '  i i.  e k, uf  til  u lh ,  --itii l tt    . h' ht' it- f.1 snf   r1' i'1lici I
-l i i -t  1 .    l t s' e i it rl u i c k ,  P i t t i eq un i  i l e  ' "  I m tt htt i  r e - 1  t h e   i l ' r  i n c h - ,  i nth
d b ll t. m-s i  se bae,  Ii xxn'. ii  u "' ,-tieS                d
e Io r.,_ ' mu   ik  s  uge flmcuiih f it 'i ic i ltfri.utu  t  nseiet'
lin a  mi oeni t te h icrnioc ' w s liner thm e hIiiti ' firi ' ii I  t  eCmSto- surpr  is youp ."sai
of  the shipl..                 .     "t at  brt -
Gran  g flt  thieabl bsit  ' thl ert  ,i/r+   - ""t'buslin   t.I  s it if  Mara ele Lschle
it.   l  inl  a  m entcu   '' ir t l ii he   om aru'.   i t.N'"ai  id s l l- u ll e.
f'r ma b ,.                           "  t iwI'. salid  thie  ert.  4 y
lir hingtt   liiaft,it h             'neitheIiump t  arI  wu" iithe  h i et o  ln  earth  to eri
the'ic  la s a of theu. iub ar eI of htit'hie  tandfl  n  siia i tt ileb te-ga'fi or ias  La-nufri t l  1'  Itte
El1th e  ml, -lt  ist  l'lt y t  t t5 u-tif.y  m terms- I llt '.  ''r I  ifcseuitiid  e yo r tip.l--'I.idi
.All  handits  its  ths  braces,  ti)  work  lhe'  r nrelmy . i
ship,.,                     .,l h nuf o  -       .
II   ~ iicer~il lie  bu le thilr mlgih the  "'It is yu for whom I Tamim sciearc-y--ou
shtipi; !and  the  sil-trinunler's  sprang i ti the,  r Pfoi~Ir homlISieperile  m) i shipts.I
"  iaut'tt el- tis ns-  1  tio  o+rt -- '  'm lhut tell me if Mam'seile Laseelles
isharl+iul'  chipi t iur.heclmt,tHier,, and  puit t  la  e
l ia1 it ~t:!hoa"l +'' ira. I would           like to know  your right to
'thle orders aert  obeyed as if lby  miagzie ; and ~ f1 i aux et tin Ic=gardi to MirssLanecItts .  sail
theeiship-thiough  yet gouinag  suil attirn-  t~hd,ert, filtumg up.

TItE SIIELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

c8

Ca

r

" Tam the friend of her father, sir, who is I him ! But nevare mind-nevare mind ! He
on board another vessel in this fleet !"   is reserve for me"
In that ease, I will inform you that the  And Mr. Laseelles took a verv large pinch
Iady is safe !"                            of snuff.
Thank God for that, sir! Her father will  " Come to your state-room, and be reason.
almost die witi joy. But we, sir, are ene- able. I want to talk with you
mies !' 'f                                    Me be reason-a-ble ? yh! M. Dumon-
I am glad to hear it'!" said Ethelbert. ville, if you 'ave ze trouble zat perplex me,
The favor I have done you goes fir nothing. you would nevare be reason-a-ble ! Nevare,
I will not even stoop to inquire why we are sare, nevare!'
eit mies!"                              IlAnd Mr. Lascelles shed a few team, then
" You shall know, sir ! I take it upon my- Idescended to his state-room, and took a very
self to avenge the indignity vou have offered large glass of brandy.
to the daughter of my friend !'              M. 1)uonville followed his example in
" ind t/y ? Yuei are either a fool or a both particulars.
maiuan !" said Ethelbert, contemptuously.   " Now, M. iDumonville, I am more com-
Then seeing that Ilie Indian girl was by his postt" said Mr. Laseelles, as he sat down.
Fide, he said :                            " What 'ave Von to propose ?"
Coitie, Pittpence-chow me the canoe-      " Our mod e of acti 'n is what I would con-
we are no longer needed here."             suit you altout," replied the French captain.
Before Dnmonville could recover from his ''it is almost morning ;and when I can see
surprise, Ekthelbert and the girl had glided the land, and make out a harbor, I shall run
away : and though henauised instant search in and anchor."
to to made, they could nt be found on bhardi i  "Mode of action, elh ?  Zat is what you
the vessel. Nor could any one be found who ask ?"
hail seen them depart.                       " Yes!"
M. lumonville was in a quandary. lie      " Well, zen, I propose I fir-t get my daugh-
knew not what to do. lie finally concluded tare, kiss h er, antl forgive her ; z n I take my
to run alongside the Kinderhook, hail her and rapier, and kill Messieur Etelbert Vn Ness
itieyv to, so as to have a consultation with two, tree times, right through ze heart!"
Mi. Lasceles.                               "hIbs vessel is a wre'ck-lis crew have all
Iaviing gained an offing sufficient to last but one been killed and eaten by the canni-
till ayiiI'lit, lie signaled to the whole fleet balls !"
to heave to in c'ose comiipan' with hiiii.  " Elh iien ! I am very glad for hear zat !
1 am sorry if zev make zeir dinnare ipon ze
CHAPTER     XLII.     -        crew, zat zey make not zeir dessert upon ze
Soon after I lie vessIs were hove to, M. capitaine !"
Duminonville went on board the Kinderhook    "Perhaps he has saved your daughter's
in his boat. lie found Mr. Lascelles pacing life !
up and down the deck, almost frenzied with   " Mil tonnere, no ! She would not he in-
anxiety,                                   debt to him for her life, if she is-if she is
''Ave you eominunieat wiz. ze shore, mon -1 will call ber-one   ne leetel iiioicenseI"
cher calpitaine ?" was his first question.   " She is under I is care yet, at any rate
Yes ; a person from the shore saved our  "Not lung shall she ieh izero. I will have
vessels froi destruction, by coning off at the one bloat, and go to her direcklee."
risk of his life," said l)umonville.i        " It will be inipossible before daylight.
. "Did you hiar ancsing otf my daughtare-  No boat canblie steered through breakers, on
is sle live, i shie safe '              an unknown shore, in the night
Yes ; she lives, and is cafe !"f"'I care not ! Nossing is impossible wit
" And not marry to zat raskale infernale ?" me. I shall go to zs shore!"
I forgot to ask him that !"               And Mr. Laseelles rose to go and ask for a
Ask hceii ? Ask who!" cried Mr. Las- boat.
'cellos.                                      "  ou shall not risk your life so foolishly,"
Why, Ethelbert Van Ness !"             said I)tiuionville.
'Ave  on seen him ?"                     " What, sare, is life to ine, while m' daugh-
" Yes             .    -tare is wiz zat raskale inferanle               Perhaps,
tAnd dots lie yet exist?"               now, sis mtoiient he is drag her away to so
"I suppose so !"                       i+woods, e rocks, z caves ! Perlias lhe drown
"Ah, 3hssieur l)umonvillei I did sink I her wiz himself, for zat lie know we have
was not deceive-zat you was my friend !"   come to her rescue ! Ai ! imuiserere-what
"I am !''I shall I ho?"
"No, uare ; or zat nin, ze abductor of my  And the weeping Frenehasn took another
ehild, would not live one minute after you sec conshing dose of brandy,

Si

I
I

3
Z
S
t
i{
d
3


70

TUE SHELL-HITE R; OR, AN OCtAN LOVE-CHASE.

"It will soon be dalight--come on board   " Yes, sir, if I was aboard one, and the
of      -     an  I will go with you after rest would follow in her wake.'
Xrii tl'tiihter, as soon as it is 'tfe'for us to  "+Could you manage that canoe, and get on
ia'l in toward the land." said Dumouville.  board the frigate ?"
tt Eli-n, I shall do zat !' 'Lord love you! yes, sir. I'm as used to
Atid Mr. Laseelles now more contentedly them canoes as Jonah was to whale-fat."
followed II. Duionville to his boat.        "Then take the canoe, and go on board
the frigate-present my comhmijioents to the
--                      captain, and say that I have sent him a pilot
CIH.\PTER XLIII"               to tak ehim tto a safe anchorage. Answer
'Ethelttrt was not long in returning to the any qt stions he asks, promptly and truth-
sEith ur. after  le ft flit' frigate. Forli the fully, no mat er whom  or what they may
lo-liafts yet luritIdas l becons to guide cone-rn. Shoultid ou see a gentleman named
htinti-the aitnd ld heave of the sea were Laseelles, you will say to hin that his laugh.-
hi   r -t teil  aPitIi inee  plied  her  addle  with  ter  ind  in -f  will  be  happy  to  sre  h i  on
ster n  ;th and skill                      boardat his earliest convenience..
Von tham  kaaved them, dear andi noble 'Stay - I have a better thought-- I will
Eth-ltert " rid Eva, is slit'fhrtew her arims write a few words to my father," cried Eva.
a' 'u t  lit nt-li,, antI welcomel Iiit him ack  And she ha-endito the ab  to ho it.
ti- iu aK h-i. ne's. n                          on tani shiowt thieii, after tht-y have an-
Y -     v,  l my en-mi ---this who ihtred, that it will h eeay wt  k for them to
tou tik ittifri t, it ' " taitl he, with t tomtiiie off, b y keepii in the smitooth twnter iii-
iul.d                mside                    the  reef,  with  their  boats,"  continued
.. Wt.:~'1 Thy culll ott! Never-ntv- Ethellert to Tahor.
r, lft bh.rt, awhil- liftei mine will I l-att  '  Yes, sir. Di you think they will gise
woh. XV Ito w till tlir  ttty to separate us us a ia-saC  tt somie decent country, whete
att4V ,                                    the peoplle won't roast adti eat a felltw -'
Ytiir fifiather will,,,"' Uniloubttedly they will give you on s.
Iha    ou ve oii  in him'''           Whther they till do as iilih fottr me or nit,
aNt ,it-hr ttEvahut lie is on board one of is iia qitstion -for I ami tto 1roud to ask far-
the-shilis,tmi-Ilthet coimtnanlei' if the French  irs of eieittitc," replied Ethelltert.
frigt tt voe that his --archli wais fir us,"  "May I be skinned by a hew, and my Ititre
I it is fly, thin, this very hour. 'i'h sea sold fir witllet", if I go without you, sir.
ttill now  irmiit our e-lft'! 'Come, dear said Tahtor. "I deserted you ones', but Ill
It fellertit  itll miail-erly reserve andit seru- It rit- iandt iat-n iefire I'll td it again-
h1 -' are rote frtit iii tnw-- ami ityours,to ad  '1 tank yi. Ah there es Mit La-
yttlraf't-rr. 1lh-lint out Vur boat, and let ecellu- 5iit ' the note for her father. Ask the
Itsttit'ft frei it  l daltligt, nut we ciii Irit-neli captain where lie is, and give or send
hit1'' t lieitih''                         If fit Mit hin.
S No. imah-va  iti know that I live yin  '' Av. a', sir !"
-that I tt - ard = nttrr i ri-i than iiv' tvon  An' Tatitr took the note, and then sprung
foti' i ilttiletit ttrt frto  myiti i'lt'.  Bit f t itt  itf  lth- caoit te-, s lwhiche l ' miooreth in  siooti
cot, itI  mei t' t uitrn  and 'fh t', likt  cotiwttd.  is it rn ut er flit' lee-counter.
frmittitste whmttti I fiat ittnit wrtned I  ill  lin a brief tite', he crossedt the range o
ftae themit all ; antill ithiit iut' coent you f-r. aker-tand 1altfl.d Iaway toward the now-
ta il it he tatkeiiin from nte while life isii atatiit'timg vessels.
h'itt ctnsent -hill never h1e iven I! I ti
oursEthelheitt, yurs firetv-r !'             CIIAPTER XLIV.
ttt I Evt. e iViii t rue tan ! Me tight  When tiay dawned, Mr. Laseelles was pacing
fir vtu-Pli  ittipaftte tight for volt, 'itre,-' to and fri tn the quarter-deck of the frigate,
t     -h ir  t-if litdon't, I eat thim !"crieil hAi spty- lass unTer his arcm, and his snuff-
ieii Ceii-°t'.                           bIx in his hand, both betokened anxiety and
- iV iratciti, iu'd rathiti fight a ear than agitatlitn.
t twn ttour gillt, Hs Pitt ipt-it . !'' - ttl A3i ston as lie ctuld clearly make out the
t, -r. wit h a  rimtta'.                lav of the land, M. I)tittoil It' ntt.made sail on
t1-t- 'htbt ttitfe its ap1i1rarnte itit mr  iit frigate, anti stood in towiartd it, havitig the
h m  it tfit illr ster IEth-Iert return--l. cart ow ti have a good look-out kept front
T i} =ti a rttwre in the etling, six 'r tir ihti  alft antd beltw, and leadsnen in the chains
1 t   -1,- tint.                         to taktte sounlingsso soon as they should reach
-- 1 1lio  uthintk  yon  e'~}  I  lot thi e  vi t- them.
ic' s s-illy ittilt itt'Ihra- +' t tI hav, Tai- ' In a short time the look-outs reported a
br " itaked Ethelbfert.~                'boat ahead, and the French Calitaim haied his

r

THE SHELL-HUNTER ; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.

71

3

[

main-topsail laid aback to enable the Tabor to men---.Mr. Ethelbert Van Ness," [" Dam Mes-
come alongside.                            sieur Etelbert Van Ness I"] "who is the best of
lie was soon on the deck of the frigate, and men !" [" Zat is one no such ting ! one men,
on being asked his mission by Dumonville, by get !"] "Come to us quickly, and receive and
said :                                     bless us both !"  [" Bless you bote ?  No, by
" Captan Van Ness sent me here to pilot dam! I bless my angel daughtare, but I will
you into a safe harbor, and then to show you dam Messieur Etelbert Van Ness I"]" For
the easiest passage to his vessel I"       as you receive one, so scest you receive the
"Eh I"                                   other I"  [Diable --no! I will not receive
Dumonville could hardly believe his ears. Messier Etelbert Van Ness, but upon ze
Tabor repeated his answer-                 point of my sword I") "With all reverence and
"Can you be trusted? " asked Dumonville, love, 1 am your daughter,
looking at Tahor, closely. "Will you not run                    "Eva LASCELES."
us ashore ?"                                 "Eva Lascelles -it is not yet Eva Van
"A pretty fool I'd be to do that, and spoil Ness I But she is one nonsense I M. Dumon-
nmy only chance to et out of this rascally, viule, 'ave ask her of ate for his wife-before
wnan-eating country " said Tabor, indig- zis I would not consent, but now, now I will
nantly. "I've orders to pilot you; and if give her to him. She shall be one nonsense
you'll fill away and signal to yourtonsorts to no longare !"
allow , I'll do it in a jiffy, and all right. If  And this determination expressed, Mr. Las-
you don't want it done, '1f be off, and me and cells took another glass of brandy, and then
Captain Van Ness will find some way to leave went on deck.
savages of all sorts behind I"
"Wemust trust you" said Dumonville.               CHAPTEft XLV.
"here is a second favor from the man whom    Eva and Ethelbert watched the vessels, as,
I must kill, lie is a decent fellow for all his piloted by Tabor, they, gracefully stood in
escapade with Mam'selle Lascelles I"       toward the land, under a press of canvas, for
And N. D)umonville gave the necessary the breeze now was light. Beautifully did
orders to fill away, and signaled to the other their white sails gleans in the. bright sunshine
vessels to follow.                         above the dancing waters. From the peaks of
"Is there a Mr. Lascelles on board this all save one waved the tri-colored flag of
ship-?" aked Tabor, at this juncture.     Franc-i-from the peak of that one floated out
Yes, sare -I ans he !"  What want you the world-known flag of the United States of
wiz hum ?" said our old friend, stepping for-' America.
ward.                                        And from the mainmast-head of that Amer.
"There's a letter,sir, from your daughter," lean ship flew a broad burgee, on which liar
said Tabor, touching his hat.              name was to be seen, as is common with
A letter from my daughter ? And you merchant-vessels.
'vi- brought it ?"                           "That shi belongs to m  father t" It would
The Frenchman seized the letter, and kissed be strange if both our fathers should be on
it in raptures-then he embraced Tabor, who board of her-the one come in search of you,
hardly knew what to nake of his extrava- and the other after me !"
gances.                                      And Ethelbert laughed at the fancy, for he
" Cqme wiz me, Messieur," said he to Ta- did not think that he was jesting on the very
bor, come wiz me, and take one glass of bran- threshold of fact.
dv I 'len I shall be nore compose, and I    "If your father is along, I will guaranteed
glall readze letter of my daughtare-.my an- that hue has brought your fat cousin also !" said
gel shiild l"                              Eva, with a laugh.
And Mr. Lascelles dragged Tabor, who       "And if yours has not brought Bessie
went not very unwillingly, into the cabin, and Peck, I'll lose a wager I" said Ethelbert,
gave him a glass of brandy, Ie also took-one  "It will then be a very general re-union !"
huiself, and then Tabor went on deck to pilot , said Eva.
the vessel in-                               Thus they joked and talked, while the ships
Mr. Laseelles opened the letter, and read glided on, and passing the bar, ran into the
it, aloud, commenting upon almost every smooth anchorage of the lay. Soon, one af-
line.                                      ter the other, they rounded to, and then
"Mon chier Pere"-[" Ah! she has not for- their sails were clewed up, the men ran aloft
got her fazzare, andi he is yet dear to her"] to furl them, and they lay still on the wave-
" I am so happy to hear you are near me."-- less waters.
[" She is happy zat I am near ! Mon Dieu,    Ethelbert and Eva now looked anxiously
never one-half so much happy as me."] " I toward the point where a boat would first be
have teen in great peril, but my life and horr- seen coming toward them, for they knew that
hare been safe under the care of the noblest of Mr. Lascelles would not delay his visit a great

ii


72            THE SIELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIIASE,
while, and they both wait d with anxiety for of the fatlir cruslied out all thought of coum-.
-          the result of that visit. tey ; and n1 slioner lad the lat got ilong-
It was not many minutes after tlie frigate side the schooner than Mr. Lascelles sprung
had anchored, before a boar was sten round- i1on board.
ing the anirdyi( point of the bay, and hteading  Eva-Evsa, ins sli i, my angel, where
toward the stranided schoroncer in t1ie si1nee thi are you" l he cried, as he rushed aft, with
water in ide tli reef. The number of oars, as open arins.
wel as th  r igular stroke, told that she was a  Iere, dear father, and very glad to see
man-o -wtar's hebt.                        you! ' she said, us she stepped forward to em-
As she Caie nearer, both, Ethelbert and brace him.
Eva scaneit ler closely "with their ghsers.  IWothi her tone and manner, however, were
"Tie are tiwo men in hIr sti rn breids calni ad collected.
Tihor:" said Ethielbrt.  " tie is an otieer  " My ehid-~-i shild, I 'a'e found you at
in uniform-the captain of the Fitench frig- last !" said lhe, wei ping with joy, as he strait-
'  ate ."                                      ed her to his lbosol.
"Yes-M   D)urmaonville, I recognize him !"  M. I)umonville, who lad stepped en board,
sild Eva.  " The other is my father!"       with his boat's crew, ill of wiomo wore cut-
YVu hav then seen that oticer -before," las-es at their sides, returned the bow of
sscil Etheltrert                            Ethielbert very stitfly, indeed.
Yes --he is the French officer who I told  Tabor glided to the side of Ethelbert, and
youi wa si att e'itive t me a couple of years whi  reId .
a     If I w icold to his attelntiis then,     cThey mean to take you a prisoner, sir
aid I wis, I will be  e to liim, now !"  but, dari ne, if they don't have to scratch
i  I 'gee now w  h 1is t1e of the ererebiig rue out tr  o it
party!" sail Ethelber', bitterly.  "He has   AndI the mate went below after tools suit-
pvor it his hauls, force at his back, but if able to fit him for the " scratch."
he values his own life, ho will not try to use  As soonl as Eva enuld decently do it. she
thermi!"                                   released IherseIf from 11er father's imbrace
" All the powr and force in the world shall land, taking Ethelbert's hand, said
int take ins from you, my Ethelbert!" said  " lire i oie, ier father, whom you for-
Eva.                                        get to notice, entirely. This is Mr. Etielbeirt
btirtaoy, you, Eva!" cried Pittirenee. Van Noes, whim-"
" YVu stik iithat, nailn mstirk to you    She wat interrulpted by a terrific out-
Fight wit i teetli and fing r-unails - both burst of ruage from her fattier.
sharp !"                                     "I dr mtcice Messieur Etelbert Van Ness I"
Pittipattee sail nothing. but her looks told he slioutel. " And I will notice inm more
that site, too, was as ready as her brave sister, lirecklee. IIe steal you froni ne--anl I will
to a. rae her frienie.                     stcel ohim wiz ry rapier ainone 1eetel hour, so
Etheltrirt quietly went below, and buckler soon as I m lirtnre  lcolpose."
a g~1 srvorl, of the cut-anrd-thrust navy--  "I owe life and everything to him, my
pattern to his side. In his belt he also put a father !"
couple rf C r''s relvers, the truest friend a  "  ou owe him  one life, eh ? Zen if I
man in need can harm'.                     give him his life, we are evYr Ii! I will kick
Eva smiled m aainr, when she saw this, and lfhit oner' and ie satisfy, and send him to his
4              tv "ritwent elowrstshte said, to imnprovo her tel-. fazzrare and his fat cousin zat hasve comec for
lfte.                                    I;to marry hl11I
Perhaps she adlerd to her person some     Eva looked at Ethelbert, and smiled at this
'wels that were more useful than ornanen- annonneement.
tal.                                          4First, howevare," continued  Mr. Lae-
At any rate, sh t wras absent but a moment, cellos, who had paused to take a large- pinch
and when she returned, showed very little ial- of snuff, "I shall take you wiz me to ze frig-
te ration of dress.                         at' Ipirgenie, which is command by my friend,
Thie boat was now else at hand, and its oc- Duuruy ille, whom you do not honare by even
cupants could be seen without the use of a one look.
glass                                        "Yo   will not take rae there, unless all
lmly co,'mpianions go," said Eva, firmly.
CHAPTER XLVI.                    " What-are not you my daughta ?"
Grouped together near the entrance to the  "Ies, sir, 1 believe so."
cabin wert  Ettellrert, Eva, ard thi' two In-  " And you will not obey me ?"
dimn girls, when the bort caine alongside'. i '' Not if youtbid me desert those whom I
Ethelbert advancerl a step or t wi to iiee t the love ! Thelnse young women are my friends,
French officer, who, he sup osed, would be an I will protect them-for they have risked
ii-                  the first to step on board. Iut the felings life to saVe us. Ethelbert Van Ness--"

I


TIIE SIIELL-IIUNTER; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.
"Dam Etelbert Van Ness-name not him 1"U        women, also !" said I
to me !"                                  " Us women, also, brave M. ID
"You shall hear me out, my father. Eth- we will resist you to the point
elbert Van Ness is my betrothed husband,    "Mark you those guns, si
and nothing shall ever separate him from  bert   "They are loaded wit
me !'                                     Attempt to come on board m
"We shall see-we shall see1" screamed armed force again, and I w
the almost insane Frenchman. "M. Dumon- boat you send! You may s
vile, I demand zat my daughtare be removed can and will do it. And soon
to your frigat'!"                         der this lady to yo, or to an
Dumonville advanced a step.             against her consent, I will b
In a second, the sword of Ethelbert was and all on board, to atoms!
drawn.                                    but her to live for-drive us
"Dare you resist a French officer, sir ?" if you dare
said I)umonville, dawing his own weapon.   Mr. Lascelles stood and li
I am on my own deck-leave it!" was the words with speechss wond
only reply which Dumonville received from  spoke, for M. Dumonville
Ethelbert,-                               knew not what to say.
"Never -without you as my prisoner !"     "Will you fght me, sare
said Dunimnville, raising his point, and en- cells of Ethelbert. "Will
deavoring to step n ithin Ethelbert's guard. wiz two small sword-one f4
One sweep of the blade, one turn of the for me ?"
wrist, and the sabre of the French captain  "No; I will not raise m
flew over the side. Ethelbert had at taken you, sir," said Ethelbert.
lessons of Rosit (of New York) and Duval (of "Will you fight me, sir ?"
P'hiladelp~hia) for nothing.  .ville, who was white with rag
Ah, ha ! suppose you disarm me, also!"  " With sincere pleasure, si
said Mr. Lascelles, making a furious thrust on shore to settle the mat
at Ethelbert with his rapier.             yourself that no boat from y
" With pleasure, sir !" said Ethielbert, as bard the schooner in my
oalnily as if he were doing a favor. And Ethelbert.
the blade of Eva's father went toglook after "Very well, sir, I give the
thatof M. Dumonville.                    go to my vessel this mome
"Sncre! Mil tonnere l" cried Mr. Lascel- and officers to witness that
les, aghast.                              fair. You have a boat, and
"Diable! Men sieze him at once !" cried shore. Come, Messieur Las
M. lDumonville, angrily.            ~'    this fellow first, anid then ye
"towards, beware ! Move one step to- daughter."
ward me, and you die t" said Ethebert, draw- "After you have lled him
ing arnvolver with his left hiind.        brave M. Dumonv ille. You wt
"And jest come one at a time, and I'll me !" said Eva, mockingly.
lick the whole frog-eatin' generation of ye !"  "And may be you get kill
tried Tabor.                              monkey-man !" said Pittipen
Eva said not one sword'; but when she saw  poor to eat-not fit for soupl
her lover threatened, she drew a revolver are I  O scare sharks away
from beneath a light shawl, which had hidden  M. Iumonville was already
her well-provided belt, where two more re- le cou1d scarcely speak.
volvers and a poignard could now be seen, therefore  and sending his cre
and stood close by his side, yet not so near~ flowed them, accompanied
as to be in his way. and was soon on his way to Ii
The crew of thehat hesitated. They wore  "I feared that you woud
cutlasses, but had no pistols. Neither had fighting Duonville, dear Ev
a M. Dumonville been suficiently thoughtful ert.
to provide himself with such articles.      "No-my own noble Eth
Cowards !iseize him, I say !" shouted M. had two reasons for not doing
Dumonville.                               cannot hurt you-you are his
"The man who has disarmed our com- weapon-you are cool, and he
manner, and is armed with pistols, is more erless with rage. Next, ye
than a match for us, who have only cutlasses," chance to win my father to y
said his cox-wain, respectfully.          vour friend, the'chivalric Duv
"'arbleu-is it so? I will go to my frig- phia, of whom yon have so
ate, and get a file of marines, and shoot all mc, and whose skill has given
a                                                                                                                    who resist me 1" cried Dumonville.        in the use of the sword, lie

Eva, mockingly.
umonville ; for
t of death.
r ?" said Ethel.
h musket balls.
y vessel with an
ill riddle every
mile, sir ; but I
ecr than surren-
y one on earth,
low this vessel,
I have nothing
to desperation,
stened to these
er. At last he
was dumb. He
asked Mr. Las-
you fight me
or you and one
y hand against
rned M. Dumon-
e.
r, if you will go
ter, and ledge
our vi ssel shall
absence " replied
pledge. I will
nt for weapons,
the combat is
an meet me on
elles, I will kill
u can tike your
and eaten him,
sill have to fight
ed yourself, you
iee. "You'too
how ugly you
-go I"
- so angry, that*
lie turned off,
w into the boat,
y M. Lascellcs,
is own vessel.
: object to my
a!" said Ethel.
elbert-no    I .
so. First, ho
master at the
is almost pIow
u will have a   °
our side. Like
val, of Philadel-
iften spoken to
you perfection
adores a bravo


I

TilL SIIELL-h1UNTER; OIR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CIHASE.
nau. H- uitl be vour sccOw=l in this duel" lhim.  I have pledged my honor that hi
ra  '""  't  t~tt eve  aimedt  Ethl la rt.  chic t  sh-dl serve.
.l are  e  1itoda 1second.  L  "c '+ty. L  If1in Wi t n , aidl  oor Lnscc ~,
T,,h r t Itb -re with Ice aile the giis. to ,h +-with a cigh. uflit if he eo  nn  you, ho
fn I th   v - I  ia n-t  an  treh, rt .  _-ik  must also ,coiiir in t e a
fr  - - u . d.  )uiu nil lie will, unlaiiht41 oly,  Anl  taic n, pcroee  cin  mtoa  th e ifcebiitil
ti c   t  ke one frinm anwng the  tic-s  part of is cnit  , he, in compooany nvilthe  int
n   a  Ib "    lr aa t a pcrotinuse t   hut wV 1)wit- ieitenant coi wti  amI IitI i n e 401t h 1 eapitio nili
y  r y     a i  y b t iv w ert .  Ii iI n ic c i hi o(e iask  4'iiti   eill   i hii ci ti enWticg  of
n     Ir.   thic  dare in  :i coi  oni  i lit  ani titarke  out tit -ii lon 1r he appaicdig  of
-to ---I       ,--w t ,   tut  d  it il ll tithll(w +onm  at.  Tis  ii w, h  andsa d
r=  h.   i wht nh  ift   is  mn  y nr Itnds, s thbiiert with it a1r t ormoviilyouorcant ataid
T :t  :.  e ,n r lhim, ain  it w  inte  iiytt - -lu , 1  1  1:11  hand til  e yo yrCcl
fith.r fir, v. r y ur firw I .  Iiii b.  cince  it  inl  ilt  i 7 (n i   ii  rei  r t owhen i ery,
h i at:, -i  siiwil  surely  win  hini to your  rapcier  iti Von nnit  t r,,t
8 d  .  t i  co'ur  I  prinp u ."  C   u It'  i   I  ictlaink  u-ta nid  a
-+ 1 Ia  cr c m  irl , y itr  an  is  perf-e-t --I  Perfect l, sr, I  t litk  yi ;an n t yI pray
will , ll , it  to  the  it-' r , s c-- i1thli-it,  yccu t  I a-healii -o  hat, aical   r  masnialicn
n'isi - t+ 1 . "  :P th  hour  yoau  pr 1 o   the  re-lt  of li-  iletin a. I he brt, iiicliO
to-r=" : ac  1li rt co  cl t o t nil1'."t  t ii icI  iy  tiiitiiigc  iiist,"  ictitci  Jthcliceit,  i
m'' ndm.rl  d artom ."," u+'n                 ana n,'
icb rt niw pcc  rciwd  her to lh bi s om ;n ii  excellent iretrit'hw.
t    c   int  iii t hi  cab n iii  1 t si  a  coutlce  Mr.  I.-c'ile'c  boweinprofotibly.  I he
of ti -c-jsta  wifnm  ' t freingtlhn i4 s irm: 1   idi  'nm  and chilal e is     rdani   o tltin pih'ite i-
im    mtb  alt, r, l   the c e and p l   -nly  r -  lini  fatorall in  spitsof
to'c a r I t~ilt tutaci.           ihis  p~rtic1ticces.
towar11 cc)hchac.taants strilpId  to their  shirts
C hAPTERit XLVII.          an    ntalo , -ni taking onntthccsmohot-c,
Sb rt      n rcaed tc hch; Ie si as to m c     e ligt y othesinot
v.-I  tc tn I frc there  cbut a Litt lc while i before  hcca  h441' i ri  i ke an Ap lla,.
t w  i c-n o hvardi imi.   r                       hoLw-l-erttiobketlikennAto
w, ry  dti - rs i  bittthM. M I )ntim vic e and Mr.  lithe  niril imbcille tigue iet'r tI shcar tct he ter
S  ti.  w-r'  th-i.  hr-t  ti  leap u n ii  - i .  raf t  i  fron' tilI ti t  ot f he ci1cit' hnrw
h'iI   cci c re  ftllbitte  byIli't  a  hil't - tz   afhcor's  hiiin  i n cci i tin arlicI+ i in tl-t of d  alt -itc it'r,
of .f rcnt  iirant  . i um n i c i c  carrc'c ied  a stronge' r, 1  it i ct S e  mu -Iccttertiied t t e  w r1 1 , it.
'a  cii autItli   rapi ris, eqlil  in  c cry- r  re-  n  hihiirtrr.nI  fuc'iic'4  iiilt 'cti tIn e d chi,
Sc,(t.                                ,i l'c'  -   i-i ic -il-rI r c i cthatwfcily a  ritt'l, is
b eb   cc9  t 1ti'It'I  r'h , 4cr  go  lack  Ato  tlich    p1Ionintitit  Juri yc'itit l i ii t it tic  wa ic ly,
grcc - u'  a- .4-1 t' i I ) iicci'ril iwitui t  retro n nttiigt tiche  cilutc'
,   ttcer 1h4ere thatin  antv whers c-lee. if I  nI ut- Mr. Icc' c'inIc--c  ccc llicintuitional ci lt
41 r-c  c-ctl  i+'  rC tu   ttti t"5 in -  c-iclig i tyii lifc-!. . citItlic' 1tirtit cf M l Itilltl)illc'.
ratci I l .   ii',r ci; ic ct m4   it   S i lis  n l d   V lt a d.' r m  h l i d  h   to i  i .  ' S a r e ,  if  o u
d l   'r t , a c ic   w hi c'  i ntti u nk.i tii  lts ti". - x  - c r ut c c l i   mt  i in s u l t  i n    I t u r n
i      cc 'rt   lc ctt t  mek.   m  ' i llit t myc cpr 1iinci. ti   iitt   ive c ze word  to  coin-
"  V  ri  t+"ti-Il='+' let  it  b;.  A re  yov a  a eo  i n g
rca 1y n   1  m ny iI ti iii  ii ii Ic'. lay itg  d own  thcli i  li  in ic n' srieI Dumony  'irdlly
swr i cc an' 1 ii- nigt "           hclistsccincnnn aIc lgtitiicccItCawkwicrc
a c c t I  fw a' i :  il-c  , '  '  Ig ilt  a v e  c h n 1 I '  ttt  I r. I  elc IlI e  g a v e  th e w cr l   a n d
sc  'li i htng  thtgentrnbwhiae-   ige  a  ti  r int  ti ita Irey, Dumon-
tcciu icac a' tighiittt Ict suctl ai chcci ; andi'l idl t il t eailcml andiiunmto'vdccimett.is
nolt  cr it- i cn mirt t   ccl  1 4r  fw'rc  atti  ic a guard which  ccld  it hcc
" 1d', '  I  t  i  t i i ill  i  ,  but  ci lnt  ca.  y-cI .  1 tai'rt t cr t lcrhat hi oft n  left  hiimselfc
take a iiy unftiar a in 1ik                  c    -  btati  ade  o-ly  b t
-1- hI cl.  cci ,sir. fccr  the  fir-stpl bclc  a 0r1ofstatilciv c.iW ih  t el,  tcritei I tic tr  -t at
the hl I  unntcc  ' et a c4 ry rctl  aseEethIelhbertse  pr.  ittla1 an r ricf d . Pe r  Vtlihrus  ;n('  t c -
L'~c 'Lc  ctii'-  ~~ l 1!"na-c it '~ littlciit  l  1   ct'l c 'trv tiirii-c"'l ttc
L "  le f   yt   I o HnI i iie emy-I  Cuitilct 'r'r 'feint with  a siile, nitdi Iever retrt 1ii
l'e  his  friend'  1said  Mr. Laseeitlle, in  astou-; an  micln.
iathic'int.                           Eritcc-ic-calil ninit+'s  Dtnniile  thuns
ih e  i icmucc-t riomynien f.  f -r  kliii' catili'"  fotuILct., 111til his arm  actually iwearied with
s-ildM. I) i ul ille, as  much  sutr risd' ti  over-exertictn.
fir. ILsetleA, that Ethelbert shou d choose ' "Coward why de you not fight I" le sa-c,

I
I

THE SHELL-HUNTER, OR, AN          OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.'
bitterly. "You only stand on the defence." refreshments before them, and aiding with his
Only had the words passed his lips, when, own hands to dress the wound of his late foe.
with a scarcely perceptible motion, Ethellert  "What do you think now, of Captain Van
through the whole of his forte on the "feeble" Ness 1" asked Eva of her father-chohaving
of his foolish enemy, and sent his weapon fly- taken a friendly glass with Ethelbert in the
lug twenty feet behind him.,              cabin, now came on deck to talk with her.
Kill me !" cried Dumonville baling his   " lie is a brave man ; an honorable man!
breast.                                   Ie fight very well. But, my sild, he steal
"No, sir-take your sword again--I mm you froni re."
only teaching you how to fence,' said Ethel-  " No, my father.  I luved him and ran
Lent, quietly. " And be so kind as to be more ; away with biii--so well disguised that he cd
guarded in   our epithets hereafter, or I may not'know me, until my sex was revealed 1
be tempted to make your lesson a harsh  accident."
one l"                                       "lDid he not persuade you to go Wiz 1dm ?
" Admirable !" muttered Mr. Lascelles, in  "No ; on the contrary, he l.ai pa tE d with
spite of himself.                          me to be gone for years, rather than that you
)unmonvle, almost choked with mortifia- should' be offended by his presence in Itcw
'en and rage, tool his weapon front his see- Yoik. It was I who hbad not strength enough
i.nd's hald, and again press d the attack. lie !to live without his presence ; it was I only
had nc longer occasion to reproach Ethelbert who was wrong, if wrciug there has been, fo-r
for standing on the cefeitce. The sword of I loi ed him tand could not let hin go frem
the, latter played like flashes of lightning me."
around his blade, and soon he was n the' r  And Eva wept--Wept like a child.
treat ; while more than once he felt its point  Uer father remained silent for sceme time.
grazing his sides.                         At last lie said
Dumonvitle grew desperate. lie saw defeat  "You lover at runn.my Eva?"
Meforehin i-preferred death. le left him-  '"Yes, father ; I etht~l-ffarl Itter than life."
self open , and drew hack his sword-ihand, so  " En i race me. Eva. I lve him, too."
that while his ownlil y was transfixed with  And Mr. iiseelles pressed i d to his to.
the blade of his antagoist, lie might be able, so , cnnd wipt also.
oven if dying, to give c driath-blow with his' Etle-llcrt eanie on deek at this nenient,
dis'ngagedl weapon to his clien'.  -      M'. 1I.scelless W hint ; tindt lidini  g, tok
EthelwercinpitCireheindded his intention, antahim bly the hnd.
touched his iantagoist hetvili-not in lis  i c" Nc-sier 1thl c rt Vn Ness, I'aie many
breast as he expected but in the' shoulder of apologies to mat  Ifr -In 't sf to u.  i'c
his sword-arm, rendermi g that arm usekcs.- cet hike ene -1rtti-- ic  sicr ; mict ze muiseoa-
)umionvile's life ccas iw surely his, if Ic'ileblecr (f a«tll sitrct, I Iot 'ze  ein r  of-the
would take it. But Ethelbelirt had done al ictwoods, to yo04u. I pray f ycu,11 nally  ar-
that he wished; well knowing  hose dear ;dolls."
eyes had witnessed every turn of the combat.i  ." You  ever have c flndcid me. bicwvtr
You are a Irae main. I cannot lie your much vii- dislikes ntcx ILc e ti l t  d n e, r(-
enemy any lo ger I!" cried Mr. l.csc'lles, pliedl lIhlclert'. 'l eit rit cur gc cd-ii ill,
rushing up to lccthelbiert and cmibraem lumi, tiid to pc me see i yrr frii1i-5n1)1, vwill tur 1 o
as soon  as the  latter lowered  the point of his-; tic mcnil, aicc1 th gdes-cc-irt  i  r--c ti ol  ny Ihiinit.''
weapon-"V "on loae my chlildc-cy iEct, Mcca
1. I)moncv-ile -ell fAinting from  the loss    ii Ness.
of cod to the grounL  Ethiehlbert, even be- " I  do. with nmy wholeic antr."
fore his second cuil do it, sprang kidly  " Aid clie' loes a  cm -c-haene you lettare ran
fccwrid to raise 1101m-                   sie love w Ir  oer.old iiuzzre"
" Kill me not cith kindness. You are as   And again ASli.  Iceellb ' ic It.
generoiis as you are bravie m.rmnuriedi c D-  "No atter, dr falr. .lte kivefrnouch
imnvile, and hie i ecam e insensible a iomcent  for both.  I t us live f riir It gthcr, md
later.- he so happy " said Eva, I ric-c-mg er lit s to
Ethelhiert lgged th eurgeon to have him I her father's cre-urinkc d 1 rccw.
conveyed at once to thi' schooner. wherc his  " Zere is but ene hj letin !" said Mr. ina
woucmcis could most conveniently ice nitended cells ; and a kind of c micali mile flitted
t'-. .                                      iover his face, as he added : " And it is a'ser'
is sec-oitd and itsurgeon at onceecorsented ; great one."
f r it was nec-cssary to stop the efi-ion of  "What is it?" asked Eva.
Iicoi as soon as possible.                 " It is in zat boat coming zere," said r,.'
All thu parties t11ereiore hastened to the .Esceles, pointing to a boat froni the Ki ee'
schoinr, where Ethelbert ot  every pains holck, which was now nearly alongside.  f r
to make all his guests comfortable-placing i The boat contained Mr. Tromp Nan T-.
1

,*   ,

_
t


iiE    lILL-IILNTER:; OR, AN OCEAN LOVE-CHASE.                      71
'atrine Van Ness, Beaic Peck, the Reverend lhed throw. ne overboard if I didn't-S O  dI
liu SnoiiI;rass, and Ca  ptaiti Van Tassell. it,' said the frightened rta'aclir.
These s tilled the boat, that but two men " Anid I witnessed it y  Pkit "it  Adone  o-
were at the oars as erecw.                oordin to gospel , dkin' aetss a '   nd
SYu1 ' likIx' to be taken now-had you there's no use of inakii' aifosia bout it--
not be to r call all hands to relel hoarders, spilled tilk paint a oitin cryin'odr.a y
Ethelbert '" said Eva, with a laugh.        " under 1n alI      sh    norigh
l'at girl their' ! Give her tiMontaree to tarn fool-ras- 1 1 discharge .ou nOW rght
eat, if she plague Eve l1'' said Ptitipunce,  f "d   . he           ts home," said
with a smile.                             Katrine, coolly.
' oV goes not home in my shilp--not one
CIIAPTE      LVIII             of you -not one," cried1 Mr. VanN e. thrw-
'fie-re was nit much time for comment on ing his pipe on the deek, 11(1 taliilg upon
Ii dekt'i of the Spiotted Iwi, between the it, " I discharge every  hrtl.'
dietoovery of the kinderhook's bot and her   Yin link Vitn dt we .iselsarye not you
u ,min e'alongside. And as soon as he awas said ('a ludl 11 KnTassel."' sc' , latine,
wier h coli step out, Mr. Tromp \Van Ness let's joo, der olt ier her''cried Mr. Van
did so.                                      'ha    oive faso lof t ride in.stany
fiface was red with exertion and anger Ne s the ruling pasionof trade institotly
e   a  led. ' Der tu/e'el '" was his ti rt ex- crushing   as1alrlVarTaselilgs.
clhena:t ion1: . 'Then looking at Ethellbert, who  " W hat she  ort?'laskl Mr.  Van Tassell.
$tohl by' th  sidle of Mr. Lascelles holding          youSixtf tisontvltlCllars, I dihks.a
Eva" haul, h cried :'e gi vol frtayo                           ' Tsltrli
la youi nilt a 7o1y fellow, Edelpert ? F irst  " Yaw is  lMrsgout. I takes it, sM a
yi i rudn away nit dat old moan's tauglhter 'uIhat is
'n, vi't din all, 111u wrecks dli c honer Ness.
In' is miinl, anild   1 is only inzure fir ten tou  el rt-vig to Etheihlert,le hail
sail   i aor". 0 nl  i,  .11.0 ''        ithll j rt-'  (ill t itft fiu d  von  lose  your
la d  it  i sll   a l  n d i' n o s m wo r t h  " n.I 'v e g t  C il l  ai i d  1 Im oe   ia s  tr e e  h u n tr e d  to 'us a n d  to l-
en ahl to pay fr her (it i," said Ethelbert, l arm udhehas enin my altare wizmore
quiet.                                   ndfive h  are in thoulndadiare ried 1Mr.
vim '    i ri'sI ti'aay  it  dot  g.  ad 71  '  elinii  loii  l  in,''e   r
le   .   n . y  r 'sli  titri e here  to  di   an  as ei lb s.  i rri y .  "M e dsier  S noodgr ss,  I
Ivels y i"     m  atemeherewih youi for marry my ailiuiglitare ai Mes-
itO "nhart"i                     1"    i   e ,   e  et Vs s nm        aeyI
SShe  ( .as n if she had sutered r' sail leire d' Elpet gViaNesa 11idtCsi Pek..
Li hi'' hi rt, as N atrie fairly roll!1 o'. 11fr 'Nthe'cor'diin to ge 'idtoeTimithy  Peorallemy.
Sihe. , fl+hoiWt'dIly h~ ile  'ot+'h Vain  l'otsslh, fur  '  l  l'liIlg t  iiitl.i  l  i
i e  a fl   b  v e d   yc   t o  h e de'vli t d1     ahi "   i a 1  s e  t r i e d   r a n d '  w ill  e   a j r l t e l  i f o r e  w e  s e   a n o z z e r '
t h g  't  1  er  it.t  11lam eh  th e a'  sstr ii .  an l,''  sail  M r.  l.a eelles.  wic ketdl.
t  g   OIi   i ii't(.  lr t i  e' t1" '1M r.  r fro  "lil   '  y) u "11oii want  te  to  iarry  them  nos
'.i±  N  '. limt  Ct '  xiu wait t ill It r time  right  ill' "  atised Mr. Snoslgrass.
c           h.ii  ")11 itel.  I  hav"' pr ;lht yor cou in  ' "To"  I e  sure  I  d+.  W hy  should  ze   wait
S 1 1brnh'' r-maa tiomarr' you mtiit hr I will 101. youill icont iig Co 'Iithv,  ii
some ran,])' for your sti moaeh's sake.''
1 r ht an laot "' "sail Van Tlaseell. pick-  Mr. Sniillyriss lid not relish the joke's if
ligmit In  'we f  up  a l  i'I pihe1 iig  K t riue  to  her  M r.  l.iseeles  half  as  well  a  lie  did  their
F  ir     '  fool " asked the old man,  low'ever, lie performliel the eertnonv, anduu
fitw.ili. '.                              titt~ d  lni swiere  hearts  were  already  link'
h"+l" li' , fdat she isn1nit! wife' Is nut dat el.
why, atin she i                     Now, Bessi' Peck. it will comc y'our turn,"
Vo .  1atrin0  .,  C isin Feh1p e' t#  yes siaol M r.  Laseellels.  with  a  jill'.' laugh.  "  Zero
p.' Ir i' 'i iu in     ' l     at'ii' is a lplaii in loard ze tireneh frigate, and
till'0' it(  l iiin iiii (etions all in timt' he si mrll too'yl you wiz Mr. Snoodginss.'
rthe''li' word's ' ill 11be done, said -essie.
\Xouerried u'n?' thundered Mr.-Iromp I   Ameni " sail Mr. Siodgrass ; and he took
'ati   =.bher by the hald.
i m 't.t'r  +tl nits'~ 11 '. if dler Iaptist her-  ' ll marry  lit me  anMd  Pittipattee,"  said
bin sllti.  r lliet l r'  a rn 'li eiil.  Pittipenet',  i n  a  tit e  of  11o1k  sorrow.
su  lit  rp'ed  liunll   the  nragimd and  , "  Go h orm e  with  us, 0an  we  will provide  for
O.ttWittsdill   i a n.   r  eon,"          said  Ethiel ert, w  th  a  smile.
ot. ederild. They said I must-he said *rAnd it was done. So is this story.
-  s  ry Thyai

FRER1IO A. BRAD'S CATALOGUE.

istfe .n    the   Saddle, or the Cavalry
Scout., By Ned Buntline, late of the First Regi-
ment, New-York mounted Rifles. Illustrations by
Darley The author in his preface dedicates this
work to his old comrades of the First New-York
Monated Rifles, and the Zleventh Pennsylvanie
Cavalry, illustrating, as it does, many of the most
exciting scenes through which both regiments
passed iL the campaign on the Bleckwater and in
the vicinity of Norfolk and Petersburg. The sto-
'y is written in Ned Buntline's best style, and is a
most graphic, exciting, and thrilling portraiture of
the scenes and incidents of an eventful campaign.
M1ie free of postage es receipt ef prise..$0 25
*uy Ravenel, or How will it end.----A
Tale of New-York, twenty years ago. By Arthur
1. Grainger. Illustrations by Darley. Mr. Grain-
ge t'he author has a peculiarly forcible and pictu-
resque pen, and such a one as must be requisite
for the revealment of those startling and romantic
episodes of life in the heart of a grease city, which
areinot wanting when sought out as matter for the
subtle web of the romancer. A metropolis like
New-York cannot be other than a vast arena in
which all the fervid passions of human nature, Its
loves, and its hates, its pride and humility are con-
tantly contending, and the glittering sparks which
Fy off from this friction are caught by the ready
pea, and combined in the maay webs of plots and
counterplots. Maildfwreef postage on receipt of
i.. "..........................
Jaok Mizzen, or the Mysterious Cruiser.
By An Old Salt. This well-known and talented
author needs no encomium; those who have read
his works know that they are compiled from the
author's personal experience, and cannot be sur-
passed in truthful depiction and interesting inci-
dests. Mailedfree of;postageen receipt of tke
?rc---..............................$025
ofllow Ash Ha1l, A Tale of a Haunted
House. By Margaret Blount. This book abounds
icn thrilling adventures and surprising incidents
which those having a taste for the supernatural
will know how to appreciate. This elegant work
has not bees surpassed by any of this talented
sad charming authoress' best efforts. Author of
"A Dangerous Woman," "Orphan of Charnley,"
a Downe Reserve," "Kitty Atherton." Maiued
freofpostage oreceipt of prics.......$0 25
bylla Joy, or. the Mysteries of the
Brown Stone House. By Dr. J. H. Robinson.---
Illustrations by Darley. This new work by the
saove popular author will delight those whe are
fond of striking Incidents and inter~ting denou-
maests, and Is one of the best of his works yet
blushedd. Mailed free efhpostage asthe receipt
-'''''------.------.-----.......$0 25
a, a Heroine of the Rebellion.    A tale
of this war, founded on facts with real characters.
By Ned Buntline. Illustrations by Darley. This
scary more accurately and truthfully depicts thee
stirring scenes and incidents of the present war
than any other tale of .he American Rebellion
that has yet been published. Maied fret of
e " aneW    /   re.........s......1e

rNoll Darker, or the Ohoot of Black At'
, Iey.  By Dr. J. H. Robinson.  Illustratiens by
Darley. Those who have read "Good-for-nothin
"Dick,"Scotto the S         Cepherine," an4
other popular Tales from the pen of the same eel.
ebrated author need no word of core mendation of
this new tale to induce them to hail its appearance
with extreme delight; suffice it to say that " Nol
Darker" is a Romance of the first class, and is a
worthy predecessor of the series of brilliant Tales
by the best writers of the age which characterize
the series so favorably known as the " Maxevay
S maras." Mailed free of postage em receipt 
Pris.--...........................$025
A Marriage of Mystery, or the Loi
Bride. By Lady Clara Cavendish, author of
"Woman of the World," "Lisa," "The Divee"
"The Fallen Star," 'Margaret," etc. This is
one of the most charming and instructive novels
this talented author has produced. Let all who
would enjoy a rare intellectual treat read this
book. Mailed free of postage ea receipt of tA
prie,-..-........................$0-5
Fanny De Laoy, or The Clandestine
Marriage.  By Ellen Wallace. The Olandestlue
Marriage possesses a very high order of merit s
a novel. Its scenes are full of thrilling interest;
Its characters are persons who at once engage ese
feelings; and its good style and execution sme
chaste and finished. It is the heat novel we havs
read for months.  Jailed free of postage on ves
cipt of price.....................0s
Downl Resarve, or The Mystery at
Wishing Well. By Margaret Blount, Illustrated
by Darley. The readers of this really charming
and delightful tale enjoy a rich treat. Of all the
popular and attractive stories by the same success-
ful author there Is not one that equals the facing.
ting interest which characterizes Downe Reserre.
Mailed free of postage oa receipt of price, $050
Nellie, or The Companions of the Chain.
By Fairfax Dalfour, Esq.  With 15 full-page ii.
lustrations from -lesigns by Darley. One of the
nost engrossing novels we have taken up for some
time. It bears she impress of a master-hary, and
gives evidence of a deep knowledge of the hutaa
heart. It contals a great deal of most interest.
Ing reading; being one of the most extensive
books of this clare-sntaining two hundred sad
ninety-three pages of closely printed matter.
S     free postage ense eiptif price, $075
SPECIAL NOTICE.
It you do not see the Book you want
in this catalogue, do not on that account decline
sending to Fasnatc A. Baanr, No. 22 Ann.st.,
New-York, for it. He will send you a'sy Book
you want-or In fact anything else, from a needle
to a Steam-engine. ' Enclose the money for the
Book or article you may require to the above ad-
dress, and siga your Name, Town and State, and
will receive by return of mali os express, Whe
Rok or Article yos desire.
MP.osreand address
Frederi A. .ra1.
Ne. 5 Amn-st.. N. K.

4

I

-A

'p

r


REDEB1 A. BRADY'S CATALOGUE

War Letters of a disbanded Volun-
teer. 312 pages. 'Iine wost humorous and enter-
taining series of Letters ever published.  Con-
taining a correct account :f all the issues from the
White House except the Greeabacks, and all the
Secrets contained in 'Abraham's 3oaom.' Illus-
trateul, cloth, gilt back, $1 50; or illuminated
paper covers $1 25  I" Mailed free of postage
on receipt of pice.
Lella, the Star of Mingrelia. By G.
W. M. Reynolds. This admirable romance far
surpasses any similar work, in the rapidity with
which itntideit follows incident, in the hold and
strikingly painted characteristics of each actor in
the graphic portrayal of the varied passions that
sway the human heart, and, above all in the con-
sumaete skdll hsplayed in the weaving and unrav-
eling of the piot. The sequel will be found in
Karaman. Price.....................$0 50
Karaman, the Bandit Chief.            By G.
W M. Reyr.dds.. Karaman is unquestionably
one of the most deeply ablsorbing works of fic-
tion ever penned. It aiounds in marvellous andi
vividly depicted details of incidents in the ad-
venturous life of a daring mountain outlaw, wiro
electrified the Caucasian regions by his heroic
valor. This is the sequel to Lelin. Price..$0 50
Omar Pasha : or the Vizier's Daugh-
ter. By G. W. M. Reynol4l. The scene of this
story is laid in the east. hrie author's descriptive
powers is shown in love paseeres which are sweet-
ly and pathetically written. In thie use of Ian.
guage there is great readiness and felicity. Alto-
gethrer it's an attracive pomanec., in which the
Interest of the reelr is pretty well kept up to
the end. The sequel to this story will be found
In Catharine Voiat r. Price............$0 50
Catharine     Volmar :      or  s   Father's
Vengeance. By G. W. M. Reynolds. A tale of the
Russian empire, and the only rival of the famous
Count Monte Christo. It is full of deep intricacy
of lit, ani will he read by all, and pronouncedl
a first class work of fiction. Concluded in the
White Lady.  Price...................$0 50
The White Lady. By 0. 'W. 1.
TReynolds. A romance of love and war. A story
that engrosses the readers attention from the first
to the last page. A tale of the sensational order
and well illustrated. Sequel atnd conclusion of
Catharine Volinar. Price..............$0 50
Wagner : or the Webr Wolf. By 0.
W. M. Reynolds. The scene of this story is laid
in Germany, and is undoubtedly the author s most
exciting romance. Complete.  Price....$0 50

True Blue: or Sharks upon Shure.         By
M. J. Errym. Mr. Errym's productions, whatever
else they lack, never lack interest for those who
read novels fcr the love of reading them. Tnse
1lu, is a very spiriA'd representative of its elate
Price...... ....................$0 25
Jolly Jack : or Scenes at the old Junk
Shop. A thrilling sketch of the miseries of city
life. Plenty of entertainment is furnished in this
work fir those who en joy startling incidents and
stirring emotions. Price.............$0 25
Boxing, without a Master. By Owen
Swift. Tie scientific art and practice of attack
and self.defence explained in an easy manner,
That any person may comprehend this useful art.
Price............................0  13
Black Jokes for Blue Devils.           Just
the thing to make light of these dark tirnea
Conviting of Plrtation and high life stories ol,
rred philosophy and nigger witticisms, and fully
illustrated with near one hundred pictorial "Black
Jokes."  Price...................... . $0  25
The American Housewife and'Kitch-
en Directory. Containing the mot valable and
orutinal receipts in all the various branches of
Cookery, together with a collection of miscel-
laneous receipts and directions relative to floust
wifery. Price........................$0
How to Cook and how to Carve.
Giving plain and easily understood directions for
preparing cooking and serving with the greatest
economy every-kind of dish ; also, how to carve
a14 kinds of meat, poultry, game and fish.
Price........................... . $0  25
Lionel Jocelyn. By Pierce Egan. Se-
quel to "Love me, Leave me not," by the same
author. A Tale of' eal Life. It is the latest,
and in the opinion of Literary Critics, the best of
Pierce Rgan's works. Price..........$0 50
Count de Maily.        By Alexandre Do-
mas.  Sequel to " Olymoia of Cleves."  This
hook is acknowledged by all who have read it, to
t' the best Tale of Romantic Fiction ever writ.
ten. Price.......... ...............$*0 50
Barnaby, the Sand..hfler ; or the Plan-
ter's Ruse. By D'. J II. Robinson. The books
of this author have always been eagerly sought
after and have met with unprecedented succesa.
Price. ...........................$0  25
The Orphan of Charnley. By Mar.

garat Blrunt. A Story of our rwn timts, and
Fast Life in London and Paris; or the              suirprassres iin absorhing facination asayipagrsa.ver
Adventures off te Marquis - f Waterford.  Rary  written. Certain it is, that a better Romrnce b
aa..ative.  Pea    ..   ..... .      .$0 25   acot appeared for many years. Price....   5
$    Copi -a of the above books sent to any address in the United States, free of postage.
$ead   s  rev s  b'rsedesie A. Brady Pbtshar. No. 22 Ana Street, New-Taik.

yd

1S

ft

'I

i

I


                                          
             
         
       
   
