
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Jane Horton, or, The Wife's Martyrdom .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6937
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            TALES OF THE METROPOLIS, ETC. 
             
               JANE HORTON; 
               OR, THE WIFE'S MARTYRDOM. 
             
            BY JACK BRACE.
             
            
               New-York: 
               FREDERIC A. BRADY, PUBLISHER, 126 NASSAUST.
             
          
       
      
         
            Jane Horton, or, The wife's martyrdom 
             
                
               JANE HORTON: 
               OR, THE WIFE'S MARTYRDOM 
               A LIFE PICTURE. 
                
                  CHAPTER I. 
                  THE NEGLECTED ONES! 
                  THE dying child lay in its mother's arms! 
                  "Oh, God! my let is too hard," murmured the poor woman-"I toil, and I endure, my very soul is wrung with anguish, and yet I endeavor to be cheerful; but what is the result? always the same. Is there no hope? Heavenly Father! is there no hope on this side of eternity?" 
                  A low moan, and a movement of its fever-parched lips, as though the burning frame needed moisture, called her attention to the infant. She held a cup of water to its mouth, which was eagerly quaffed. 
                  "Food, wholesome food! my precious, you shall not die for want of food, if your mother can procure it. Would the doctor were come." 
                  As if in response to her prayer, a low, but decided knock was heard at the door which opened gently to her invitation to "come in," and an elderly gentleman of benevolent countenance entered. 
                  "My name is Doctor M--; you sent for me, madam?" 
                  "I hope you will pardon me for the trouble I give you, sir," said the mother, timidly-"But my child was dying, and I was not unacquainted with your benevolence." 
                  "Ah! let me see: slow fever-want of proper nourishment-nothing else, madam; and you yourself seem afflicted-there must be a change in the treatment, or we shall have you down too, madam." 
                  The woman said nothing, but seemed embarrassed. 
                  "You are married?" 
                   
                  "Yes, sir," said she, blushing. 
                  "And your husband?" 
                  The wife replied rather to a question understood, than expressed. 
                  "The times are very hard, doctor, and work is difficult to get." 
                  Her confusion confirmed an idea which had already occurred to the physician. 
                  "You seem to find work, madam," said he, pointing to some coarse pantaloons which lay half finished on a chair. 
                  "I do what I can, doctor; but Mr. Horton finds it difficult to get along; and since my poor child's illness I have had little chance to work." 
                  At the name of Horton, Doctor M-- started, and approaching closer, examined the speaker narrowly. 
                  "Heavens! Jane, is it you! my poor girl, why did you not say who you were? you surely never doubted my friendship?" 
                  "If I had, doctor, I should not have sent for you now." 
                  "But to see you thus-in penury and want-your husband? tell me truly." 
                  A blush of painful embarrassment was the only reply. 
                  "I see it all-I have not been misinformed. But, Jane, this must not be; you shall not want." 
                  "My child, doctor, my child! will it live?" 
                  Dr. M-- regarded the little sufferer more closely, and asked several questions. 
                  "I would be wrong to deceive you, even for an hour; all hope is not lost, but the case is critical. Jane, yourself and child must be removed to my house." 
                  "I cannot desert him! doctor; you do not say it, but I know what you mean." 
                  "Will you sacrifice him?" said the physician, pointing to the sick child. 
                  Oh, hard alternative! the mother and the wife struggling by turns for ascendancy in that already over-tasked bosom. 
                  "Have mercy, doctor; save the child, but do not ask the wife to abandon her husband." 
                  "Jane, I will do all in my power, and I will forbear persuasion if it displeases you; but believe me, some decided step is necessary with your husband, or he will perish in his iniquity, and drag you and your child down with him. Here is a prescription, and here is what you must not refuse-use it freely: generous food, and comfort are absolutely necessary for you both, Nay," added he, seeing that she drew back, "you will not deny your father's old friend?" 
                  Jane Horton was the daughter of a highly respectable merchant, who had been raised with every indulgence that wealth could procure, her every whim consulted and gratified. About three years previous to the commencement of our story she had married, not only against the advice, but contrary to the positive injunction of her parent, a young man, whose chief attractions consisted in a handsome person and fashionable manners. As is too often the case, her father, unmindful that his own previous indulgence had fostered the spirit of disobedience in his child, visited her offence too harshly. Alfred Horton had married Jane Winslow, not so much for her pretty face, or her love for himself, as with a mercenary view to her fortune. He was an unfeeling, heartless libertine, just such a one as is indigenous of the false and corrupt state of society which exists to an alarming extent in this great metropolis. When Mr. Winslow refused to receive them after a runaway marriage, he thought lightly of it, confident that in time the parent must relent; and engaging apartments at a fashionable boarding-house, he sought by well feigned assiduities to make Jane forget her parent's unkindness. For several months all went well, but as the chances of reconciliation grew less, the husband became more distant and morose, Jane began to entertain the most alarming suspicions as to his sincerity and affection. The departure of Mr. Winslow for Europe, without any provision, and even without granting the interview which Albert had urged his wife to ask, was the signal for a still greater change-it dispelled the illusion of his creditors, and he found himself obliged not only to shift his quarters, but dunned and annoyed beyond what little patience he possessed. From this time forward the life of poor Jane was one of misery; constantly in debt, constantly changing his boarding-house from inability to pay, and giving himself up to every species of dissipation within his reach, Albert Horton sank lower and lower, dragging his unhappy wife down with him, until we find them in the wretched half-furnished apartments of a common tenant house. Oh! if those dens of human misery could tell their secrets, what bitter and revolting episodes in the life around us would be revealed! 
                  When her child was born Jane hoped that the event might effect some reformation in her husband's conduct, but the expectation was futile, and as soon as her returning health would permit, she found herself compelled to labor for its support. Did Albert Horton, a man reared in refined society, and once accustomed to the elegances of life, feel no compunction at seeing his wife thus occupied? Far from it, he was rather pleased, not from any philosophical notions of the dignity of labor, but because it added to his own selfish comforts; and, oh! shame upon his manhood! if such creatures are men, he not unfrequently managed to dissipate the hard earnings of that patient and sorrowful mother upon his own coarse pleasures. Where were Jane's friends? In the first days of her marriage she had been too proud, and in the latter, ashamed to apply to them. But they should have endeavored to find her out, say you? Alas! for the world's friendships, they are bound together with a rope of sand! 
                  It was only when the illness of her child alarmed her seriously, that Jane took courage to send for Doctor M--, an old friend of her father, and one who had petted her as a child. Even her note to him was anonymous, and she intended to leave it to chance whether or no she should reveal herself. The physician's natural benevolence led him to comply with the request, and his kindness of manner induced Jane to reveal herself as she did by using her husband's name. 
                  It was but a short time after the doctor had retired, when Albert came in. He was sober, but looked jaded and cross. 
                  "I suppose of course there's nothing to eat here. Much encouragement I have to come home regularly, as you call it." 
                  "Albert, the child has been too sick for me to finish my work, and--" 
                  "There's no money, of course," said he, brutally, forgetful of whose business it was to provide means. 
                  "I have a little money, Albert, and if you will take care of Willie a few minutes I will soon procure some food." 
                  "Here, you might as well give me the money, and take care of him yourself." 
                  Poor Jane, her hesitation was natural; the money was all, perhaps, which stood between her child and death, and experience gave her reason for distrust. 
                  "You are afraid to trust me, I suppose," said he, sneeringly. 
                  "No, Albert, for I cannot think that you will deprive your child of its only sustenance, for my work brings me in little now," said she, handing him a gold piece, she had taken from the purse which Dr. M-- had forced upon her acceptance. 
                  "Gold! eh! you have found a mine?" 
                  "It is a loan pressed upon my acceptance by an old friend." 
                  "And who may your friend be, eh?" There was a tone of suspicion and almost of fierceness in this inquiry which struck a cold sensation to Jane's heart; it showed how degraded her husband must have become to doubt her. It perhaps did more than all his cruelty and neglect to raise up an icy barrier between them, which no warmth of affection was left to thaw! Truth is simple, yet armed with the most powerful rebuke in its humblest guise. Her answer was calm and dignified. 
                  "I sent for Doctor M--, an old friend of my father, to see Willie; he recognized me, and pressed assistance on me, which for the child's sake I dared not refuse." 
                  "And you had a fine tale of sufferings to tell, I have no doubt." 
                  "You ought to know me better, Albert." 
                  There was a steady light of reproach in the wife's eye before which the profligate husband, hardened as he was, quailed. 
                   
                  "Of course I've no objection to your borrowing for an old friend; but you need not have been so modest as only to take this small amount." 
                  This was meant interrogatively, but Jane parried the question 
                  Poor thing! even this duplicity, forced upon her by maternal solicitude, was painful. 
                  "Here is a prescription, Albert, will you please get the apothecary's boy to bring it around at once?" 
                  "Certainly," replied the husband, taking the paper, and departing on his errand. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER II. 
                  THE HUSBAND-TYRANNY OF EVIL HABITS-A GLEAM OF SUNSHINE! 
                  As Albert Horton walked towards the druggist's a new idea flashed upon him: the visit of Doctor M.-- was opportune to a design he had entertained, of getting up a sympathy in his own behalf, such as might force Mr. Winslow, on his return, which somehow or other Horton had learned would soon occur, to do something for his daughter. Albert had not long before talked the matter over with his "chum" and adviser; how he was to come the "reformation dodge" over the old "un;" and no better spouser for his new born resolution could be found than the one thus presented. With these views on his mind the determination to play the amiable towards his wife, and make some show of kindness was only natural. 
                  If I were disposed to attribute such accidents to a special interposition, I should say Satan was unwilling to risk the chance of so choice a villain slipping through his hands; but the principle of good or evil is within us, and the habits we form are our masters; this is my Christian belief, and the conduct of Albert Horton illustrated it fully. The druggist not being able to make his change, Albert ordered the medicine, and while it was preparing, stepped out to get the gold piece changed. The most natural place in the world, for this purpose, to one of his habits, was the billiard saloon on the next corner. The barkeeper remembered a small score against him, it was disputed-settled, and drinks set out by the man. Albert partook, as a matter of course; once could not affect him, and although his new formed purpose required abstinence, to refuse under the circumstances was a violence to his habits which he had not courage to offer. With the balance of his change he returned to the druggist's, paid for the medicine, and had it sent round home, while he went for provision. As he came out from the shop he was accosted by his particular friend, and "chum," who by the way had received a hint from the barkeeper that Horton was "flush." 
                  "Al., lets go and have a 'nip'" was the generous offer. 
                  "Thank you, I have sick folks at home, and must be getting back; I just came out for medicine." 
                  "Yes, but the boy will take it safe," said the chum; "so no 'humming,' old fellow; come along I shant keep you." 
                  Had Horton refused the first, he would possibly have been firm enough to resist the second offer. But the tyranny of habit was against him. 
                  "Well, then, you'll drink with me, Jim?" 
                  "Any way, I'm not particular." 
                  The most convenient was the already named billiard saloon. Of course the barkeeper had to be asked. As soon as the drink was finished, Albert tried to get off, but his companion could not excuse him-a few minutes would make no difference, and a raffle was coming off in the next room. He yielded and they entered the apartment. There were just two chances unsold. Horton hesitated; habit was strong, perhaps he might win; it would give him a few dollars, and money was necessary to his new purpose. 
                  Horton pulled out his money, and handed in a two dollar bill. 
                  "Only one dollar a chance, gentlemen, a fine patent lever watch full jewelled; sell for seventy dollars on the nail-two chances left, who'll take them? They'll bring a premium after half a dozen throws." 
                  "What do you say, Al?" 
                  "I feel lucky," said his companion. 
                  "Let's each take one, then." 
                  "Agreed." 
                  "That'll just make it right for both," said the 'chum,' "and we go 'snacks' old fellow." 
                  It is almost needless to say that they both lost-Several glasses of liquor had, however, circulated; and Albert on some point of dispute wagered drinks for the crowd, and lost. The spirit of gambling once evoked, and every one seemed under its influence. 
                  "Here, Al., let's throw off," said the 'chum' rattling the dice. 
                  The proposition was agreed to, and Horton lost. By this time he began to be seriously concerned about getting off. Just then a "pool" was made up amounting to several dollars, and, feeling worried at the inroad made upon the amount received from his wife, he accepted an invitation to "go in" just this once, with a hope of making up his deficiency by winning; but fortune eluded him, and he was easily persuaded to "try his luck again." Why linger over the result?-Alas! the history of depravity, weakness and temptation is painfully familar to our every day experience. At midnight Albert Horton stumbled into his room inebriated and brutified. Jane took no special notice of his delay or his state; she was still awake though tbe child slept. 
                  "Hist! don't wake willie, Albert; there is some supper on the stove, and I have made your bed on the sofa." 
                  The stupefied husband, notwithstanding the obfuscation of his faculties, was a little taken aback by the salutation; but nevertheless he ate the food offered in silence, for drink had sharpened his appetite, and then threw himself sullenly, and without a word upon his couch, where his heavy breathing soon announced an uneasy slumber. About six o'clock Albert Horton awoke with a parched throat and nauseated stomach. Everything was still around him; the weary mother had fallen asleep beside her child. In feeling on the little table to find the water-pitcher, Horton discovered a small amount of change which had been left by Jane. Quietly he stole out of the room, and in five minutes after his throat was temporarily moistened by a morning dram. As he left the rum-seller's to return home, for neither compunction or shame made him avoid his wife's presence, an engine returning from a fire passed by, and among the b'hoys was his "chum," and last night's companion. 
                  "Hilloa! Albert, taking a 'snifter' already this morning? Go back, and I'll join you, for I've been up since three o'clock, and I was cleaned out last night." 
                  Horton complied, and was not averse to taking another glass himself. One or two of the "chum's" companions joining in, Albert's change vanished down their throats, in liquid fire. Before they seperated, the "chum" took good care to remind Horton that he had loaned him five dollars the night before, which must be forthcoming that day, in which case he would shew him a chance at "something good." Albert was not only in the power of this person, in relation to some previous transactions, but also completely under his influence, so that he did not feel easy at the peremptory intimation; and his only hope was that, perhaps Jane's supply had not been exhausted. 
                  The noise of her husband's entrance awoke the wife. She got up, bent a moment over her child, which was sleeping quietly, and then sat about preparing the morning meal. Albert watched her awhile in silence, and then said: 
                  "So you did have more money after all?" 
                  The wife gave him one look, and then glancing at the table, found the change had vanished. 
                  "You seem to have availed yourself of that knowledge already this morning, Albert?" 
                  "Well, and what if I did take a few pence to get my bitters, when I don't feel well?" 
                  "Nothing, Albert," continued Jane, plying her vocation quietly. 
                  "I'll tell you what it is, Jane, you carry matters with a high hand. But I don't mean to stand it." 
                   
                  A silence more emphatic than words baffled this unprovoked attempt to get up a quarrel. Albert rose and went to the bedside: taking the child's hand in his own, he said: 
                  "Pshaw! the brat is well enough, for all your fuss." 
                  "Don't wake him, Albert; he has been very ill, I thought dying. Come to your breakfast." 
                  He obeyed silently; for there was a quiet energy, hard to resist, in his wife's manner, which nothing save her child was capable of calling forth. 
                  "Jane," said Horton, changing altogether his tone and manner; "I acted wrong last night. I had made up my mind to do better, and to seek a reconciliation with your parent, if possible, through the kind offices of your friend Doctor M--; but temptation beset me in an unlucky hour, and in its worst form, for I met a man I dared not disoblige." 
                  "Albert! my husband!" said the wife with unwonted emotion; "Oh? if indeed you would but give up your old habits, how happy we might yet be! I know Doctor M-- would cheerfully assist us. But my father-have you heard of him?" 
                  "It is said he is coming home. But as I was saying, I met Jim last night, and somehow got rid of your money, notwithstanding my good resolutions." 
                  "Never mind, dear Albert, so that you give him up now." 
                  "But, Jane, I met him again this morning. I owe him some money, and I cannot get rid of him until he is paid." 
                  "How much is it, Albert?" asked his wife. 
                  Horton did not answer promptly; perhaps he was calculating how much she probably had. He covered his pause, however, dexterously. 
                  "I cannot rob you of your little store, Jane." 
                  "Don't think of that, Albert, if it can only free you from that man, and you will indeed, dear husband, give up such society.-How much do you need?" 
                  "Ten dollars," said he, casting his eves down. 
                  "Here it is," said Jane, taking a purse from her bosom, and handing him the coin. 
                  The quick eye of Albert caught the glitter of gold still remaining in the purse. 
                  "Thank you, my dear wife," said he, "you relieve me from a hateful burden, indeed." 
                  They were the first words of kindness which he had spoken for long months, and oh! with what magic influence they thrilled that poor forlorn wife's heart. 
                  "Oh! my husband, all will yet be well if you will only keep to your good resolution. Come home early to-day; let us have a nice dinner, and a talk. We are both young enough to forget the past and be happy!" 
                   
                  Oh! woman's faith! woman's trusting faith, and deathless love! are ye not the harbingers of paradise that shed celestial rays over the gloom of life's stormy day? 
                  And was not the profligate husband's heart touched by such sublime tenderness. I should be sorry to believe human nature so barren of all goodness, as to think otherwise. But alas! the corrupting influences of constant self-indulgence and debasing associations, leave but few green spots in the heart, and even there true and generous sentiments have rarely time to fructify ere the simoom of passion sweeps over with blight and destruction! 
                
                
                  CHAPTER III. 
                  LIGHT AND DARKNESS. 
                  WHAT a day it was in the poor wife's calender! How joyously in comparison sped the hours! Her child improved too; and the era of happiness, long, too long deferred, seemed about to dawn at last. The day wore apace, and yet Albert came not; evening drew on and Jane began to feel uneasy; the dinner was prepared, a better one than they had enjoyed for a long time, and still no husband returned according to promise to partake it with her. "Hope deferred maketh the heart sick," and poor Jane verified the saying of the Hebrew Monarch. 
                  It was nearly dark when Horton returned at last. Jane had just put Willie to sleep, and advanced in doubt and trembling to meet him. One glance at his flushed face and heavy eyes, was enough. 
                  "Oh! Albert, is that what you promised me?" 
                  "Don't bother me; you are always whining when I am in trouble." 
                  "Trouble, Albert? I thought 
                        yon
                        you
                      were to pay off your indebtedness, and come home to dinner with me-" 
                  "Curse the dinner! I want money," said he brutally. 
                  "Where is the ten dollars I gave you?" 
                  "Gone! Come I want more money, and must have it. So give it me. It's no use to lie, I know you have it; and then you can ask your old friend for more." 
                  "Albert Horton," exclaimed Jane, aroused by the opprobrious term he used, "I scorn a falsehood of any kind. I have more money; it is all perhaps that stands between my baby and starvation, and you shall not have it." 
                  There was a clear ringing tone of decision in her voice which almost sobered the inebriate. I say almost, for in an instant he relapsed into brutality. 
                   
                  "Shall not, eh! I say by G-d! you will." 
                  The loud voice in which he spoke aroused the child, who commenced to cry. Forgetting everything in the mother, Jane flew to the bed-side and snatched the boy up in her arms, trying to pacify him. The interruption broke the magnetic spell in which her firmness had held the drunkard. He followed and laid his hands on her. 
                  "Give me the money!" 
                  "Albert! what do you mean? Take care! You will hurt the child." 
                  "Give me the money!" 
                  "Brute! madman!" exclaimed Jane, stepping back from his grasp, and holding out her child with noble dignity-"would you rob your own sick child?" 
                  "Give me the money!" exclaimed the now infuriated wretch, again advancing. 
                  "Take it! Take the vile trash for which you would barter your soul, and may the curse of a broken heart cling to it!" exclaimed the abused wife, with the air of a Pythoness. 
                  "And take that for your insolence," said Horton, as stooping to pick up the purse, he struck a back-handed blow. It did not reach the intended object, but ere Jane could step far enough back entirely to avoid it, her boy received the blow at about half force, full in his face. 
                  The wild grief of poor Jane may be better imagined than described. Words afforded too feeble utterance for the climax of wrongs which rose up in her bosom, and she sank with her child upon the bed overwhelmed with woe! 
                  When Doctor M-- called about an hour after, he found Jane seated by the fire with the infant in her lap, and the untouched dinner standing on the table. She was calm and pale but there was something in her countenance which attracted his attention. 
                  "What has happened Jane?" said he kindly, drawing up a chair. "How is the little one? Ah, continued he, seeing the side of Willie's face swollen, "he has had a fall!' 
                  "No, sir." 
                  "Jane, tell me truly what has happened." 
                  "Nothing; I do not think Willie is much hurt," was the wife's reply, true to her instinct. 
                  Doctor M--, thought it best to change for a moment the topic, that she might take her own way in telling what had occurred to move her so; for, though there were no tears, her bosom was evidently swelling with agony. 
                  "Your husband has been with me to-day, and made me many promises of reformation. I had hoped to find him here this evening. He seems to have been something of a hard case, after all, and for your sake I have promised to befriend him." 
                   
                  "Don't trust him, sir; he will surely deceive you," said Jane with unwonted energy. 
                  "My child," asked the Doctor, "what has happened? You speak with the bitterness of recent wrong." 
                  "See that, sir," pointing to the mark on her child's face; "it was meant for me," because I refused him the last of the money you left." 
                  "Tell me all." 
                  "Last evening when Albert came home, I gave him money to buy medicine and food; he squandered it in debauchery, and came in, near midnight, beastly intoxicated. When he stayed out so long I feared such a result, and through the kindness of a fellow lodger obtained from the grocery what I wanted out of the balance of the money, I determined not to notice his delinquency and try the force of kindness. At breakfast he spoke contritely, and promised reform. There is an evil associate with whom I desired him to break; and he said if he had ten dollars to pay what he owed him, he would do so. I gave the money, cheerfully, and, oh! doctor, this day I looked on as likely to bring me so much happiness. Hour after hour I awaited my husband's return. He came, about an hour since, brutalized with drink, and demanded the rest of my money. I refused; he used opprobrious terms, and seemed inclined to violence. 
                  "My child awoke, and I went to take him up. Albert followed to the bedside, and demanded still more fiercely the money. To save myself from violence, and, outraged at his cruelty, I threw the base gold on the floor, and bade him take it-in too harsh terms, perhaps, but my whole nature was roused; his reply was a blow, aimed at me, but which unfortunately fell on the child. Oh! doctor, is there any further misery in life?" 
                  "There, there, my poor girl," said the old doctor, kindly, "Your fate is hard, but brighter days will come. My little friend here does not seem much hurt; and otherwise he has improved. But, Jane, you must go home with me; my wife will be a mother to you, and I shall take it upon myself to communicate with your father." 
                  Jane Horton made no objection now; her husband had passed the bounds where even a wife's endurance ceases, and all the woman and the mother rose within her. Taking a few articles of her own, and leaving the key of her room in charge of a fellow-lodger, she wrapped her child well up, and Doctor M--'s gig soon conveyed them to his hospitable mansion, where comfortable apartments and kind attention cheered, as far as such things could, the heart of poor Jane. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER IV. 
                  GOOD AND EVIL. 
                  THE force of education is not half appreciated; it is the lever which moves the world! How often has a mere conventionality restrained some well-bred villain whom no moral obligation would bind! A man who would despise and trample upon the most sacred ties, does not like to incur the censure with which the infraction of some meaningless rule of society is visited. The well-mannered forger, or murderer, would fire up at being told he was "no gentleman." Such is the influence of the social code, and in all cases its effects are happy though the good be, by comparison, infinitesimally small. There are certain principles of good too in the social code which in a diluted form find their way through every stage where its influence is felt. It was upon the principle I have thus endeavored to state, and the truth of which will be readily recognized, that Albert Horton experienced a feeling of intense dissatisfaction as soon as he had a moment's reflection. He had never before gone so far, and it is not saying too much to assert that his-own notions of gentility were shocked. The effect of this compunction was to revive more strongly than ever his resolution to assume a reformation, and when he met his "chum" it was with the determination to bring matters to a crisis, get out of his power, and, if possible, cut him entirely, as a necessary step for his own future views. 
                  "Well, Al., is it all right? Have you got the 'brads?'" asked the "chum," who met Horton by appointment at one of their drinking rendezvous. 
                  "I have, and I'll tell you what it is; now, Jim, just give me over that piece of paper, and you are welcome to the cursed gold." 
                  "I couldn't do it 'by no manner of means;' so no humbug, fork over the 'ten,' and we'll go around where I told you of." 
                  "Jim," said Horton in clear distinct tones, "I will have that paper, or you shall not only have no money from me, but I will go to a magistrate, and tell all I know about a certain other matter. I don't care a d--n; it's life or death with me, and if I go you shan't get off." 
                  It was easy to see that the speaker was in earnest, and desperate. The paper spoken of was a forged check which Horton had been induced in a half drunken state to sign, but which was never uttered, and which his "chum" held over him in terrorem. Jim, accustomed in his sphere to watch human nature, saw that it would be dangerous and unprofitable to tamper with his victim now, so he made a virtue of necessity. 
                  "Here, Al., I never had any idea of hurting you," said he, producing the check. "I only liked some thing to bring you down a little when you got on a 'high horse.' It's no use to quarrel. I leave it to your honor to pay me the money, and I want it bad." 
                  "Take it!" said Albert, throwing down the purse he had forced from Jane, and tearing the cheque into small bits, he turned to leave the apartment. 
                  "Hold on! Al., I bear you no malice, and hope you don't. Look here; you may want my services yet;" and the 'chum' extended an evening paper, to a short paragraph in which he called his attention. 
                  It was the announcement of his father-in-law's death in France, just as he was on the point of embarkation for home. For a few moments he paused to recover from the confusion of thought into which the news threw him. 
                  "Jim," said he offering his hand, "I bear no malice. Let me go now-we will meet again." 
                  "All right, old fellow," said the other, grasping it. But scarcely had Horton gone, when with a deep expression of cunning and malice on his countenance he muttered to himself,- 
                  "Swim away! you're not off the hook yet, my sucker." 
                  Albert Horton had now more reasons than ever to become reconciled with his wife, and, judging from her previous docility he did not doubt that she would forgive him at the first show of contrition, which he determined should be humble enough, and his conduct strictly guarded thereafter until all his purposes were aceomplished. With such intentions he was about to return to her; but desiring previously to erase all appearance of dissipation from his appearance, he entered a barber's shop, and underwent the cleaning process. This consumed the time, so that when he arrived Jane was gone. 
                  He did not doubt for a moment her asylum, but felt the necessity of reflection before he sought her there. When Albert entered the room from which his hrutal tyranny had driven his wife and child, some further feelings of compunction visited his conscience-for that monitor had not died in his bosom-it never dies! He determined to put off all attempts to see his wife until the next day; but for the world he would not have remained, however, in that room all night. Seeing the meal which Jane had prepared still on the table, her husband sat down and ate, for he was hungry, and then seeking pen, ink and paper, he indited a penitential letter to his wife. True feeling, of whatever kind, makes one eloquent; and Albert as he wrote, experienced some touches of repentance, so that his communication was well calculated to move the heart of one, who however outraged, had through all trials held her duties as a wife sacred. This task finished, Albert locked the door, took the key with him, and went elsewhere to seek a lodging. 
                  "A gentleman to see you in the office, sir," said the servant to Doctor M--, next morning as he finished his breakfast. The physician was a punctual man, and did not keep his visitor waiting. His surprise was great when he found Albert Horton. 
                  "He is either the boldest villain alive, or a repentant man," thought Doctor M--. 
                  The interview was brief. Albert acknowledged humbly his fault, without much attempt at extenuation. He did not ask to see his wife, but simply requested the Doctor to hand her the letter he had written. 
                  "You will permit me to call to-morrow for an answer. Her forgiveness would make a man of me." 
                  Horton had already created an impression in his favor with the Doctor. 
                  "Nothing would give me more pleasure, sir, than to see you reconciled, when I am assured of your sincere reformation. As the near and old friend of her father, in his absence, I have offered your wife the asylum of my house. I presume, from the spirit evinced by you now, that there will be no need of applying to the courts to legalize the guardianship she accepted at my hands." 
                  "None, sir; I recognize you as a kind and discreet friend." 
                  "I am happy to hear you say so," said the Doctor, warmly, "it is an assurance of your sincerity." 
                  "By the way, doctor, from what you say, it appears you have not seen this paragraph. You will break the news gently to Jane, and I trust doctor that you will impress upon her the importance of a reconciliation for her own and our child's sake." Albert gave him the paper containing the account of Mr. Winslow's death. 
                  Doctor M-- took the paper, looked grave, and then said: 
                  "This is indeed serious, and requires consideration you may trust my discretion. Good morning, Mr. Horton; to-morrow at 10 o'clock." 
                  Albert withdrew; satisfied that he had gained an important step, and congratulating himself on the management. As soon as he had left, the expression of Doctor M--'s countenance changed to one of doubt and suspicion. 
                  "Ha! I begin to understand my gentleman: this paragraph has deceived him. Of course he has alluded to it in his letter to Jane, and I must so far put her on her guard." 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER V. 
                  THE SEEMING FAIRNESS, AND DARK PLOTS OF ALBERT HORTON. MESSRS GRABBE, GAIN, & CO., ATTORNIES. 
                  JANE HORTON was sensibly affected by her husband's letter; but her wrongs were too recent and heavy to allow her at once to consent to a reconciliation. The interview which took place in Dr. M--'s presence was brief and constrained. Jane, at her friend's request, refrained from undeceiving her husband as to her father's death, and in reply to some reference made by Albert to business, she requested that all such considerations should be deferred until something more definite should reach them. Horton was obliged to be satisfied with this arrangement for the present. 
                  For several days he called, and his conduct and bearing had so altered as to give Jane great hopes of a reformation, and she began to think seriously that it might be possible again to be reconciled. After one or two visits, Horton asked to see his child, and lavished upon it such tender caresses as melted the mother's heart. If Doctor M-- thought that he was over-acting his part, he kept his suspicions on this subject as he had about Albert's motives to himself. 
                  At the end of a week, Horton urged more earnestly the necessity of enquiring about her father's affairs, but Jane dissented, although Dr. M-- had merely assured her that the report of her father's death was premature. He showed some signs of dissatisfaction at this, and pressed Jane for the first time to return to his protection, assuring her with many protestations of his entire repentance, and his ability to provide better for her. In fact, he offered her, delicately, money to replace what she had received from Doctor M--, and to procure necessaries for herself and child.-This evidence of consideration touched her much, but she had promised the doctor not to act without his advice, and therefore she deferred her decision for a few days longer. 
                  In the mean time the physician had not been idle; his suspicions of Horton's sincerity having been once awakened, he watched, or caused others to watch him narrowly, and found out that he was making every inquiry as to the state of Mr. Winslow's property, and was in constant communication with a law firm of great ability, but not remarkable for their high standing in the profession. 
                  I am not writing a romance, but drawing a life picture, and must rather give a faithful outline than high colors. By some means, Horton raised money on the strength of his expectations, and gradually fell into dissipation. Jane still refusing to join in any proceedings based upon the supposition of her father's death, he made application for letters of administration as the natural guardian of his child. About this time, Doctor M-- was called away from the city, and left so hurriedly that he neglected to make any arrangements for the interviews between Jane and her husband. When Albert called, his wife met him alone for the first time, and again with all the fervor and eloquence in his power he plead for a reconciliation. Jane hesitated, and he threw out intimations of his purpose at any rate to have his child. She became alarmed, and he again resorted to persuasions and protestations until the poor wife was entrapped into a consent. Apartments were taken the next day at a highly respectable boarding-house, and the doctor's wife, though much opposed to Jane's removing before her husband's return, accompanied, and saw her comfortably fixed. 
                  When he came back Doctor M-- was much displeased-the conduct of Albert was apparently unexceptionable; when he learned however that Horton had made an application for the administratorship, he sought an interview and assured him that Mr. Winslow was not dead. 
                  "I fear you are mistaken, doctor! his lawyers seem to be of the same opinion with me, but are waiting confirmation to take some steps under a power of attorney which he left: they seem to think there is no will." 
                  "He has a will, sir, and I am one of the executors. But I again tell you he is not dead." 
                  "If you are positive, doctor, I will at once withdraw my application, as of course, even if he be dead, the will may supercede all action on my part." 
                  This readiness to do what seemed right on the part of Horton somewhat staggered Doctor M--, who added: 
                  "I have some reason to think that your wife and child have been amply provided for, and I also entertain hopes, that I may effect a reconciliation if your future conduct fulfils its present promise." 
                  Here was an opportunity to redeem his life-long profligacy, and had he in good faith accepted it, all might have gone well; but the information about the will excited his cupidity, the grounds on which the doctor asserted that Mr. Winslow was not dead he did not understand, and he only hoped-unfeeling reprobate-that he might be mistaken. The information that the doctor had thus incautiously let out was instantly conveyed to his lawyers, who had advanced him money, and were too deeply interested in his success, to give up the chances lightly. 
                  "It would be better the old fellow had slipped off, with a little management you might control the whole property, Horton," said one of the partners. 
                  "Yes," added the other, "And if the child should not survive, you would come in for a nice share yourself. Winslow is worth near a million." 
                   
                  "At any rate, gentlemen, it is necessary for me to ascertain the facts." 
                  "By all means find out and bring us word if possibe that the old chap has kicked the bucket.'" 
                  "You must let me have a hundred. I shall be at expense." 
                  "Draw it mildly," said the younger partner who was the cashier of the concern-"we are in deep enough now. However, if you mean to carry out your investigations with energy, I suppose we must advance that much. I should like to see that will." 
                  As Albert folded the check and put it in his pocket on retiring, the words of the lawyer struck him as meaning something more than was on the surface. 
                  The first step of Horton on leaving the lawyer's office was to seek the society of Jim. His ideas were not very definitely made up as to what he should do, but that his tendency was rather to evil than good appears evident from the companion to whom he resorted. The truth is Albert had no great confidence in the mediation of Doctor M--, as likely to effect any arrangement agreeable to his own feelings. Mr. Winslow might be induced to provide for his daughter and her child, but could he forgive and take by the hand her husband, and, if so, what amount of favor would be granted? Albert Horton had too strong a sense of his own delinquencies to enjoy any very satisfactory anticipations on this subject: and, wedded to vicious habits, and gross self-indulgencies, it was the uncontrolled use of wealth, not its limited doling out under the watchful eye of an offended father-in-law, that he desired; hence the prospect of the promised reconciliation was far less agreeable to him, than would have been the certainty of Mr. Winslow's death. 
                  "Well, Al., old fellow, I am glad to see you," said Jim, when Horton had found him. "You are a good boy, and no mistake. I knew you wouldn't get too 'stuck up' to recognise your old friends-what's out?" 
                  "Oh! nothing particular. Let's take a smile." 
                  "Agreed; but come sit down in the box here, and have a chat." 
                  This was exactly what Horton wished. The 'refreshments' were ordered and the two seated themselves tete a tete, in a private box. 
                  "Nothing new, you say, Al., how comes on the application, about the old fellow's property?" 
                  "I've withdrawn it." 
                  "How so." 
                  "There is a will. He has provided handsomely for my wife and child." 
                  "Who told you so?" 
                  "That d--d old Doctor, who has made himself so busy in my affairs already?" 
                   
                  "Did he tell you the old 'un' was alive, Al.?" 
                  Horton turned a look of astonishment on his companion. 
                  "He said something of this kind." 
                  "You see, Al.," said the other, shooting a keen look at Horton. "I'm all the while on the look out for your interests, and I can tell you a bit of news that will somewhat astonish you." 
                  "How! what is it?" asked Horton eagerly. 
                  "Why, your old dad-in-law is not only alive, but in New York." 
                  "The d--l! how do you know that? 
                  "Tom Simms, a 'chum' of mine, and I were talking over your matter this morning, and he told me he met Old Winslow yesterday, coming from aboard a packet-ship just in. You see Tom used to be a clerk for him seven or eight years ago, and was turned off for some mistake he made, and he's been 'down' on the old feller ever since." 
                  "But is he sure of it?" 
                  "Of course he is; he was driving a hack, and asked him for a fare; but he thinks Winslow recognized him, for he gave him a gruff refusal, and took another fellow's carriage." 
                  "Tom didn't learn which way he went, did he?" 
                  "Let him alone for that. The other cabman was an acquaintance; so Tom gave him the wink; and when he came back he told Tom, of course, all he knew." 
                  "Well, where is he?" 
                  "Why, they went out on the Island, to a place near Blooming-dale." 
                  "I know: Mr. Winslow has a mansion there. You say they; the driver you mean?" 
                  "No, there was a foreigner with him." 
                  Albert Horton buried his face up to his eyes between his hands, his elbows resting upon the table before him, and fixed his eyes, in which there appeared a gleam of strange speculation, upon his companion. For a few moments he breathed deeply, and then, in a voice changed, low and hollow, he said, 
                  "Jim." 
                  "Well," replied that individual, who watched the expression of his "chum's" cuuntenance with curious interest. 
                  "I have an idea, if I only dared; and I would too, if I only had a real friend to stand by me." 
                  "All right, Al.; here I am, ready to back you up in anything.-So let us have it, old boy." 
                  The only reply of Horton was to look still more intensely in his companion's face. 
                  "I tell you what it is, Al., you needn't say one single word; I understand you; that will wants carrying out; and it can't be while the old 'un is alive. 
                  Albert started. "I would like to see the will," said he. 
                   
                  "Nothing easier, if it's in old 'sawbone's' possession." 
                  "May be we had better let the will alone, after all." 
                  "As you please." 
                  "You say Tom has a grudge against old Winslow?" 
                  "Yes; if he had let a little trifling mistake die away, Tom would have been better off. He would like to pay off that score." 
                  What further conference took place between the worthies I need not detail. Jim was both appreciative and suggestive, and before they parted a scheme of deep villany had been planned 
                  "We must have money," said Jim. 
                  "I have a hundred dollars by me." 
                  "That's not a circumstance. Tom must go to California, and there are some friends of his think of a tour to Texas. A thousand dollars in hand will come nearer to the mark." 
                  "I will see about it; I'm afraid I can't raise it." 
                  "Nonsense; you don't know Messrs. Grabbe, Gain & Co., as I do. Tell them you think you could prove old Winslow's death if you had it, and also get them a sight of the will." 
                  The coincidence in the expression of his "chum," and that of the junior partner of the law firm he employed was noticed by Horton. There is no necesity to keep the reader in the dark as to it. Jim was no fool; but, though uneducated, a deep plotter, and had already visited the lawyers named, on his own account. His shrewdness was quickly appreciated, and an understanding without any explicit agreement quickly sprung up. 
                  "I'll try them," said Albert, in reply to his suggestion, "but there is to be nothing paid until the result is secure." 
                  "Of course; just you get the 'tin' ready and leave everything to me. By the way, can't you find out whether this doctor knows of old Winslow's return?" 
                  "Easy enough." 
                  "Well, meet me here at 5 o'clock this afternoon." 
                  "Agreed." 
                  "And, I say you might as well divide that hundred dollars with me; I shall need some cash." 
                  Horton complied without hesitation. 
                
                
                  CHAPTER VI. 
                  THE PLOT PROGRESSES-HORTON FINDS SUSPENSE IRKSOME-THE POOR WIFE IS STILL HAPPY IN HER ILLUSIONS. 
                  IN half an hour Albert was again at his lawyer's office. His very countenance expressed the impatience of his mission. 
                  "Ah! Mr. Horton, walk into my room;" said the junior partner, who, to use a select Gotham phrase, "saw there was something out." 
                   
                  "And now what news? I can see that it is important, you should learn to wear a mask, sir, your features betray your thoughts too readily." 
                  "Suppose that with the judicious use of a thousand dollars I could prove that Mr. Winslow was actually dead?" 
                  "It would be well worth the risk; especially if we knew the contents of that will." 
                  "But I have no money." 
                  "We will advance on your bond, if you are sure, any necessary costs to secure you in your rights." 
                  "It is understood that if I need that amount I can have it." 
                  "'Certainly, for legal purposes." 
                  Circumstances as they often do, seemed to favor the proposed villainy of Horton and his confederate. Doctor M--, on whom he called during the afternoon, received him almost kindly. 
                  "You see, Mr. Horton, I can offer you direct testimony as to the falsehood of the rumor we had of Mr. Winslow's death; I have just had a letter from him." 
                  "Ah!" said Albert, starting almost perceptively. 
                  "Yes, he writes me from France, and in good health, a week later than his supposed demise." 
                  "And his return-" said Horton, anxiously. 
                  "May be looked for in a few weeks." 
                  Albert Horton breathed freer. 
                  "I may as well tell you now, Mr. Horton, that only two days before I called to see your child, I received from Mr. Winslow's correspondent, in London, a package containing a will, which he had made and caused to be duly attested, before setting out for the Continent, a few weeks previous; accompanying the will was a letter from my friend, telling me pretty much what its contents were, and that I had been named an executor. He seemed to relent somewhat of the first displeasure he had entertained against his daughter, and begged me to find her out and supply any of her necessities, though not as from him. The package had been delayed owing to some misunderstanding of the instructions given on the part of the London correspondent, so that when he wrote it was about the time of Mr. Winslow's rumored death, which report is explained as having arisen from an injury incurred by an intimate friend and travelling-companion of your father-in-law, who was in his company, and which circumstance has doubtless delayed his arrival." 
                  "Excuse me, doctor, and I hope you will not think my question indelicate; you are acquainted with the contents of the will; is my name mentioned? I merely wish to know with what feelings I am regarded. Heaven knows if he will only make my wife and child comfortable, and give me a chance by honest industry to provide for the future and to redeem the past, I shall be happy." 
                   
                  "I have the will in my possession," said Doctor M--, "but have not felt authorised to open, or peruse it; my information is obtained from Mr. Winslow's letter, and there is no unkind mention of you. Keep your good resolutions, and I assure you all will go well; as I have promised, you shall have my best offices.' 
                  Here Horton glanced at an old fashioned secretary in the office, which he had no doubt contained the much coveted document. 
                  It was true that Mr. Winslow had not informed Doctor M-- of his return; the foreign looking person whom the hackman described, was the companion already alluded to, whose health was not yet perfectly restored. Both of the gentlemen had experienced considerable fatigue from their voyage, and Mr. Winslow, intending to make some personal inquiries before he notified his arrival, drove out direct to his Bloomingdale mansion, where they might enjoy uninterrupted rest and quiet. 
                  Horton kept his rendezvous with Jim punctually. That worthy rubbed his hands gleefully over the information he received. 
                  "I've good news myself," said he. "Tom drove out by the house to-day to reconnoitre the premises, and who should hail him but Old Winslow. He did not appear to recognise him, but asked if he could bring his carriage out about six or seven o'clock in the evening, and take him to the city and back." 
                  "And what then?" 
                  "Everything. The two jobs won't seem like one, which has bothered me some. Do you just keep dark, and leave all to me.-Here, just write a line to Mr. Gain,-'Please send me by the bearer the amount promised this morning.' No danger of his putting his foot into it. And mind, I ask no agreement from you for anything-we know each other, and you'll do what's right." 
                  There was an emphasis in this last remark which shewed the self-confidence of the plotter. 
                  Horton wrote the order as requested. 
                  "Now," asked the other, as he put it in his pocket, "will you take my advice?" 
                  "Let's hear it." 
                  "Go home quietly, and invite your wife to go to the theatre with you: and it would be still better if you asked the Doctor's wife to go along. Don't trouble yourself about anything, and forget you've seen or talked to me in a month. It will all be right, when I say so." 
                  It was impossible for Albert Horton, hardened in feeling, and adept in deception as he was, to quiet all uneasiness in regard to the desperate schemes in which he had embarked, yet he made out very easily to assume an air that covered, for unobserving eyes, all excitement of manner. 
                  Horton's conduct to his wife had been of more than average kindness since they were re-united, and poor Jane began to anticipate pate bright and happy days. When he came home on the evening in question calm, sober, and even affectionate in his manner, she returned his greeting with a full heart. 
                  "See, Albert!" said she, leading him to the bedside where Willie slept, "how well he looks; the doctor thinks he improves rapidly; and he sleeps so nicely now." 
                  "I am glad of it for your sake as well as his, Jane; for you must be tired out. Come, can't you get the girl to watch Willie, and let us go to the Broadway Theatre; it has been so long since you have enjoyed such a thing." 
                  Jane s eyes filled at this unwonted attention. She did not much like to leave her child, but she did not wish to refuse. 
                  "Forrest plays," continued Albert, "and perhaps Mrs. M-- would go with us." 
                  "Oh! thank you, dear Albert. I know she likes very much to see Forrest, and some attention on our part seems so natural." 
                  Mrs. M-- accepted the invitation, and the doctor himself, who was present, seemed pleased. 
                   
                  When the hack which had been engaged drove up to the residence of Mr. Winslow, it was dark. A servant came out and gave directions, and in a few minutes the gentlemen muffled closely appeared, and got in without saying a word. At the gate a man jumped up behind, and the vehicle was rapidly whirled towards the city. 
                   
                  After leaving the doctor's lady at home, Albert and his wife returned to their own lodgings, partook of a simple supper, during which Jane trembled to see her husband quaff two or three full glasses of wine with an eagerness which seemed to crave the stimulant. His manner did not change, however, and he retired soberly to bed. 
                   
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VII. 
                  THE DOUBLE CRIME! THE MISTAKE! RETRIBUTION SOON BEGINS. UNEXPECTED ARRIVAL. 
                  THE next morning there was something nervous and uneasy in Horton's manner, but otherwise his amiability was undisturbed.-He did not go out after breakfast as early as usual; but the morning paper was sought and earnestly scanned. Nothing appeared, however, to attract his attention. 
                  "Albert, have you anything particular to do this morning?" asked his wife. 
                  "Nothing, I believe-why?" 
                  "I thought perhaps you would walk as far as Doctor M--'s with me; I promised to go shopping with her this morning." 
                  The idea immediately struck Horton that this would be an excellent movement to ward off all suspicion from him, if the arrangements of Jim had gone forward; so he complied. 
                  "The doctor met with quite an accident last night," said Mrs. M--, who was a little garrulous, almost as soon as they got in. 
                  "How, madam?" asked Jane. 
                  "Why, some one broke into his office, and robbed his secretary." 
                  "I hope his loss was not great," said Albert, whose composure was a little ruffled by the announcement. 
                  "Several hundred dollars, besides some valuable papers, I believe," was the reply. 
                  At that moment Doctor M-- came in. 
                  "Good morning; I see my wife has been telling you of my bad luck," said he. 
                  They both expressed their regrets, and hoped his loss was not serious. 
                  "Why, it won't quite ruin me, though three hundred dollars is rather too much to throw away upon rogues. There is something which concerns you also. Among the papers is the will which I mentioned to you, Mr. Horton." 
                  This announcement made Albert change countenance; but, if the doctor noticed it, he attributed it to another cause than the true one, 
                  "Albert tells me. doctor, that you really expect my father soon," said Jane. "Oh! how I long for his forgiveness." 
                  The physician looked kindly on the young wife- 
                  "It shall not be my fault, my dear child, if you are not completely happy." 
                  The ladies now prepared to go out. 
                  "They can spare you Mr. Horton," said the doctor, "and I want a few minutes conversation with you in my office." 
                  There was nothing that implied suspicion in the speaker's manner-yet Albert Horton's heart sank to the lowest ebb, as he complied with the invitation. 
                   
                  "Mr. Horton," said the doctor, as soon as they were in the office, "the anticipated return of Mr. Winslow would make the loss of this will of but little importance, but for a circumstance which I neglected to tell you. Before his departure, my friend made a will altogether different in its dispositions. I learned this fact a few days ago from his lawyers, when I called to undeceive them as to the report of his death which it seems they credited. I intended to lodge the one I received with them, but neglected to do so. An accident to him, and the destruction of the will would cause great trouble." 
                  Horton listened with his heart in his throat. 
                  "I hope there is no danger of that, sir." 
                  "I don't know; I have just received some startling information, my young friend, not five minutes before you came in, and was about to seek you. Your father-in-law returned in the packet the day before yesterday." 
                  "Indeed, sir!" exclaimed Albert, turning visibly pale. "Have you seen him?" 
                  "No; he went out to his mansion at Bloomingdale with a friend and has not yet been in the city. I have just received a communication from a professional friend at Harlem which greatly alarms me-Here it is." The doctor reads- 
                  
                      
                         
                            
                              DEAR SIR-The police of this district found a man last night, in the fields near this place, in a dying condition from the wounds received, no doubt at the hands of some ruffians. He is tall, I should say about fifty years old, well dressed, but very much disfigured. The only word he has spoken is the word 'Winslow,' and from the fact that a passport, countersigned by our Consul at Havre, was found in the breast pocket of his overcoat, which bears the name Henry Winslow, and a description of person tallying generally with that of the stranger, I have feared it may be a gentleman of that name, a friend of yours, who has been recently traveling in Europe. 
                              Under these circumstances I have thought best to advise you of the facts. The patient has been removed to my house. 
                              
                                 Truly your friend, 
                                 ESCULAPIOS WOOD.
                               
                            
                            
                              P. S.-The Captain of Police has sent a messenger to the residence of Mr. Winslow, at Bloomingdale, to make inquiries. 
                            
                         
                     
                   
                  Horton trembled in every joint. 
                  "Great God!" exclaimed he, "can it be Mr. Winslow?" 
                  His emotion was not feigned, for intense fear thrilled every nerve; could it be possible that he was suspected? The first words of the doctor reassured him. 
                  "Your emotion is both natural and commendable. I need scarce ly ask of you, if you will accompany me. My gig will be at the door in a few minutes." 
                  "I thank you, doctor, for your good opinion," said the arch-hypocrite, with well feigned humility, as soon as his fears were somewhat quieted. "I would to God my heart had been half as well known to Mr. Winslow." 
                  As he uttered this name the door of Doctor M--'s office opened and a tall, pale man, his hair lightly touched with gray, whose thoughtful countenance evinced some excitement, entered. The interruption was slight but both turned. 
                  "Winslow! my dear friend," exclaimed Doctor M--; "how happy I am to see you. I was just hurrying off to find you murdered as I supposed." 
                  "You need not relax your energy, my dear doctor, a near friend of mine is in the predicament you speak of. He left my house at Bloomingdale last evening, to visit some friends in the city, and was found this morning in an open field, near Harlem, dying I fear. I have some doubts if the blow was not meant for me, because I engaged the hack for him during the day, and he wore my overcoat. 
                  At the entrance of his father-in-law, whom he had every reason to suppose was murdered at his own instigation, Albert Horton turned pale as death, and his knees smote against each other, during the rapid utterance of the information given; he shrank back, and would, if such a thing had been possible, have sank through the floor. Mr. Winslow was too much engrossed with his own errand to notice him at first, and thus Albert obtained time to rally somewhat; but as he finished he turned his eyes upon him, where they rested with a quiet, interrogating sort of glance. 
                  "Allow me," said Doctor M--, who had watched him closely, "to present one whom I hope you will forgive as to the past, and take to your friendly regard. The sincere emotion which he evinced just now, when we thought it was you who had suffered, pleads so strongly with me in his favor, that I am determined you shall be friends." 
                  "Mr. Horton, I believe," said Mr. Winslow offering his hand with dignity. 
                  Albert accepted the proffered grasp; but his own fingers were cold and clammy. 
                  "I have no time to go over the past now," continued the father-in-law, "Jane is well, I hope?" 
                  "Quite well," Albert managed to get out. 
                  "Give my love to her, and prepare her to meet me this evening; the doctor will give me your address. Come my dear friend," said he to Doctor M--, "your gig is at the door, and the case admits of no delay." 
                  And bowing to Horton he left, followed by the physician. 
                
                
                   
                  CHAPTER VIII. 
                  THE RETRIBUTION IS CONSUMMATED-THE SUICIDE!-THE WIFE'S MARTYRDOM. 
                  A perfect chaos of thoughts crowded on the mind of Albert Horton. Troubles seemed to gather darker and thicker around him. His only hope was that his agents might not be discovered, for which purpose the quicker they were sent out of the way the better. The question was, however, whether his lawyers had paid the money, or would do so before the mistake had been discovered. Of all disappointments those of baffled villainy are the least to be pitied, yet the hardest to endure. As soon as the departure of the doctor and his friend set him free, Horton went in quest of his confederate. He was not to be found, however, at their place of rendezvous; had not been there since the previous evening, they said. Albert waited as long as he could, for time pressed, and then sought him elsewhere; but he was not to be found. Horton then thought of going to his lawyers. 
                  "Ah! good news I hope," said Mr. Gain, who was alone in his room. "I paid your order this morning and received in exchange a document which I have perused. On the whole it is a favorable case." 
                  Albert hesitated whether he should disclose the truth to his lawyer or not, and as usual chose the wrong part; had he done so and placed the attorney on his guard, he might avail himself of his professional shrewdness for his own defence; but he knew the lawyer would consider his money gone, and dreaded to bring further trouble on himself, so true is it that crime which hesitates not at the most dread realities, yet halts at shadows. 
                  From his lawyers, Horton again went in search of Jim. Time was pressing, it was nearly two o'clock, and he dared not meet Mr. Winslow face to face until he had some assurance of his own safety. The confederate had not been there, but in his place was Tom Simms, flushed and angry. Horton pushed into an inner room, and the cabman followed. 
                  "Have you seen Jim this morning?" he asked. "I have some business with him." 
                  "Then you'll be late for the boat," was the reply. 
                  "What do you mean?" 
                  "Only that he has cut and run; a friend of mine saw him on the Philadelphia boat at 12 o'clock. But let him 'slide,' you'll do just as well. The quicker matters are settled up, and we get off the better." 
                  "Settle?" 
                   
                  "Oh yes; no 'humming,' let's have the tin. Jim promised five hundred 'pewters." 
                  "And didn't he give them to you?" 
                  "I reckon not-so fork over." 
                  "But he has taken all my money away-a thousand dollars." 
                  "Whew! Jim's smart. But you can easy get more." 
                  Here was another dilemma. To acknowledge his inability to meet the wretch's demand would be to make a fool of him too, so deception was again necessary. He made an appointment to meet the man again in the evening. 
                  "I knew you would make it all right," said Tom; "so let's have some grog before we part." 
                  "Order it here, then," said Horton, throwing down the money. 
                  The man went to the bar-room to comply. He had not been there half a minute before Albert heard loud words and a scuffle. Peeping cautiously through the door, he saw Tom Simms in the grasp of two police officers. Without waiting any further development, he fled by the back way. Dismay and ruin was now before him: and in the confusion which seems providentially to cloud the faculties of criminals sometimes, he could strike out no plan of safety unless it were in flight. He turned his steps homeward first, however. On his way, he entered a German apothecary's. There was no one except the proprietor in the store. He made an inquiry in a low voice. 
                  "Oh! yaw-I have it, de pest ash never was-put I can't sell it mitout de doctor's recheit-you knows." 
                  "I only want it for an experiment. Here, I will write you a receipt." 
                  The German shook his head. 
                  "It ish tear, very tear." 
                  "How much?" 
                  "Mitout te recheit, forty tollars." 
                  "It won't fail?" 
                  "No, no," replied the little parchment-faced druggist, with a malicious leer of his grey, dull eyes. 
                  The money was paid, and the apothecary produced a tiny vial, carefully stopped. 
                  When Horton arrived at his lodgings, he found a note from his wife, informing him that she would dine at the doctor's and hoped he would come as soon as he could. He sank down in a chair and tried to rally his energies: but the more he canvassed the dilemma in which he stood, the more difficult seemed his position. He was roused from his revery by a knock at the door; he started up in a tremor. It was the chamber-maid. 
                  "Please sir, there's a couple of gentlemen down stairs wants to see you." 
                  "Say I'm not at home, Betty." 
                   
                  "I jest told 'em you was in, sir." 
                  "Damnation! Who are they, Betty?" 
                  "They looks like p'liceman, sir," said the girl, grinning. 
                  "Ask them to walk up." 
                  The girl had hardly turned, however, before Horton snatched his hat, glided along the passage to the rear of the house, descended rapidly a pair of back stairs, and sought egress by a private door. 
                  As he opened it, however, an officer laid his hands on him firmly. 
                  "We know this house too well to leave such a trap open. You had better go back to your room and see what's wanted with you." 
                  Without a word Horton slowly ascended the steps and returned. 
                  "Excuse me, gentlemen," said he, "what is your business with me?" 
                  "You are wanted at the chief's office about that murder out at Harlem last night." 
                  "Murder!" exclaimed Albert, "I know nothing of any murder." 
                  "That's not our affair. Will you come along quietly?" 
                  "Of course I must." 
                  "You had as well; as you may suppose from what happened just now," said one of the officers, smiling. 
                  "Will you permit me to leave a line for my wife?" 
                  "Of course." 
                  Albert Horton went to a table at the far end of the room, pretending to be looking for writing-materials. 
                  "There's some wine on the stand, gentlemen, help yourselves, I shall not detain you long." 
                  "Don't care if we do," said one of the officers who proceeded to help himself and companion. 
                  "Well, here's to you, anyhow," said the policeman, turning to Horton. 
                  Albert stood pale as death, his eyes glittering, and his lips compressed, with a fearful purpose written on his awe-stricken countenance-in his hand was the tiny vial he received from the apothecary, the stopper out, and emitting a faint odor of almonds. 
                  "And here's to H-ll!" said he, bitterly, raising his hand. 
                  "Hello! stop! what are you about?" 
                  It was too late, the contents of the vial touched his tongue, a quiver ran through his frame, and with a gasp he fell dead! 
                   
                  How sudden are the mutations of joy and sorrow! How little do we know of the FUTURE while building upon the PRESENT! The heart of Jane Horton had been lifted up from its abasement, by the seeming reformation of her husband, into something like happiness, and her spirits were more buoyant than they had been for many a long day. When she returned from her shopping with Mrs. M--, she accepted therefore an invitation to dinner with cheerfulness, and permitted her hostess to send for her child and nurse with the intention of spending a pleasant and sociable evening with her friends. A note was directed to her husband, informing him of the arrangement, and begging him to come early. 
                  Jane was little prepared for the surprise which awaited her in the arrival of her father, and still less so for the warm and affectionate embrace-the sweet words of forgiveness which fell from his lips! How full of happiness her heart seemed at last, after all its trials! Alas! that man's dark and perverse nature, in its blind and sinful obduracy, should so often destroy the earthly paradise which Hope builds for the abode of Joy! 
                  "My dear father! How good you are. And you will forgive Albert, for my sake, will you not?" 
                  "For your sake, my child." 
                  "I wish he were come," said Jane, "and then my happiness would be complete." 
                  "And so do I," said the doctor, jocosely, "and then I should get my dinner." 
                  A servant came in and called Dr. M-- to attend some one in his office. 
                  "I will be with you again before our truant arrives, good folks," said he, complying with the summons. 
                  It was one of the police officers who awaited Dr. M--. His story was soon related, and the horror-stricken physician fairly staggered under this new and dreadful blow. 
                  "Poor Jane! what a martyrdom is yours!" 
                  They broke the news to her gently as might be; but the effect was terrible. Well might the friendly physician say "Poor Jane!" To fall from the dizzy height where hope had borne her into the abyss of wretchedness and woe, was a calamity under which reason itself failed to preserve its balance; and happy was the temporary cloud which, in obscuring its ray, shut out the reality of her misery. 
                  Every care that the tenderest solicitude, the sincerest affection could bestow, Jane Horton experienced. She recovered, but never to smile again, save a sad, mournful smile, which little Willie's affectionate prattle sometimes calls forth, which quickly gives way to a sigh and a tear, as some trait of the child recalls the memory of him she so loved, despite his cruelty and crimes! 
                
               THE END. 
             
             
                
               THE LADY AND THE ARTIST; 
               OR, Conventional Restraints and Social Distinctions. 
               "BY HEAVEN'S! I can do no more-I am faint for want of food!" exclaimed Arthur Wyvil, as he laid aside his brush and palette.-"I was certain I had a sixpence," continued he, talking to himself, and rummaging first one pocket, and then another. "Oh! I remember, I gave it to the blind man by the Hospital, this morning. What a pity; it must be just lunch time, and a plate of Sherwood's clam-chowder would be refreshing. Now, if I had the impudence of your every-day loafer, I would eat my fill of lunch, and get trusted for drink. Loafer!-living on the privilege of public lunches for the sixpence you spend at the bar! God of the boundless universe! Arthur Wyvil, have you come to this? Is there, in this vast metropolis of our proud Republic, no better fate for you-artist and gentleman as you pride yourself on being? By Heavens! there is something wrong in this world, or such things could not be. But I won't starve, nor eat charity lunches either." And, clapping his hat on, Wyvil sallied forth to relieve his over-tasked nerves with a little air and sunshine. 
               The day was a beautiful one, and Broadway was filled with equipages and gay pedestrians; ladies in costly silks, and gentleman in broadcloth and velvet: the world was their friend, and they prospered; they were the children of Mammon, and he took care of them. "I wish I was a shop-keeper or a bar-tender, and then I should not want a breakfast," half ejaculated Wyvil, as he glanced at the sleek, well-fed appearance of five or six laughing youths of this class who passed him. 
               After our artist had strode along several squares up Broadway, he began to feel somewhat refreshed, and his thoughts and purposes became more sober. He raised his eyes casually; the window of a picture-frame dealer was before him; and he rather started to see one of his own paintings displayed in gorgeous gilding, and a small crowd of admirers gathered around. A card informed the public that this splendid work of art could be bought for the inconsiderable price of three hundred dollars. Poor Wyvil! he obtained twenty five dollars for it, as a great favor, from a dealer, with which to pay his last month's board and room-rent. The idea of its appreciation, however, was flattering, and he entered the store boldly. 
               "That picture in your window is for sale?" he asked of the shop-man who advanced with a smile. 
               "Yes, sir; frame and all. Very cheap at three hundred." 
               "And what is the picture worth without the frame?" 
               "It's for sale as it stands," replied the man sulkily; "the picture belongs to another person." 
               "My friend," said Wyvil, "I do not wish to purchase; I ask for information, and it may benefit you to satisfy me. I painted that picture, and wish to know what you will give me for one as good or better?" 
               "Why, times are dull, and pictures are a drug; we have to show 'em off a long time before we realize, and then it's the frame sells the picture more than half the time." 
               "But what will you give me?" 
               "Well, I dont exactly deal in them myself; but I reckon I might afford to say twenty dollars." 
               "Twenty dollars for a picture which you expect to sell for three hundred!" 
               "Why, it ain't sold for that yet, and to my mind won't bring half the money, especially without the frame. You only got twenty-five for that one, and I don't care to deal in the article." 
               "I sold that when I was badly in want of money," said Arthur, restraining his indignation. 
               "Well I guess you want to sell now," said the man, glancing at Wyvil's somewhat threadbare coat. 
               "Not bad enough to give two months' work for twenty dollars," replied the painter, turning on his heel. 
               "Stay, sir, I don't care if I make it twenty-five." 
               "Go to the d--l!" ejaculated Arthur, somewhat aroused. 
               "Don't be in such a hurry, sir, just please to step back into my room. I have no wish to offend a gentleman of your talents, but I assure you times are hard, and money scarce." 
               The artist pocketed his pride, and followed the tradesman. After much chaffering, and many protestations, the man offered Wyvil fifty dollars. 
               "I accept, on one condition," said Wyvil, "that you advance to me half the money." 
               "Could not think of it, sir-entirely against my custom," said the man, eying him almost suspiciously. 
               "But how am I to live in the meanwhile?" 
               "That is your own lookout; I couldn't do such a thing on no terms whatever." 
               "And I couldn't paint you a picture on no terms whatever!" said Arthur, flinging out of the place in dudgeon. 
               As he stepped from the door, the artist heard a soft, sweet voice -how soft and sweet voices are, especially female ones, when they sound our own praise-say: 
               "How beautiful! how very natural? it even seems familiar to me." 
               Arthur gazed an instant at the speaker; she was a dark, queen-like beauty, youthful, but stately, of a style between Hebe and Juno. There was something also in the painter's appearance which attracted her attention as she turned to her companion, an elderly lady. Wyvil dropped his eyes, and passed on, but not too quickly to hear her say: 
               "An artist, I'll wager!" 
               The admiration of the beauty was a balm for the irritation caused by the dealer, and our painter walked along, still progressing up Broadway, in better spirits. 
               "Haloa, Wyvil, old fellow!-which way?" said a friendly voice at his elbow. 
               "Good morning. Wilson, how are you?" was the cordial response. 
               "Oh, well enough-but which way?" 
               "Only strolling-thought I'd drop in at the Art Union." 
               "Well, I don't care if I go along with you. But let us drop in here at Florence's, and take an oyster-I've had no breakfast." 
               It was with difficulty Wyvil could restrain the eagerness with which his animal wants prompted him to accept this invitation, and yet such is the conventional restraint under which, even with a friend, we too often labor, the man, who, a few minutes before was sick for want of food, declined a very natural and friendly invitation to eat, lest perchance, his companion should divine the fact that he was half starving. 
               "No, I thank you, I do not care for any," was the reply. 
               "Well, but you can see me eat, and then I tell you I will go along to the Art Union with you," said his friend, a young literary man who had taken a great fancy to Wyvil. 
               "Oh, certainly; I shall be happy of your company," replied the other, aware that a refusal to accompany him would seem singular. 
               Wilson gave an order to the attendant, and the two seated themselves in one of the boxes. 
               "You will at least take a glass of wine with me, Wyvil; come, I'm going to have just half a bottle of Heidsick with my oysters, for I feel in a good humor." 
               "What is the occasion of your hilarity?" 
               "Perhaps you may think it simple enough, and trifling enough-only a check for twenty five dollars." 
               "An excellent reason for good spirits," said the other, with a sort of half sigh, "but I know you well enough, Wilson, to feel certain that there is something in it more than the mere receipt of money." 
                
               "You are right, Wyvil, there is encouragement for me in my career; and yet I am not sure but I am too sanguine, and mistake an act of generosity or an augury of success." 
               "Tell me of it," said the painter, beginning to feel interested. 
               "There is little to tell. You know I have been dragging along at literature for a year or two past, eking out a support from the necessities of the publishers, until I am fairly tired of slaving and drudgery. Well, I have thought frequently if I could only make friendly terms with some of the higher magazines, I might acquire a position, enabling me to shake off their trammels, and move a little more at my ease along the path I have chosen. Now, it happened several months ago I was in Philadelphia, whither I had gone on a literary speculation which turned out a dead failure. I was without funds or credit to get back, for I had used up the latter with my only available friend to carry out my expedition-in a word, I was hard up,' and you may know the feelings of such a state, though God forbid you should. After sauntering about all day, without seeing a familiar face, I happened in Chesnut street, and looking up saw the sign of the 'Lady's Book.' A thought struck me, a desperate one it seemed, that I would go and claim assistance of Mr. Godey. True I was a stranger to him, and still more painfully true that the suspicions and bearish nature of publishers in general towards every individual supposed to be guilty of literary practices was known to me. But necessity is a sharp spur, and it carried me up stairs despite of all misgiving. In a few words I stated by want, and told my name. I did it without embarrassment, for I found myself talking to a gentleman. I really believe, Wyvil, it gave him more pleasure to serve me than it did me to be relieved from my embarrassment. He knew my occupation and suggested as he shook hands cordially on parting, that I had better send him an article. I did not do it until after I had repaid his loan for I felt a delicacy about that, but a week or ten days since I did so, and this morning received through his agents, Messrs Long & Bro., a remittance of twenty-five dollars, and a kind message that he liked my contribution so well, he would place my name among the contributors to his magazine." 
               "I congratulate you sincerely, old fellow, and think you need not be too modest about your own merit; for though Mr. Godey is evidently a gentleman of fine feeling, as a publisher he would hardly enlist you as a regular contributor without he was satisfied of your ability." 
               By this time the oysters had been placed on the table, and Wilson, who, intending Wyvil should join him, had ordered a sufficiency for both, said:- 
               "Come, now, you can't refuse. I've had these cooked my favorite way, a broil-let me help you." 
               The artist had the good taste to fall into his friend's humor, and the two regaled themselves with a light and delicious repast, washed it down with a glass of champagne, and started forth into Broadway with the heart glow with which good cheer and sympathy of feeling can always animate even despondency. 
               When Wilson paid for the meal he turned to the painter, and said:- 
               "By the way, will you do me a favor?" 
               "Certainly, if I can," was the unhesitating reply. 
               "Borrow ten dollars of me," grasping his hand and leaving the amount in it. 
               The artist started back with a flush on his brow. 
               "Nay, Wyvil, you must take it-there is a brotherhood between us, your heart acknowledges. You may serve me the same way whenever you can." 
               The eye of Arthur grew soft and he returned the pressure of his friend's hand, and he acknowledged the world was not all so wrong as it seemed an hour before. 
               There was quite a large company in the rooms of the Art Union when our friends arrived. A few really good pictures were on exhibition. 
               "Come, Wyvil, I know you have a picture here; Jack Savage told me so; let us look at it." 
               "Here we are, then-and I shall be happy, without flattery, to have your opinion." The artist suddenly paused, grasping his friend by the shoulder-"One minute, Wilson," he whispered,-"hold on." 
               Before a picture near them-a wild, romantic landscape, softened by the exquisite harmony of the design-stood the two ladies Wyvil had encountered as he came out of the frame dealer's. 
               "It is certainly a work of genius," said the younger, "and evidently by the same hand as the one we admired in Broadway.-Let me see the catalogue, mamma. '207 Landscape-Wyvil.'" 
               "Come along, Wilson," said the painter who had not been recognized by the lady. 
               "Hold on, old fellow, that's your picture, is it not?" 
               "Come on, come on, I'll show you presently." 
               But his eagerness only had the effect of making his friend look more closely as to who it was he seemed anxious to avoid. 
               "Why that is my cousin, Agnes Maitland, admiring your work, Wyvil." 
               "Your cousin?" 
               "Yes, do you know her?" 
               "I never saw her until a few minutes before I met you." 
               "Well, I must go and speak to her, for we are good friends, although her cross old father, thinks me half a vagabond because I wouldn't be a clerk in his counting-house. Agnes is a fine girl if her foolish mother would not stuff such silly ideas about fashion and bong tong, as she calls it, in her head." 
                
               "Why, Charley," said the lady as he approached, "I'm glad to see you. Come and tell me what you think of this landscape; and who this Mr. Wyvil is. Mamma has half a notion of purchasing a picture we saw in Broadway which I think must be by him also." 
               Wilson threw a glance over his shoulder and found his friend had hung back. 
               "That is him, I know," said Agnes with animation. 
               "How do you know?" 
               "I saw him coming out of the frame shop while we were looking at the picture I told you of, and guessed, as the Yankees say." 
               "May I present him?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "Agnes!" said her mother. 
               "My dear aunt, he is a gentleman and quite presentable, I assure you," said Charley, with a sly wink at his cousin. 
               "And you know, ma, it is fashionable to patronise men of genius," said her daughter, taking the hint. 
               "But, but," said the old lady, still demurring. She was too late however, for Wilson had brought his companion up. 
               "My friend, Mr. Wyvil, ladies-My aunt, and cousin, Madame Maitland, Miss Agnes Maitland." 
               "We have been puzzling ourselves to locate this beautiful subject of yours, Mr. Wyvil," said Agnes, introducing with delicate tact the most natural topic of conversation under the circumstances, so as to waive all embarrassment at once. 
               "It is from nature, and the original is a valley in Western Virginia where I have spent many an hour in boyhood." 
               "I knew that the heart had as much to do as the fancy in such a painting." Agnes made this remark with an earnestness of tone which called up such an irrepressible glow of pleasure to the artist's fine eyes, that she shrank she knew not why, before his gaze. 
               "By the way, Mr. Wyvil," said the old lady, "was not that a painting of yours we saw in Broadway?" 
               The painter smiled, as he replied in the affirmative. 
               "It is quite a pretty thing. I thought of purchasing it; but the price is monstrous high, is it not?" 
               Agnes' cheek crimsoned to the eyes; and she was about to parry this rather indelicate thrust; but Wyvil answered without embarassment. 
               "Much to high, Madam. The painting does not belong to me, but to a dealer who always finds pictures appreciate in value after he has bought them." 
               "Oh! I am glad to hear that. I want a handsome landscape, though I should like a different scene. How much would it be worth to paint such a one?" 
               "Mamma, we must ask permission to visit Mr. Wyvil's studio," said Agnes, mortified deeply at her mother's directness-"perhaps he will be so kind as to show us some of his sketches." 
                
               Wyvil bowed his thanks with some confusion: poor fellow! his studio was an almost unfurnished attic room, and his treasures even in the way of paintings were few enough, for his works had been parted with one by one for subsistence. Arthur Wyvil was a comparative stranger in New York, having met with a distressing family bereavemeut, and an entire loss of fortune some six years previous, he had determined to throw himself upon the world and win his way to wealth and fame. He was by nature and education an artist; true he had studied painting in the schools of Florence and Rome only as an accomplishment, but he had done so con amore, and few men of the day were better qualified to arrive at eminence in the art. In his misfortunes it became the natural resource to which he turned; declining some well-meant offers, Arthur determined to leave the scenes of his youth, and in this great commercial metropolis of our country, carve his own pathway to fortune. That a struggle, without friends or means, to a man of refinement and sensitiveness was well calculated to dispel all sanguine illusions will not be at all strange to those familiar with the trials and struggles of genius. It is true Arthur Wyvil had made friends-Charley Wilson would have fought for him-but alas! they were not patrons. 
               Mrs. Maitland was rich, vain, and ignorant; she had an extreme penchant for bong tong (bon ton) and a perfect horror of committing a gaucherie; there was something in her daughter's tone which implied that she had done so, and, notwithstanding her own affected superiority, she was anxious to escape from the dilemma; for though she had a sovereign contempt for a poor artist, per se, she knew men of genius sometimes held a high position. 
               "Dear me, there is Mrs. Waite. I must speak to her; good morning, gentlemen; come, Agnes, we shall be late." 
               The young lady lingered a moment behind. 
               "Charley, you bad boy, why don't you come and see us? I wish papa and you to be friends again, and it would be your own fault if you are not," said Agnes, with feeling. 
               "I cannot give up my calling to be made a clerk of, even for your sake, my pretty coz." 
               "Nonsense! come and see us. Mr. Wyvil, my mother will be happy to have you call with Charles." 
               For a moment the artist gazed enraptured as the lovely vision faded-I mean, as the lady retired; and then he uttered a half audible sigh. 
               "Hilloa! old fellow, what's between you and my cousin? Where did you say you had seen her before?" 
               Wyvil related the scene at the frame-dealer's. 
               "I tell you what it is, Wyvil, you must go with me to see the Maitland's. I will stand the old man's cross humors for your sake. Believe me, with all your merit as an artist, and candidly I think your genius great, the quickest and safest road to success and fame, is through the favor of society. My relatives are wealthy and influential; Agnes is already prepossessed in your favor, and notwithstanding the old man's bearishness, and the old lady's nonsense, she is the ruling spirit of the household." 
               "I can well believe it," said the other warmly. 
               "One caution, however, my dear fellow: don't mar your fortunes by falling in love with my cousin; Agnes is romantic to a certain degree, but your passion would be hopeless; according to the Declaration of American Independence, 'All men are born free and equal,' and according to the spirit of our republican institutions, honor, integrity and intelligence should be the passports of social distinction, but wo to him who risks his happiness upon the idea that society among us is influenced by such old fashioned notions. Mammon is the most exacting, the least liberal of aristocrats, and, in this proud Metropolis, divides his rule with that 'painted Jezebel,' yclept Fashion." 
               "Thank you, my dear boy, both for your good feeling and your caution; I may admire the beautiful, and your cousin is eminently so, but do not fear that like the boy Endymion, I shall become embarrassed, and pine for the moon. In fact, I've half a mind to accept your invitation, if only to show you how well my heart is guarded by philosophy we learn in that rigid school, necessity." 
               "Half a mind! Why, of course you will accept." 
               "I have no false delicacy with you, Charles; look at my wardrobe." 
               I am glad you have not, as it enables me to suggest an immediate remedy. I know a tailor who is a man of the best feeling, and sensible withal. He asked me a favor one day, when I was assistant Editor of the Daily --; it was to write him an advertisement. When I complied, he suggested to me that it was worth two or three hundred dollars a year to him to have such, a sum sufficient to clothe me like a gentleman. I hesitated, but seeing no reason, aside from foolish conventional restraint, why I should not accept so advantageous an offer, I closed with him. Come, he does not live far from here, you shall get what you want, and paint him a portrait." 
               Wyvil was fast yielding to his friend's practical philosophy, and it required but little persuasion to make him comply. 
               A few days after our artist accompanied Charles Wilson on a morning call to the Maitlands. They were of course well received, and the visit was repeated. Madame had the bad taste on one occasion, to ask his professional opinion about the hanging of some pictures, in such a manner as to make Agnes blush; but Wyvil complied with such frank, and unembarrassed politeness, that she rewarded him with a smile of thanks while her mother was delighted at the assistance she received. On their departure the former, without a look of rebuke from Madame, invited her cousin, including his friend of course, to an evening party a few days hence, the latter lady being willing to patronise any one who could give eclat, however remotely, to her own notions of self importance. And truly Arthur Wyvil, well dressed, and elated by the society of the beautiful Agnes Maitland, was with his high-bred demeanor, and accomplished mind, as brilliant a guest as often graces the halls of our 'Brummagen' aristocracy. His designation as an artist, also, sufficient to satisfy any curiosity as to his worldly position. 
               That two beings refined and gifted as Agnes Maitland and Arthur Wyvil, thrown often into each other's society, and filled with kindred sympathies and ennobling thoughts; both by their very organizations worshippers of the beautiful; should gradually feel that magnetic attraction towards each other which in its highest signification is termed Love, cannot surprise any one; but that either of them ventured thus to define the sentiment they felt must not be supposed. Every principle of the lady's education was arrayed against such a romantic folly as a mes-alliance 'all for love,' and her soul was too pure, as yet, not to have shrank from any passion that could soil its snowy plumage. On the part of the artist there was too much truth, too much honesty, and we may add too much pride, to submit to the fetters of humiliation and disappointment, where he had pledged his heart's fondest hopes. He would not have deemed it presumption to love an Empress, but he knew the world would, and he could not subject the holiest and most sacred feeling to its cold animadversion and ridicule. Poor mortals! In vain has God given you in mercy a spark of divinity to lighten up your pathway, if conventional restraints and social distinctions, founded on a false and irrational basis, are allowed to smother it! 
               Thus stood matters with our characters on the eve of Madame Maitland's party. 
               The party at Mr. Maitland's was brilliant and recherche. Of all sybarites commend me to our nouveaux riches republicans, and particularly to the New Yorkers. Arthur Wyvil and his friend Wilson were present, and could not but enjoy themselves. Among the guests were an Italian Count, a French General, and a distinguished Englishman-this latter was a fine specimen of a man, a Baronet, and connected with the aristocracy, it was said. Wyvil noticed that he was devoted to Agnes, but supercilious and haughty to almost everybody else. Why did this attention on the part of the Englishman annoy him? 
               "Mr. Wyvil, allow me to make you acquainted with Sir Charles Moodie," said a voice that thrilled him through-"Sir Charles, Mr. Wyvil, one of our distinguished artists." 
               The eye of the Briton measured the painter carelessly, but there was something, in the glance of the latter, in the dignity of natures true nobility, that quelled all thoughts of insolence, and he greeted him with polished ease and politeness. 
               "There, gentlemen, I am going to leave you together a little while, I have no doubt to your mutual edification," said Agnes Maitland, as she glided away to bestow her attention on some neglected guest. 
               The two fell naturally into conversation with the facility of well bred and educated persons. 
               "By the way, Mr. Wyvil," said Sir Charles "with all your republican ideas of equality, I do not see but the feeling of aristocracy is as strong, and perhaps more exigent among you than with us, where social position is better defined and where rank actually exists." 
               "Social distinctions must exist under any form of government so long as cultivation and refinement are cherished," replied Wyvil, "but I agree with you that they may have a false basis even in a republic, which I regret to say is too frequently the case even in my own country." 
               "Aye," said the Englishman, with the slightest possible tone of sarcasm, "See yon bevy of fair sirls, and one of them gifted by nature with charms a peeress might envy, and endowed in her own right with all the nobility needed by the most refined civilization, yet I'll wager that my title, simple as it is, would attract them before your worth." 
               "Perhaps so," said Wyvil, not exactly comprehending the tone of his companion. 
               "Nay," said the other with ready tact, "of course I meant to institute no comparison, only to illustrate my position. Take for instance yon Italian Count-if Count he be-his monkey visage and ridiculous airs seem beauty and graces, when they would be looked on with contempt by the same eyes in a barber! Now that fellow is poorer than yourself, save in that metal which requires no stamp from the mint to give it currency-brass, and yet with your comely person, and true refinement, he would carry off the palm with two thirds of the women in the room." 
               "You are severe upon my countrywomen," said Arthur Wyvil, scarce knowing how to take the Englishman's humor. 
               "Pardon me, I mean no offence; I only criticise the world as it goes; human nature is the same everywhere and in all ages; the Roman patrician was as lordly in his day as the British aristocrat now is, or the American millionaire would be." 
               Wyvil felt the truth of these remarks at the same time he was conscious of the veiled contempt of their author; he would however, have endeavored to find a palliation for what no one more fully than he was sensible of, but Miss Maitland's return saved him the trouble. 
                
               "Now, gentlemen, if you are not too busy expatiating on philosophy I will part you. Mr. Wyvil, if you have anything of the knight-errant, yonder is a distressed damsel-see, a pretty, modest little girl in blue, the scene is new to her, and she has no acquaintance unselfish enough to sacrifice a little time to her comfort. Allow me to present you." 
               The artist felt a thrill of pleasure at the compliment thus paid to his heart. He led the young lady to supper, and played the agreeable for the next hour. After consigning her, delighted with his a miability and attention, to her chaperone, Arthur Wyvil sauntered through the rooms, his eye glancing around as if seeking the loadstone of his heart's attraction. He saw Agnes in a retired part of the room listening with sparkling eyes and parted lips to the eloquence of Sir Charles Moodie, and Wyvil felt that he was eloquent- 
               "Pshaw! what care I," said he to himself, "she can be nothing to me." 
               Yet he did care, for the brilliancy of the gay scene around became hateful, and he wandered away to the conservatory where in the half gloom of its dim light he pondered in bitterness of spirit. A light step disturbed his reverie, he turned and saw the fair form of Agnes Maitland. Apprehensive that she might not like him have sought retirement for solitude, and fearful of being de trop at an interview which his imagination had conjured up, as about to take place with some more favored individual, he would have escaped without attracting attention; this was impossible, and to advertise her of his presence by an emphatic ahem, was the only resort in the dilemma. 
               "Why, Mr. Wyvil, how come you here all alone?" 
               "I only sought to shut out the world awhile; solitude is always acceptable to the bruised spirit." 
               "You speak sadly; I trust nothing has occurred to mar your pleasure to-night." 
               "Nothing beyond the common curse; but pardon me, lady, for this cynical mood, I am not worthy of your sympathy." 
               "You wrong yourself, and me-I like you much, and am determined to be your friend; I know the aspirations and trials of genius, but surely it has its triumphs too; you must never despair, but gaze upward and grow strong." 
               "Are you a syren, lady, that you discourse such sweet, delusive sounds?" said Wyvil, drawing nearer, and gazing earnestly on her beauty-"Do you know what it is to have a soft heart and ardent soul-a brain teeming with visions of beauty, and a mind susceptible to the slightest impressions of happiness, and yet to feel there was an impassible barrier between you and the attainment of that alone which could brighten your path, or bless your existence?" 
               "I hope I am not callous to the finer susceptibilities; but life, alas! is not all poetry," said the lady, scarcely knowing how to meet the enthusiasm she evoked. 
               "Nor the sky all sunshine-yet clouded as my own horizon will doubtless be hereafter, the gloom of this one moment brightened by the sympathy you have bestowed, will cast a cheering ray over my gloomiest hours. Agnes Maitland!" said Arthur, laying his hand gently but impressively on her arm, and his fine eyes shedding a flood of magnetic light on hers-"I love you." 
               "Sir! Mr. Wyvil!" exclaimed Agnes, shrinking in alarm. 
               "Nay, it is with no presumptuous hope that I speak, nor shall I detain you with a poetical rapsody-alas! I know too well the distance between us, even had I the vanity to think I could win your regard; I desire only in bidding you farewell for ever, as after such an avowal I must, to say God bless you!" and, before the astonished girl could recover from her surprise, he had passed her. and was gone. 
               When Agnes returned to the rooms the company were dispeesing, and in another hour her throbbing brain was pressed upon her pillow. 
               For several weeks little was seen of Arthur even by his best friends; he seldom quitted his studies, and Charley Wilson, who, on the night of the party, had wondered at his abrupt departure, found him unusually taciturn and unsociable. He found his cousin also grave, and serious when he mentioned the artist's name. 
               "It's no use to tell me so mysteriously, Wyvil, that you are studying a great work; I can tell you the subject, it is the school of self-control, and my cousin will be a prominent figure in the picture." 
               The painter started. 
               "Come, old fellow, I am sorry you are both caught; and if I was only a magician, or had Aladdin's lamp, I would build a palace and fill it with gold for you, the only talisman to touch her father's heart." 
               "Charley!" 
               "Nay, it grieves me in good earnest to see you unhappy, and I don't believe Agnes is a whit better off, though my aunt does want to marry her to that English Baronet." 
               "Marry her to the English Baronet!" 
               "Yes, and she will do it, too; and what is worse, Agnes needn't consent unless she choses; but, thank Heaven! she'll be miserable. Come, Wyvil, let you and I put off for Italy, and cut New York aristocracy, with its 'Brummagen wares;' I've had a legacy of a thousand dollars, which will last until I can write a book of travels, or you can paint pictures." 
               Wyvil smiled sadly at his friend's enthusiasm. 
               "Or, suppose, Charley, you make a romance now, entitled the 'Poor Artist, and the Proud Lady.' Come, my boy, a truce with all this nonsense; your cousin will grace position wherever it may be, and I am not half so presumptuous as you take me to be. Let us go over to Windust's, and take dinner." 
               About a week after this, Wyvil called on a poor old widow, whose husband had been a humble artist, and to whose support, poor as he was, Arthur had been in the habit of contributing: she was too sick to work, and in great distress. What was his surprise to meet Agnes Maitland on the threshold? 
               "Miss Maitland!" said Arthur, giving way. 
               "Mr. Wyvil, I have heard of your kindness to my old friend, Mrs. Waters, permit me to thank you; she was my instructress once, and it is but of late that her situation has been known to me." 
               "I deserve no thanks," answered Wyvil. "I knew her husband and done but a common duty. Permit me to bid you good morning; I will see Mrs. Waters another time." 
               As he was about to withdraw, however, the widow's voice was heard bidding him enter. Agnes looked reproachfully at him, and extending her hand, said- 
               "May we not be friends, Mr. Wyvil?" 
               Poor Arthur he had no power to resist the overture. 
               "Ah! I am so glad you have come together," said the poor widow. "If there's two people should know each other on earth, its you two." 
               Both Agnes and Wyvil shrank from the implied compliment of this address, but the widow was not easily put off; her two greatest benefactors were before her, and she wanted them to be friends. She a pious and intelligent woman, and before her well intended efforts, their restraint in a measure vanished. What were social distinctions in the presence of humble, hopeful poverty? The virtues which had brought them respectively to that abode, formed a link of sympathy too strong for the conventionalities of the world, and each felt the attraction of its mystic influence, though neither would have dared acknowledge its force even to themselves. 
               "God help you, my dear children!" said the widow, with the licensed familiarity of her age and station, as they rose to depart, "and grant you many happy days." 
               "Shall we see you again, Mr. Wyvil?" asked Agnes, as Arthur handed her into a carriage which was waiting in the street. 
               "I do not know-forgive me but I can't answer now. Farewell, Miss Maitland," and the artist turned off with a crowd of conflicting emotions at war in his breast. 
                
               "Agnes," said Mr. Maitland, entering his daughter's sitting room that evening. "Sir Charles Moodie has been with me to-day, and has done you the honor to ask your hand." 
                
               "Father!" 
               "There is no such great cause for surprise; a dowry of two thousand dollars more than befits the bride of a poor baronet; but the man has high connections, and as I shall close up my business and live chiefly in Europe, it will afford an entree into aristocratic society." 
               "Because I do not love him!" 
               "Nor any one else I should hope. You will love him when you are married, so make up your mind to do as you are required." 
               "But, father, dear father, I do love another!" 
               "What, do you dare to tell me so? I know who you mean, that beggarly painter; but marry him at your peril, and you may starve! Marry him! did I say? I'll take care as to that." 
               And the merchant aristocrat strode out of the room in a storming passion. 
               For long hours poor Agnes sobbed in agony, but with all her high-toned feelings, the courage to break her fetters was wanting, the conventional restraints of her education were too powerful. Poor bird! in vain you beat your wings against the gilded cage and sigh for freedom. You were born and reared to the prison, and custom must soon subdue your pinings for air and liberty. 
                
               On the following day, to his surprise, Arthur Wyvil received a visit at his studio from Mr. Maitland. After some indifferent conversation, that gentleman said:- 
               "Mr. Wyvil, I have a commission for you." 
               "Sir!" 
               "I have long desired copies of some paintings by the old masters, such as are found in Rome and Florence; will you undertake the job for me?" 
               "I am not about to visit Italy, sir," was the reply. 
               "Pardon me; I thought as an artist you would be pleased to do so, especially with a commission which would afford you ample means to pursue your profession under the most favorable auspices." 
               "I do not think such a place would suit me now, sir, though I am thankful for your intended kindness," said Arthur, rather distantly. 
               "Mr. Wyvil, I will be plain with you, though I should be happy to employ your talents, I care nothing for the copies I spoke of; the truth is, I have, as you know an only child, a daughter who will heir all my wealth, and who, it is my ambition to see in a position corresponding with her beauty and fortune. She has conceived a sort of penchant for you; in a word, sir, your absence just now would contribute to my domestic happiness. I will not insult sult you by offering a bribe, but if you will accept a professional engagement make your own terms-I am ready to comply." 
               "By what right, sir," replied Wyvil, "do you ask me to exile myself from my native land because your daughter has exercised the most sacred privilege of her being by loving whom nature and sympathy prompted? And how dare you insult me by the offer of pecuniary advantage from such a proposition?" 
               "I have already said I meant no insult. I do not understand your romance, but I, too, have my notions of right. The daughter I have reared in luxury and indulgence must marry to please me, or the wealth I have labored for she shall never touch. Nay, more, my curse shall cleave to her disobedience if she weds with one I disapprove. However much she may suffer from a romantic fancy, I have confidence, moreover, that my daughter will obey me, and, therefore, I put it to you, as an honorable and feeling man, such as I believe you, whether by your presence you will add to her struggles with duty, or by a well-timed absence, leave time and parental authority to disabuse her of idle fancies." 
               "You have nothing to fear from me, sir," said Wyvil proudly,-"In the meantime I will think over the matter. I shall have no need, however, of your offers. Good morning, sir." 
                
               "Let us off for Italy-I'm sick of live Republics, and would go and contemplate dead ones!" exclaimed Charley Wilson, as he entered his friend's room that evening. 
               "You too, Charley," said Arthur, mournfully. 
               "Et tu Brute! What mean you by that reproach?" 
               "Do you not know that your uncle has been here trying to bribe me to exile myself?" 
               "I certainly did not, my dear fellow, but can understand that he should, very well. He is just the person to think money can buy everything. Yet why desire your absence, now when matters are all over?" 
               "How mean you?" demanded the other with eagerness. 
               "Why it is done! I shall never like Agnes again; she was not worthy of such a love as yours. You must know I am just from there and my pattern of an aunt has been telling me all her plans when Agnes marries the baronet, and they are introduced to the true aristocracy." 
               "Has your cousin consented?" asked Wyvil. 
               "So it seems." 
               "Let us be off for Italy, Charley!" 
               "With all my heart, I have enough money to last us both for a year, and you have been more prosperous, I believe, in the last few months." 
                
               It was true! education and habits of obedience proved too strong for her rebellious feelings, and Agnes Maitland had sacrificed herself in promising to marry to satisfy her parent's notions of social distinction rather than the cravings of her own heart. She felt a pang when she heard of the departure of Arthur Wyvil for Europe without a sign or word of farewell. Habit, however, resumed its control, and no one would have guessed from her demeanor the ordeal through which she had passed! 
                
               It was about three months after these events that our two young friends were seated in one of the gardens of Florence enjoying an ice, and talking of home. 
               "Why, Arthur, you will be as rich as a nabob, and may take the title too if you choose." 
               "I would not forget my birthright as a Republican to be made a Duke!" said Wyvil. "Though it seems I cannot well get rid of the fortune." 
               "If this had only happened three months ago, Arthur!" 
               "Do not open that memory, Charley, if you love me." 
               "Well, I only wish you would assume the title, if but to spite my toady of an aunt. By the way, it is somewhat strange we've never heard anything about the Maitlands." 
               "You forget we have had neither letters nor papers from the United States since we left." 
               "Yes, I've a Herald in my pocket, but I expect it's old." And Wilson pulled out a paper, and commenced glancing over it. 
               The event alluded to in the conversation of the friends was the inheritance of an immense fortune, accompanied by an English title, his grandfather, who emigrated many years before to Virginia, being the grandson of an earl, and the male line having failed in England, both title and estates reverted to the Virginia branch of the family. Arthur, when passing through London, had been induced, by a very natural feeling, to make some inquiries about his family, and thus learned the probability of this succession.-Through an eminent attorney, who had become aware of his existence and claims, he had now been advised of the decease of the last male of the elder branch, and his presence requested in England without delay. 
               After perusing the Herald a few moments, Wiison uttered an exclamation of surprise. 
               "What's the matter, Charley?" 
               "Matter enough; Agues has not married the Englishman, after all; and if you are not foolish, you may yet be the luckiest fellow in whose favor fortune and love ever conjoined. Look here!" And he showed Wyvil the following paragraph from the Herald, which was dated only a few weeks after their own departure from home 
               
                  "INCIDENT IN HIGH LIFE.-Among the sojourners recently in our city was a certain English baronet, who was said to be engaged to the beautiful daughter of one of our merchant aristocrats. By a recent death, however, the baronet, who was worth little besides his title, has become a wealthy peer; and, it is said, has left his fair Ariadne in the lurch, family considerations being plead in avoidance of his engagement. The merchant's family, overwhelmed with chagrin, have gone on an indefinite tour to Europe."
                
               "The cold-hearted scoundrel!" exclaimed Arthur Wyvil. 
               "The prize is still yours, Arthur; even my aunt's notions would be satisfied with your present prospects and position." 
               "Charley Wilson! what do you take me for? Do you suppose that I, the scorned and rejected, will fawn for notice and favor, because one of fortune's caprices has placed wealth and station in my grasp? Am I to sue for the cast off love of this insolent Englishman?" 
               "No, no, Arthur! I did not mean that; but Agnes never loved the man; her whole heart was yours; she told me so with an agony that fairly made mine bleed, before I left, though I promised never to betray her; she was the victim of parental tyranny and a false education. You should have some pity, if you are not magnanimous enough to forgive." 
               There was never a more generous soul than that of Arthur Wyvil, and the words he heard stirred up its deepest emotions; but the wound his pride and love had received was not yet healed. 
               "Yet you would have me assume this English title, sacrificing my self-respect, and woo the prejudices which srorned me as a poor artist?" 
               "I would have you do nothing inconsistent with your true dignity. I would rather the Maitlands never heard of your prospects; their own pride is humbled enough." 
               "Pshaw! Charley, you are talking folly; we shall never, probably, meet again," said Wyvil with a sigh. 
               Mysterious fate! He had scarcely uttered the words when he casually raised his eyes, and there, not ten yards off was Agnes Maitland! leaning on the arm of her father, pale, sad, yet oh! how beautiful! 
               "Hilloa! What's the matter, Wyvil?" said Charley, whose back was turned on the new comers. Following the eye of his friend, he soon perceived the cause. 
               With prompt kindness and tact, Wilson sprang forward to greet his relatives, thus covering the confusion of both parties, for the recognition had been mutual. 
                
               A party of young Italians, with whom he was acquainted, relieved Wyvil's embarrassment by taking him off. 
               When the friends met at their lodgings that evening, Wilson looked scarcely less sad and concerned than the artist. 
               "Arthur, will you see my cousin?" 
               "Does she wish it?" 
               "She does not ask it-that you must know; but she enquired if you were well and happy, her eyes filling as she did." 
               Wyvil mused some time, and then abruptly exclaimed: 
               "Wilson, I shall leave for Rome in the morning-I wish your cousin every happiness." 
               "Arthur, if your mind is made up; or rather if your pride is unconquerable, don't be guilty of the weakness of flight. Remain, at least, until I can accompany you, which will be in a few days." 
               "But you will not," said Wyvil, hesitating, for there was reason in his friend's advice. 
               "I will not enter into any plots against you, nor even hint to the Maitlands your change of fortune." 
               Wilson went the next morning to call on his relations, and Wyvil sauntered forth alone. He bent his steps to the Florentine Gallery, for he was just in the mood to need the consolations of Art, and nowhere were they to be found like such as he would meet with there. He wandered for some two hours through the Halls, drinking in the poetry of that life that never palls. He had just entered the Hall of Niobe, and was contemplating with emotion the speechless agony of that unhappy mother, as she saw her offspring fall one after one around her beneath the shafts of the relentless archer, which the sculptor has so faithfully delineated, when a low sigh attracted his attention. Near him stood a female figure; she, foo, was gazing on that expression of woe so eloquent, and had not noticed his presence, but a slight movement on his part caused her to raise her eyes, and the pale face of Agnes Maitland was turned on him. 
               "Mr. Wyvil!" 
               "Miss Maitland!" 
               She extended her hand and the artist took it. 
               There are occasions in life when all distinctions fade, and before the audible voice of Nature the heart bows in submission to the divinity which shapes our ends, despite of all feebler control; and thus unpremeditatedly, and without words, Agnes Maitland and Arthur Wyvil met, and in the presence of that mighty sorrow were reconciled! 
               The rest of my story is soon told. The pride of the Maitlands had become humbled, and the good offices of Charley Wilson, whose delight was great at the good turn Fortune had again done his friend, easily brought about good terms between them and Wyvil. Charley was true to his promise however, and said nothing about the inheritance, so that, after enjoying some months in the company of her he still loved, Arthur Wyvil had the satisfaction to be accepted as a suitor by her parents, without any apprehension that a change of fortune had produced the alteration in his favor. The London attorney became impatient at the delay, however, and so, before the marriage could take place, the whole affair leaked out. 
               Madame was half wild with delight at first, and enjoyed an imaginary triumph over the faithless baronet, when her daughter should become a peeress at last. The delusion was soon dispelled by the firmness of Arthur Wyvil, who made it at once known that under no circumstances would he abandon his country. In this determination it may appear somewhat strange to say that Mr. Maitland fully concurred. 
                
               Does the reader remember a painting of a beautiful valley in Western Virginia, before which our hero and heroine first met? A splendid mansion has risen on one of its fairest sites; and there, in the calm happiness which comes after the spring storms of life, reside Arthur and Agnes. Charles Wilson was induced by his uncle to give up literature as a profession, and enter business, by which he is rapidly accumulating a competency. Even Madame, when she visits the establishment of her son-in-law, and sees the quiet dignity and happiness which surround him, admits that Virtue and Intelligence are worth fully as much as Fashion and Pretension. 
             
             
               THE GOLD PIECE. 
               A CHRISTMAS STORY. 
               IT was Christmas Eve! The weather was cold, and the skies lowering; yet the shops along Broadway were never more brilliantly thronged. All ages and sexes, sorts and conditions of people were afloat. Trinkets, and toys, bonbons, and bijouterie were in unlimited demand; for Old Santa Claus had an army of agents out. If any one is so skeptical as to question the fact that true happiness consists in conferring pleasure upon others let him go out among the shops on Christmas Eve. No one is selfish on this occasion, all are thinking of the gratification others will enjoy from their purchases, but just watch their faces; how the soul-beam of benevolence lights up with a divine halo the most common countenance! 
                
               It was Christmas Eve! and, filled with the excitement of the occasion, little wrecked the warmly clad denizens of Broadway for cold weather! Hither, and thither, moved the eager crowd intent each on his or her kindly mission, or enjoying as lookers-on the spontaneous sympathies with which the very atmosphere is redolent at this season of cheer and gladness! But there is no picture without its reverse, though we too seldom see the latter. Behold! Yonder little pale face pressed against the window of that Toy Shop; the fragile, childish form is clothed in poverty's habiliments, and want and suffering have chased away the roses from her cheek, while the sweet music of childhood's happy glee has long since died away in her sad, but innocent heart! It is Christmas Eve! but the occasion has no joys for thee, lorn one! it brings only a dim but painful memory of brighter days with their once happy associations, and the sigh that heaves thy soft young breast, while wistfully contemplating the fairy palace of childish delights before thee, is the messenger of a sorrow as profound in comparison as ever swelled the bosom of manhood at the disappointment of loftiest hopes! 
               "Well, Harcourt, what are you going to buy for yourself now?" asked an elegantly dressed lady within the shop, of a handsome boy, some ten summers old. 
               "I have no more money, mamma," replied the boy. 
               "Why, yes you have, my son." 
               "Only my gold piece, and I don't wish to spend that." 
               "Well as you have been so generous as to spend all your loose change for your sisters, what shall I give you?" 
               The child did not answer immediately, for his attention was fixed on some object outside. 
               "Answer me, my son; for we must be getting home." 
               "Buy her something, mamma," pointing to the pale little face outside. 
               The lady was at all times kind-hearted and benevolent, and at this moment the generous traits of her noble boy had opened the fountains of maternal tenderness, so that an appeal like this could not pass her unheeded. Stepping to the door, she took the little girl by the hand and said: 
               "Come in, my child, and choose a toy for yourself; what will you have?" 
               The little girl was fairly bewildered at this unexpected turn in fortune; she was very beautiful, notwithstanding her worn features, sorrowful face and homely attire. 
               "Nothing, I thank you marm." 
               "Take a toy," said Harcourt kindly; "Mamma wishes to give you one; see here, you may take one of those if you will," offering those which he had just purchased. 
               "Mother says I mustn't beg," said she, shrinking back timidly, yet acknowledging by a kindly glance the boy's childish sympathy. 
               "And who is your mother, dear?" asked the lady. 
               "She aint my real mother, though she is kind to me, and he is so cross and ugly," replied the little girl, expressing with childhood's frankness the thought uppermost in her mind. 
               "And what is your name?" 
               "Letty." 
               "Letty what?" 
               The child shook her head sadly to intimate either that she did not know, or could not tell. 
               "Where have you been, Letty?" asked the lady with increased interest. 
               Letty blushed at first, and stammered, then won to confidence by the kindness of her interrogator, she replied with tears; opening at the same time her coarse little cloak, and exhibiting a bottle which she carried. 
               "He made me go for brandy for him; she was sick, and I didn't want to disturb her-please don't keep me, marm, or he'll scold. I ought not to stop, but those toys did look so pretty." 
               "Well, Letty, you shall have one of the prettiest, so choose; and you can tell your mother that you did not beg for it, but a lady gave it to you. Is your mother poor? Does she want anything?" 
               "He has money enough, marm, but he doesn't give her much. When she's well she works, and then we always have enough." 
               "Here, my dear," said the lady, "Take this; don't shew it to him but give it to your mother, and ask her to let you come and see me to-morrow; here is a card with my address." 
               Letty took a little roll, it was a bank note, from the lady's hand and after curtsying, was about to depart. 
               "You have not chosen a toy yet." 
               The child took one of the cheapest and commonest she saw, which drew a warm smile of admiration from the donor at such delicacy of sentiment from one so young and apparently so lowly. 
               "Mamma," said Harcourt, pulling his mother a little aside, "may I give her this?" 
               
                  It was his gold piece.
                
               "If you choose, Harcourt," said the mother quietly, though she felt much inward delight at the nobleness of the boy's disposition. 
               "Good bye, Letty, and do not forget to come to-morrow," said the lady. 
               "Won't you shake hands before you go, Letty?" asked Harcourt stepping forward. 
               The girl quickly put out her hand. 
               "Good bye, Letty, and take that for my sake." 
               Harcourt left his gold piece in her palm. 
               Without looking to see what it was, and imagining no doubt it was a trifle which she ought not to refuse, Letty closed her hand on the coin, and thanking her benefactors in a tremulous voice, left the shop and hurried along to her humble home, with a heart full of those sweet and exciting emotions which unlooked-for kindness always awakens in a bosom accustomed rather to sorrow than happiness. 
               In a small and squalid-looking apartment of a tenant house in -- street, lay a young woman upon a straw bed. There was little other furniture in the room, which looked uncomfortable enough-there was a dim light burning on a stand near the head of the bed, which contained also a broken pitcher and a cup. The woman was plain in her appearance; but her countenance exhibited neither the reckless expression of habitual sin, nor the evidences of dissipation; on the contrary, though marked by suffering, for the flush of fever was on her brow, and her low moans betokened bodily pain-there was an expression of goodness which would have at once prepossessed the beholder in her favor. 
               The sick woman turned restlessly in her bed, and opening her eyes from her uneasy and feverish slumber she gazed a moment around the room, and then called in a low husky voice: 
               "Letty, Letty, dear." 
               At this, the door opposite was opened, and a rough man's voice asked- 
               "What do you want, Jane?" 
               "Drink, where is Letty?" 
               "She's gone out; I'll give you your drink:" and, pouring out a draught from the broken pitcher, he handed it. 
               "Isn't it night?" asked the invalid-"What makes you send the child out so late?" 
               "Pshaw! it's not late, and nobody'll harm her.-She's gone up Broadway for a bottle of brandy; Hanks will be here to-night, and I want him in a good humor; so you see I've sent for something decent for him to drink." 
               "Brandy, and Hanks-Oh! George, what will become of us at last? to think how happy we once were." And the poor woman sobbed in her agony. 
               "Don't be always crying like a fool," said the man, who was about thiry-five years of age, stout, well-built, and would have been handsome, but for the seal of sin which was unmistakeably set on his brow, and the ravages which dissipation had made on his face,-"you'd better make haste and get well, for I can tell you times are awful hard, and I can't seem to get along half now-a-days." 
               "We have never got along, George, since that fatal error. The money was rather a curse than a blessing; and every time the poor child has wanted food, and comfortable clothes, every time in your anger you have abused her, I have felt the curse of sin working on me. Oh! how often have I begged you to advertise, or try to find her relatives, I am sure they would gladly forgive you the money, only to get her back." 
               "I tell you, no! the sum was too large," said the man, doggedly. "Besides the girl has fared well enough-you've been a mother to her;" and then his tone growing suddenly suspicious, he added, "you have not been putting any notions in her head! By G-d, you had better both look out, if you do." 
               "I have never thwarted you, George, much as I disapproved of your course; I have been an obedient and faithful wife." 
               "Well, well, don't vex me; and if this business with Hanks goes all right, we'll be better off." 
               "Take care, George, what you do-for heaven's sake take care; I don't like that man Hanks-he'll bring you to no good." 
               "You're a fool, Jane; I could not get along without Hanks, and we are to talk over a piece of business to-night, which may be the making of me; and then I'll go to the country with you, to some village, and set up my old trade, and we'll live quiet and peaceable once more." 
               "Ah! the very thought makes me well again; and then we can be happy; and if you won't hunt up Letty's friends, why I can at least bring her up good and respectable. Will you, indeed, dear George-will you leave this vile city, so full of miseries for the poor?" 
               "I will, indeed, Jane," said the man, somewhat touched. 
               "But Hanks, George, I don't like him; for God's sake, don't you let him lead you into-into--" 
               "There-there; it will all be all right. Hush! here comes Letty." 
               The child came in with a glow on her cheek and a sparkle in her eye, that was quite unusual. She handed the man his brandy in silence, and then turning to the female, she exhibited her toy, and also gave her a small parcel. 
               "See, mother, what a good lady gave me in Broadway. I didn't ask for it; she called me in the store, and gave it to me-and she gave me money to buy something for you; and I've bought such nice biscuit and tea." 
               The man had paused to listen, and said: 
               "Well, now, take care of your mother to-night, and to-morrow, maybe, I'll buy you a new dress." 
               The child looked both astonished and pleased; not so much at the half promise, as at the unwonted tone of kindness. When he had gone into his own apartment, and closed the door, she eagerly told her mother all. After that she soon bustled around, lighted a little fire in the furnace, put on a small kettle, and, in less time and with less fuss than many an elder cook would have made, prepared a cup of fragrant tea for the invalid. How adversity matures and sharpens the faculties-she was only seven years old!
                
                
               After partaking of the refreshments thus offered, and listening awhile to the child's prattle, the poor woman fell off into an easier slumber. Letty put aside the things, and prepared also for her rest; but, before she laid down beside her mother, she stole quietly to the door, listened until she distinguished voices in low-whispered conference, and then, fastening an inside bolt, retired-not so much to sleep as to enjoy the new emotions which that evening's episode in her young life had called forth. Childhood and innocence, however, are seldom wakeful, and Letty's reveries soon turned to dreams-rosy, bright dreams! If, as has been asserted, all happiness is by comparison, the Angel of Joy touched no bosom with his magic wand on that Christmas eve more effectually than poor little Letty's! 
               Five years previous to our story, George Turner was a thriving mechanic in a little town on the banks of the Ohio, when one of those terrible accidents happened which too frequently attest the recklessness of human life on the part of the conductors of public conveyances in our country-a steamboat explosion. The havoc and destruction were great; many lives were lost, and many mutilated but still living bodies were carried ashore to enlist the sympathies of the citizens, near whose town the catastrophe occurred, and whose houses were hospitably thrown open for the reception of the unfortunates. Among others who had been injured, was a gentleman, so burned and scalded as to be unrecognisable, save, indeed, to the eye of affection, for near him was a lovely girl of four years old, who had escaped unhurt, and who was moaning piteously, and calling in anguish, "Papa! papa!" These fell to the care of Turner, who had the gentleman removed to his house, and prepared to render him every attention, while his young wife affectionately took charge of the sorrowing child. 
               In removing the garments from the poor sufferer, that he might render him some assistance, until the doctor could give his attention, Turner found a money-belt, and being tempted to examine its contents, he was astonished to discover a very considerable amount of money; he did not deem the motive dishonest with which he concealed this, for said he to himself: 
               "If he get's well, I'll return it of course, and if he dies why it will be safe when the lawful owner comes, and I shall have to take care of the child anyhow." 
               Dally not with temptation. The stranger died in a few hours, and the small sum of money found in his pocket book barely sufficed to inter the body properly; and George Turner made some merit of keeping the child, which his neighbors very readily granted. He said nothing of the money belt!
                
               There was some surprise in the town when, about three weeks after these events, George Turner announced his intention of selling out his shop, and removing to New Orleans. The excuse, however ever, was deemed valid, the death of a relative in Tennessee, he stated, had left him a considerable fortune, and it was necessary to give it his personal attention, after which he intended to go down to the "Crescent City," and open his business on a large scale. Even his wife credited this story, and the determination was put promptly in execution. It was only when far away from home that he disclosed to her the truth. Her tears, entreaties, and remonstrances were alike disregarded, and only for the sake of quiet did he promise that he would hoard the money, and if they ever should find out the relatives of the little girl, return it. At New Orleans, Turner fell into a course of dissipation, which induced his wife to endeavor to persuade him to leave that city, to which he the more readily consented, as the child's memory of scenes around them created apprehensions in his mind that she might be recognized. Turner, who was originally from the North, now determined to move thither. They accordingly sailed for New York. 
               Vice is the invariable companion of crime, and the act of dishonesty on the part of George Turner appeared to bring with it a whole train of minor sins. He drank, gambled, and squandered in two years the whole amount he had purloined, though it was thousands. He had in the beginning commenced to work at his trade, but this was soon abandoned, and though his shameless and dishonest profligacy shocked and pained his wife, it was not in her nature to abandon him. The gradual degradation which George underwent brought him down, notwithstanding the occasional energy with which he would take hold and work, to the state in which we find him; and lower and more rapidly would he have fallen but for his wife, who, if weak in adhering to him, was brave and strong in doing her duty, not only to him but the orphan thus placed under her care. Jane's heart had learned to bear much, but the disreputable associations and mysterious life led by her husband created still another pang. Even if she would have left him when he became almost brutalised in his neglect, as he himself no doubt wished, there was a tie she could not break, she could not desert the sweet little girl whose affection amply repaid her care, and her husband who was, with all his evil ways, weak and timid, would sooner have parted with a hand, fearing that her discovery when from under his supervision would inevitably lead to his own. 
                
               Sweetly the orphan slept on! Pleasant dreams beguiled her fancy, and visions of happiness like old familiar thoughts, disturbed with gentle violence the calm of her slumbers! Suddenly there was the noise of hurried steps in the next room, then a rude summons at the door, which awoke both the woman and child. 
                
               "See what he wants, Letty," said the invalid, recognising at once her husband's voice, "but don't open the door if you can help." 
               The girl obeyed with a discretion beyond her years. 
               "Here! curse you! take it quick; I don't want to come in; but just put that under the bed," said George Turner, in an excited voice, as Letty partially opened the door, handing her a small heavy parcel. 
               The child obeyed mechanically, closing the door and fastening it again, when she had received the charge. Neither attempted to examine the nature of the parcel, but both were attracted by loud voices in the adjoining apartment, which seemed every moment to grow more angrily. All at once there was a pause, the steps of new comers were heard, a violent altercation and a struggle ensued, then the shuffling of retreating footsteps, and all was still. Although the females felt an intense interest in what was going on, neither of them dared interrupt Turner, and when quiet was restored, they both gradually subsided into a matter-of-course sort of feeling, and determining to await the morning for an elucidation which they deemed nothing more than one of his customary brawls, they both fell asleep. It was but little after daylight when an alarm at their door again woke the slumberers. This time there was an authoritative manner about the intruder, that it was not so easy to reply to, and Letty at once opened the door. 
               "Who have we here?" said an officer, entering-"Accomplice, I suppose." 
               "I don't know what you mean," replied Jane Turner. "I am a poor sick woman, and this is my daughter." 
               "Where is your husband?" 
               "I don't know; isn't he in the other room?" 
               "No; he is snug enough in the 'lock up' where you'll have to go too, I rather calculate." 
               "What for?" asked Letty, boldly stepping forward. "My mother is very sick; she has been in her bed more than a week. If anything wrong has happened, she has nothing to do with it; please not to trouble her." 
               "A brave little girl," said the officer's comrade, admiring the courage of the child. "My dear, your father has been concerned in a burglary last night, and I hope, as you say, that neither your mother nor yourself have anything to do with it; but you see he's nabbed, and we must search the premises." 
               "You may search, only I beg you not to disturb my mother; you will find nothing here. Mr. Turner did not come in this room last night." Then suddenly recollecting herself, Letty paused an instant, went to the bed and taking the parcel given her by George, handed it to the officer. 
               "I forgot, he gave me this to keep, when he came back last night; I don't know what it is." 
                
               The officer undid the package which contained a pocket-book with several hundred dollars, and a leather case. As he opened the latter, the flash of diamonds greeted his eyes, and surrounded by a circlet of brilliants, he beheld the miniature of a lovely girl. 
               "Indeed, sir, we knew nothing about this," said Letty earnestly. 
               "Oh! my God," moaned the sick woman, "what, has it come to this at last! She is innocent, sir. Oh! spare us; we knew nothing of what he has done." 
               Police officers are generally experienced in detecting crime, and it was easy for the one in question to be satisfied of the truth of the child's assertions. Nor are this class of persons necessarily hard-hearted; on the contrary, there is often much active charity and benevolence in them. 
               "I believe you, my good woman; but it is necessary that we search further." 
               "But you won't take my mother away to jail," interposed Letty; "she is not bad, if he is." 
               "No, I will not; but she and you must remain here until I return, and if any one come in, take notice what they say. May I trust you?" 
               "You may," said Letty, looking fearlessly and frankly into his face. 
               The two or three hours which passed before the officer's return were sad and weary ones for the poor woman and child; bad as the husband had been of late, his position now made them even desolate. 
               "What shall we do, my poor child, what shall we do? I am too sick to work, and I can never suffer you to beg, Letty, if I starve." 
               "Perhaps, mother, I can get some work; and you know I have some change left, the good lady gave me, and the gold piece, too, and why not, mother, go and tell her our situation? I do not like to beg, but I should not mind asking her." 
               "Perhaps, after all, it will be best, dear; not for my sake, but your own. So when the officer comes, you can ask him if you may leave to run up there." 
               It was about three hours before the police officer came back. All of the stolen property had been fortunately recovered, and his visit was rather one of kindness, as there could be no possible reason to implicate the unfortunate woman and child in the affair. 
               "I am sorry for you," said he to Jane Turner, "there is no doubt he will be sent up, and for a good long term. Have you no friends? for you seem honest." 
               "None." 
               "I have spoken to the lady to whom the stolen property belongs about this little girl here, and she wishes to see her." 
               "We were about to ask your permission for Letty to go out this morning to see a lady who was kind to her last evening." 
               "You are at liberty, I have no more to do with you." 
               "She gave me this," said Letty holding up the card she had received, "and told me to come to-day." 
               The officer took the address carelessly and glanced it over-as he did so he started. 
               "That is strange! It almost seems like a providence. Why this is the very lady whose house was robbed." 
               "Oh! mother," exclaimed Letty-"What shall we do? I can never go near her now. To think after all her kindness that one of ours should go and rob her." And the poor child buried her face in the clothes, and sobbed as if she had lost her only friend. 
               "Come, you are wrong there, my little dear," said the warm-hearted officer-"the lady will not blame you; I know she wishes to see you from the kindest motives; so come along with me, I am going to carry back the articles." 
               The repugnance on Letty's part was easily overcome by reason, and she prepared herself with a palpitating heart to accompany the officer. 
               The light blazed in the parlors of a fine mansion in Bleeker street, and childish voices might have been heard in merry glee. It was Christmas Eve! and the restraint of their ordinary discipline was removed from the happy young beings whose little hearts were buoyed up by the excitement of the joyous occasion. 
               "Oh, I wish mamma and Harcourt would come back. I want to know what she thinks Santa Claus will bring me," said a little flaxen-haired elf, with blue eyes and rosy cheeks. 
               This enquiry was directed to a lady with a sweet, benevolent cast of countenance, but grave and melancholy beyond her years, who was dressed not exactly in mourning, but in vestments of a sombre hue, such as are often worn to express settled and irremediable grief. 
               "I have no doubt you will be gratified, my child," said the aunt. 
               The stopping of a carriage in the street sent the whole gang of gypsies to the hall, where mamma and Harcourt were greeted with many welcomes, and more questions. They preserved, however, a proper and discreet silence, as Santa Claus' agents. When the prattlers were somewhat quieted, Mrs. Stanley addressed her sister, to whom we have just alluded- 
               "Harcourt met with quite such an adventure, and has given his gold piece away to a little beggar girl." 
               "You forget, mamma," said the boy, "she would not beg." 
               "True, and she interested me singularly. I never saw a lovelier child, notwithstanding her pale face and ordinary garments. There was an air of mystery about her, though frank and open in her speech as day, which has quite enlisted my curiosity. I asked her to come and see us to-morrow." 
               "And, aunt," said Harcourt, affectionately, "I liked her more because her name was Letty." 
               A ray of increased interest lighted up the face of his aunt, who said, in a low, melancholy voice- 
               "My name and hers, too; the child will have an additional claim on my sympathy. You shall not suffer by your generosity, Harcourt." 
               Mrs. Wynne, the sister of Mrs. Stanley, was a widow upon whom a terrible and crushing misfortune had fallen in the sudden loss of those she held dearest on earth. Her heart was a tomb consecrated to their memory; and yet, with all her weight of sorrow, some kindly feelings, some human sympathies yet remained, which were devoted to her sister's family, with whom she lived in the closest affection. 
               Many were the conjectures hazarded about the poor orphan who had enlisted their sympathy, and each devised some plan of benefitting her. Blessed are they who in prosperity remember the unfortunate! Perhaps the inmates of no mansion in this mighty city retired on that Christmas Eve with calmer consciences, and hearts which deserved to be happier than the Stanleys! 
               "It is too provoking, I declare," said Mrs. Stanley, at the breakfast table next morning. 
               "What is the matter?" asked her sister. 
               "Have you not heard that the house was entered by robbers last night?" 
               "No; I hope they have not carried off anything very valuable." 
               "About two thousand dollars in money, and jewelry. You, I am sorry to say, are perhaps the greatest loser." 
               "Me! how so?" 
               "Why, I neglected to return to your room the miniature you loaned me yesterday, but placed it in my secretary-which has been opened, and it is gone." 
               Mrs. Wynne turned pale as death. 
               "Gone! It must be recovered at any price. It is all, all I have left to remind me how blessed I once was, how wretched I am now," and she bowed her head in grief. 
               "My dear sister, believe me it shall. I will advertise all over the city, and no reward shall be wanting to stimulate its discovery. In fact, I have some reasonable hopes; it seems that the rogues were discovered making their egress, and followed. I have already received an intimation of their capture and the probable recovery of the property." 
               "Even the children, notwithstanding the exuberance of joy produced by the liberal and discriminating favors of old Santa Claus; each one having found exactly what he or she most wished for in the magic stocking, were sober and depressed by "dear aunt Letty's misfortune. 
                
               Breakfast was scarcely over before a ring at the street door bell was heard, and a servant announced that Mr. Jackson, the police officer, wanted to see Mrs. Stanley. 
               "Take him in the parlor, Betty; I will be there in a minute." 
               "Well, Mr. Jackson," said Mrs. Stanley, "have you got the miniature?" 
               "Yes, madam." 
               "And this is the little girl, eh? Bless me! why it is the one we saw last evening. Come here, child; nay, don't tremble so, I know all, and do not blame you." 
               Letty moved up beside the lady, who laid her hand gently on her head. 
               "Poor thing! you shall be better cared for. Now, Mr Jackson, let us see." 
               The property was handed over, and the worthy officer received a reward which was truly liberal. 
               "I understand you, there will be no necessity for me to appear." 
               "None, madam, one of the accomplices has already 'peached." 
               "Well, I thank you for your promptness. You may leave this little girl with me-I will send her home." 
               When Mrs. Stanley returned to the breakfast-room, she held the miniature in one hand, and held the bashful shrinking Letty with the other. 
               "Here, sister, is your treasure," said she. 
               Mrs. Wynne caught eagerly the case from her hand, and opened it to be sure of its possession. For a few moments she gazed on the beautiful childish features of the painting in a fit of tender abstraction, which no one ventured to interrupt; then handing it her sister she said: 
               "You cannot blame me for idolising the memory of an angel!" 
               Mrs. Stanley looked awhile upon the picture; and then suddenly her eyes sought the face of the little orphan she held by the hand, and a strange expression passed over her face; it did not escape the attention of the mourner. 
               "Ah! that is your little protege?" 
               "Letty!" said Mrs. Stanley. 
               The eyes of both sister and the child, answered the call, and were then for an instant mutually turned on each other. There are moments when the voice of Nature whispers to the heart with irresistible eloquence, and reveals truths and mysteries which all human sagacity would fail to elucidate. This was one. With pale cheeks, glittering eyes, and heaving breast; the lady rivetted her gaze upon the poor orphan, while, not less agitated, the latter, with outstretched hands, parted lips, and the attraction of fascination in her looks, moved slowly forward-years of hardship and sorrow-years of mourning and grief, passed from their minds like a mist, and with a heart-cry on their lips- 
                
               "Mother!" 
               "My child!" 
               The mourner and the long lost one were clasped in each other's arms! 
               Oh! it was a merry Christmas-a happy Christmas in the mansion of the Stanleys. Nor in their rejoicing were the unfortunate, or even the sinful, forgotten. A nurse was provided for Jane Turner, and every comfort which she required procured; and, on her convalescence, she was removed to the house of Mrs. Stanley, and installed as seamstress; while George, who was convicted and sentenced on the testimony of his accomplice, received a promise of a probable pardon at the end of a year, if the report of his conduct justified the application. Through the influence of some influential friends of Mrs. Stanley it was procured sooner, and with sufficient means to begin fair in the world, he set out westward. The advice of her friends would have held Jane back from accompanying her husband, at least until his promises of reformation had been tested, but she would not be advised;-hard as it was to part with her darling, she knew her happiness was secure, and his was to be cared for, reprobate and cruel as he had been to her. Beautiful illustration of Woman's truth and faith! 
                
               Reader! this very Christmas morning the marriage ceremony between Harcourt Stanley and Letty Wynne will be celebrated. The wedding-ring is made of that very self-same GOLD PIECE! 
             
             
               BOARDING A BUCCANEER. 
               A "YANKEE TRICK" AT SEA. 
               It was in the year 184- that I found myself on board the good brig Mary Anna, of Portland, bound for Kingston, Jamaica. There were some twelve or fifteen passengers, mostly young men, several of them Creoles returning home, two English officers who had been on a visit to relations in Canada, and were about to rejoin their regiment, and the rest made up of personages into whose business it was none of mine to inquire, so long as they made themselves agreeable compagnons du voyage, which they all happily were. Our captain was a shrewd, knowing Yankee, principal owner of the brig, having on board an assorted cargo which he was taking down to the Spanish Main for speculation. The passengers he had picked up at Boston were a godsend, and had induced him so far to alter his original intentions as to steer for Kingston, whither the larger portion of them were bound. Leave a live Yankee alone to find out who he is dealing with, and to provide vide means of profiting by his customers! Our skipper had not left Boston before he knew full well that an extra supply of small stores-such as ales, wines, &c.-would be a good investment, and had prepared himself accordingly. Nor was he mistaken-the demand was brisk, and Capt. Jonathan was correspondingly polite and affable. 
               Our voyage was not exactly tedious, but it was long. The winds were light and variable, and the skipper did not appear to make as much headway in his sailing as he might. Indeed, the English major-a jolly, whole-souled fellow, with a deal of humor in his composition-slyly hinted that he shouldn't see Kingston until the skipper's small stores were exhausted; and thereupon he incontinently called for "half a dozen porter." Certainly, if we were compelled to drink our way into port, the major was the man to lead the enterprise. 
               We were sitting around the cabin-table, enjoying the Englishman's porter and investigating the merits of some excellent cheroots-it was our tenth day out-when the captain put his head down the hatchway, and called out to me- 
               "I say Mr. Brace-you're a man-o'-war's-man-will you jist step on deck, and see what you can make out of this stranger?" 
               Capt. Jonathan had soon found out my profession, and with that easy nonchalance so peculiar to the genus Yankee, put me to various uses during the voyage. 
               "Here, skipper," sang out the major, "never mind the stranger-come down and help us finish this porter. We are drinking for a fair wind." 
               "I rather guess the stranger'll be after minding yeou," drawled Jonathan-"he looks uncommon rakish!" 
               "Hilloa! what's that?-a pirate, eh? By Jove, there's some sport at last!"-and we severally hustled on deck. 
               It was not exactly a calm, but the winds were light, and came in those fitful puffs denominated "cats' paws," which especially favor the tropical seas. The strange sail, which had been made from the masthead two or three hours previous, and to which little attention had been paid, taking advantage of these, had come up with us hand over fist, and was now about two miles distant, on our weather quarter. A more beautiful specimen of naval architecture never floated on the ocean! She was a schooner of somewhere about one hundred and fifty tons, with masts taunt and raking, and a long, low hull, that yielded, "like a thing of life," in graceful undulations to the waves. Above there rose a perfect cloud of canvas, that caught the slightest breath of air, and winged her with noiseless and almost mysterious speed over the water, while our own clumsy craft was flapping her idle sails and crawling at a scarcely perceptible snail's pace. 
               "By Jove! how she comes up!" exclaimed the major. 
                
               "Waal, you see, she fetches the breeze with her," said Jonathan, with that excusable pride which even the master of a scow may feel in the craft he commands, "or I rayther guess she wouldn't overhaul the Mary Anne quite so slick, no how!" 
               "What a perfect beauty!" said I. 
               "Yes," replied the major, ever ready, Englishman-like, to appropriate all excellence for his own patch of an island, "she certainly is a trim little craft-belongs to the Royal Yacht-Club, I am sure. I heard one of their finest vessel's was expected out this fall." 
               "Those timbers were never laid in England, major," said I-"she is a Baltimore clipper; though what her present occupation is I would not venture to say." 
               "We'll soon see that," said the captain. "Mate, show your bunting!" 
               The stars and stripes were quickly floating at our peak, and in a few moments as if to refute my assertions, the "meteor flag of England" rose majestically from the stranger's deck, and fluttered aloft, stirred by a wanton breeze that dallied, enamored of its folds! 
               "There, sir," said the major, pompously, "I told you so; I knew there could be no vessel of equal symmetry out of the Yacht Club." 
               "Do the vessels of the Royal Yacht Club carry a 'long Tom' on a pivot, major?" asked I, taking the glass from my eyes, with which I had been examining the schooner. 
               "Why, sir?" 
               "Because our friend there seems rather heavily armed for a pleasure yacht." 
               "Yacht be darned!" exclaimed Captain Jonathan, "she's a bloody pirate! and I rayther guess we'll soon know more about her." 
               "Do you think he'll attempt to capture us, skipper?" asked the major-"and have you an idea of resisting?" 
               I watched the captain closely as these questions were put, for upon his firmness and conduct might depend our lives. There was fire in his eyes, and a flush spread over his weather-beaten countenance, as he replied, with much energy: 
               "Idea of resisting? Jerusalem! I rayther guess I have! Do you think Reuben Jonathan is going to give up his brig and cargo to them bloody Spanish thieves, without showing fight, and let himself be pitched overboard like an old swab into the bargain? It may so be as he will not disturb us. The "Mary Anne' is not exactly the kind of prize for him, and these fellows don't like to throw away their ammunition; but if the worst comes, gentlemen, we must fight." 
               We all agreed readily with his propositions, and under his direction rection proceeded to arm ourselves, which, from the brig's magazine and our own resources, we were enabled to do pretty effectively: fowling-pieces, muskets, pistols, and cutlasses enough for all being found. On mustering our force, we had, including the crew, twenty effective men. 
               "We must keep down, gentlemen," said the skipper, "and not show too much strength, or he may pepper us at long taw; though these fellows don't like to use their big guns when they can do their work quietly-there's too many cruisers in these latitudes." 
               By this time, the schooner had come up within hailing distance astern of us. 
               "Brig ahoy!" sang out a voice from her deck. 
               "Hiloa!" replied our skipper, through a monster trumpet. 
               "What brig is that?" 
               "The 'Mary Anne,' of Portland. What schooner is that?" 
               "The 'Black Snake'! Heave-to and send a boat on board." 
               "Can't do it; my boats are all on board, and stowed for the voyage." 
               "Heave-to, then, while I send my boat on board of you." 
               "You'd better not; we Yankees don't admit the right of sarch!" 
               The schooner was still coming up with us, though the brig had commenced to forge ahead under the influence of a steadier breeze. Both vessels were laying near the wind, in which point of sailing the schooner had an evident advantage. Our skipper quietly ordered the man at the helm to keep away, and as the brig fell off before the wind it was perceived on board the schooner, which made a corresponding movement, while another fierce hail came, ordering us to "heave-to!" As our skipper was about to raise his trumpet to reply, the major interfered: 
               "Perhaps she is a government vessel, skipper, and you had better to comply." 
               "Even if she was, what right has she to bring an American vessel to? I rayther guess the right of sarch is settled," said the skipper. 
               The major seemed disposed to argue the point; when quietly touching his arm, I pointed to the schooner, on board of which a rapid change had taken place. Her deck was swarming with armed men, and preparations were making to lower her boats, which the English ensign had been hauled down, and in its place there went up the significant black flag, with its horrid blazonry of a skull, supported by crossed bones. 
               "Do her majesty's cruisers sail under that sort of bunting, major?" 
               "A pirate! By G-d! we must fight for it." 
               The two vessels were now running parallel, with about equal speed, making perhaps some two knots an hour. In a few minutes, three boats of armed men put off from the schooner, and scattering in different directions, pulled with the evident intention of attacking us on both sides. Every preparation the circumstances of the case would admit of, was made to give them a warm reception. 
               "We must never let them get a foothold on deck, gentlemen," said the skipper, who showed an activity and courage which elicited our admiration. 
               The plan of the boats to attack us from different points at once, necessarily delayed their operations. In the meantime, as is often common in those seas, a current of wind struck the brig, pressing her more rapidly through the water. An idea-a bold and happy one-flashed on the brain of our skipper. "Quick! gentlemen, I have it! We are safe!" exclaimed he, seizing the wheel. "Mr. Brace, jump forward, if you please, take what men you want, and stand by to grapple the schooner-then take charge of her 'long Tom, Major, will you command the sharp-shooters, and pick off those fellows, if they come too near? By the great Jehosophat! I'll show that fellow a Yankee trick he never saw before." 
               The idea was a brilliant one. There was every chance of our carrying the schooner, if we could lay her aboard while the greater portion of her crew were in the boats; and the breeze which had sprung up, and which proved steady, was a providential interposition in our behalf. Our preparations were speedily made, and the skipper steered with such caution as gradually to approach the schooner, of which we had the advantage in the first effects of the breeze, without exciting suspicion of his intention on board. It was some minutes before the boats perceived the increased speed of the brig, and even then they pulled less vigorously than they might-endeavoring still to preserve their plan of attack. The brig had now full steerage way on her, and was closing with the schooner, on whose decks there appeared some stir. 
               "Stand by, now, gentlemen," said the skipper, as he gave a few rapid turns to the wheel. "Pick that fellow off who is steering, major, the first one." 
               Our intention was now understood on board the pirate, but too late for effective resistance. They fired one of their carronades without damage to us-in reply to which, a single shot from the major's rifle brought down the man at the wheel. The report of firearms gave a new impetus to the boats, and they headed direct for us-but we were moving pretty fast through the water. The skipper laid us well alongside; our grapnels were thrown; and, leaving the mate and one hand to secure them, I leaped on board with the rest of the men, and cut down two or three pirates who were endeavoring to make ready the "long gun." The major and his command were equally prompt, and in less than three minutes the decks were cleared, and the schooner in our possession. Now, however, came the tug of war. The collision of the vessels had checked their headway, and the breeze which had served us so well was dying out, while the pirate's boats, containing about forty armed desperate wretches, were fast coming up with us. They were already in musket range, and the major's force was quietly picking them off. This, however, only enraged them the more, and it seemed to me they must reach us, and give us a hard struggle for our lives. 
               "Captain," said I to our skipper, who had coolly retained his station at the wheel, "can you let her yaw off when I give the word?" 
               "Aye! aye!" was the prompt reply. 
               Taking two men whom I had recognized as men-of-war's men, and one or two others of the crew forward with me, I cast off the long gun, which I found loaded, and ramming home another strand of grape, I depressed the piece, and prepared to fire. 
               "Now, captain!" I sang out. 
               The vessels obeyed their helms promptly, and came around almost broadside to the boats. 
               "Steady! so." 
               I applied the match. The foremost boat, which I had brought within range of my piece, was some distance ahead of the others. The schooner trembled under the shock of the explosion: a wild shriek was heard, and, amid the spray and foam which the plunging shot stirred up, fragments of timbers, oars, and a few bleeding wretches struggling in their death throes, were all that was left of the boat and her crew! Never did a single shot do such havoc! It was the grape and cannister which destroyed the first boat; but the round shot, with which the gun was loaded, ricocheting, took another of the boats, which was in the line of fire, on her bow, and stove her in, killing several of her crew and spilling the rest. The third boat paused, and, seeing the destruction, pulled for the survivors from the second boat. I had not lost a second in reloading my gun, and, by the time she had come up to the spot, another storm of grape and cannister, well aimed, spread death and destruction among them. We now made haste to secure the pirates who had been driven below, which was speedily done. Our skipper then turned the schooner over to my charge, allowing me two of his sailors-the rest of my crew being made up of volunteers from among the passengers, most of whom from curiosity or the love of change desired to go with me. The vessels were cast off, and hauled up for the spot where the boat had been. Some ten or fifteen wretches, most of them wounded, clinging over to oars and planks, were all that remained of the pirate's crew. We might have left these to their fate, and surely they deserved such treatment, but humanity forbade it; and it struck me as a queer sort of humanity too, which saved men from drowning to consign them to the gallows. With the assistance of a boat from the brig, how over, we picked the survivors up, and, having secured and divided our prisoners for greater safety, we made sail for our destination. 
               The skipper, elated with his prize, forgot all about disposing of the small stores, and made the best of his way into port. We found a capital larder on board the schooner, and wines which even the major pronounced unexceptionable. In three days we anchored in the harbor at Kingston: the pirates were handed over to the authorities, and the schooner adjudged a prize and sold. The skipper was honorable enough to wish to share pro rata with his passengers, which, however, was pretty generally declined, I believe. The amount which she brought was considerable, in addition to some thousands of dollars found on board, so that he and his crew, therefore, fared well. 
               The major had the satisfaction of knowing that the "most beautiful craft in the world" belonged to the Royal Yacht Club, the pirate schooner having been bought for that purpose by a young nobleman sojourning on the island. 
             
             
               THE YOUNG CONTINENTAL; 
               OR, THE TORY'S LAST RIDE. 
               "HENRY! dear brother, I cannot part with you. I fear the results of this enterprise." 
               "Remember, Ruth, I am a soldier now, and must do my duty," said a fine manly stripling dressed in the continental uniform. 
               "Yes, but Henry there is more in this than the ordinary perils of a soldier's duty; suppose you are taken as a spy-oh! remember you are all I have in the world now," said the girl clinging nervously to him. 
               "Miss Thornton, I think you overate the hazards of your brother's mission. Under no circumstances can he be regarded as a spy; the enemy's out-posts are miles below the utmost reach of his journey; yet I will substitute another if he desire it," said a rich manly voice. 
               Ruth Thornton turned blushing towards the door-way in which stood the commander of the troop which her brother had recently joined. 
               "Sir! Captain Walton," exclaimed the youth. "Pardon my sister's fears; but I have no wish to be relieved from an honorable duty. I will go, sir, and if any accident should happen to me, I only ask your further protection for my sister until she can be placed with her relatives." 
               "Never doubt that, my brave boy," said the dragoon, advancing, and grasping his hand warmly; "and you, Miss Thornton, let me beg you to allay your fears. I have chosen your brother for this enterprise for two reasons, first, because his thorough knowledge of the country may insure its success, and next because the importance of the service will procure him when performed gallantly, as I know it will be, his commission." 
               "But must he go unattended?" 
               "I dare not weaken my troop by detaching any available escort, and his safety will be better ensured by caution and address than by any inadequate force." 
               "But will not his uniform betray him?" 
               "It will be his safeguard should he be captured. He will then be regarded as a prisoner of war, whereas, otherwise, falling into the hands of any party of irregulars they might not stand upon ceremony." 
               The young continental having received his last directions from his commander, now took an affectionate leave of his sister, and gaily mounting his splendid blooded charger, of the best breed in the "Old Dominion," set forth on his journey, while Ruth gazed tearfully on his receding form from the window of the little farm house where they were sojourning. 
               Henry and Ruth Thornton were the orphan children of a gentleman who had some months previously fallen a sacrifice to that cruel and barbarous predatory warfare which was, to the disgrace of the British arms, not only countenanced, but stimulated by the officers of King George, during our Revolutionary struggle. He was a planter of great wealth, and high character, whose benevolent disposition made him universally beloved. He had not taken sides openly in the conflict, but those who knew him understood his sentiments to be decidedly in favor of his struggling countrymen. He had nevertheless remained in undisturbed enjoyment of his possessions and his domestic quiet, until within a few months previous to the opening of our story. Trouble had then fallen upon him from an unlooked for source. 
               When the war first broke out Mr. Thornton had in his employ an overseer, or manager of his estate, a young man of superior ability and education to his class; he was the scion of an old family, who had passed his early years in dissipation, exhausting his patrimony and reducing himself almost to beggary. Suddenly he affected reform, and though many who knew him well doubted his sincerity, yet others were found disposed to render aid and favor. Among these was Mr. Thornton who first gave him employment, and finally became so much pleased with his intelligence and steady conduct as to confide to him the entire management of his fine estate, besides offering him facilities of bettering his condition. 
               Mr. Thornton had never found his affairs go more prosperously than under the charge of Lewis Dearborn; and yet while his accounts were always promptly and satisfactorily made up, the latter was fast acquiring property. When the war broke first out Dearborn imitated the example of his employer, in not taking sides with either party, and was much more circumspect in even the expression of his opinions as to the merits of the controversy. While he had obtained, however, the confidence of Mr. Thornton, and his family, with the exception of one member, he by no means enjoyed that of his neighbors, many of whom for unassigned reasons, doubted both his sincerity and his integrity. The exception in the family of his employer was his fair and lovely daughter Ruth, to whom Dearborn presumed to look with aspiring eyes. Bold and fearless as he was in disposition he had not dared to broach the subject of his hopes to her father; but to Ruth herself his conduct had been on more than one occasion presumptuous, especially since the commencement of hostilities. An indefinable apprehension of danger had prevented her from informing her father until one occasion when Dearborn, whose absence from the plantation was becoming more frequent, on his return one day finding her alone made an open and direct reference to his hopes, with dark hints in the event of refusal. Ruth, who notwithstanding her mild and gentle nature had all the pride of her race, repulsed his advances with firmness and dignity, and at once declaring her intention of informing her father unless he instantly quit the plantation, and never shewed his face on it again. 
               To her surprise and consternation the man received the threat with cool insolence, expressing his determination to remain and prosecute his suit. There was no course left her but to reveal the matter to her parent. Mr. Thornton, notwithstanding his usual benevolence became highly enraged, and promptly dismissed his overseer with bitter and scornful words; while the latter quit his place with dark threats of vengeance. 
               These were lightly regarded by the brave old gentleman; but it was with great difficulty that he could restrain his son, a youth of eighteen, from attempting to retaliate by personal violence on the perpetrator of the insult to his family. Several months passed, and the matter was pretty well forgotten when the report that a band of tories were harassing every one suspected of favoring the patriot cause in the neighboring district began somewhat to alarm the old gentleman for the peace and safety of his family, especially as the name of his quondam manager was connected with the party as their leader. He had not yet been able to find a proper person to fill Dearborn's place, and while hesitating between his unwillingness to leave his place entirely without management, and his desire to place his family beyond the reach of danger, he sent an express to a continental officer, a personal friend, who was stationed some twenty five miles distant with a considerable force, requesting an escort. 
               The messenger, a faithful and intelligent servant departed in the night, and before daylight the next morning, the alarm was given that the tories were approaching. Mr. Thornton with great promptness and energy called his servants into the house, barricaded the doors, armed these who were capable, and prepared for resistance. The morning beams had scarcely chased the darkness away when his residence was surrounded by some thirty desperate men under the lead of Dearborn who demanded an instant surrender. 
               "By what authority, and under what terms?" demanded Mr. Thornton, from an upper window at which he appeared, willing to parley for the sake of prolonging the time. 
               "By the authority of King George, and on such terms as a rebel in arms may expect," said Dearborn. 
               "I am in arms only for my own defence, and will only yield them to a superior force and a guaranty of safety to myself and family," replied Thornton. 
               "See here, old man, I have no time to parley with you," said the tory leader, "and so I shall not mince matters. You shall have both safety and protection only on my terms; and scornfully as you spoke of me when we last met, you may yet be glad to crawl to me for favors. My terms are, your daughter's hand and your submission to King George." 
               "Never, base-born hound!" exclaimed the old gentleman with uncontrollable indignation. 
               "Beware!" excaimed the tory, turning red with rage. "You are in my power, and may yet beg for the terms you now scorn. The King's pardon, methinks were better than to be roasted alive in your own house, and there may be a worse fate for your proud daughter than even marriage with one so base-born." 
               Henry Thornton who stood behind his parent, at this insulting allusion was in the act of raising his gun to shoot the tory, but his father checked him promptly. The movement, however, was perceived by Dearborn, who promptly gave the signal, and as if by preconcert two or three guns were discharged at the window. Mr. Thornton staggered back into the arms of his son, who kneeling to support his wounded parent escaped the volley which followed from the rest of the troop, the balls flying over his head. 
               The fire of the tories was returned by a few ineffectual shots from the building, on the part of the servants, which would have proved but a poor defence, especially as their young master who might have directed their movements was engrossed by his attention to his dying father. But aid came from another quarter. The tories had scarcely dismounted and commenced their preparations for forcing the barricaded doors, when there rang out on the clear morning air the bugles of the Virginia Horse. 
               Dearborn made an ineffectual attempt to fire the building ere he hastily retreated, pursued by the patriot forces at a full charge. He managed to get clear with the main body of his force, though a few were cut off in the rear. Captain Walton the commander of the dragoons, leaving a sufficient force to pursue the tories, returned with part of his troops to the dwelling of Mr. Thornton, where a sad scene awaited him. The old gentleman, whom Walton had known and respected from boyhood, was dying. He only survived long enough to commend his children to Walton's care; desiring that Ruth should be sent to her relatives at Richmond, and dedicating Henry, young as he was, to the service of his country. 
               "My son," said the old gentleman, "You have often besought permission to join your country's army; and now I feel my own lukewarmness, of which it may be this is the fruit. Go, follow your patriotic inclinations; this gallant officer, whom I have long known, will be your friend and guide, be brave, be true, a dying father gives you to your country with a blessing!" 
                
               It was only six weeks after the foregoing scene that the incidents had occurred. There had been no opportunity which was sufficiently secure of sending Ruth to her relatives, but she had remained safe under the guardianship of Captain Walton who occupied an important strategetic position which he could not abandon. Henry, however, had mounted the continental uniform, with an acting appointment as cornet, and proved himself so energetic and efficient that he was chosen to carry an important communication to the commanding general under whom Walton was acting, with a strong recommendation for a confirmation of his appointment. 
               As Henry disappeared at a turn in the road, Ruth turned from the window with a sigh, and blushed deeply to find the deep earnest eyes of the dragoon fixed on her. 
               "Do not give yourself unnecessary pain, my dear Miss Thornton," said he, "I have no doubt your brother will return safely and with honor." 
               "But oh! Captain Walton, if-if-he is all I have, you know," said the poor girl, with a burst of pent up emotion. 
               "Miss Thornton-Ruth! whatever may happen, while I live you will have one devoted friend at least, nay," added he taking her hand, "this is not perhaps the time for such a decleration, but I love you-have long loved you. I had hoped to tell this under different auspices-in your happy home, when I had won perhaps some honor in defence of my country's liberties. But surely such an assurance will give you no pain now; nor will it offend, if you know enough of George Walton to trust his honor." 
               Ruth looked down for a moment in confusion; and then raising her tearful eyes, with a sweet and holy confidence, she said: 
               "I do know your honor, Walton, and will trust you as a brother, as--" 
               "Enough, dear Ruth," said he generously, "we will go in to breakfast, and then I must leave you for a few hours." 
                
               Henry Thornton performed his journey to head-quarters safely and quickly, and received from the general high commendation for his efficiency and a confirmation of his appointment. On his return he was tempted to go some eight or ten miles out of his way to take a look at his old homestead and make some inquiry as to the condition of the plantation which had been placed under the charge of a worthy and honest man. The overseer expressed pleasure at seeing him, and yet there was something about his manner which made Henry inquire: 
               "Well, Johnson, you are glad to see me; and yet you look as if you would rather I had not come; what is the matter?" 
               "Well, master Henry, to be plain, it is only seeing you alone which gives me concern, with twenty of your brave dragoons you would be more welcome, for that Dearborn has been in the neighborhood again, and though he has not paid us a visit, he no doubt will, and I should be sorry he found you here." 
               When Harry heard this he most heartily joined in Johnson's wish for a squad of his brave companions. Taking the overseer's advice, however, he prepared after some brief refreshment to take his departure. 
               "If I were you, master Henry," said Johnson, when young Thornton had mounted. "I would go by the old road back of the plantation, then turn through the woods by the new road which is blazed out direct to Willet's mill where you will be safe. As soon as you pass the lower corn field get the locust grove beween yourself and the house, good bye! master Harry, and may God bless you!" 
               Henry Thornton intended implicitly to follow the overseer's advice for he quickly appreciated its soundness; but on reaching a little knoll whence he could command a view of the surrounding plantation, he glanced quickly around, and everything being apparently still, with no indication of danger, he turned his horse a few rods aside, and paused to look over a neat brick enclosure, the family burial place, and to drop a filial tear on that fresh mound beneath which rested the cold form of one so fondly loved, so foully murdered!" 
               His eyes had scarcely rested upon that hillock, when a shout from one of the plantation hands attracted his attention, and looking around, he saw a negro running towards him and pointing wildly to the very clump of locust grove, the shelter of which he had been advised to avail himself of. Looking in that direction he saw one, two, three, four, mounted men emerge from an ambush into which he would have fallen, but for the pious thought which turned him aside. The tories who, watching Henry Thornton, evidently thought that he was about to change his direction, and sallied out to gain time while he was abstracted at his father's grave. It required but one glance for the young continental to determine what he should do. The road pointed out by his overseer by way of Willet's mill. To get in the direct route, however, it would be necessary for him to cross a point where he must inevitably have been overtaken by his enemies. Knowing his ground well, and his gallant steed which was unblown, he determined on a circuitous way, which, while leading them into error, would enable him to avoid any ambuscade on the opposite side of the plantation, whence danger was pointed out by Jackson. 
               With a slight touch of his head away went Harry's gallant charger; by a circuitous route he missed his pursuers, clearing fences at which they were occasionally balked, and finally obtaining a direct route for the new road, with his enemies immediately in his rear about a hundred yards. From the roof of the mansion house the chase was viewed with intense interest.-When within a short distance of the clearing, Harry checked his horse. He had seen Dearborn in advance, and confident in the powers of his noble steed, he felt disposed to take at least a shot at the ingrate ruffian who had made him fatherless. He had perceived that his pursuers were armed, like himself, only with pistol and sword. Closer and closer came the tories, and at fifteen yards they discharged their pistols ineffectually. Just a few yards one side of the old road, at the edge of the clearing was a large log, and two rods beyond it a broken fence. As his horse jumped the log Harry checked him suddenly, and stooping low three balls passed over his head harmlessly; then, as he reined his steed back to clear at a flying leap the fence, he turned half way in his saddle, and with a sure aim from a pistol which he held prepared, he sent a ball through the brain of the leading tory, whose horse had just risen to clear the log. Down went rider and steed! Down went, at the hands of the brave young continental, the murderer of his parent! 
               With a wild shout from Harry, and a responsive bound from his noble charger, the broken fence was passed, and ere the companions of Dearborn could recover presence of mind to continue the pursuit he was safe on the road to Willet's mill. 
             
             
               ; OR, THE RANGER'S BRIDE. 
               A TALE OF THE MEXICAN WAR. 
               I was sitting with a young Texan, to whom I had been recently introduced, in the Saint Charles' Hotel, at New Orleans. 
               "And you were at the siege of Monterey?" said I. We had been conversing about the Mexican War. "The Louisiana Volunteers will not easily forgive General Scott for his decision, which cut them off from the service." 
                
               "Oh, yes!" he replied, "I was there, and brought away the richest prize of any, perhaps, who engaged in the battle." 
               "Ah!" said I, interrogatively. 
               "Yes, my wife," replied he with a smile. 
               I looked at the manly and handsome, but very youthful face before me inquisitively, almost doubtfully, I fear. We were sitting by ourselves. He unbuttoned the top button of his vest, and disengaging a gold locket, which was secured by a rich chain, handed it to me, with the same quiet smile. 
               "Beautiful! very beautiful!" I exclaimed, as I gazed on the picture of a Spanish girl of surprising loveliness. "You excite my curiosity." 
               "And will gratify it, if you care to listen to a dull story." 
               I signified my desire, and he proceeded: 
               "When the news of Palo Alta and Reseca de la Palma spread through Texas, and the gallantry of our small band of volunteers, under Walker, became the theme of every tongue, there was scarcely a youth in all the state who was not ambitious to become a Ranger. For myself, I did not hesitate a moment, and being well acquainted with several officers belonging to that gallant corps, I proceeded to the nearest rendezvous and offered my services at once. I was too young to have had a hand in our (I mean the Texan) war of indedencence; but had been on many a scout and in two or three brushes with the Camanches and Lipans, as well as a prisoner in the Santa Fe expedition. The former experience gave me a taste for adventure, and the latter a dislike of the Mexicans, both of which passions I had now an opportunity of gratifying. 
               My mother was a Spanish lady, the daughter of an officer who had been persecuted by Santa Anna, and forced to leave the country of his adoption, and who had taken refuge in Texas under an assumed name among those brave and faithful North American colonists who subsequently achieved the independence of that empire State of the South; my father had wooed and won her while he was on a trading expedition to Monterey, and taken her to a beautiful farm which he possessed, on the Colorado, where I was born. When my grandfather fell under the ban of the Dictator, he joined us, and I was old enough to remember that both he and my father fell fighting under that brave and gracious leader, General Sam. Houston, whom every true Texan ought to admire, whatever the efforts of his personal enemies to defame him. I was too young, however, to take any part in the struggle, though I believe if I had been but a little older, my mother, when the news of the double affliction in the death of her father and husband reached us, would not only have heroically devoted me to the service, but have enacted herself the part of a second maid of Saragossa. 
               As it was, she employed herself in my education, and the preservation servation of our very comfortable estate, to which a liberal addition was made, when Texas became free, from the bounty and pay due for my father's services, which became the more valuable after the annexation to the United States. 
               When, therefore, I proposed to join a company of the regiment under the gallant and lamented General Henderson, she made not the slightest objection, but sent me with a blessing to battle for my adopted country. 
               "Go, my son, and be a hero; do not forget your religion, or the noble Spanish tongue; they may be an aid to you when you most want it." 
               Finely equipped, and amply provided, I set out for the nearest recruiting station. My mother would have used some influence to procure me a commission as an officer, but I would not allow her to do so: I desired to win my own promotion, and I well knew there was no dishonor in a private station, for some of the first young men in the State in point of fortune and character were serving in the same ranks. 
               We had somewhat of a tedious march to reach the head-quarters of General Taylor, then at Metamoras, on the Rio Grande. We found old "Rough and Ready" encamped on the Mexican side, near Fort Parades, and on the Texan side our rangers, under Walker and McCulloch, as well as two regiments of gallant Louisiana volunteers, the seventh infantry, and a section of artillery. 
               The times which we had during our short stay at Metamoras were exceeding pleasant. We found a cordiality, not only among the Louisiana boys, but with the officers of the regular army, which rendered our service agreeable. We were soon pushed on in advance, however, General Taylor having determined to move upon Monterey. As it is not worth while to relate events, with which you must already be acquainted, I will only say that until the siege of Monterey I had a life of great activity. The first brush we had was at Marin, where I saw just enough of the soldier's life to give excitement and interest. When Monterey was invested, and General Zachary Taylor, to his immortal honor, gave the gallant Worth a command which was almost independent, that he might have an opportunity of wiping off any supposed stigmas resulting from his resignation before the battles of Palo Alto and Reseca, the company of Rangers to which I was attached was in his division. I had already found my services as a translator very valuable, and Gen. Worth, desiring to establish a picket at a particular point, whence a sally was most to be apprehended, made a requisition upon my corps. I had already been advanced to the position of a sergeant, and was chosen to command the guard. I shall never forget my interview with that brilliant officer, who appeared to come nearer an intuitive knowledge of everything necessary to his profession, than any one I ever saw, or expect to sec. 
                
               "Sergeant; they tell me you speak the language fluently-so much the better; I not only wish the earliest information of a movement on the part of the enemy; but should the occasion occur-mind me, should it occur-I wish a more accurate information as to the position of the defences on this side. Do you understand me, sir? No risks out of the line of duty; but an exercise of that vigilance and sagacity for which, though so young, you have already a reputation." 
               I could only bow my thanks for a compliment so grateful to my heart, and so auspicious to my ambitious hopes; and, having received my instructions, departed. I found my immediate commander, the brave and lamented Gillespie, who was so soon to seal his service in his heart's blood, waiting me, near the General's quarters, to give his aid and advice in regard to the delicate and hazardous service which had been allotted me. By his personal assistance, for he only left me when my arrangements were completed, and it was necessary for him to join his company, I was enabled to make the most favorable disposition of my command, so that the earliest information would reach my general; so arranging the line of pickets that the one most remote should receive the word from the next station; and thus, giving ample opportunity for communication, even if any single one of the guards should be unfortunately taken off. 
               For myself, I obtained a cover so near the walls that I overheard the sentinels, and actually caught the countersign. Giving their instructions to my next in command, I conceived the idea of actually entering the city, and obtaining the information, if possible, desired by Gen. Worth. Fortunately, for my purpose, the Rangers were not particularly uniformed, and I wore, myself, a pair of the peculiarly shaped Mexican trowsers, with a round, cloth jacket; and one of my comrades, with whom I exchanged, wore a broad-rimmed, ranchero hat. Moving along cautiously, I soon came to a line of out-posts, and assuming the character of a ranchero, or countryman, many of whom were attached to the Mexican army, forming a sort of auxiliary force, from which were afterwards recruited the Guerillas. I passed the sentry, and soon found myself in the suburbs of Monterey. With every possible caution I moved about, mingling with several groups and observing everything, as well as listening. I soon learned what the disposition of the enemy's forces were on the side which we were to attack. I had no difficulty in keeping up my assumed character, for there were men gathered from the northern provinces, and I had only to say that I belonged to a company stationed in a different part of the city. 
               Having obtained all the information which it was possible to do without exciting suspicion, I began to think about retreating; this, however, was a far more difficult feat than I had performed in the first place. The facility with which a man gets into a scrape is proverbial, but getting out is another matter. In the first place it was with embarrassment that I excused myself from the civilities of a party who were playing monte and drinking pulke, and were very anxious to share the pleasures of the game and tipple with me, especially as I had displayed a doubloon or two; then one officious fellow, who had been fascinated, I had no doubt by the color of my gold, kindly offered to accompany me to my quarters. This man was dressed in the regular uniform of a Mexican officer-a lieutenant, and his companionship was anything but acceptable to me. Refuse it, however, I could not, without exciting suspicion, or incurring such a charge of impoliteness as might have led to a quarrel. Linking my arm then familiarly in his, we took our departure; but I had already devised a plan for getting rid of him. 
               "Comrade," said I, before we had proceeded many paces, "I am delighted with your acquaintance, and hope we shall be good friends, and that you will come often to see me; we have some pleasant fellows in our Company; but to-night I am going to use a friendly privilege-I have an engagement-you understand." 
               "With a Senorita? ah! why didn't you tell me so?" 
               "Because I did not like to do so in company, and then I wanted to ask a favor of you." 
               "I am at your service," said he, politely; "what do you command me?" 
               "It was only to be my partner in a little venture. I see they have a large bank there, and was afraid to become interested in play myself, as I had something else in hand, you know." 
               As I spoke, I took two doubloons from my pocket, which I offered him. I could not have suited my friend better, for I had noticed the eagerness with which he had lost his last stake at monte and suspected shrewdly to what influence I owed his friendship. He took them promptly and protesting that he would win a large amount and divide it fairly the next morning, he quickly left me. I now began to find my way cautiously out of the city, and had nearly gotten clear of the suburbs when I came upon a small house, through the open door of whieh I heard voices in altercation, one of which, was pitched in a high feminine key. I hoped to pass unnoticed, but just as I was opposite, out rushed an old woman and grasped me. 
               "Oh! for the love of God, save her! Save her, Senor!" 
               Under the most natural impulse in the world I entered the house and saw a beautiful Mexican girl struggling in the grasp of two ruffians, one of whom on seeing me, let go his hold and advanced fiercely upon me with a long Machete, or knife. Now, in leaving my companions, I had laid aside all my arms except a trusty revolver which I carried hid beneath my jacket-the danger of using it flashed for an instant on my mind, but there was nothing else to do; quick as thought I presented it, touched the trigger, and my assailant fell at my very feet. His companion released his intended victim, faced me an instant, and then bursting through a door in the rear of the building made his escape while I hesitated to fire again. That instant, however, revealed to me a countenance strangely familiar, and when I turned to see who it was I had so opportunely served, the whole mystery was explained. I at once recognised the girl as one, who, with her family, I had rescued at a Haciendo near Comargo, from the brutality of the very same man, and one of his companions who was an Irish volunteer in one of the regiments, and became a deserter. 
               Inez knew me in an instant, and was so surprised that she almost forgot to thank me. 
               "You have saved me again, Senor! But oh, Holy mother, what are you doing here? You will be murdered yourself." 
               I confess my situation was alarming-the report of the pistol would certainly draw some one to the spot; and then the man had no doubt recognised me. There is no treachery in a Mexican woman, and even had I not rendered them such a service I should not have hesitated to trust them. In a few words Inez explained who I was to her companion, and taking me by the arm each, they promptly led me through the very door by which the ruffian had escaped, then turning short around the corner of the house, by a narrow lane they hurried me along until we came to a high wall in which was a small gate, this was quickly opened, and as it closed upon us I could hear the exclamations of those who had gathered round the fallen man. I perceived that I was in a large garden, and my companions, giving me no time to pause, led me along towards a building at the other end of the enclosure, which I found was a Chapel. At a door, in the rear of which, they knocked, and which was opened by an old priest bearing a lighted taper in his hand. He was rather startled at seeing me, but Inez spoke up promptly, and inviting us in he closed the door. The girl now made a hurried explanation, to which the Padre replied: 
               "Ah! that miserable half-brother will yet cause you trouble, Inez; and you Dolores should have known better to let her go out. I thank you, sir, for your service; but do you know that you are in a great peril-that you are a spy in the enemy's camp!" 
               Now, it may seem a little strange, that although I knew full well the risk I had run this word spy rather startled me-there was something of ignominy connected with it that I had not reflected upon. I replied, to the old priest, "that war had its dangers as well as its duties; but that whatever was in store for me, I had no fear of being betrayed by these around me." 
               "You put a very hard alternative upon me, young man. I acknowledge the gratitude we owe you; yet how can I send you forth with the knowledge you have doubtless obtained to be used against my friends and countrymen?" 
                
               There was a category which I confess it was somewhat difficult for me to answer, yet I said boldly: 
               "If I had not paused to help this young lady I should have been safe among my friends." 
               The Padre pondered a moment over this knock-down argument; when suddenly looking up he asked:- 
               "How comes it that you speak our language so well?" 
               "My mother was a Spaniard." 
               "Ah! her name, young man?" demanded he, holding the light closer, and gazing earnestly in my face. 
               "MARIE GANDALOUPE DE CASTRO." 
               "My niece!" exclaimed the Padre; setting down his light and clasping me in his arms. 
               That was a most unexpected denouement indeed, and I was still more surprised to learn that Inez was my relative. The interview between us three, so singularly met together, was long and interesting. The priest imformed me that Inez had a half-brother, a miserable dissolute wretch, whom she had been told was dying, and had gone forth without his consent to see him, leaving a note for him however, but had fallen into the trap which one of his comrades had set for her at the instigation of the Irishman whose illicit passion for the beautiful girl had caused his desertion; and from whom I had so fortunately rescued her. 
               The consciousness of my position, however, made me uneasy, pleasant as this recognition would otherwise have been, and I urged my departure upon the padre. He seemed to hesitate, and suggested that I could remain safe where I was, until a better opportunity occurred for escape. 
               "Father," said I earnestly, "I would rather die than be absent from my post. You are my kinsman, and should have a regard for my honor. Suppose it is thought I have deserted? If you have any scruples about aiding me, only turn me into the street, and I will look out for myself." 
               "No, no-I see; it must be done." 
               And bustling about, the good father produced two priests' gowns, or cloaks, one of which completely covered my dress; while laying my hat aside, I assumed one which he handed me. Taking an affectionate leave of Inez, who frankly offered her cheek for the salute which I was bold enough to press upon her sweet lips, I followed the priest; and in half an hour, having parted with him a little beyond the line of outposts, at a small chapel, I was with my men, who had grown very uneasy at my absence. 
               I will not attempt to describe to you the capture of Monterey. The approaches of General Worth were a master-piece of military skill. The fighting from house to house was hard, and with my company I was in the thick of it all; but so fortunate, while others were shot down around me, as to escape without a wound. Under any other circumstances I should probably have experienced different sensations, but my anxiety for the fate of Inez and the priest, my relation, almost absorbed the interest of stirring scenes around me. It was on the second day that I found the chapel; our advances had been pushed beyond it, so that it was now within our lines. There I found Inez and the padre, and though considerably alarmed when I first entered with one of my comrades, yet, as soon as she secognised me, she flew to my side. 
               "Safe! safe! Oh, thank God, for that, at least!" 
               I need not say her every look revealed that which made me the happiest man alive. From that moment I felt invulnerable. I could, however, remain but a few minutes; but I was able to take precautions for her safety. After the capitulation of Monterey I became domesticated with them, the old priest regarding me as a son. It was not long before I informed him of my feelings towards Inez. He told me her story. She was an orphan, who had been educated by himself, and had only been spending some time with friends at Comargo when I met her there. She had no fortune, he said, and had been intended for the church. I assured him that fortune was no consideration; and overcoming his objections by our joint entreaties, he consented to our union, which took place shortly after the battle of Buena Vista, when our regiment was disbanded. I will only add that my mother received her with open arms, having known and esteemed her parents. 
               "And now, my dear fellow," added he, pleasantly, "if you have done with that miniature I will take it. Dine with me to-day, and you shall see the original." 
             
             
               LEONE, THE CORSAIR. 
               A TALE OF THE GEAN ISLES. 
               Long have the Isles of the gean been celebrated as the haunt of corsairs. The very romance of piracy, if there be any romance about it, had its origin there. There the Greek, a traditional sailor, when driven from the mainland by the oppressions of the Turk, took refuge, and on the deck of his fast sailing felucca felt himself in some sense once more a freeman, while every now and then, darting forth from the bays and recesses known only to himself and his companions, like a falcon upon his prey, he drove his keen blade to the heart of his sluggish oppressor, when venturing on the treacherous waves, and bore the spoils to his island home-a meagre compensation for the wholesale pillage of his native land. 
               The race of gean pirates flourished almost until our own times, the brave and gallant Captain Lawrence Kearney, still one of the brightest ornaments of our Navy, having done more, while in command of the U. S. sloop-of-war Warren, to break them up, than the combined fleets of Christendom and Paynimrie had before effected. The gean corsair was not always a graceless scamp, but often possessed some noble traits-the only heritage of his great ancestry-which shone brilliantly forth on occasions. 
               It happened that a young lieutenant of our Navy, in the year 18-, was passing through an obscure street in Athens, when his attention was attracted by the cries of a female. Directing his steps in the direction from which they came, he entered a narrow alley and from thence a retired and dilapidated court-yard, where a sight met his eyes which called forth all the indignation and chivalry of his nature. Prostrate upon the ground lay a young girl, struggling, with superhuman strength, against the violence of a Turkish soldier, who was on his knees, endeavoring to hold her down, and stifle her shrieks. With one bound the youth was at her side, and nothing but the Turk's thick turban saved his head from the swift downward blow of the officer's light sabre. The ruffian staggered to his feet, faced his assailant an instant, but the young officer promptly giving point with his sword he turned and fled. 
               It required but a few moments to raise and re-assure the girl, who had received no injury except some slight bruises on her wrists from the Turk's rude grasp. C--, the officer in question, soon found out that his acquaintance spoke French with tolerable fluency, and, an easy medium of communication being thus estabished, he was not less affected by the eloquence of her thanks than by her extraordinary beauty and grace. 
               "Tell me, brave sir," she said, "to whom a Greek girl is indebted for the defence of her honor." 
               "I am an American officer." 
               "Oh! America! You are free-we are slaves! Yet slaves as we are, I did not think the hound of an aga would dare insult the daughter of Leone." 
               As she said this, her dark, flashing eyes, her dilating but sylph-like form, and her rich, picturesque apparel gave her the air and appearance of an old time heroine. As C-- accompanied her homeward, he learned by inquiry that the Aga, an inferior Turkish officer, had frequently addressed and endeavored to win the affection of Helena, but had been spurned with contempt. On the afternoon in question, passing through the street, near where he found her, on a charitable errand, she had been followed by her admirer, seized from behind, and carried into the court-yard, almost before she could struggle, where he attempted the violence from which her young defender had arrived just in time to rescue her. 
               Helena conducted her friend through a low gate in the wall at the rear of one of the principal Greek churches, and ushered him into an apartment dimly lighted by a single silver lamp on a table at which sat a venerable priest, with the flowing beard and long habiliments of his profession. At their entrance he looked up from his volume with some astonishment; but quickly, in her own tongue, Helena related the adventure which had befallen her. 
               The old priest embraced the young officer warmly, and to his surprise addressed him fervent thanks in English. The evening had far advanced when C-- rose to take his leave. 
               "May I not see you again?" asked he of Helena. 
               With a smile the young girl looked up to the priest, and receiving a nod of approval, she replied- 
               "Certainly, if you wish it: but it must be soon, for I leave Athens to-morrow night." 
               We will not attempt to describe the second interview of C-- with Helena, at which the priest was present, though he was no bar to their free intercourse. Suffice it that he was irretrievably in love; nor was the heart of the fair Greek untouched by her handsome defender. 
               "I cannot say if we shall ever meet again," said she. "Mine is a strange fate. But take this, and wear it for my sake. It is said to be a charmed woof, and may save you from evil." 
               She handed him a delicate and beautifully embroidered scarf. Catching the little hand which held out the gift, C-- carried it to his lips, and then gazing a moment into her dark, humid eyes, he caught her to his bosom for an instant and impressed a chaste kiss upon her brow. 
               "There, my children," said the old man, while Helena blushingly retreated the moment she was released. "And you, young man," continued he, "I know that she is of high race and pure blood, and therefore I do not rebuke the liberty you have taken, especially as you in all probability will never meet again. We owe you much, however, and if you should desire to hear from Helena, you may do so through me. 
               Not long after this adventure the ship to which C-- was attached left for Smyrna, where she remained a short time, and then sailed on a cruise among the gean Islands to look out for pirates. It was on her return to Smyrna, some three months afterwards, having vainly searched for a corsair whose bold depredations had recently made him notorious, and whose skill and activity in evading the cruisers sent to capture him, had rendered him somewhat famous, that she fell in with a Turkish merchant ship in distress, several of the crew having died, and the captain having lost all presence of mind and given up in despair. As the cargo was a rich one, and she was only about two days' sail from Smyrna, the American commander placed C-- and half a dozen hands on board of her, with orders to follow as fast as possible into port. The Turk, however, was a slow sailor, and in the night the man-of-war war left her out of sight. The next morning C-- found himself becalmed off a small, barren-looking island, whose gray rocks glistened in the sunshine, and against whose precipitous shores the swelling sea surged and broke, showing no apparent inlet or practicable approach. After trimming the sails on every track to catch a breeze, without the faintest success, C-- hauled up his courses, braced his main yards aback, to steady the ship, and determined to await for such favors as the gods might send. Turning aft, he noticed that the Turkish crew, who had done nothing but smoke and pray since he took charge of the ship, were huddled together, jabbering in a perfect terror of alarm. Being enabled to communicate with them but imperfectly, he could only understand by their frequent repetition of the word "Leone," the name of the dread pirate chief for whom his own ship had been unsuccessfully cruising, that they were in dread of a visit from that fearful corsair. Before he could attempt any explanation, the look-out at the masthead reported boats rounding the west end of the island, and as soon as he could apply his spy-glass, C-- perceived one-two-three large boats, heavily manned, coming around the island, and pulling directly for his craft. The Turkish captain, as soon as he saw the direction in which their attention was drawn, rose up, made a sign to be permitted to look through the glass, and the moment he saw the state of affairs, staggered back, almost dropping the spy-glass overboard; muttering- 
               "Leone! LEONE!" 
               C--, partly in disgust and partly in pity, indicated to the Turks that they might go below, which they promptly did, their heroic captain in advance. As the boats neared the vessel, it was evident they were filled with armed men, whose purpose could not be mistaken; and although there were at least twenty or thirty, he determined to make resistance, his men being well armed, and the old quarter-master, whom he took into counsel, declaring that "one American was good for six pirates any time." 
               When the two foremost boats were within a cable's length, their crews arose, and fired off their fusils with a shout. C-- had kept his men well behind the bulwarks, and received no harm from her shots; but rising promptly they discharged their pistols with such effect that three of the pirates tumbled over; this did not retard their advance, however, and in a few moments they climbed the sides and swarmed the deck of the ship. The pistols which each of the Americans held in reserve were discharged with effect, killing one, and wounding several of the assailants. Then came the hand to hand encounter of the steel! At the head of his brave men-not one of whom had yet been hurt-the gallant young officer encountered them, sabre in hand, just forward of the main-mast. The odds were fearful; the Yankees being only seven in number, and their opponents on deck already donoting them, while the third and largest boat was rapidly nearing the vessel; the pirates, too, were fierce, stalwart, and fearless-looking fellows, led by a gigantic Greek, whose tremendous sable beard, in wild confusion, dark, flashing eyes, and uplifted blade, gave him a terrible appearance; but C--and his brave fellows faltered not for a moment; and it was just as the young officer had thrown himself on guard, and held his sword to catch the anticipated blow of the corsair chief, that the latter, extending his left hand, and pointing to C--'s neckerchief, which happened to be the same scarf given him by Helena, made an exclamation in French, which suspended, for the moment, the conflict: 
               "Let us be at peace, young man! I will grant you honorable terms. It is useless to contend. My force is already sufficient to overpower you, but a signal would bring a hundred men from yonder isle. It is not you that I expected to find, or wish to harm." 
               C-- gave the signal to his own men to cease, the pirates having already fallen back at the command of their leader. 
               "Now tell me first where are the cowardly crew of this ship, for I know you to be Americans." 
               "They are below," replied C--; "but I must insist upon their safety." 
               "Young officer, look to your own affairs. You and your countrymen shall go in honor and safety; but though I own you much, as you will presently understand, no man shall come between Leone and his vengeance!" 
               C-- of course had no alternative, and while the pirate ordered several of his men below, he mused on the familiarity with which the name of Leone for the first time struck his senses. The chief taking him aside, said, 
               "Come, sir, I would not refuse you the boon of freeing a few wretches, even though the persecutors of my race, but for a good reason." 
               "But why this sudden favor to me?" asked C--. 
               "You bear a magic charm about you," said the corsair, smiling grimly, and regarding with marked attention the scarf. 
               "Ah, I understand!" exclaimed C--: "Helena! and you are--" 
               "Hist! order your men into my boat, and accompany me to you isle; you shall know all; and may find that even a corsair has some virtue." 
               The corsair having given orders to his crew for the disposal of the vessel, in less than an hour, accompanied by C-- and his crew, his boat passed through a narrow dangerous gap between two abrupt headlands into a wide and spacious land-locked harbor. So carefully had nature concealed this entrance and bay, that although a large ship might have been safely brought in by those who knew its intricacies, yet at half a mile off its existence would not have been suspected. Although the shores on either side were rugged, steep and inaccessible, at the extremity of the bay they sloped away gradually, and were covered with verdure. Cottages and vineyards clustered around the hill side for a circumference of several miles. Immediately on the shores of the bay, on each side, were a number of plain, substantial houses, while in the very centre about two acres were walled in, forming a lovely garden, filled with orange and pomegranate trees, and the choicest fruits and flowers of that sunny clime. In the centre of this were the snow white walls of a small Grecian villa, and at one end or corner of the enclosure was a small Greek church. 
               As soon as Leone had landed with his prisoners, or guests, as he chose to consider them, he gave orders to his men for the hospitable entertainment of the American sailors; and taking C-- by the arm, he said: 
               "Come! you shall be my guest until I can devise means for sending you safely to your vessel." 
               C-- paused a moment to gaze on the pleasant panoroma before him, and then turned his eyes inquiringly to his host. 
               "Yes!" said Leone, with his form erect, and his proud, dark eye full of fire, "this is my kingdom. Here at least a remnant of the proud Hellenes live free from the oppressor. To the world I am the bloody, unrelenting corsair. To these happy people I am their prince, descended from those illustrious men who, terrible to their enemies, were kind as a parent to their people. This is the only spot of his native shores, or isles, where the foot of a free Greek can press his mother earth! But come in with me." 
               They entered the garden, and through an avenue bordered with lemon trees and flowering pomegranates, approached the villa. Suddenly the eyes of C-- were arrested by a figure which stood on the portico. Graceful as the antelope on Judah's hills, her light form arrayed in the rich garb of her country, her dark eyes dilating with surprise, and her cheeks flushed with emotion, shood Helena, his own peerless Helena!
                
               Regardless of his companion, C-- rushed forward, and extended his arms, into which the Greek girl threw herself with the honest frankness and fearlessness of a nature that knew no guile. Her eye caught sight of the scarf, and taking hold of it at once, she exclaimed: 
               "Oh, it saved you! It saved you! I know it did!" 
               "Yes, my daughter," said Leone, with more emotion and gentleness than his rugged nature seemed capable of, in answer to an affectionate look of inquiry from Helena, "your talisman has saved your brave deliverer. But come, we have enough time hereafter for explanations. Go, order refreshments. I shall soon have serious work." 
                
               Slipping from the embrace of her lover, with a still deeper blush, but eyes sparkling with joy, Helena obeyed in silence. 
               "If, as I suppose, your last remark refers to your unhappy prisoners, allow me yet to intercede," said C--. 
               "Young man," said Leone, hoarsely, his brow growing dark, "when I tell you that the captain of yonder ship is none other than the brutal Aga, from whom you so bravely rescued my daughter; that for this hour of vengeance I have intrigued, planned and prayed, you will cease your importunities. 
               Astonished as C-- was at this fact, he forbore either to express himself so, or press the subject farther. They entered the villa, and soon a luscious repast was spread before them, graced by the presence of the young mistress of the mansion. C-- declares that gazing into the great gazelle eyes of his lovely companions, listening to the glowing eloquence of Leone, who was a conspirator and patriot as well as a corsair, and whose last character he forgot as his charmed accents dwelt on the ancient glories and present degradation of his country, and as he realized the luxuries around him, he felt translated back to the times of Pericles! 
               The repast over, Leone arose and said: 
               "Young American! you love my daughter, and she is worthy of a brave man's love, if he were as far descended and as noble as herself. I never thought to bestow her on a stranger, but I am engaged in an enterprise which demands sacrifices-will you take her, cherish her, and protect her through life?" 
               "With my heart, with my life!" exclaimed C--, taking the hand of Helena, who sat by his side. 
               "Bless you, my children!" said the old priest, who had glided in like a shadow behind them, extending his hands over their heads. 
               Though somewhat startled by this sudden apparition, C-- turned and greeted his old acquaintance warmly. 
               "Father, I will leave them with you," said Leone, rising, "you will please make all the necessary explanations." 
               The chief then departed. The interview between the old priest and C-- was long and interesting. The whole plan of the Greek Revolution, then in embryo, was explained to the young officer. Impressed most favorably with the American from his gallantry, and the report of the priest who had conversed freely with him at Athens, Leone determined to interest him so far in the cause of his country, as to make him an agent to solicit the sympathy and aid of the United States Government; this alone would not have induced him to bestow his daughter, but he evidently saw that Helena's whole being was bound up in the love which the young officer had inspired, and then Leone was impressed with a superstitious foreboding-the inheritance of his race-that he would fall in the first conflict for freedom on his native soil, and this seemed the only course to secure his child's safety and happiness. 
                
               "You will take no portionless bride to your home, young man," said the priest, "nor need you scruple to receive her dowry from any fears that it is made up of the spoils of her father's unfortunate but forced calling." 
               C-- protested that sordid thoughts were the farthest from his mind that his own means were ample, his parents wealthy. 
               "If, then, your term of service will allow you a release in two months from this time, come to me at Athens-do not let it be later. One word more: I know your sense of honor would prevent you from betraying this retreat unless under a strange sense of duty; I will relieve your mind from that. In five days this place will be deserted, except by its peaceful inhabitants, never more to be revisited by the same persons for the same purpose, unless indeed our struggle for liberty fails. Of this you may pledge my honor to your commander, to whom I will give you a sealed letter." 
               C-- remained a week with his friends in a perfect paradise of bliss. At that time a fast sailing felucea bore him and his companions to Smyrna. His captain, after reading the priest's communication, made but few inquiries of him, only advising him to be discreet in his communications to others. 
               Before the end of two months C-- was directed to bear certain sealed despatches home, with orders to stop at Athens for any information our Consul might wish to transmit, and a kind intimation from the captain that a week's delay would not interfere with his mission. 
                
               In the little Greek Church at Athens, two weeks later, in the presence of the American Consul and his lady, C-- was wedded to Helena, and received from the old priest a warm blessing. After the ceremony was over, Helena beckoned her husband aside, and while the priest was engaged in conversation with the witnesses, led him through a small door into a half-lighted apartment, where to his surprise he met Leone who greeted him with much feeling. 
               "I would not compromise your Consul who knows me well, by appearing before him; but I wished to give you a parting charge to guard her in the far land to which she goes with a father's as well as a husband's care." 
               "Fear me not," said C-- with emotion. 
               "I do not, for you are brave and honorable," said Leone. "Take this package-in it you will find her dowry-fear not, it was her mother's. I would not give with her one coin taken from the oppressors by what the world calls pillage; those hoards are reserved for my country-the gold wrung from her and retaken by me, shall be converted into weapons against her enemies. I have only one word more-represent our cause to the Government of your great free country, be our advocate and supplicator, and when you meet a poor Greek exile, be to him a brother." 
                
               To his daughter he only said: 
               "Forget not, Helena, my injunctions. No more tears. If I fall, weep not, but remember the sacred cause-If I triumph you will come back to witness it. Your husband will promise this." 
               "Most truly," said C--. 
               "Now go! my life!" said Leone, whose emotion was getting the control. 
               C-- led his pale young bride forth. The next day they sailed for Marseilles. In the package he found acceptances of a Greek banker in Paris for a large amount. On his arrival at home he resigned his commission, and was two years after a member of Congress, and one of the most earnest and ardent advocates of the independence of Greece. 
               Leone's conspiracy did not come to a head for nearly a twelve months, though he abandoned, as the Priest's letter had promised for him, his career as a corsair. Eighteen months afterward he fell, leading his countrymen to victory, a corsair, but a martyr to liberty! 
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            GEORGE CHRISTY'S ETHIOPIAN JOKE BOOK, 
            No. 2. 
            Containing Jokes, Stories, Dialogues, Interludes, Bon Mots, Conundrums, &c., &c. AS RECITED BY THE INIMITABLE GEORGE CHRISTY. 
            COMPILED AND ARRANGED BY E. BYRON CHRISTY. 
            
                
                  "Here she goes and there she goes." "JOSHUA SCOREUP" in The Old Clock.
                   
               
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Preface, 
               Lord Byron, 
               The Nicaraguan's Return, (Interlude,) 
               Popping the Question, 
               Hoops, 
               Mathematics, 
               Stopping Sudden, 
               Taking it Easy, 
               Lap Dog, 
               Blackberrying, 
               Arithmetic, 
               Bank Note, 
               Kisses, 
               Tragedy, 
               Tragedy versus Comedy, (Interlude,) 
               Love, 
               A Nice Present, 
               Perpetuating Life, 
               The Soul, 
               What's What, 
               Lola Montez, 
               Stays, 
               The Man in the Moon, 
               Runaway Bob, 
               State Overseer, 
               Book-keeper, 
               Barber, 
               Smoke, 
               Wonderful Soap, 
               Tailor, 
               Boarding-House, 
               Ghosts, 
               Ox-Tail Soup, 
               The Backwoods' Echo, (Interlude,) 
               Patent Stove, 
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Dumb Nigger, 
               The Mystery, 
               Washington, 
               Good at Figures, 
               Curiosities, 
               Large Legacy, 
               Calves' Meat, 
               California, 
               Void of Proof, 
               Climbing, 
               Latin, 
               Taking the Census, 
               Soap-Fat, (Lecture,) 
               Thrifty Business, 
               Aristocratic Darkey, 
               Historical Questions, 
               Geography, 
               Peculiar Fatality, 
               Model Letter, 
               Actor, 
               Remedy for the Toothache. 
               Old Women, 
               Declamation, (Interlude,) 
               Pompey's Mother, 
               Transcendentalism, 
               Foot, Feet, Footing, 
               Cow's Tail, 
               A Race, 
               Uncle Sam, 
               An Epitaph, 
               Lager Bier, 
               Consequences, 
               Grammar, 
               St. Nicholas Hotel. 
               The Cure-All, 
               The Baron. 
               Anecdotes of George Christy. 
             
            Price 13 Cents. 
            Copies Mailed, post-paid, on receipt of Price. 
            F. A. BRADY, Publisher. 24 Ann Street, NEW YORK: 
            Send for BRADY'S Mammoth Catalogue. 
          
          
             
            CHARLEY FOX'S ETHIOPIAN SONGSTER, 
            No. 1. 
            The only authorized edition of Banjo Songs, Duets, Trios, &c., &c. COMPOSED AND SUNG BY C. H. FOX, WITH PORTRAIT AND MEMOIR OF THE AUTHOR. 
            
                
                  "What can't be cured, Inb, must be endured."-Banjo Song
                   
               
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Memoir, 
               What Can't be Cured, 
               Cloe in de Cellar, 
               Blow ye Winds, 
               Johnny's Equal is not here, 
               New York City, 
               New Jordan, or de Right of Search, 
               Nicaragua, 
               What Say You, 
               Good Bargain, 
               Cars are on de Track, 
               Financial Crisis, 
               Good Bye, John, 
               Shipwreck, 
               Colored Cavalier, 
               California, 
               Nickles in de Barn-Yard, 
               Wake up, Joe, 
               Seizing Yankee Doodle. 
               Serenade, 
               The Smart Boy, 
               Darkey at the Play, 
               Sally Morgan, 
               The Poor Ole Hoss, 
               High Living, 
               Jenny's New Costume, 
               Early in de Mornin, 
               Fox's Local Jordan, 
               Times in New York, 
               Fox's Root Hog or Die, 
               Pull Back, 
               The Heavy Actor, 
               Dinah Crow, 
               Country People, 
               Johnny Dear, 
               My Love is a Soger, 
               Comic Trio, 
               New Year's Calls, 
               Glass Puddin, 
               Darkey's Sigh, 
               Betsy Gay, 
               Breaking Treaties, 
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Yankee Doodle wid de Drum, 
               Old Father Joe, 
               Old Tom Cat, 
               Hip, Hurrah, 
               Hoops, 
               Calves' Meat, 
               The Black Hermit, 
               Down in Alabam, 
               Garotters, 
               The Wager, 
               Johnny's Equal is not here, No. 2. 
               Shanghie Hen, 
               Granny Grey, 
               You know the Rest, 
               Chairs, 
               The Lime Kiln Man, 
               Turkey, Frog, and Bull, 
               Sailing, 
               Whistling Quartette, 
               De Bulgine, 
               Weekly Papers, 
               Marine Intelligence, 
               Supposin, 
               She Drinks too Much, 
               Mush and Milk, 
               Varieties, 
               Jenny, Put de Kittle on, 
               Misfortunes, 
               Lucy Bee, 
               Patent Rights, 
               De Niggerman, 
               Black Helen, 
               Fast Running, 
               Bobbing Around 
               Don't You Hear de Chicken Crow, 
               The Alboleray, 
               Ole Tom Moody, 
               Wide Awake, 
               Experience ob a Muleteer, 
               One-Eyed Josey, 
             
            Price 13 Cents. 
            COPIES MAILED, POST-PAID, ON RECEIPT OF PRICE. 
            F. A. BRADY, Publisher. 24 Ann Street, NEW YORK: 
            Send for Brady's Mammoth Catalogue. 
          
          
             
            In Press, OLIVIA; OR, THE MAID OF HONOR. By G. W. M. Reynolds. 50 Cts. 
            COMPLETE. PRICE 25 CENTS. 
            JOLLY JACK; 
            OR SCENES AT THE OLD JUNK SHOP. 
            
                
             
            NEW YORK: FREDERIC A. BRADY, Publisher, No. 24 Ann Street, 
          
          
             
            THE OUTLAW; 
            OR, THE FELON'S FORTUNES. 
            
                
                  Jack Harold leaping into the Schuylkill, River.-See chapter 16. 
               
             
            By Greenhorn, AUTHOR OF CITY CRIMES, VENUS IN BOSTON, GAY DECEIVER, DISSIPATION, RADCLIFF MOUSEBREAKER, &c., &c., &c. 
            NEW YORK: FREDERIC A. BRADY, Publisher, No. 24 Ann Street, 
          
          
             
            ADA LEIGH; 
            OR THE LOVE TEST. 
            By PIERCE EGAN, Esq., 
            Author of "Snake in the Grass," "Flower of the Flock," Etc., Etc., 
            PRICE 50 CENTS. 
            NEW YORK; FREDERIC A. BRADY, Publisher, No 24. ANN STREET. 
             
               JUST PUBLISHED- 
               LADY BLANCHE-BY PIERCE EGAN-PRICE 50 CENTS. 
               SNAKE IN THE GRASS-BY PIERCE EGAN-PRICE 50 CENTS. 
               FLOWER OF THE FLOCK-BY PIERCE EGAN-PRICE 50 CENTS. 
               OLIVIA-OR THE MAID OF HONOUR. 
             
            MAILED FREE OF POSTAGE ON RECEIPT OF PRICE. 
          
          
             
            FAST LIFE IN LONDON AND PARIS. 
            INCLUDING A SPIRITED DETAIL OF THE LIFE AND AMOURS OF THE FAMOUS MARQUIS OF WATERFORD. 
            BY A MAN UPON TOWN. 
            NEW YORK: FREDERIC A. BRADY, Publisher, No. 24 Ann Street, 
            PRICE, 25 CENTS. 
            Single Copies Mailed on receipt of Price. 
          
          
             
            CHARLEY FOX'S BIJOU SONGSTER. 
            Containing Comic Banjo Songs, Duets, Trios, Quartettes, Funny Lectures, Dialogues, Stories, Jokes, &c., &c. 
            BEAUTIFULLY ILLUSTRATED. 
            
                
                  Proprietor and Clerk of a Liquor Store. Harry and Charley Fox. 
               
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Preface, 
               Mac Dil Darrel, 
               Willie has Gone fur a Soger, 
               Oder Days, 
               Single Blessedness, 
               Isabella Bow, 
               Katy Bell, 
               A Race, 
               Mississippi Shore, 
               I'm Goin to be a Sailor, 
               Charley Brown, 
               Self-Defense, 
               Peculiar Fatality, 
               Hear de Banjo, 
               Santa Anna, 
               De Ladies ob New York, 
               New Medley, 
               May Roses, 
               Hits at the Times, 
               Woman (Lecture on Natural History,) 
               My Good Old Darkey Home, 
               Good Things, 
               The Nobleman, 
               Old Ephraim, 
               The Magic Banjo, 
               Oh, Hear de Banjo Sound, 
               De Elephant, 
               Lubly Sarah Jane, 
               An Epitaph, 
               Banjo Solo, No. 1, (Machine Poetry), 
               The Patriotic Ballad of Christopher Columbus, 
               Darrel Mac Dil Darrel, No. 2. 
               The Cat Rebellion, 
               Patent Medicine, 
               Georgia Walk Around, 
               Paper Man, 
             
             
               CONTENTS 
               Ethiopian Medley, 
               Kentucky Walk Around, 
               Miss Ridley, 
               This World ob Ours, 
               Cuba, 
               Grammar, 
               Ella Lee, 
               I Wish to be Buried, 
               Fox's Essence of Poetry, 
               Wake up, Jake, 
               Fraser Riber, 
               Lovely Nancy, 
               The Female Smuggular, 
               Phnix Dear, 
               Love Scrape, 
               Ann Arundel, 
               Tunes, 
               Fox's "Home-Made" Bread and Butter, 
               Atlantic Cable, 
               I'll Get Married, 
               Nice Dinner, 
               Newport, 
               De Turkey's Come, 
               Fox's Trip to Fraser River, 
               "Any Tin Ware," 
               Banjo Solo, No. 2, (Machine Poetry), 
               Tinkle Tinkle Goes de Bell. 
               Lucy Stone, 
               Homopathy, 
               Hydropathy, 
               Thompsopathy, 
               Senseopathy, 
               Black Troubadour, 
               The Dining Room, 
               The Chimney Sweep, 
               My Love and Me, 
               Harlem River, 
               Atlantic Cable, No. 2. 
             
            Price 13 Cents. 
            COPIES MAILED, POST-PAID, ON RECEIPT OF PRICE. 
            F. A. BRADY, Publisher. 24 Ann Street, NEW YORK. 
            Send for Brady's Mammoth Catalogue. 
          
       
   
