
    ----CITATION----
        Hilliard, Henry W. (1808-1892). De Vane, Vol. 2 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6746
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            De Vane
             
                  DE VANE:  PLEBEIANS AND PATRICIANS. BY HON. HENRY W. HLLIARD, EX-MEMBER OF UNITED STATES HOUSE Or REPRESENTATIVES FROM ALABAMA. "The rank is but the guinea's stamp, The man 's the gowd for a' that." BUoNS. TWO VOLUMES IN ONE,. - VOL. II. BLELOCK & COMPANY, 19 BEEKMAN STREET. 1865.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1865, by HENRY   W. HLLIARD, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Southern District of New-York. JOHR A. GRAY & GBSzN, Printers, 16 & 18 Jacob Street, New-York.   DE VANE   PLEBEIANS AND PATRICIANS. CHAPTER  I. "FAST silent tears were flowing, When something stood behind t  A hand was on my shoulder-- I knew its touch was kind." RICHARD AMONCKTON MLNES. THE flying post-horses dashed away from Mrs. Bowen's door--four superb blood bays; and the driver's French horn poured a loud and cheerful blast upon the morning air. The coach bore De Vane away. Five other passen-  gers were seated with him, and much as he regretted to  quit a place unspeakably dear to him, there was a degree of exhilaration imparted to him by the rapid motion of the dashing coach and four. Waving his hand to Waring, he was gone. Would he return? Would he withstand the appeals of his aunt? Could he prevail on his father to yield to his wish to make his home in that Southern town? Or would he feel the rekindling of early passion, submit himself to (the sway of (279)     280         DE VANE. ambition, and remain in his ancestral home? Who could say? Waring was sad, for he was very strongly attached to his young friend. He saw in him grand qualities, and capabilities for high tasks. Esther went as usual to Leasowes. She walked slowly; but she did not stop by the way. Whatever may have been her emotions, she resolutely walked forward to her duties. Assembling about her the little girls, she read to them the Scriptures, and then kneeling, read one of those prayers prepared for such occasions by a woman eminent for her piety and her learning. All the morning she passed with them, directed their pursuits, and gave them some instructions in drawing. Then, joining them in their mid- day meal, she spoke to them of those subjects which she knew would interest them. Soon after, Mrs. Springfield called for her, and entering the carriage, they drove away. At Esther's suggestion, they visited a poor family in the sand-hills, and returning, called at Mrs. Gildersleeve's. Esther requested Mrs. Spring- field to leave her there, saying that she would be at home by evening; and her aunt drove away, comprehending her feelings. When Esther came in the evening, she was very calm, and spoke of her visit. "I found Mrs. Gildersleeve," she said, "quite cheerful. She is beginning to take an interest in the things that engaged her formerly, and she has a niece with her, just arrived-a nice little girl." "I am glad to hear it," said Mrs. Springfield. "She has been very desolate since the death of Eva." "Oh! yes," said Esther. "I have grieved for her. She is comforlble, too, and finds her needlework ample for her support." "That is fortunate," said Mrs. Springfield. "Occupation is essential to happiness, and Mrs. Gildersleeve is too proud to accept from others any thing beyond what she needs."   DE VANE.          281 "I thought the sand-hills appeared attractive to-day," said Esther. "Warm as the weather is, the clear streams and the spreading shade-trees were inviting. I think we might find it agreeable to pass our summers there." "Mr. Springfield thinks of it," she replied; " and we must select a pleasant site, if he should decide to make it a summer home." "Let it be in a valley," said Esther, " by a clear stream, and not on a hill. I do not admire hills for residences. And we shall then be able to command the comforts that are essential to a country home." Mr. Springfield came in, and the subject was further discussed. "I think," said he, "that I might prefer to build on the other side of the river, some twelve miles from the town. There we should find the finest water, extraordinary facil- ities for bathing, the purest air, and good society." "Is it not too far?" asked Mrs. Springfield. "Oh! no," he said. "We should furnish our summer house, and go to it; and return whenever we found it agreeable." It was decided that they should at some time visit the place, and see what it offered in the way of advantages for a summer residence.  So far, the name of De Vane had not been uttered by  . any one of the family. Mrs. Springfield forbore to do so  from consideration for Esther; and yet she did not doubt that, while the conversation turned upon other subjects,  the thought that filled the heart of her niece was in some way associated with him.  The sun had gone down, and the still twilight had su-  ceeded-twilight, that brings with it so many memories. How full of self-searching is that space which divides day from night-neither day nor night; shadowy, quiet, dreamy; too late to carry on the business of the day, too     282         -DE VANE. early to kindle the lights for the night! In the town, the noise of business lulls, and occasional sounds only are heard, the roll of wheels at intervals, or- the tread of passers-by on the sidewalk seeking their homes; in the country, the buzz of insects; the lowing of cattle, the song of the herds- man. Even from the days of the patriarchs, the hour has invited to repose. Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide. Esther retired to her own chamber. The blinds were open, the serene summer sky was spread out before her- the sky which she had often looked up to, standing by the side of De Vane. There was the opal hue which he so much admired, and burning in the midst of it was the evening-star, lustrous, as if just kindled for the first time in the firmament by some celestial messenger, as the pro- mise of some new advent of love to a sin-stricken-world. Esther gazed upon it in deep musing. She felt very lonely, and for the first time since De Vane's departure tears stole into her eyes, and soon she wept as if the very fountains of her nature were broken up. Never before had she wept in this way. She bowed her head upon the bed, and poured out her soul. Presently she started; a hand was laid upon her shoulder, and looking up, she saw Mrs. Springfield. Her aunt took a chair near her. Esther laid her head in her lap, like a little child, and wept without restraint. Mrs. Springfield said nothing for some time. Her own tears came to her eyes, but she checked them. At length Esther became more tranquil, and Mrs. Springfield said to her: "My child, may I not know what makes you unhappy?" For some moments Esther made no reply. She then threw her arms around Mrs. Springfield's neck, and kissed her. "Has any thing been said to you, Esther, to make you unhappy?"   DE VANE.          283 "Oh! no, no!" she replied. "Nothing, nothing; but I  felt to-day weary and sad, and I could not restrain my tears when this quiet hour came on." "Esther, my own child," said Mrs. Springfield, '" are you disappointed? Is your heart wounded?" She rallied instantly. The very thought that any one, even her aunt, should suppose that she had been disappoint- ed in her hopes, roused her. The thought that any one should suppose, even for a moment, that De Vane was capable of wounding her, appealed to her spirit in a way that made it impossible she could weep any longer. "No, aunt," she said, " neither disappointed nor wound-  ed. I was oppressed with a sense of loneliness, which you will easily comprehend."                   ' "I do comprehend it, my child," she said. "But I can not express my admiration of the nobleness of Mr. De Vane in returning to Virginia as he has done, under a sense of duty which alone could take him away. I comprehend his feelings too, for I saw him when you did not, under ir- cumstances which revealed his heart quite as plainly as if he had told me all he felt." Mrs. Springfield then related to Esther what had taken place when De Vane called on Saturday morning. His emphatic statefment of his purpose to return to the town in ' October and fix his residence there, his earnest utterance  of- his views of life, and his standing in fixed and uncon- scious gaze upon her portrait. Esther felt the light of morning already spreading over her soul, and once more embracing her aunt, she kissed her tenderly. Mrs. Springfield had acted with as much tact as delica- cy. She saw Esther's depression. She well knew why she sought solitude as the evening came on, and she wished to assure heir of her sympathy, without wounding her sen-  sibility, or drawing from her any disclosures which she might not freely wish to make. She knew that she could     284          DE VANE. trust every thing to Esther, but she knew too what a re- lief it would be to her to know that in herself she had not only a friend who would counsel in the affairs of every-day life, but who could sympathize with those emotions which are of far higher moment with all properly-organized na- tures than any or all of those things. which the world calls real. Mrs. Springfield left her alone and descended to the library, where Esther joined her before a great while, without any visible traces of the recent tears. Waring came in, and was warmly welcomed. All were pleased to see him, and with that subtle perception of proprieties which belongs to fine natures, he exerted himself to be cheerful, and to make others so. Without any false delicacy, he went directly to the subject which he knew really was the one of interest with his friends. "Well, Mrs. Springfield," he said, "I am deserted and desolate; my Fidus Achates has gone." "Really gone!" said Mrs. Springfield. "We shall all sympathize with you, for we found his society very agree- able." "Yes," said Mr. Springfield, "I became very strongly attached to Mr. De Vane; his fine mind and noble nature refreshed me. Do you suppose that he will carry out his purpose and made this his residence?" "It is his purpose, undoubtodly, to do so," said Waring. "He is perfectly settled in it, and his firmness is great when he once takes a position. There is so much of the heroic in him, that resistance only rouses his strength. But he is about to pass through a very severe ordeal. Returning to the home of his youth, early impressions may be revivified. The slumbering pride of ancestral state and consideration may be awakened, and the sense of duty which is so pow- erful in him may bring him to yield his wis s to those of General De Vane. Still, his wishes are so stro g, his attach- t ,     f   , DE VANE.         285 ment to this place so deep, and his love of independence so  uncompromising, that I have great hope of his coming back to us." "General De Vane," said Mr. Springfield, "is, I have  learned, extreme in his aristocratic tastes and opinions.  Perhaps few, even in Virginia, carry them so far, and I can hardly suppose that he will consent for his son to leave shim, and especially to come here and enter upon a labori-  ous profession." "Yes," said Waring, "it is very much to be feared that he will never give his consent to that. -He is very wealthy, and there is no necessity for any exertion on the part of his son; but he, will never induce George De Vane to lead the life of an idle man. A more powerful organ- ization for working I never saw. I mean, I never knew any man whose taste for occupation was stronger, or whose  scorn for indolence was more intense. No wealth could  tempt him to drift through life, and his love of his race  is such, that a stiff, formal social system can never hold him. We feel his absence, and yet I'll venture to say that there are some two or three laboring men in the town who fancy that no one can regret him as they do-Hobbs, for instance, the blacksmith. I think it quite likely that tears may have washed away some of'the coal-dust from his face  when De Vane bade him good-by, for he did call at his  shop to shake hands with him on Saturday." "He's a noble fellow;," said Mr. Springfield. "I trust that he will become ak Christian," said Mrs.  Springfield. "A large heart like his would be very happy if full of love to the Lord, who gave his own life for him." "I regret," said Mr. Springfield, " that he is skeptical." "He can not be said to be so," said Waring, "in the common acceptation of that word. He is full of doubt, but his earnest nature illumines the very clouds which surround     286            DE VANE. him, and he is too warm to content himself with the frigid rationalism which satisfies some minds." "I rejoice to hear you say so," said Mr. Springfield. "I regret,' said Waring, " more than I can express, that De Vane is not a Christian.   He is just now bewildered  with the mists of neology.   The Germans, by their lumin ous vapors, have involved him, but his strong, earnest na- ture will make its way out of them.    I love him so much, that, while I can not claim  him as a believer, I do claim him as a disciple of the principles of Christianity.  He e- minds me of Abou Ben Abhem     in the exquisite poem  of Leigh Hunt. "I have not seen it," said Mr. Springfield. "Do repeat the lines for us, Mr.' Waringc," said Mrs. Springfield. Esther had said nothing, but- her eyes were fixed on Waring, as her aunt made the request, with eager interest. He observed it, and looking at her, uttered the lines: "ABOU BEN ADHEM (may his tribe increase!) Awoke one night from a deep dream of peace, And saw, within the moonlight in his room, Making it rich, and like a lily in bloom, An angel writing in a book of gold. Exceeding peace had made Ben Adhemn bold, And to the presence in the room he said: 'What writest thou?' The vision raised its head, And with a look made of all sweet accord, Answered: 'The names of those who love the Lord.' 'And is mine one?' said Abou. ' Nay, not so,' Replied the angel. Abou spoke more low, But cheerly still, and said: ' I pray thee, then, Write me as one that loves his fellow-men.' The angel wrote, and vanished. The next night It came again, with a great wakening light, And showed the names whom love of God had blessed, And lo! Ben Adhem's name led all the rest."   DE VANE.          287 "It is exquisite!" exclaimed Esther. ' "Perfectly beautiful!" said Mrs. Springfield. "We are obliged to you for making us acquainted with it." "And for giving us such hope of our young friend Mr.  DeVane," said Mr. Springfield. "It reminds me," said Esther, " of our discussion as to the comparative merits of poetry and the arts. If Mr. De Vane were here, I think he would insist that the poem which you have just repeated does much toward estab- lishing his proposition in favor of the power of poetical description."  Waring smiled. "I had no idea," said he, "that I was furnishing an argument against myself." "But you must admit," said Esther, "' that it is a pow- erful one. Could any painting, or piece of sculpture, teach the beautiful lesson which the poem does, so exquisitely and so briefly?" "I shall decline all argument upon that point," said Waring, "until I can bring in my allies, Miss Godolphin and Mr. Clarendon." "That is yielding the field," said Esther, " for I am all alone; at least, the only ally who was with me in our 'late contest is absent." "I shall report to him," said Waring, " in my first letter, how gallantly you maintained the position." "And do give him our best wishes," said Mr. Spring- field. "And assure him of our regrets at his absence," said Mrs. Springfield. "I shall make him very happy in doing so," said War- ing. ' "Have you seen Miss Godolphin very lately?" asked Esther. "Not since I met her here," said Waring. -"I think that Mrs. Habersham is about to go to her place in the country."     288          DE VANE. "Some four miles from town," said Mr. Springfield. "It is a place of great beauty, and I do not wonder at their retreating. to it, though the health of the town is excellent." "I have never seen it," said Waring. "But you will visit it now, of course," said Mhrs. Spring- field, playfully. "I shall be so much engaged with books," said Waring pleasantly, "that I shall have but little leisure for the ladies. Still, if Miss WTordsworth will accompany me, I shall be ready to visit so interesting # person as Miss Godolphin." "Of course," said Esther, "I could not refuse to con- tribute to your happiness in that way. When shall we go?" "I must first ascertain," said Waring, " if they have gone." "And, of course, in pursuing so important an inquiry, you will not intrust any thing to an agent, but will call in person. Otherwise I should offer to look into the affair myself." "Do, Miss Wordsworth," said Waring, " and then ar- range the time of our excursion, and I shall feel quite obliged." "Very good," said Esther. "I am very prompt, and will call to-morrow morning." "Thanks," said Waring. "She is," said Mr. Springfield, " a person of extraordi- nary attractions, and I do not wonder, Mr. Waring, that, you should wish to visit her. I find her really fascinating. When she was with us, a few evenings since, she displayed wonderful resources." "She is a superior person," said Waring, ' in every way. Her intellect, her character, her accomplishments, and her beauty, are all of rare perfection. She is, too, so earnest,   DE VANE.          289 that it is impossible not to feel an interest in her. I can not feel any thing like a deep interest in any one who lacks depth of character. Miss Godolphin has it." ' She has," said Esther. "Her nature is a very earnest one, and I find myself powerfully attracted by her. We must visit her, Mr. Waring." "I shall always be at your service," he said; " and when she returns to town, in October, we can arrange a plan for seeing her often."                    ^ The mention of October seemed to give general satisfac- tion. "How refreshing it is," said Mrs. Springfield, " to look forward to t'le fall! It is to me the most agreeable of the seasons." "Oh! incomparably so," said Esther. "I love autumn, and hail it as the crowning glory of the year." "I must express my preference for spring," said Mr. Springfield. "Spring," said Waring, "is beautiful, full of delights, and rich in promise; but I must agree with Miss Words- worth in her preference for autumn." "I enjoy spring," said Mrs. Springfield, "from sympa- thy with my husband's tastes. I have often seen him re- joice in the opening spring with the gladness of a boy." "I do love its promise, and catch the joy with which it fills all nature, animate and unconscious nature," said Mr. Springfield. "But," said Esther, ( the autumn brings the matured promise; the ripened fruits, the waving harvests, and many-colored leaves, which give such a mellow beauty to the aspect of nature. Then one feels a languor in spring; but in autumn the air invigorates, and the bright, frosty mornings, when the crisp leaves crackle under your feet, impart an elasticity to your spirits, which is never ex- perienced at any other season." 13     290          DE VANE. "And does not the decay of nature sadden you?" said Mr. Springfield. "At times one does feel, when looking upon the falling leaves, and hearing the solemn winds breathing through the ever-green pines, a touch of melancholy sympathy with nature; but there are so many autumnal glories that you forget the sadness, and wrap yourself up gladly to walk out under the sparkling stars, which seem to grow- brighter in the cool air. Then, too, enjoying the ripened fruits, and seeing gathered harvests, and drawing near the early fires, you anticipate the magnificence of winter." "Now, Mr. Springfield," said Waring, "Miss Words- worth sings the glories of autumn in a way to make one enjoy it. It is, I am happy to know, not a great way off, and we shall expect to see her grow very bright when her favorite season revisits us." Esther looked up at him quickly, but she could detect no mischief in his composed features, and she said: "I hope we shall all be bright and happy." "Poets," said Mr. Springfield, " sing the glories of the varying year. But Esther, I believe, is consistent; she has from her childhood, by a sort of perverseness it may be, rejoiced in the fall of the year." "Ever since I saw the first crimson leaf from a sweet green tree, in the early autumn, and the red dogwood berries sprinkled with frost," she said. "Whbn arriwe to take our equestrian excursions," said Waring, " which we arranged some little time since?" "Oh! I must look after that to-morrow, when I see Miss Godolphin," said Esther. "She is said to ride superbly." "If she can excel you, Esther," said Mr. Springfield, "she must indeed' be accomplished. Do you know, Mr. Waring, that last summer she dashed away from me in that wild mountain region of Virginia, and defied me to follow her? I actually found it at times difficult to keep the saddle."'   DE VANE. -         291 "I did not know she was so wild," said Waring. "WTho would have supposed it?" "Get her over into the country," said Mr. Springfield, "and she becomes transforfied."' "I fear," said Esther, " that you will frighten Mr. War- ing, and that he will refuse to accompany me." "I only wish to put him on his guard)" said Mr. Spring- field, " so that he may be sure of his horse, and tighten his girths." "I am a good horseman," said Waring, " and I shall prepare myself. There are some hedges in the neighbor- hood, and any number of rail fences." "My horse,"' said Esther, " has not yet arrived. He is at the plantation, enjoying otium cumn dignitate, literally. No human being is allowed to use him except my own servant, who has charge of him. I must have hilm sent to me."  "And is he active and fleet?" asked Waring. "Both," said Esther, " or I should not have named him Manfred." "I must provide myself, then, with his equal; for I do not intend to be outridden by any young lady in all the State." "Until Manfred arrives, my uncle will, I am sure, let me have his horse." "Oh! yes, my dear Esther, with pleasure, provided you reserve your dashing adventures until Manfred does arrive. I am suited in a saddle-horse. He never stumbles, and never shies, and he is about the only horse I know that is free from those faults; so that I can not afford to have him impaled on a rail, or blown by a four hours' ride." "I shall treat him as tenderly," said Esther, " as if he were an Arabian." "Like Manfred," said Mr. Springfield; " and very for- tunate it is for him that he has good blood in him, for he     292          DE VANE.    ^ has had to encounter some sore trials, to flesh and blood both."5 "I shall wait on you, then," said Waring, "' very soon, to learn the result of your iiterview with Miss Godol- phin." "Yes," said Esther. Conversation followed upon general subjects, and after- ward 1Mr. Springfield and Waring interchanged their views upon some questions affecting, the Church: a ques- tion of a class which they never overlooked, and about which they uniformly agreed, sometimes having to en- counter serious opposition from other official members. 3Irs. Springfield was happy to see that Waring's oppor- tune presence had cheered Esther, and in her heart she thanked him. TlWhen he took his leave, the house was a brighter one than when he had entered it; and he bore with him the love and confidence of those who knew how to prize his pure and generous nature.   CHAPTER IL "' WHAT! may it be, that even in heavenly place That busy Archer his sharp arrows tries? Sure, if that long with love acquainted eyes Can judge of love, thou feel'st a lover's case; I read it in thy looks, thy laI edace.5   SIR PHLIP SIDNEY. IN accordance with her promib, Esther called the next day at Mrs. Habersham's, and found Miss Godolphin at home. They had not yet removed to the country, but were preparing to do so; Mrs.- Habersham having gone, when Esther called, to make arrangements for their coin- fortable reception. Miss Godolphin was seated in a small boudoir, surrounded by needle-work and books; and as she rose to receive Esther, she said: "I welcome you to my own ret lat, where I work, and play, and read, and write, just as I may feel inclined." "It is a charming place," said Esther; " and I do not wonder that you pass your hours here.* This window gives you a view of the garden, and I can not imagine a more cheerful spot." "See this crape-myrtle," said Miss Godolphin, rising' and\putting aside the rich lace curtain that draped the sash./ "Is it not perfectly beautiful? The color of the flower is perfect." "It is indeed beautiful!" said Esther. "And the rich deep bloom of the oleander imparts an Oriental aspect to the place. How can you give it up?" "' You have not seen our country place," she said. "That (293)     294          DE VANE. is a wilderness of delights, and you know we have both avowed our preference for the country." "' Ahen do you go?" asked Esther. "Probably on Saturday," she said. "My aunt is to de- cide to-day. I wish that you would accompany us. We should be delighllted to have you." "Thank you," said Esther. "I shall hope to see you often, but I could not at this time be absent fiiom towel." "That Leasowes of yours," said Miss Godolphin,' is absolutely engrossing . The place is perfectly delightful- a garden of the Hesperides, as I heard Mr. De Vane de- scribe it in conversation one evening. But you must be rescued frolm it, and given to the great world." "I find it a charming retreat," said Esther, "from the great world; and when walking through its sequestered paths, feel the refircshing influence of nature upon my spir- it. Then as to the little girls, they are my friends, and it sometimes saddens me to think that they have to encoun- ter the great world.'" "I shall certainly exert myself," said Miss Godolphin, "to have you drawn away from it. Leave it for a time to good Mrs. Green-for she is good. I called there some days since to see you. You were not there, and the re- fieshing coolness of the spot was so inviting, that when Mrs. Green asked me to stay, I sat with her for at least an hour in the little end-gallery, shaded by wild orange-trees; and shle tallked to mne in such a Pway about this world, its trials and its hopes, and the Lord, who, in his goodness, was training us for a better world, where there would be peace, and where no partings would sadden us, nor death enter to wound us, that I wept like one of your little geirls, and really wished that I could rest on the old saint's lap, as I did, when a child, upon my mother's." Esther's eyes filled with tears. She was profoundly affected by the picture which Miss Godolphin had paint-   DE VANE.          -295 ed-this bright, proud, splendid creature, listening to the happy talk of Mrs. Green, in her natural simple way, about Jesus and heaven, until, in sympathy with the faith and -hope of the Christian pilgrim, she had wept like a child. "Yes," said Esther, "Mrs. Green is really good; and I often sit with her, to hear her speak of the better country." "O Miss Wordsworth!" said Miss Godolphin, "I envy you your faith and your peace." "My dear Miss Godolphin," said Esther, " they may be yours." Miss Godolphin fixed her large, dark, soul-lit eyes on Esther's face, and said: "How I long for rest! The world is so shallow, so heartless, so unsatisfying! I have seen it, young as I am, in its glory; and I do not hate it, but I am sick of it. Its frivolous pleasures, its silly amuse- ments, its soulless rivalries-oh! how I despise them!" "You know,' said Esther, " that there is One who has said: ' My peace I give unto you; not as the world giveth, give I unto you.' " "How beautiful!" said Miss Godolphin. "'Not as the world giveth.' We all know how hollow that is. I must study those words, for I want peace." Esther was deeply affected. The appealing face of Miss Godolphin, over whose classical features the shadow of some great trouble seemed to rest, which, while it did not cloud its beauty, touched it with suffering and heightened its power, was irresistible. "c My dear Miss Godolphin," she said gently, " will you suffer me to try to guide you to the feet of One who will give you that peace? I am very weak myself, and my own feet want strengthening; but I speak only what I know, when I say that there is peace in believing." "Believing!" said Miss Godolphin. "Oh! that I could believe. I have tried, I have struggled. In Rome I was     296         DE VANE. accustomed to go to the places of worship where I wit- nessed all that was most impressive in the form of religion. I saw and heard, and was impressed, but I could not believe. The music transported me. I rose to the highest heavens upon its ascending melodies. My imagination was lighted up by all the glories of an invisible world. The pomp and splendor of the'service bore me away, and I floated with the perfumed incense into the very courts of heaven. The Illiserere subdued me and filled me with anguish. I felt the unutterable sor- row that breathed in its deep tones-tones deeper than the sepulchre, deeper than the ocean, deep as the rayless abode of lost spirits; but I never believed, never trusted, never felt true penitence, nor was my soul even once lighted up with hope-never!" "No," said Esther, "that is not the place to find peace. I do not doubt that many sincerely worship in the midst of the imposing forms which you describe; but your na- ture seeks the simpler forms of majestic truth. You do not need that any ministry to the senses should move you. You are too earnest for that. It can not, of course, instruct you; but you will find in the outlines of truth all that is necessary to induce you to explore the recesses of its lofty temple. The simplest aspects of nature are the grandest. A great mountain standing out against the sky, fills us with awe, while a wide-spread landscape of variegated beauty only charms us. It is refreshing to me to read the words of my Lord; to think of him as standing, not in the midst of the temple, glorious as it was, but as seated upon the mountain-side, still more glorious, or standing upon the shore of the sea, or walking through the green fields, teaching his disciples. They may exclude the Lord from  their temples, but they can not shut him out from nature." "And do you read the teachings of the Lord, as you find them in the Scriptures, with comfort?" 4SNi   DE VANE.         297 "Unspeakable comfort," said Esther. "And I do find in the word of inspired truth the peace which the world can neither give nor take away." "You must help me," said Miss Godolphin. "Let me be with you as much as possible-do!" "You do not know how happy it will make me," said Esther, " to be with you-to seek with you the right way. It will help me, I am sure." "Since I heard Bishop McKendree," said Miss Godol- phin, -"I have been longing to talk with some one on this subject. The venerable appearance of the man at once impressed me, and the simple, majestic beauty of his dis- course opened to my view, for a moment, the survey of another world. I did so much desire to speak with him; but not knowing you as I do now, I could not call." "H-ow I regret that I did not know your wish!" said Esther. "He was with us for some days, and we should have been very happy to see you." "I do not doubt it," she said; " but it is so rarely that I hear one who affects me as he did, that I lament his go- ing without ny hearing from him in conversation so much that I wish to know. With you I can speak freely-I can open my heart; you can fully sympathize with me. I do feel so desolate-so desolate!" "Often," said Esther, "have I wished to speak with you, for I have felt the deepest interest in you; but I feared that you might not comprehend me, and that I should offend rather than help you." "Oh! no; no fear of that. Why, Miss Wordsworth, if you knew what I have suffered, what a dreary world I live in, you wouldl comprehend how welcome true sympa- thy is. My aunt is every thing to me that she can be. She loves me as she loves no other being; but she herself is bewildered. She has no light to cheer her own spirit; 13'     298          DE VANE. and the thoulght of death fills her with the deepest gloom. You are to be my guide. I shall cling to you." "Oh! that I were stronger!" said Esther. "I have sat by the hour and listened to the conversation of Mr. Spring- field and Mr. Waring, and felt an eager desire that the -wholc world could have the truth presented just as they spoke of it. No argument, no display, but conversation; bringinc to bear upon the great subject the largest views, in a natural, unstudied way, that lighted it up indescriba- bly, just as one hears other subjects spoken of--the arts, commnerce, politics, the events of life--without a tinge of doubt coloring their remarks, or the lightest fleecy vail of mist clouding their vision." "Delightful!" exclaimed Miiss Godolphin. "I do not wish any one to attempt to argue me into believing. It would be hopeless. But to hear Christians speak of the things which belong to religion, as if they felt theln to be real, has always had a great charm for me. I love that good Mrlls. Green, since I heard her speak as she did, in a way that I can not describe to you; and I feel, at times, like running r oulldl there, and begginog her to let me come to her every day, to hear her talk of the better country, and of the road that leads to it." "She will be delighted to see you," said Esther, smiling. "There is a great charm about naturalness, and I do not wonder that it gives you pleasure to hear the happy talk of lly old friend." "She must give me some of her time,"' said Miss Godol- plhin. "If it were not for leaving, my aunt inconsolable, I should offer myself to Mrs. Green as a pupil, and take -my place among her other orphans." "And yet you would take me away into the great world!" said Esther, smiling. "  Oh! I only meant," said Miss Godolphin, " that I de- sired to see more of you-to have you more with us; and   DE VANE.          299 I really think that you would lelply to make the great world better and happier." "I shall certainly be very happy to be more with you," said Esther. "I am afraid of the great world." "What is called the fashionable world,' said Miss Go- dolphin, " is to me not only unattractive, but repellent. It is to the last deg'ree distasteful to me. I have walked through its vain mask, and feel now tike one who, sitting out a gay ball, stands in the cold gray light of morning, when the music has ceased and the guests have gone, looking at the decorated r  ately so brilliant, now va- cant and chilling ; and I ask myself if it can be possible that these same people will ever return to resume their revelry!" "Society," said Esther, " ought to be organized upon a different basis. Social enjoyment there ought to be, but surely it may be had without making society itself the worse for it. Life is too serious, too momentous an affair, to allow us to pass throutgh it seekingamusement merely. Our tastes may be cultivated, refined, inistered to by the arts, by music, by literature, by conversation; and we may indulge in whatever entertains us, without making us fiivolous, or without degrading us, by lessening out love for the pure, beautiful objects which are within our reach." "Oh! yes," said Miss Godolphin, " we need not live in solitude, nor ignore society, nor become misanthropic." 'Visiting," said Esther, "as it is usually conducted, seems to me very unsatisfactory." "Odious!" said Miss Godolphin; "and I carry it on chiefly by cards; for I will not lend myself to the paltry ceremonies which consist of calling, and sitting for a few moments, and talking commonplaces, and hurrying to some other parlor to repeat the same senseless form. I will not. In Europe they arrange things beautifully, for     O00          DE VANE. there society is admitted to be artificial, and it has its laws, perfectly well understood. In the first place, when a stranger goes to reside in a place, he is expected to make the first call, on such persons as he may desire to open social relations with-reversing our rule, and very properly too, I think; for it may not be known that such a person has arrived, or it may not be his wish to enter society. So, the new-comer makes the first call, and leaves his card at such doors as he may wish afterward to enter as a visitor there. Those who desire to recognize social re- lations with the new-comer, may return the call, either by sending a card, the most frigid of all modes of recognition, or by driving to the door and leaving a card, which is re- spectful but stately; or by calling in person, and sending in a card with one of the corners turned down, which means that you are willing to see the person hereafter; or by rincing the door-bell, sending in your name, and asking for the person-all of which is perfectly well understood by all well-bred people in Europe. And for my part, I admire the system, and shall act upon it here." "A very large circle of merely formal people is neither profitable nor agreeable," said Esther. "Forms," said Miss Godolphin, "are not to be over- looked. They have their importance. But within the circle of form there must be a smaller one of real interest and heart attachment. I am pleased with our society here. It is unusually good; but with the large number of young persons who surround us, it is not to be expected that we can know them all intimately." "I shall hope to see you often," said Esther, " even when you go to the country." "Oh! yes," she said; " the distance is very short. We shall drive in almost daily, and we shall insist upon keeping you with us part of the time." Esther expressed her thanks, and said:   DE VANE.          301 "Our friend, Mr. Waring, was projecting some riding excursions only last evening, and it is his wish that you should join us in them." "Oh! thank you," said she, "I shall be very happy if you will consent to take me as one of the party, and will join you at any time." "WI have said to Mr. Waring that I must wait for the coming of my own horse. I shall order him to be brought to me without delay." "Is he far from here? Will it require some time to get him here?" "But a few days," said Esther. "He is just now enjoy- ing country life, and I should have had him brought to me in the spring, but I was so occupied that I did not do so," "In the mean time," said Miss Godolphin, " we can sup- ply you, perhaps. We have at our country place two or three good saddle-horses, I believe." "I must wait for Manfred, thank you," said Esther. "We know each other." "When Mr. De Vane returns," said Miss Godolphin, ' "he must find us fearless horsewomen. Those Virginia gentlemen, especially from the mountains, do ride su- perbly." c; Of course, then," said Esther, " we must be diligent in the mean while; and I promised Mr. Waring to see you to-day on this important matter." "Ah!" said Miss Godolphin, looking at Esther quickly,     "does Mr. Waring wish me to join you before Mr. De Vane's return?" "He is quite earnest about it," said Esther. Miss Godolphin looked gratified, and said: "Any one might find it a sufficient attraction to attend you and Mr. Waring," she said, " independent of the pleas- ure of being on horseback; but I fancied that he was' so     302         DE VANE. engrossed by you and his friend Mr. De Vane, that he had no room for any one else in his heart." Esther laughed, and said: "We are good friends, it is true-tried friends; and his attachment to Mr. De Vane is great; but I do not think we fill his entire heart." + "I never witnessed any thing like his friendship for that young Virginian," said Miss Godolphin. "I believe he would lay down his life for him to-morrow; and as to yourself, I have heard it said that he entertains for you the grand passion." "For me!" exclaimed Esther, coloring to the temples. "Why, he is to me as a brother. I have known him since I was a child." Miss Godolphin's eyes rested on her, with an earnest look. "That is just what Mr. Clarendon said," she re- marked. "He vindicated you promptly, and added that you had never loved any one." The recedilng blood again rushed to Esther's face, and she said in low tones:. "I thank Mr. Clarendon." "Do you think, Miss Wordsworth, that men are capable of true, unswerving, lifelong attachments?" "Really," said Esther, "I have not studied the philo- sophy that would enable me to answer that question." "Lord Bacon's philosophy," said Miss Godolphin, "the philosophy of observation and experience-the philosophy of life-makes me doubt it." Esther's face was troubled. An indefinable shadow passed over her spirit. "Observe," said Miss Godolphin, "I am only skeptical. My faith, or rather my rejection of faith, is not confirmed." "It is to be hoped," said Esther, " that you will adopt a brighter creed. It is dreadful to doubt; and I should think, to doubt the loyalty of those we love, would make one most miserable." For a minute or two Miss Godolphin said nothing. She   DE VANE.         303 seemed lost in thought, unconscious of the presence of Es- ther. She looked out upon the garden. The perfume of its flowers came through the open window, and the glanc- ing sunbeams played over the deep-green leaves of the oleander. Where had the thoughts of Miss Godolphin wandered? What converse was she holding with her own heart, as memory threw its broad. light over the past? "And Mr. Waring is your friend?" she said at length. "He looks like a true man. You are happy, Miss Words- worth, in the possession of such a friend." "I prize him highly," said Esther. " le is a true man -noble, generous, sincere, earnest. His mind and his heart are both grand." Miss Godolphin's face expressed interest, and Esther proceeded to give a statement of Waring's course-his at- /I  tachment to his sister; his unselfish relinquishment of his share of the joint estate inherited by them, for her benefit; his engaging in teaching; his career in college; and his pure, fervent faith as a Christian. Miss Godolphin's face exhibited varying emotions, as Esther continued, with an unconscious glow, to recite her knowledge of her friend's history; and when she ceased to speak, there was silence for a moment. "Miss Wordsworth," said Miss Godolphin, ' such a man is godlike! How immeasurably he transcends those who boast of rank, and plume themselves upon the possession of wealth! Such a man throws a crowned king into $,  eclipse, and vindicates the claim of men to that trust and consideration which our sex always wish to repose in them." Esther was almost startled by her enthusiasm. She said: c You can not overrate Mr. Waring, Miss Godolphin; he is pure gold." It was understood, before Esther left Miss Godolphin,     304          DE VANE. that arrancrements should be made as early as possible for their equestrian excursions; and when they separated, each felt a deeper interest in the other; and both resolved, that for the future they would seek each other oftener, and indulge a more unrestricted intercourse than they had hithlerto enjoyed. When Thursday evening came, Waring appeared punc- tually in M1r. Springfield's library, and joined the family at tea. It had long been his habit to pass that evening with tlhemn, and h prized the privilege. As he entered, seeing Esther seated on a fauteuil, he advanced to her, and said gayly: "What tidings do you )brin'? Slhe smiled, and said: "Are you very much interested in kno wing?" "I think I may venture to say that I am. The sketch which you drew, when I was here last, of our horseback adventures, has so impressed me, that I find the forms of fair ladies galloping over my pages in the highest eques- trian style, when I attempt to read." "Indeed!" said Esther. "Day-dreams! You are really interested." "I nmust confess it honestly; and you will, as a humane person, relieve my anxiety as speedily as possible." "Then," said Esther, "I am happy to say that my tid- ings are good. Miss Godolphln graciously consents to join us, whenever we notify her that we are ready." Waring's face lighted up, and Esther was surprised to see the pleasure which her announcement gave. "And they have not yet gone to the country, then?" he said. "Not yet," said Esther. "They will probably go on Saturday; but the .distance is so short, that it is only a suburban residence; and I have promised to visit Miss Godolphin often.   DE VANE.          305 "There is a wonderful fascination about her," said War- ing; "and I think that you will find her as unworldly as she is charning." "She is remarkably so," said Esther, "and that is her great charm. Comprehending the great world as she does --having seen it in its many-sidedness, to use a German phrase-she is as simple in her tastes as if she had never left her native place. She is, of course, cultivated as she could not have been if she had remained at home, but her tastes are as pure and fresh as possible. She hates fashionable life, and loves the true, the simple, and the beautiful." Waring listened with evident satisfaction to Esther's glowing tribute to her friend-for such she now felt her to be. The sympathy between them became perfect, from the moment Miss Godolphin spoke to her upon the subject of religion, as she had done. "Few come back from the grand tour," said Waring, "with such tastes. With all her genius and accomplish- ments, there is nothing of pretension or false manner about her. She is a very superior person." "We all admire her," said Mr. Springfield, "as every one must who can appreciate qualities so rare as hers." ".Do you know her religious views?" asked Waring, addressing himself to Esther. "We had quite a free conversation on that subject when I was last with her," she said, "and I was distressed to find her so much bewildered; but she is earnest and hum- ble, and I hope that she will soon emerge from the clouds which surround her." Waring made no reply, but seemed to be lost in thought. Mrs. Springfield had not been present when the conversa- tion was going on, but she now entered the room, and that roused Waring from his prolonged reverie. He rose, and took his seat near her.     306          DE TANE. "Mrs. Springfield," said he, "I am so lonely now, that I hail the evenings that permit me to come here." "And why not come every evening? We should be very happy to see you." "Oh! my books would suffer. I must do something to Ilelp me on the road." "The days are so long," said Mrs. Springfield, " that you might very well close your books with the going down of the sun." '"Labor is the law of my life, .you know, and I do hot know that it will ever be otherwise with me." They were invited to the tea-table, and the evening passed off cheerfully. Esther that night revolved a subject which Wariidg's conversation and manner suggested. She began, for the first time, to suspect that he was deeply interested in Miss Godolpllin. She was inclined to believe that the busy archer was trying his arrows upon the young Professor. Coutld he have the boldness to try his. archery in that direction? to venture to pierce that manly and hitherto impenetrable breast? AWith a woman's instinct, she could very well conceive that the brilliant, inexplicable, beautiful being whose sky was sometimes overcast by fleeting clouds, luminous from the very glory that they obscured, was the very person to attract a nature like that of this pure, elevated, unworldly man, who had never yet been brought under the dominion of that passion which exempts so few from its control.    CHAPTER    III. "O PURE of heart! thou need'st not ask of me What this strong music in the soul may be- r * What and wherein it doth exist; This light, this glory, this fair luminous mist, This beautiful and beauty-making power. We in ourselves rejoice." SAMUEL TAYOR COLERIDGE. TH:E deepening splendors of summer were beginning to catch the tint of early autumn. Waring had received a letter from De Yane, announcing his arrival, and giving a detailed account of his reception, and of the impressions made on him by re-visiting early scenes. He had not yet made any visits, and had seen but few of the gentlemen of the neighborhood. General De Vane had welcomed him warmly, and expressed his gratification at his appearance; for he was full of health and vigor. Mlrs. De Vane was as much moved as a mother upon welcoming home once more a long-absent son. The family servants greeted him joy- ously. Even his English pointer had recognized him, and inanimate objects seemed to be conscious of the return of their young lord. Mr. Guilford, his stately neighbor, had called, and invited him to visit him. Evidently De Vane's welcome had been a gratifying one, and he was more pleased than he had expected to be, in returning to his ancestral home; but he sent kind messages i    to friends and especially to Mr. Springfield and his family. i     Waring read, and re-read, the long letter, and then sat il down to think over it. It was natural that a young man (307)     308         DE VANE. of family and fortune, re-visiting his home, should be pleased with the cordial welcome that greetedl him, and conscious of the consideration extended to him. All this was natu- ral, and Waring felt that it was so. Still there was a shade of disappointment at finding in the language of his friend O;ollmewhat more of warmth than he had lookled for in de- scribing home scenes. He did not reply to the letter im- mediately, but deferred that until he could read his own impressions more clearly. In the mean -while, he had been much with Esther and Miss Godolphin. Manfred had arrived-Esther's saddle- horse-and was in fine condition. He was a pure white, with mane and tail as fine and glossy as silk, and showed in his limbs and in his delicately-formcd head his Arabian blood. Full of intelligence, he was spirited and yet docile, and was especially tractable by his mistress, who managed him with perfect skill. Waring had engaged the horse which De Vane had been accustomed to ride, anld Miss Godolphin had her own-a blood bay, with mane and tail and legs black and glossy as a raven's plumage. Esther, yielding to Miss Godolphin's repeated and earnest invita- tion, was passing a week or two with her friend at Miss Habersham's country-seat, and Waring was accustomed often to ride out early and pass the mornings with the ladies, who joined him on horseback. A servant always accompanied them, who, mounted on one of Mrs. Haber- sham's horses, opened gates for them when they rode into inclosures, and held their horses, if they desired at any time to seat themselves upon the bank of the clear stream -wlich meandered through the grounds, giving the place  its name, CLEAR BROOK.  After receiving De Vane's letter, Waring rode out to  Clear Brook. The ladies had, after an early breakfast,  mounted their horses and gone on their accustomed ride.   DE VANE.         309 Waring, acquainted with the grounds, went in pursuit of them, and soon overtook them. You are welcome, Mr. Waring," said Miss Godolphin; and the pleasure is not lessened by its being an unexpect- ed one. You should have notified us, and breakfast would have waited for you." "Thank you," said he. "iy good friend Mrs. Bowen never scolds me, except wlhen I go out before breakfast, which she insists will ruin my health, if I persist in it. So I took my coffee before I mounted my horse." "What a day!" said Esther. "These woods are glo- rious at this season, and the light falling through them reminds one of descriptions of great cathedrals, where the sunbeams pour through windows of stained glass." "Yes," said Miss Godolphin; "but never yet did ca- thedral equal this. See those crimson leaves, and that wild vine throwing its boundless luxuriance over that towering oak, and the yellow richness of that young poplar. I pre- fer this to any thing in the way of architectural splendor that I have ever seen." "Art can never rival this," said Waring; " and it is a happy faculty of our being that enables us to sympathize with nature." "Sympathy with nature," said Miss Godolphin, "is a part of my being. Everywhere, in the gentlest or grand- est aspects of visible creation, I find something that ap- peals to me, and awakens within me a living sympathy. What should I do without nature? I rejoice in her smiles, and share her sorrows when they come upon her." It is most fortunate, too," said Waring, " that what- ever may be our mood, lwe can turn io natural objects with interest." "Yes," said Miss Godolphin, "that is generally true. When artificial objects have ceased to delight us, and even offend by their intrusive presence, we can still turn to     o:310  -    DE VASE. $10 natural scenes, and find something to refresh, if not to cheer s." "I find," said Esther, that writers whose love of nature leads them to describe its charms, interpret the aspects of the visible world so as to make them harmonize with their own emotions." "I have observed it,  ," said Wari g .   at "For , continued Esther, M a happy soul finds nature happy. It was while Adam and Eve stood in their unsin- ning purity, twt they saw the beauties of aradise an the glories of the outspread heaven  Thy sng their morning hIymn of praise in full sympathy with the glad- essFor ate to endure.'ature Yes," said Miiss Godolphin, "it is so. n atuue smile or weeps as we smile or weep. But we may be so wretch- ed as to be indifferent eve to t he harshest vistiatns of But where the greater malady is fixed, tThe elements, a  id defy nature even in storms Te great hhen the mlinded this when he madfree master of human nature comprehene    this wh en he made poor old Lear indifferent to the storm. In reply to Iient, who tells him: 'The toyrns da the em o pen night's too rouh For nature to endure.' L  ear says: ' hou think'st 'tis much that this contentious storm Invades us to the skin: so 'tis to thee: But where the greater malady is fixed, The lesser is scarce felt . When the mind's free, The body's delicate: the tempest in my mind Doth from my senses take all feeling else, Save what beats there.'" She uttered the lines in a way that made them enter the souls of her friends who rode with her. They had checked the horses for a few minutes, when Esther called their at-   DE VANE.          3" tention to the beauty of the scene; and as she finished the lines, she sat the very impersonation of sadness. Waring said, after a silence of some moments "Still it is possible to triumph over nature, not by sadness only, not by the benumbing power of deep grief, which makes us defy it, but we can illumine its darkest aspects with the light of our own spirits. In the language of an Eastern hymn, we may say in mid-winter to the frozen earth: 'Awake, thou wintry earth! Fling off thy sadness! Fair vernal flowers laugh forth Your ancient gladness! Ig/     Christ is risen!'  The soul rejoicing in the triumph of its Lord, may spread a luminous glory over all the visible world." "Iwas crossing the Alps," said Miss'Godolphin, "in early spring. The morning was one of extraordinary mild- ness, and the mountains were in their glory. Still I could feel no sympathy with the splendid scene-far more splen- did than the traveler usually witnesses in going over that pass. Toward evening a thunder-storm came on, wild and terrific in its sublime strength, and I assure you, I felt no more apprehension than I do at this moment. Indeed, I Was too much oppressed even to sympathize with the sur- passing power of the elements in their strife, as I did more than once after that time. Can you helfme, Mr. Waring, c to find that power which enables one to triumph over i  storms within the soul, as well as to defy those which spread their fury over the earth?"   "Have you not read, Miss Godolphin, the account, given in language of simple beauty, of the storm which sudden- ly came down on the Galilean Sea, when those who were driven before its fury in the little boat which could not resist it, began to be overwhelmed with fear? that when     312          DE VANE. the tempest was at its height, their fear was increased by seeing a form treading the waters as if they had been mar- ble beneath His feet, and that then a clear, calm voice was heard through the roar of winds and waves, saying, 'It is I, be not afraid,' and that presently both the commotion in the elements was stilled by him, and the commotion within human hearts, not less wild, subsided? He can give us a peace which nothing can disturb, and he alone." "Yes, WMr. Waring," she said, "I have read it? I read that book more than I ever did. ]Miss Wordsworth's ex- ample is not lost upon me." There was a gentle dignity in her manner as she uttered these words; so far from the slighltest attempt at ef- fect, so full of truthful earnestness, that Waring and Es- ther were both much impressed with it. They rode on. Waring did not press the conversation; he comlprehend- ed too well that it -was unsafe to disturb the process through which Miss Godolphin's soul was passing, by too much of human counsel. Hre could not understand her troubles, for he did not know her history; but he saw that her spirit was in a state of unrest, and he hoped that after it flew over the wide waste of shoreless waters, ex- hausted and weary, it would fold its wings at last at the feet of Him who invited all to come to him and find rest. After ricling for some distance in silence, he informed the ladies that he had received a letter from De Vane. "Indeed!" exclaimed Miss Godolphin with animation. "And what does he write?" "He had arrived at home, " said Waring, "but had been there too short a time to do more than glance at the sur- roundings. He had received some calls, but had returned none; nor had any thing been said upon the subject of his return to this State. He charged me with kind messages  to his friends, and, of course, names you both as embraced in that phrase."'   DE VANE.          313 "I shall accept no general tender of regards in that way," said Miss Godolphin, smiling. "I never did value any such expression."' Esther looked at Waring earnestly, but said nothing. "Oh! but you must understand me," said Waring. "He does name you both, asks after you specially, and alludes to you more than once as his friends." "Still," said Miss Godolphin,f" the message must be very intensive to make me appropriate any part of it. What do you say, Esther?"' It was the first time he had heard her call Miss Words- worth by that name, and it pleased him; it proved a growing intimacy, which he hoped would become still closer. "I feel very much as you do," said Esther. "We value words from friends which are intended for us alone." "Then, Mr. Waring," said Miss Godolphin, "you are instructed to make known to your friend, Mr. De Vane, that if he desires us to treat his messages with any con- sideration, they must be direct, and mean something." Waring laughed.  "Oh! I am sure they do mean much. You do my friend injustice." "Seriously, though," said Miss Godolphin, " what does he say of his impressions? Does his heart warm once more for his home? and does he look back already upon us as if he saw us in perspective?" "He is evidently gratified with his reception," said Waring. ." It is natural that it should be so, and would be strange if it were otherwise." "Of course," said Miss Godolphin. "The 'young laird' returning to his ancestral halls, must be received with the honor due to his rank."' "That is it precisely," said Waring. "c And if I had ex- plained for an hour, I could not have given so proper a statement of the case." "     314          DE VANE. "Will he return?" she asked abruptly. "I have not permitted myself to doubt it," said Waring. "I lhave all the while known that the most powerful in- ducements to stay would be presented to De Vane upon liis reaching home. I told him so, and tried to prepare llim in advance for the ordeal; and he uniformly insisted that his mind was made up and his purpose fixed. I see no reason yet to doubt it. I have the greatest confidence iln the basis of his character-he is a true man. His tastes sometimes govern him, and he is impressible; but when he takes his position, after considering it well, he will hold it. He had taken his position in regard to his future resi- dence before leaving here, after the fullest consideration, and I think he. will hold it in the face of every thing that can be brought to bear upon him." "Wait till we see his next letter," said Miss Godolphin. Esther said not a word, but her heightened color dis- closed the interest which she felt in the conversation. Upon reaching the house} Waring excused himself and returned to town. De Vane had said nothing to him before leaving for Vir- ginia as to his sentiments in regard to Esther, nor had he in his letter made any allusion to the subject. His scru- pulous regard for Esther made him forbear to do so, just as it had repressed any declaration to Esther of an attach- ment which he felt to be powerful. His sense of duty to his father, too, made him feel that it was imperative on him first to consult him in regard to his plans of life, and to endeavor to bring him to his own views, beforepcommit- ting himself to others. Still, Waring saw how deep his interest in Esther really was, and he comprehended too that she was not insensible to the regard which the manner of De Vane so plainly ex- hibited for her. As he rode slowly toward the town, these thoughts troubled him. The delicate threads which in- /   DE VANE.          315 fluences about these two bright young beings were weaving into the strong cords of fate, who could see?-two beings so deeply loved by him, so full of generous and high quali- ties. He breathed a silent prayer that all might be over- ruled for their good. The weeks flew by. Esther returned to town, resumed her morning visits at Leasowes, and advanced steadily in the path of duty. September had come. Walking one evening in the public garden, the gardener respectfully took off his hat as she was passing a bed where he was clipping a border of box, and spoke to her. She spoke to him pleasantly, and was passing on, when he said: "If you please, madam, I was wanting to inquire if you have heard any thing lately about the young gentleman who used to walk with you sometimes?" Esther's face flushed instantly-how the tumultuous blood flashed over it! The suddenness of the question startled her, and the unconscious gardener stood waiting for a reply. "No," she said, after a moment's hesitation, "I have not heard any thing very lately from him, but he is ex- pected to return in October." "I wish he was here now," said the man. "A finer gen- tleman never trod theae walks. It did me good always to see his face; it was as welcome as the sun after a shower." Esther could scarcely repress her tears. The gar- dener stepped on the bed of flowers, and selecting some' half-dozen of the rarest, presented them to her, saying: ' It will be a bright day when he comes back to us, and I'm glad October is not far off." "Thank you for the flowers," said Esther, "they are I    really beautiful," and bowing to the gardener, she walked on. It seemed that she was to have De Vane that even- ing brought to her memory by another friend of his;     316          DE VANE. for calling at Leasowes, for a moment, she met "Uncle Jacob," who seemed disposed for conversation. "I;iighty pretty flowers you've got there; Missis," he said. "Yes, Uncle Jacob, they have just been presented to me by the public gardener, Mr. Swan." "I think we can beat 'em," said Jacob, roused at once by a spirit of rivalry. "' Last time Marster De Vane was here, he said mine was the finest garden he seen anywhere about. mWish he'd come back again." Esther was amused. "Yes, Uncle Jacob," she said, "yours is a fine garden. You do look after it well." "Just what Marster De Vane told me," said-the old nan, highly gratified. Esther passed on. She returned home, and when sittings in the library the same evening, with Mr. and Mrs. Spring- field, after tea, her servant Antony, a smart, well-dressed man, who attended to her horse and went on errands for her, came to the door, and said: "Missis, ZIr. Hobbs says you must have Manfred shod like Mr. De Vane had his horse shod when he was here. If you don't, he'll cut hisself some time." "Very well, Antony," she said; " ask Mr. Hobbs to have him shod in that way." "He says too, Missi's, that he'd like mightily to know if any body's heard from him lately, and that he never missed any body as much in his life." "Why, Antony," said Mrs. Springfield, "how did Mr. Hobbs happen to say that to you?" "I don't know, ma'am," he answered, " but he says that Mr. De Vane used to come here mighty often, and he thought mebby you'd all know when he was comin' back." Mr. Springfield, who raised his eyes from his book to look at Antony, was much amused. "Tell your friend Mr. Hobbs," said Mrs. Springfield,   DE VANE.          817 "that we hope to see him again early in October. Per- haps he can content himself until that time." Antony disappeared. It occurred to Esther that it was a remarkable evening, and it of course fixed her thoughts more intensely than before upon the young Virginian. "We should hear something of Mr. De Vane," said Mr. Springfield. "Has Mr. Waring had a letter recently, do you know, Esther??' "I do not know, uncle," she said. "He has not said any thing to me upon the subject." She felt anxious. Her solicitude was heightened by the events of the day. How vividly such things recall the absent! Who has not experienced a series of small things, nothing in themselves, but so linked together as to startle us by their conjunction? Mr. Springfield sat musing for five minutes, and then was roused by a rap at the. library-deor, when, upon an invitation to enter, Waring walked in. Esther started. She felt that he had hieard from De Vane. She had that kind of subtle, incomprehensible impression which we sometimes experience in moments when the sensibilities are unusually quick, and the spirit scarcely requires the ministry of the senses to enable it to perceive objects. "Good evening, Mr. Waring," said Mr. Springfield, ris- ing to receive him. I am glad to see you." "We are all glad to see you," said Mrs. Springfield, giving him her hand. Esther came forward and extended hers, when Waring, turning to her, said: "Are you not well? You're looking pale." "Perfectly well," said Esther, now coloring, " and I too am very glad to see you," Waring sat down. "Have you had tea?" asked Mrs. Springfield. "Yes, thank you," he said, "and should have joined     318          DE -VANE. you, but calling at the post-office, I found a very long letter from De Vane, and walked to my own room to read it." "Good tidings from him, I hope," said Mr. Springfield. "Yes," said Waring. "He is very well, and begs to be remembered in the kindest terms to you all." Mr. Springfield bowed. "I do not know that I can do better than to read you that paragraph of his letter," said Waring. "We shall be pleased to hear it," said Mr. Springfield. Waring took from his pocket the letter-it must have covered ten pages-and detaching the last sheet, he pro- ceeded to read it.  "Having disposed of Lse affairs, I now turn to other subjects far more agreeable to me. You know, my dear Waring, my strong attachments draw me to the town, where, for more than three years, I resided; where I first came to the consciousness of manhood, and felt that my soul and intellect had both opened under the influences which were forming me-for really it was a formative process through which I passed. My attachment to the place is strong-to my friends there, so strong, that I feel it would be impossible for me to be happy away from there. Upon coming here, I was so warmly greeted, that early memories revived powerfully; and I could not, for some weeks, bring myself to make known to my father and to my aunt my plans of life. They seemed to have taken it for granted, upon my return, that I had yielded to'their wishes. It seemed cruel to undeceive them; but I at length went over the whole ground with Mrs. De Vane, and satisfied her, at one sitting, that I was immov- able. She saw-it, and felt that to keep me here, merely in obedience to an arbitrary wish of my father, would be to sacrifice me. She is a very superior woman; and when she became satisfied that my happiness and my success in   DE VANE.          319 life were both involved, she addressed herself to the great task of bringing my father over to my views. Then came the great struggle that I have already described to you- a struggle far the most painful of my life. It is ended. My father acquiesces; says I am a modern man; that I have been, in that Southern college, subjected to influences which bring me into full sympathy with the progress of the age, and that, as he has had his career, it is proper that I should be suffered to shape mine. "The struggle is ended, and I shall return to you early in October. I have not written of late, because I was un- willing to do so until I saw the end; and it is possible that you, and others whose esteem is prized by me beyond measure, may have misinterpreted my silence. I have never wavered for an hour. I have, in the first part of my letter, given you a full statement of all that was offered to tempt me to make this my home-for I wish you to comprehend me-but I have not at any time swerved from my purpose. Do, then, make this known to my friends-- of course, I mean to Mr. Springfield, whose good opinion you know I prize; to Mrs. Springfield, whose fine mind and true heart have done so much for me-more than she herself can know; and to Miss Wordsworth. Nor do I wish to be misjudged by Miss Godolphin. Good Mrs. Bowen, I am sure, has never had her faith in me shaken. .Before quitting here, I shall make my arrangements to have my interests looked after for me, and this will detain me some little time; still, you may expect me early in October. Intending to travel with my own horses, I shall be some- what longer on the way. When I do arrive, I shall make the melodeon discourse its most triumphant music. Once more, I say, I have had!a great struggle, but it is over. "I am to make a political speech at Charlottesville on Saturday, being invited to do so by the citizens. Virginia is safe for General Jackson. The Hamiltons, our Method- t     320         DE VANE. ist neighbors, have just called. I shall go to meet them. They are far the most agreeable people I have seen since my return, and they remind me vividly of our friends, the Springfields. Adieu. "Always your friend,     GEORGE DE VANE.' "P. S.--The Hamiltons sat an hour. Perfectly charm- ing people; and they sympathize wholly with my plans "I forgot to mention that I have a horse for you-one of the best Virginia breed-and anticipate equestrian ex- ercises, with two friends known to us both, on my return. G. D. V." "There," said Waring, 6 I have' done my duty." "Yes," said Mr Springfield, " we are all greatly indebted to you. Your friend is really a noble fellow." "I know," said Waring, " what he has had to encounter. I almost trembled for the issue." "You will write him again?" asked Mr. Springfield. "Without delay," said Waring.  "Then," said Mrs. Springfield, "do offer him our con- gratulations, and assure him of a warm welcome upon his coming." There was a spice of mischief in Waring's composition, grave as he was; and turning to Esther, he said- "And has Miss Wordsworth no message for my friend, Mr. De Vane?" Esther's face was radiant, and her smile bright as a sun- beam. "Only to thank him for not having forgotten us," she said. Never had a letter diffused greater joy; and Waring's own heart was full of gladness. He had read aloud but a small part If it. De Vane had given him an extended history of his trials and contests; of his meeting his early   DE VANE.          321 friend, Clara Guilford; of Mrs. De Vane's plans for his future; of her criticism of Esther; and warning him against the designs of his Methodist friends upon him; and he hinted at the knowledge which he had obtained of the history of afriend of theirs, which would, perhaps, explain the mystery of her sadness. All this, of course, Waring kept to himself, as it was intended by the writer that he should, and as his own sense of propriety would have prompted him to do. "Then," said Mr. Springfield, "it is a settled thing, that Mr. De Vane is to reside amongst us. I must express my very great gratification. I have, from the first hour of our acquaintance, entertained a high opinion of him. He wants but one thing to make his character complete." "You think," said Waring, " he is just where the young ruler was, who came kneeling, and asking the way to life." "Yes," said Mr. Springfield. "HHe will find it," said Waring. "It may require years to disentangle him from the meshes of German rationalism; but I can not believe that any nature so noble, and that loves truth so profoundly, can finally wander out of the way-never." "I agree with you," said Mrs. Springfield. "I have often conversed with Mr. De Vane upon that great subject, and he is earnest in seeking the right way. He has some very wrong opinions, and he will nevel be argued out of them; but he will be led in the right way." "Thank you," said Waring warmly, "for your apprecia- tion of my friend." "We may look for him, I suppose," said Mrs. Spring- field, " in the course of a few weeks?" "I suppose," said Waring, " that he ought to arrive early in October, unless some unexpected detention should occur." "He is to travel through a fine country," said Mr. Spring- "14*     322          DE VANE. field. "We passed over the greater part of the road last fall." "I wish," said Waring, "that you could have been present this evening, when I informed Mrs. Bowen of De Vane's decision, and told her of his speedy coming. She absolutely wept for joy; and I do not doubt that she will to-morrow morning commence preparations for having his room in readiness, just as if he were coming to-morrow night." "He inspires very strong sentiments, I suppose," said Mr. Springfield, "where he is well known; sentiments of esteem and affection, which only a great nature like his cal awaken." "How is Miss Godolphin, Mr. Waring?" asked Mrs. Springfield. "Really, my dear madam, I can not say. It has been some days since I saw her." "Some days!" said Esther. "It seems to me that it was only day before yesterday. Iave you forgotten our meet- ing at the book-store?" Mrs. Springfield laughed heartily, and said: "Why, Waring, has it come to that? However, I suppose two days may seem a long while to a young gentleman under some circumstances. Angels' visits, few and far between -is that the line?" "It is hardly deferential enough," said Esther, " to treat a grave Professor in this way, when it is barely two weeks before he enters upon his duties." "By the way, so it is," said he, only about two weeks before I shall have to be very stately, and work hard too." "And renounce riding on horseback?" asked Mr. Spring- field. "Never!" said Waring. "One may be allowed that for the benefit of his health and spirits."   DE VANE.         323 "Surely!" said Esther. "Of course!" said Mrs. Springfield. "Good night!" said Waring, and rising, and shaking hands warmly with his friends, he walked away in high spirits.     CHAPTER IV. "PAST, present, future, ell appeared- In harmony united, Like guests that meet, and some from far, By cordial love united.1" WORDS WORTH. OCTOBER came, rich with autumnal glories.    Neither fruits nor flowers had disappeared, for in that mild climate they graced even the stern reign of winter. There was a refreshing  coolness in the morning air, and the leaves, touched by early frost, wore the varied hues which give such a charm to the woods in the fall of the year, as to make us cease to regret the spring, Goldc and crimson, in- termingled with the never-fading deep green, met the view everywhere.  The evenings were delightful, and fires were kindled, to temper the slight chilliness which succeed- ed the lessening days. Absentees returned to town; and carriages, which had been put away for the hot season, were now drawn out, and rolled once more through  the streets. The doors of the College were thrown open, and students were coming in from all parts of the State. The town was beginning to wear a   cheerful aspect, and to re- sume its animation. Friends, meeting on the streets, greet- ed each other warmly; and within-doors pleasant sounds were heard, which spoke of reunited househtds, and all the routine of home life was once more resumed. Waring entered upon his duties, and wore for the first time   the robes of a professor. His colleagues greeted him cordially, and he undertook his new tasks with energy (324)   DE VANE.          325 and heartiness. Quite a number of the students were ac- quainted with him. They were members of some one of the less advanced classes when he graduated, and, feeling the greatest respect for his character and talents, they inm- pressed the new-comers with a high idea of his qualifica- tions. In no college in all the world was there a higher respect felt for a first-honor man than in that, where he had but a little while before received that distinction; and the 6cl&t which attended him on that occasion secured for him a favorable reception from the students with whom he was to walk as a professor-younger himself than some of those who surrounded him, to hear his lectures. 'Mrs. Habersham had returned to town, and Waring called to pay his respects. He was received both by Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin with marked kindness. They respected and trusted him, and the visits of no one gave them more pleasure than those of the young Profes- sor. His interest in Miss Godolphin was deepening, and yet he found in her manner at times something so inex- plicable that his ardor was checked, and his heart, full of generous sympathy, was disturbed. It was impossible for him to conceive what had thrown a shadow over the bril- liant morning of a life which had so much to give it splen- dor; yet he felt himself powerfully attracted to her, and he resolved to study the varying phases of a character which so deeply interested him, before it became impossi- ble to withdraw from its contemplation, without the loss of his own happiness. "How does the College open?" asked Miss Godolphin. "Prosperously?" "Never with higher promise," he said. "We have a larger number of students than we have had at any time; and we must recommend to the Trustees to erect for us additional buildings." "You want a new chapel," she said.     326         DE VANE. "Yes; we must have one; and we are enlarging our library. We should have a building suited to it." "I hope," she said, "that the Legislature will be gen- erous." "You must help us with them," said Waring. "Exert your influence, and secure for us a large appropriation." "If I can do any thing, you may count upon me," she replied. "I am very sure that you can do much. One of the leading members is, I am sorry to learn, earnestly opposed to classical learning, and thinks nothing can save the coun- try but common-schools." "Ah! well, we must put out all our strength against him, and urge Mr. De Vane to activity when he returns." "Yes," said Waring, " and Mr. Le Grande is a member of the House, whose splendid scholarship will be of im- mense importance to us, himself at once an advocate for classical learning, and a noble illustration of the advan- tage which it confers. A graduate, too, of our College." "I hope to hear him this winter. He is said to be very eloquent. I was so unfortunate as to miss his great speech at the last session." "His eloquence," said Waring, "is rich and massive, formed upon the classical models. He rivals them in the fertility of his genius and the stateliness of his style. Some passages in his orations are worthy of the palmiest periods of Roman eloquence. It is really refreshing to hear him speak. There is nothing commonplace, nothing of rant, and yet an affluent style, which bears you away." "I must hear him," said Miss Godolphin. "It is de- lightful to hear such oratory." "Yes," said Waring; "to escape the platitudes of some speakers, and the mannerism of others, is, as you say, delightful."   DE VANE.         327 "The Legislature of this State is a superior body, I be- lieve," she said. "Very," said Waring. "There are several members of the Senate, and of the House, who would adorn any par- liamentary body in the world." "Then, too," said Miss Godolphin, "we have eminent men not in public life, who are equal to any that fill the coveted places; for instance, Mr. Clarendon, and Mr. Hal- lam-not to mention others." "Yes," said Waring, "Mr. Hallam, at the bar, would rank high anywhere; and Mr. Clarendon, at the bar, and before the people, is, in my judgment, unrivaled. He is imperial." "So I have heard Mr. De Vane describe him," said Miss Godolphin. "If you wish to kindle De Vane's enthusiasm," said Waring, "just bring up Mr. Clarendon. His appreciation of his friend is charming."  "And when are we to have Mr. De Vane with us?" she asked. "Very soon, probably next week. He is on his way- he was detained a little time looking after his affairs. It seems that General De Vane, to secure his regular visits to Virginia, has set apart a planting interest for him in that State. He relies upon the conscientiousness of his son, to make him look after it, to some extent, in person. He is on the way, and I hope to see him within the next ten days-possibly within less time he may be here." "I am sincerely glad," said Miss Godolphin; " indeed I am. He is a wonderfully agreeable person; and he has vindicated his manliness by adhering to his resolution to make this place his home, and to engage in the actual life- struggle." "He deserves all your commendation," said Waring. "He has passed through an ordeal which few could endure     328         DE VANE. as he has borne it. His tastes and his ambition were both powerfully appealed to, and all his ancestral pride brought to bear upon his resolution, but he has decided to be a MAN rather than an aristocrat." "You certainly could give him no higher praise than that," said Miss Godolphin. "None, in my estimate of character," said Waring. "It fills me with admiration to see a true man-one who can bear himself with that fine air that is at once dignified and gentle, without pretension or stiffness, as if uncon- scious of rank or distinctions, whether inherited or con- ferred. The high breeding'of De Vane is seen in his bear- ing; but the nobleness of his nature is such, that he can not be spoiled. His principles are well settled, and they will triumph whenever they are tested." "There is, I think, much to attract him here," said Miss Godolphin. "He seems to be really attracted to the place." "He is," said Waring, "and yet I could not dismiss all anxiety about him when I thought of the Virginia home the father, the aunt, the wealth, the consideration, the strong feeling of caste in which he was educated. When I received his letter announcing his intention to return, it filled me with the exultation with which one hears the news of a victory; and I assure you that it required as much true heroism to resist the temptations to lead a life of luxurious and aristocratic ease, and to break away from the enticements which surrounded him in that Virginia home of his, as it does to enable one to achieve a triumph in battle against heavy odds." "Still," said Miss Godolphin, "we must not underrate our attractions here; and I am sure that Mr. De Vane knows how to appreciate them." There was something of archness in her manner of say. ing this, which implied much more than the words.   DE VANE.         329 "But," she added, "I entirely agree with you in think- ing that he deserves the highest commendation for carry- ing out his resolution to renounce a life of ease and inac- tion, for a career of active labor." "Upon his return;" said Waring, "I shall bring him to you, that he may make his acknowledgments for your ap- preciation of him." "Do," said Miss Godolphin. ' We shall be very glad to see him." Some time after, when the evening was pretty well ad- vanced, Waring returned to his solitary room, to think of the mystery attending Miss Godolphin, who, sometimes very sad, had been this evening brighter than he had seen her. The unusually large number of students entering the College, gave great animation to the town; and as they took their evening walks, they spread through the streets their own brightness. Doctor Hume was unusually active, and Blanche am- bled. with him in the most amiable way, from the College grounds to the post-office, the book-stores, the printing- offices, and other points, where he habitually called. Whatever distrusts may have been entertained as to his orthodoxy, no one who knew him could regard him un- kindly. His own genial nature shone through his face, and gave warmth to his manners; and he forbore to press his peculiar religious views upon the students. Leasowes was once more a scene of regular industry, and Esther had resumed her accustomed labors with her pupils. She was never brighter. The activity of her step showed the gladness of her nature. Her smile warmed the little circle of orphaned girls far more than the sun- light, and her voice filled the walks which she trodl with joyous notes. Never were the waters which flashed in the fountain brighter; and as they filled the marble basin     330         DE VANE. into which they fell, the liquid crystal, overflowing its edges, gave new fieshness to the turf which lined the little stream that glided away into the overshadowing shrubbery. De Vane had not yet arrived, but he was expected daily. Mrs. Bowen, as Waring had predicted, had really gone to work promptly, to put his room in perfect order. Car- pets, curtains, chairs, books, every thing looked as fresh as if De Vane had stepped out of it but an hour before. Every morning she walked in to survey it, and to adjust the curtains and dust the furniture; and she enjoyed it next to a visit to Waring, who still retained his room preferring it to any which could be provided for him at the College. She was becoming very impatient at the de- lay in De Vane's return, and on Saturday morning walked into Waring's room, after making her usual visit to his friend's, just opposite. "Mr. Waring," she said," when is Mr. De Vane com- ing? I'm afraid something has happened to him on the road." "Oh! no," said Waring. "The road is a long one, and it requires some time to make the journey. He is not coming in the stage-coach, you know, but is traveling with his own horses and servant, and that, you know, re- quires more time. I think, however, we shall see him here now very soon." "Well," said Mrs. Bowen, "I hope the good Lord will take care of him, and bring him safely. I do want to see hm." "Every thing is ready for him in his room,I suppose," said Waring. "' Oh! yes," said Mrs. Bowen. "I've tried to put things to riglts. I've put the table just where he used to have it, and the chairs and the books just as lie liked to have them. I hope he'll be pleased."   DE VANE.         331 "You may be sure of that,", said Waring. "He was' always pleased with your arrangements in his room. I have often heard him say that he could not feel at home anywhere but here." The good old lady was immensely gratified, and her eyes were moist as she said: "Well, I do love to work-for Mr. De Vane, and to put his things in order, he is so easy to please." "I never heard him make the first complaint. He doesn't like to have his books moved, I know, and I never disturb them, further than to brush the dust off of them; and I leave his pens and papers just where he lets them stay." Waring smiled. He saw that Mrs. Bowen had learned to respect De Vane's rights; for, while scrupulously neat in every thing, he would leave his books in apparent con- fusion, and he was annoyed if one removed them. Some- times they covered tables, sofa, chairs, and floor, for days together, when he was pursuing some particular branch of study. Then would come a general clearing up, and the books were replaced on the shelves. No one but a student can realize the luxury of being permitted to leave books and papers scattered in. this apparent confusion, with the certainty that they will not be disturbed by the ruthless hand of careful housekeeping. Waring passed the evening at Mr. Springfield's, taking tea with the family. Well, Professor," said Mr. Springfield, as he entered, "we are glad to see you. How do affairs go on at the College?" "Thank you," said Waring, " well. We are more pros- perous than ever before." "And what does Dr. Hume say to the new arrange- ment?" "He is very amiable," said Waring; "and is really so     832         DE VANE. good a friend, that he would make no objection if he dis- approved it. But I do not think he does. He is a man of liberal spirit, and contends for perfect freedom of opinion." "I-e seems to be deeply interested in politics," said Mr. Springfield, " and is intensely of the State Rights school of thinkers." "Yes," said Waring, " he at times utters some startling opinions, which may yet be as formidable as dragon's teeth, and, if wide-spread, will yield great armies." "So I think," said Mr. Springfield; "but I agree with him in politics at least. It is of the first importance, to resist the tendency to consolidation in the Government, which is beginning to manifest itself. If it should go on for a few years as it is now doing, the whole character of the Government will be changed." "That is true," said Waring. "But if every Southern State would resist the encroachments of the Federal Government, as Georgia has done, we should have very little trouble." "Yes," said Mr. Springfield, "Georgia has done nobly; and the emphatic announcement, that, the argument being exhausted, it was the purpose of the people to stand by their arms, seems to have been accepted as an authentic utterance of the will of the State." "Have you read Dr. Hume's new work on Political Economy?" asked Waring. "No," replied Mr. Springfield. "It was sent to me by Mr. Mfiller, some days since, but I have not yet had leisure to look into it." "You will be pleased with it," said Waring. "But some of his propositions may startle you. Pursuing the idea that money is but the representative of property, having no real value in itself, he conducts you'to the con- clusion that the imports of a nation are the best measure   DE VANE.          333 of its wealth; and that a country is enriched by importing, no matter how little it may export." "A very sound proposition, certainly," said Mr. Spring- field, "if a country can produce a sufficient supply of the precious metals to pay for the articles which it buys from abroad; but I can never believe that a nation, any more than an individual, can be enriched by running in debt." "The book," said Waring, "is remarkable for its clear- ness; and you will like it. I quite agree with its author, that a mere hoarding of money can never increase the real wealth of an individual or a nation." ' Certainly not," said Mr. Springfield. At this moment, Mrs. Springfield and Esther, who had just returned from a drive, entered the room, and expressed their gratification at meeting Waring. They went in to tea,anc the conversation became general. "' We found our drive," said Esther, a delightful one. There is a refreshing coolness in the air." "I do not remember to have seen a finer season," said Waring. "The early frost has touchedl the leaves with the richest hues, and the crisp earth under one's tread is exhilarating. In what direction did you drive?" "We took the upper road," sidcl Esther. "It is un- dulating, and, I think, affords the finest view of our en- virons."       . "Much," said Waring. "That bold little stream that pours its noisy waters over the road, always refreshes me." "For my part," said Mr. Springfield, "I prefer the river. Either to drive to the mill, and from there proceed down to the ferry, or to go directly from the town, down the river-road, some three or-four miles, is, at this season, especially pleasing to me.' "I wonder," said Mrs. Springfield, rc that you can over- look the beauties of the road leading to Mrs. Habersham's     334          DE VANE. country-seat. The environs in that direction, I think much the finest." "If it were not," said Mr. Springfield, "that you must traverse a mile or two of sand, I might agree with you." "Yes, but you have the tall pines as a compensation," said Esther. "Let others boast of the oak, and describe its spreading majesty as they may, but the pine is my tree. How it lifts it lofty head above the surrounding forest, so stately, so still, so silent, unless the wind sweeps through it, and then it sends out its deep solemn tone, as if the spirit of humanity dwelt there! Often in summer mornings, when the bright sky was cloudless, and the earth bathed in its light, have I sat under the pine trees, listening to their sad music. Far up in the air, birds were floating, and not a sound was heard to break the solemn tone of the strain which sounded like the wail of the distant sea; and many a summer evening have I stood to see the sun go down behind a pine forest, sending his fierce beams athwart the dark-green branches, until they seemed to blaze. I love the pine. It is a dear tree." She spoke with an enthusiasm kindled by the recollec- tion of early scenes, and her face beamed. "Thank you for your tribute to the pine," said Waring. "It is associated with my school-days. I often wandered through the stately pine forests, impressed by the scenes which you describe, watching the clear streams, and climb- ing the chalk-hills." "I love the pine," said Esther, " as the Arab loves the palm-tree. Both rise with stately glory, and catch the earliest light of day. It is very common to hear persons speak of the majestic oak: to me the pine is far more im- pressive; and when winter comes, and strips the oak of its glories, the pine stands in undiminished grandeur, de- fying storms and ice, like a true man meeting adversity, unchanged and unchangeable."   DE VANE.          335 "If you emblazon your arms at any time upon your coach, Esther," said Mr. Springfield playfully, " you must add the pine4 I think it would do well to place it in the centre, and group the other objects about it, or omit them altogether." "I should be content with the pine alone," said Esther. "Mrs. Habersham's place," said Waring, "is skirted on one side by a remarkably fine grove of young pines; and I thought, as I rode through it, on my late visit there, that I did not know any woods more beautiful-a sad beauty though it is. One feels a sense of loneliness in the pine woods, more intense than he experiences else- where.'l "I love trees which change their foliage," said Mr. Springfield. "It is beautiful to witness the fall of the leaves, when you look to the reproduction of the departed glories of the forest il the coming spring. -Nature im- presses us in all her aspects, and especially in the varying seasons. The year is the type of time, and to me its course is nothing short of sublime, when I look upon it, as chronicling the advance of time toward eternity-the finite foreshadowing the infinite." Still," said Esther, "I love to see some trees standing with unchanging verdure and undecaying beauty in the midst of the general decline in the glories of the forest. It is so consoling to feel that all things do not acknow ledge the power of mutability-resisting that sway which Spenser, in the Faerie Queene, describes as potential over every thing under the heaven's rule, and which made him loathe 'This state of life so tickle, And love of things so vain to cast away; Whose flowering guide, so fading and so fickle, Short Time shall soon cut down with his consuming sickle.'" "And do you read the Faerie Queene?" asked Waring     336          DE VANE. "With real pleasure," said Esther; " some parts of it, at least." 4' His pathetic description of patient waiting is one of the strongest to be found in any language. It was evoked by his personal disappointments." "Royal favor," said Mr. Springfield, " is almost as un- certain as popular applause." "When are we to see Mr. De Vane?" asked MiIrs. Spring- field. "I look for him every day now," said Waring. I' He must be quite near here, unless something has detained him on the road." "He does not travel by the public conveyances, I be- lieve," she said. "' No," said Waring, " he comes with his servant and his own horses, and this, of course, makes the journey somewhat tedious." "He will find it more agreeable, however," said Mr. Springfield, "especially traveling through the district of country which he will traverse in coming here." "I suppose," said Mrs. Springfield, " that Mrs. Bowen is ready to receive him?" "Ready!" said Waring. "I wish you could see his room. No mother ever looked for the return of an absent son with greater eagerness. It would not surprise me to find him upon my return, this evening." But Waring, returning, soon after this conversation, to Mrs. Bowen's, did not find his firiend. He had not yet arrived.   CHAPTER    V. THAT is my home of love: if I have ranged, Like him that travels, I return again."   SHAKESPEARE. ON the following Wednesday evening, about sunset, a traveler was seen entering the town, driving in an elegant sulky, a very fine, large bay horse; while a servant, mount- ed on another closely resembling him, followed. The serv- ant led a loose horse of extraordinary beauty-a chestnut sorrel, with heavy mane and tail. All the horses were of the best Virginia breed, and in form and action displayed their fine qualities. All the appointments about the trav- eler's harness, the dark livery of the servant, the trap- pings of the horses, displayed taste, and were unmistak- ably aristocratic. His own dress was simply elegant- rather plain than showy. He drove directly to Mrs. Bow- en's; and as he approached the house, he saw a gentleman seated in the portico, enjoying the freshness of the quiet evening air. It was Waring. Warinu was seated with his face turned away from the street by which the traveler approached Mrs. Bowen's house, and it was not until he stopped directly in front of it, that he turned to observe him. He then instantly started up, and rushing out, exclaimed: What! De Vane, have you actually arrived at last?" "I am happy to say that I am here bodily,"w replied De Vane, extending his hand, which Waring shook heartily.  What with moving accidents by flood and field, I 1J5       (337)     338         DE VANE. thought at times that I should never reach here. Iow are all our friends?" "Well," said Waring, "very well, and looking for you daily. You are somewhat behind time. But come in." Where is Caesar?" said De Vane. "I must send him to show my man the way to the livery-stable.'? Caesar appeared-an active black man, Mrs. Bowen's chief reliance in the conduct of all out-door affairs--and very cordially extended his hand to De Vane, and gave him a generous welcome. De Vane instructed him to show his servant Tully to the livery-stable, and Caesar, after'unstrap- ping De Vane's trunk, protected from dust and rain by a heavy bear's skin, and taking his traveling articles into the house, mounted into the sulky and drove to the stable, followed by his classical namesake. Mrs. Bowen met De Vane as he entered the house, and gave his hand an energetic shaking, while tears of joy rolled down her cheeks. "I'm so glad to see you, Mr. De Vane," she said. "I began to be uneasy about you." "Why," said De Vane, "I was detained some two or three days in Virginia longer than I supposed I should be, and then I found one or two mountain streams so much swollen by late rains, that I was kept some few days wait- in(r for them to run down, and finally had to swim them, with bar and baggage. But here I am, safe, at last, Mrs. Bowen.", "  Thank the Lord for it!" she said. "And your room is ready for you, and has been for weeks." "Ah! thank you," said De Vane. "Then I will go to Waring accompanied him to his room, and they talked over their affairs. Both had a great deal to say-many questions to ask and answerm Waring gave him an ac- count of affairs that particularly interested him; and upon   DE VANE.         339 De Vane's asking after Mr. Springfield and his family, he gave him a full statement of Esther's doings, comprehend- ing, of course, that it would gratify him. I In reply to De Vane's inquiries, Waring spoke, too, of Mrs. iHabersham and Miss Godolphin, representing the interest which both had expressed in De Vane, and their gratification at learn- ing that it was his purpose to fix his residence here. The conversation was a long and satisfactory one. The past, the present, and the future, all were discussed, and when Caesar came to invite them to supper, the friends had not yet concluded their interview; but they descended promptly to the table. Mrs. Bowen had made ample pre- paration for De Vane, fancying, of course, as good old ladies will do, when an absent one returns, that he had been half-starved on the journey. A beef-steak, two boiled fowls, and at least a dozen varieties of hot bread, smoked on the luxurious table. Knowing that De Vane disdained tea, clear, amber-colored coffee, with rich cream, appeared, and De Vane and Waring both partook of the bounties in a way to gratify Mrs. Bowen. "This coffee, Mrs. Bowen," said De Vane, "excels any that I have seen since I left your house. The gods might throw away their nectar for it." "I know you always liked it," said the gratified old lady, " and I'm glad to see you drinking it once more. -It's the real Old Government Java." "That it is," said De Vane, "and I would not give it for all the Mocha in the world." "Nor I," said Waring. "The flavor is perfect." "And then, too," said De Vane, "there is a great deal in the making. How do you succeed in having it so uni- formly good?" "Why," said Mrs. Bowen, "I pick it myself before it is parched, so as to take out every bad grain. Then I have it stirred while it is parching, to keep it from burning.     21 v .1N m.1 Then I grind it every time I want to use any, and instead of the French way, I take the old-fashioned way of boiling it in the tin pot which is brought on the table. Then I put the sugar in the cup, pour in the cream, stir it well, and stir it while I pour the coffee in the cup." "It's a regular science," said De Vane, "and if ever I go to housekeeping, I must get you to instruct me." "Oh! IIl do that, you may be sure," said Mrs. Bowen, "if you set up housekeeping anywhere about here." W  Tell, that is understood," said De Vane; " and as to the place of my keepinr house, that may be considered as settled, too, for I intend to make this place my home." "So Mr. Waring told me, some time ago, she said, "and I was mighty glad to hear it as I've no doubt others will be, too." "Thank you," said De Vane. "I suppose," said Waring, "that though you have set- led the question as to where you will set up your house- hold gods, you have not yet fixed upon the time." "Oh! no," said De Vane, "that is quite uncertain." "You do not propose to set up a bachelor's establishh ient, I presume?" said Waring. "Oh! no," replied De Vane. "I do not approve that way of living; and Mrs. Bowen must take care of me until I find some one who will consent to share my fortunes with me, through the journey of life." "I'll be very glad to have you here," said Mrs. Bowen but I think gentlemen ought not to put off marrying too "You agree with Dr. Franklin," said Waring. Yes, sir," she said. "He  was a wise man, and gave good advice about most things-" "He was an intensely selfish old fellow, in my opinion," said De Vane; and reduced every thing in heaven and earth, to the standard of his utilitarian philosophy."   DE VANE.         341 "He aspired simply to be a philosopher," said Waring. -' The high-priest of selfishness!" said De Vane. 'i Still, he may be right about marriage." "He was not without sentiment," said Waring. "Upon one of his visits to Boston, he caused marble monuments to be placed oyer the graves of his parents, and they may be seen now in the burying-ground lying on one of the principal streets of that city." "Of course," said De Vane, " a philosopher would hardly overlook such a duty as to pay respect to the memory of a parent, but I detest the philosophy that instructs a man to do right, simply because it is profitable to do so." "There ceitainly should be a higher sentiment than that in our moral code," said Waring. "Yes," said De Vane. "I would not have a man run up a calculation every time a moral question addresses itself to him, that he may ascertain what he will make or lose by taking one side or the other of it." "He was an economist in all things," said Waring. I "Yes," said De Vane. "You may take his Poor Richard Almanacs, and all that class of his writings, into the ac- count, and you will find it a mere code of selfishness. His appeal to the passions, to go to bed early and rise early, was not based upon any moral or vesthetical view, but upon' the idea that they would save a certain amount of money by employing the light of the sun, rather than that of candles." ' But," said Waring, " after all, that was sensible enough." "Sensible enough," said De Vane; " but that is just what I object to in it. The inevitable money question is intro- duced into every thing. He was essentially material in his ideas-of the earth, earthy. Even in the great debates upon the Federal Constitution, when two rival sections were in conflict about the largest questiuesquestions-sts in- volving principles essential to the perpetuity uf free insti-     DE VANE. tutions--his idea was not to ascertain which was really the were to be treated as dehic       al lanks. Are pr infcipe, outd iit upreahi tiht, E triumphe " hut e Warng laug hed. "I ha ve often obs erved," he sai, how poorly figure s taken from physics illustrate moral proposition s Still, as hrs. Bowev i teaches the same phi- losophy in regard to early marriages th at Dr. Franklin does, we must admit that it is worth consideration.", Certanly, said De Vane. "I am ready to accept Mr. Bowen  as an authority upon question. I have always found her a good adviser." "I'm obliged to you, Mr. bDe Vane," she said. "I always wish to advise for the best; and as to marrying early in life, I'm sure that I'm right."  You must be more earnest in yur exhortations, then, to Waring," he said. "le is suffering the time to slip." "I've been thinking of that," said Mrs. Bowen, "and I'm glad that you've mentioned it." "Much obliged," said Waring. 'I shall take the sub- ject into serious consideration' "'Are you going out to preachng to-night Mr. Waring?" asked Mrs. Bowen. "No, not this evening," said Waring. "I will stay with De Vane, as he has been absent so long." "So this is the evening for your preaching," said De Vane. "I had forgotten it. Every Wednesday  evening, I believe, you set apart for that service." Yes," said Waring; "that is our usage." "Well," said Mrs. Bowen, "I must let Mr. Springfield know that you have arrived, . e Vane. The last time I saw him, he asked me about you."   JJJJ VANES, Iid "Thank you," said De Vane. "If he should ask after me this evening, do give him my best regards, and say that I will soon call on him." Mrs. Bowen rose from the table, put on her bonnet and shawl, and calling for a servant-girl, started for the church, which was only some three blocks from her house. The gentlemen went up to Waring's room, to continue their conversation, which lasted deep into the night. At breakfast the next morning, Mrs. Bowen informed De Vane that she had met Mr. Springfield at church the previous evening, and that, upon his asking after him, she had delivered his message. "He seemed very glad to hear that you had arrived," said Mrs. 1 iwen, "and said that he should be happy to see you at his house." "Very much obliged," said De Vane. "What do you say, Waring, to our calling this evening?" "I shall be happy to join you," said Waring. So it was arranged that they should pass the evening at Mr. Springfield's. Waring went to the College to look after his duties, and DeVane proceeded to arrange his room in a way to suit him, unpacking his trunk, and dis- tributing his books in a home fashion. In the afternoon, he invited Waring to walk with him, nd taking the livery-stable in their way, they entered it, and examined De Vane's horses. Waring, who sympathized with De Vane in his taste for horses, was greatly pleased with them, pronouncing them quite equal, if not superior, to any he had seen. "I observe," said he, "that the two bays are closely matched."  "Yes," said De Vane. "I train my horses to harness. It is a mistake to suppose that their gaits are injured by it, unless they are used to draw burdens, or in heavy car- riages; but if worked only in a sulky, or in some light     vehicle, I am satisfied that their action is improved by it I do not suffer any horse of mine to pace, as it is called. A firm, clear trot is much to be preferred. It is my inten- tion to keep a light barouche, and we shall enjoy evening "How could you select horses so closely resembling "They are full brothers," said De Vane. "This one, which you observe is slightly the larger of the two, is one year older than the other. They are of the best English breed, imported by my father into Virginia." "They are very superior,"  said Waring. Bring out the sorrels, said De Vane to his servant He entered the stall, and led out a beautiful horse, not quite so large as the bays, but in other respects fully equal "There," said De Vane, "is the most faultless horse that I know. Observe his shoulder; the slope is perfect, and the fore-arm, long and broad, secures fine action, while the arched loin and well-muscled hind-legs give him great Waring expressed the highest admiration for him. ' Do you observe his halter ?" said De Vane. Waring stepped forward to the head of the horse, and saw his own name worked on the morocco head-band. "You have named him for me," he said. "It is a  com- ICe     is yours,"  said De Vane. "I brought him out for you, and I   hope that you will like him." "You are not serious," said Waring, "in taking all this trouble for me, and in making me such a splendid gift?" "I assure you," said De Vane, "I was never more se- rious, and the gift would be a  very poor compensation  for the great obligations under which you have brobught me by your trouble with me for some years. But the gift is   DE VANE.         345 not intended as a compensation, but merely as an acknow- ledgment of my sense of your kindness." "I accept the horse, De Vane, frankly, as a mark of your friendship, not as any acknowledgment of an obligation; for you are under none to me. But the gift is a valuable one, and if our relations were other than they are, I could not accept it," said Waring. "The horse," said De Vane, " came from my own place, and his blood is of the best in Virginia." "Is he named?" asked Waring. "Yes," said De Vane; "Ivanhoe-resembling his name- sake in all high qualities." Waring caressed the horse, who seemed to recognize him as a friend, by that subtle instinct which animals often exhibit, and from that hour the strongest attachment grew up between them. The gentlemen extended their walk to other parts of the town, and .entered the public garden. The fine evening drew many promenaders to its walks, and among them Mr. and Mrs. Clarendon. De Vane advanced to speak with them.- "We welcome you, sir," said Mr. Clarendon, grasping his hand warmly, " to your home and to your friends." "Thank you, sir," said De Vane. "I am most happy to meet you once more, and to see Mrs. Clarendon in improved health. You are enjoying this pure air, I hope, madam?" "Yes," said Mrs. Clarendon; "it is delightful, and I welcome you once more to a place which I know you love so well."  De Vane bowed. "I think, madam," said Waring, "that we must not suffer him to wander from us again. We all felt his absence." 15*     346         DE VANE.  "Very much," she replied, " and I am gratified to learn that Mir. De Vane is to make this place his home." "That is quite settled, is it, De Vane ?" asked Mr. Clar- endon. "Quite settled," he replied. "And you can well under- stand how my interest in the place deepens, from the fact that it is a settled question that this is to be my residence." "I congratulate you, De Vane," said Mr. Clarendon. "You have chosen wisely. Much as I love our native State--the glorious Old Dominion-- I know no place in the world so attractive to me as this; and, as I said to you some time since, I know you, and I am confident that this is the place for you." "Thank you," said De Vane. "I quite agree with you; and you will allow me to say, that the wish to be near you was one of the chief considerations that influenced my decision in fixing upon this place as my home." Mr. Clarendon bowed. Mrs. Clarendon said: "Then, Mr. De Vane, we shall hope to see much of you. You must come to us as you would to your home. I think Mr. Clarendon was really unhappy while you were absent, and was immensely grati- fied when he learned, through Mr. Waring, that after a full survey of your ancestral home, you had decided to return to us." "I am very much gratified to hear you say so, madam," said De Vane. "Mr. Clarendon well knows how much his counsels have influenced me." "You have done wisely, sir," said Mr. Clarendon, taking out his handsome snuff-box, and extending it to De Vane. "You have done wisely, sir, and time will prove it." "I shall reenter the office on Monday," said De Vane, "and go to work. My vacation has been quite long enough.   DE VANE.         347 "So it has," said Sir. Clarendon, "and I shall expect you." "In the mean while," said Mrs. Clarendon, "we shall hope to see you." De Vane bowed. "Come with him, Professor Waring," said Mrs. Clar- endon. "Thank you," said Waring, "I shall be happy to do so." Other persons approaching, Waring and De Vane lifted their hats and passed on. Seating themselves, at the end of the walk, upon one of the benches, they surveyed the animated scene, and a glow of the highest satisfaction overspread De Vane's face. "This is a charming place, Waring," said he. "I really know no place where the same elegance and refinement are to be found. The place is large, enough to be free from the petty annoyances of a village, and it is not so large as to be troubled with the vices of a city. It is full, too, of animation; never dull, never languid, but always cheerful." "So I think," said Waring; "and my attachment to it has become so strong, that I fear I could not live with. contentment elsewhere." "Of course not," said De Vane; "that is not to be thought of. This is our abiding place.?' At that moment the gardener came up, his face beaming, his hat in his hand, and, bowing very low to De Vane, said: "How do you do, sir? I'm very glad to see you back once more." "Ah! Mr. Swan, I'm glad to see you," said De Vane, shaking hands with him. "How have you been through the summer?" "Very well, I thank you, sir," he replied. "You're looking very hearty." "Oh! yes, thank you," said De Vane, "my health is     348         DE VANE. excellent. I see that you still keep your garden in fine order." "I'm very much obliged to you, sir, for saying so. Let me cut one or two of my roses for you." And walking to  one of the beds, he clipped some two or three of the finest flowers, and returning with them, handed them to De Vane. "I know that you are fond of flowers, sir," he said, "and you see how fine these are." "Very fine, indeed. Thank you," said De Vane, placing them in his vest.  "And you will stay here now, sir?" asked the gardener, with real interest. "Yes," said De Vane; "this is now my home, and I.. shall be often a visitor to your garden."  "You will always be welcome, sir," said Mr. Swan, bowing low; and bidding good evening to the gentlemen , he walked away. "That is one of your prime favorites, De Vane, I believe?" said Waring. "Yes," said De Vane, "I like him. He is a capital gardener, and understands his business thoroughly. It would surprise you to hear him talk of botany." "Your friend Hobbs, the blacksmith, is anxious to see you," said Waring. "He has asked after you several times." "Yes," said De Vane, "he is a good friend of mine, and is really an artist. I must see him, and get him to look after my horses' shoes at once." "Let us take a turn through the garden," said Waring, "and then return. As we are to pass the evening at Mr. Springfield's, let us go early." Rising, they walked through a serpentine path, and emerged, at the end of it, into the street. They met a number of persons, who stopped to congratulate De Vane   DE VANE.         349 upon his return, andwhen they reached Mrs. Bowen's, the candles were already lighted. "Shall we go before taking tea?" asked De Vane. "Oh! yes," said Waring. "Mrs. Springfield will cer- tainly expect us." "Then," said De Vane, "I will detain you but a moment;" and going to his room to make some change in his dress, Waring explained to Mrs. Bowen that they were going out for the evening, and that they might not return very early. "Very well," said Mrs. Bowen. "I understand. And you are right to go early, for I know that Mr. Springfield will expect you."     CHAPTER   VI. "SuH is most fair, and thereunto Her life doth rightly harmonize; Feeling or thought that was not true Ne'er made less beautiful the blue Unclouded heaven of her eyes." "OWELL. WARING and De Vane were received at the door by Mr. Springfield, who gave the young Virginian a warm wel- come, and conducted them to the library. Mrs. Spring- field and Esther were seated near a bright wood fire, which threw its cheerful light over the objects in the room, and tempered the cool October air. The picture warmed De Vane's heart instantly, and the cheerful, taste- ful elegance of the room recalled the past vividly. Mrs. Springfield advanced to meet him with cordial greetings, and, taking his hand, said: "We are very hap- py to see you, Mr. De Vane; we welcome you with our hearts." De Vane bowed very low, and said: "I shall not under- take to say, madam, how happy I am to return. I thank you for your welcome." Esther remained standing at her chair, from which she had risen as De Vane entered. Never had she appeared more splendidly beautiful. Her face was radiant. She was dressed in rich dark colors; and in her hair a single crimson rose was worn, lending its fragrance and beauty to her own charms. De Vane advanced to her, and gave her his hand, say- (350)   DE VANE.          351 ing: You see, Miss Wordsworth, that I have made good my words. I have really been able to resist the attrac- tions of my Virginia home, and I am here once more." Esther smiled brightly, and said: "We must all thank you, Mr. De Vane, for your loyalty to this place. Your friends are very happy to see you here." Waring observed them closely, and he saw how earnest- ly they both spoke. He saw the mutual consciousness when their eyes met; and he did not doubt from that mo- ment that their interest in each other was too deep to be evanescent. For good or for evil they had met, and all their future was to take its coloring from that meeting. He saw this with blended satisfaction and anxiety. He knew both De Vane and Esther well, and he comprehend- ed how many perils surrounded their path-the aristo- cratic prejudice of General De Vane; the high self-respect of Esther, and her firm religious sentiments, both of which he felt would be able to control her action, even against her affections; and he could not dismiss from his own heart a troubled interest in the fortunes of two beings who were so dear to him. De Vane seated himself,'and said: "I can never be other than loyal to this place; it is now my home, and hence- forth I am bound to it by every tie of interest and affec- tion." "Content to give up your Virginia mountains?" said Waring playfully. "Reserving the privilege," replied De Vane, "of mak- ing them an occasional visit." "We must give Mr. De Vane the greater credit," said Esther, " in deciding to reside here, because he has given up so beautiful a country as the mountain region of Vir- ginia." "Thank you for your generosity," said De Vane; "you     352          DE VANE. have answered Mr. Waring so well that I need say nothing more in vindication of myself."  "Mr. Waring knows," said Mr. Springfield, "that in fixing upon this as our. residence, we too, yielded up much that is dear to us. Georgia is a great State, and that part of it where we resided possesses many attractions." "Yes," said Waring, "I have often said so to Mr. De Vane, but he always insisted that nothing could rival the scenery of his Virginia home." "I remember," said Esther, that he was very eloquent in praise of it, some months since, when we all met at Leasowes."          I "Yes,' said De Vane, "I ell remember the conversa- tion; and I think Mr. Waring was equally enthusiastic in speaking of Georgia. He said something about mount- ains and cataracts, and seemed somewhat disposed to dis- pute the claims of Niagara to possess sublimity." "Then," said Mrs. Springfield, "I think that we may all congratulate each other upon finding a place like this, which can compensate us for giving up homes endeared to us by early associations, and the charms of nature." "Did you find the journey a pleasant one, Mr. De Vane?" asked Mr. Springfield. "The first part of it quite otherwise," said De Vane. "The mountain streams were so much swollen as to im- pede my progress seriously, but after that I enjoyed the travel." "You did not take the stage-coach, I believe?" said Mr. Springfield. "No," said De Vane; "I traveled with my own horses, which I found much more agreeable to me." "Oh! very much more so," said Mr. Springfield. "We enjoyed the journey," said Mrs. Springfield "greatly. We found every part of it agreeable to us. The season was a fine one."   DE VANE.         383 "And the most agreeable part of it," said Esther, "was in traversing the mountain roads. The streams were clear and beautiful, and we drove through many of them, the wheels passing over the graveled beds, without the slight- est obstruction. We found the farm-houses, too, positive- ly delightful resting-places: the coldest water, the purest milk; the sweetest butter, and the most delicious fruits refreshed us after the day's travel." "And the cheapness of every thing," said Mr. Spring- field, "was as remarkable as its quality. We had four horses and our servants, and I could travel at much less expense than I can stay at home." "That is remarkable," said Waring. "I found it so in the eastern part of Tennessee, a country singularly beau- tiful. If it were on the Continent of Europe, it would be as attractive to travelers as Switzerland." "It will yet become so," said De Vane. "It is just now somewhat inaccessible, and at times almost impassable. When a thunder-storm overtakes one, in some of those mountain gorges, miles away from any human habitation, it is a wild sort of thing. I should think the ladies might find it inconvenient." ";We encountered one," said Esther, "and I really en- joyed it. It was terrific, but yet sublime. And it recall- ed vividly Lord Byron's description of a storm on the Alps, which I had read but a little while before." "And you had no fear?" asked De Vane. "I was awed," said Esther, " but I was unconscious of fear. The sublimity of the scene filled my soul. And when the storm passed away, and the sun came forth in his glory, like a monarch to resume his throne after a bat- tle, throwing his splendor over mountain-peaks, and fill- ing the valley through which we drove with his yellow beams, I felt that I had never seen any thing half so lovely."     354         DE VANE.  De Vane listened to her description with the deepest in-  terest. Her face glowed with animation, and the dark  I splendors of her deep blue eyes was almost dazzling. "Had you any shelter to protect you from the fury of he storm?" asked Waring. "None whatever," she replied, " except a projecting rock from the mountain-side, which actually trembled with the reverberations, and heightened the effect of the scene, making one realize the sublime descriptions of the pro- phets, which represent the earth as conscious of the dread majesty of its Maker, when he looks upon it, and touches the hills." "I well remember it," said Mr. Springfield. (C The horses shook with fear, and it was no easy matter to control them." "I observed the same effect upon mine," said De Vane; "and they could only be restrained from breaking away by my voice, which seemed to reassure them, as I spoke to them in firm, cheerful tones, from time to time. They would draw nearer to me, as if for protection." "Your friend and my friend, Mrs. Bowen, seemed very happy that you have arrived safely," said Mr. Springfield, smiling. "Oh! yes," said De Vane, " she gave me a warm wel- come; and upon entering my room, I saw that I had not been forgotten during my absence." "You may be quite sure of that," said Waring. '"I think that for at least a month past your room has been dusted every morning, just as if you were expected by sunset." They all laughed, and Mrs. Springfield said: "She, is a most excellent person, and you are fortunate, Mr. De Vane, in-having so good a friend." "So I think, madam," said De Vane. "'I prize her highly." "I think," said Mr. Springfield, "it would be hard for   DE VANE.          355 her to decide whether she was more partial to Mr. De Vane or. to Mr. Waring." "It certainly would," said Mrs. Springfield, "for she speaks of you both in terms which imply perfection in both." "She is really very kind," said Waring; "and I have no thought of leaving her hospitable home until I set up my own." "And have you decided when that is to be?" asked Mrs. Springfield. "Oh! no," said Waring; " that is yet in the mists of the future." "And will only be disclosed, I suppose," said De Vane, "when the Maid of the lMist reveals herself in a rainbow of hope." "Ah!" said Waring, " you have been reading Sir Wal- ter Scott." "A very good way of parrying the point," said De Vane. "We must insist upon his being more explicit," s'tid Mrs. Springfield. De Vane observed that Esther heard the conversation, playful as it was, with interest. She - was silent, but aroused and attentive. "Has he been at all demonstrative in any direction since I left, Miss Wordsworth?" inquired De Vane. "Have I Mr. Waring's permission," said Esther, " to re-. port him during the summer?" "I think," said Waring, " that we should first call upon Mr. De Vane to give an account of himself during his ab- sence. It is usual for travelers to entertain their friends upon their return home with a recital of their adventures. That, at least, is the classical style, and so true a friend to the classics as Mr. De Vane, can not, I am sure, resist the examples of Ulysses and /Eneas."     356          DE VANE. "It would require a summer's day or a winter's evening at least," said De Vane, " to relate my adventures, and I insist that so simple a thing as a reply to my question might be disposed of at once. The adroitness of my friend in turning the examination from himself to me rather  : heightens my interest in the subject." "So soon as you obtain Mr. Waring's permission," said Esther, "Ishall be happy to relate all that I know of his X adventures during the summer." "We will wait," said Waring, " until we go out for an evening's ride, and then you are at liberty to give an ac- count to Mr. De Vane of our summer doings, provided he in the mean while shall enlighten us as to his own move- ments."- "What if I have nothing to disclose?" said De Vane. "That supposition is hardly to be tolerated," said War- ing. "Virginia the place and Mr. De Vane the man, these two being known to us, we can not permit ourselves to believe that three months could pass by without events well worthy to be recounted." "The proposition is stated in a very scholarly way," said De Vane, " and is so complimentary to me, that if there were any thing of interest to relate, I should at once, like AEneas in the presence of the Carthaginian queen, be- gin the narration. But mine was a simple visit to an old home, where I wandered upon the mountains and roamed -through the forests, and saw some few friends of the fami- ly, and almost felt myself a boy once more." "Some fair ladies, of course, you met," said Waring. "Yes," said De Vane, "the Guilfords, of whom you lhave heard me speak, and the Hamiltons, who reside near "I remember that you spoke of the Hamiltons in one of your letters," said Waring. "They are charming people," said De Vane; " much the   DE VIANE.          357 most agreeable I met. Elegance without pretension, wealth without pride, piety without bigotry, accomplishments without folly-these are their characteristics."  "They must be charming," said Mrs. Springfield. "I have heard Bishop Me Kendree speak of them in similar terms."  "They are dear friends of the Bishop, I know, madam," said De Vane. "They have a son at this time in Europe,       at the University at Heidelberg. Two daughters are with them. The elder of the two--about eighteen years of age, I suppose-is faultlessly beautiful, and resembling Miss Go- dolphin so closely that I was constantly reminded of her." "She must indeed be beautiful," said Esther. ' Very much -so,' said De Vane. ' You spoke of the Guilfords," said Waring. "Yes," said De Vane, " they are intimate with my aunt, Mrs. De Vane, and I saw them often.:" "I have heard Miss Godolphin describe Miss Clara Guil- ford as very beautiful and accomplished," said Waring. "She is so," said De Vane, " highly so. -A more bril- liant person one rarely meets, and she possesses the quality of preserving her American habits, notwithstanding her very decided taste for European life. She rides on horse- back, over mountains and plains, in the most fearless way, and I found it actually exhilarating to accompany her in some of her daring feats. We rode one morning, after a very early breakfast, to Monticelloy Mr. Jefferson's seat, and finding one of the gates which lay in our way fastened, she drew back a few steps, and dashing forward, leaped the fence, her horse clearing it magnificently. I, of course, followed, and found it somewhat of an exploit." "Fine," said Waring, "fine; and yet she prefers Europe to America?9" "She prefers England," said De Vane, "( and I think she will never live in this country with any thing like satis-     358          DE VANE. faction. She is thoroughly aristocratic, and has many near relatives in England-some of them of very h igh rank."  "She is very unlikU Miss Godolphin, then," daid Esther "She is wholly American, and yet I believe is nearly re. lated to some of the noble families of England.:" "And I admire her for it," said De Vane. "Miss Go- dolphin is a superior person." "She is indeed," said Esther. "I have been much with her through the summer, and I have learned to love hey as much as I admire her. She will be very much pleased to meet you, Mr. De Vane." "I shall take an early day to call on her," said De. Vane. "I bear messages to her firom Miss Guilford, which I must deliver in person." "They met in Europe, I believe," said Esther. "I have heard Miss Godolphin speak of her." "They were much together while abroad," said De Vane, " and under circumstances of extraordinary interest. Miss Guilford gave me an extended account of their travels." "And yet," said Waring, " the one returns to this coun- try estranged from home, while the other loves it more intensely than ever." "Miss Godolphin," said De Vane, " is a person of great depth of character. She has had a large experience of life for one so young, and it has not resulted in making her artificial, but rather in deepening and strengthening the, nobler qualities of her nature." "Is not that a common experience?" said Esther. "I think not," said De Vane. "Very much depends upon organization, however. A noble poet-Lord Byron-- tells us, 'The tree of knowledge is not that of life.'       F    DE VANE.           359 His doctrine is that a knowledge of the world exposes its heartlessness, and disgusts us with life." "A life of dissipation, a life passed amidst scenes which ignore the restraints of Christianity and civilization alike, must disgust us with the world," said Waring, (' because it first disgusts us with ourselves. It is a sorrow that worketh death." ' That is a very harsh judgment upon the noble poet," said De Vane. "I firmly believe that Byron was sadly sinned against. The truth is, when society rises up against a man who has violated some of its conventionalisms, it is terrific in its persecution. I regard- the whole history of Lord Byron's life with compassion. He felt that his race was making war upon him, and he replied to their assaults with scorn and indignation. But there breaks through all this, at times, the cry of a wounded spirit. Is it not his own sadness that he describes in those lines of inconsolable sorrow, too deep for the- ministering tenderness of heaven or earth to read- 'It is that settled ceaseless gloom The fabled Hebrew wanderer bore, Which will not look -beyond the tomb, Yet dares not hope for rest before'?" "It is dreadful," said Esther. "; What wretchedness that must be which neither heaven nor earth can minister to! I confess that I am strongly disposed to pity Lord Byron. Such genius, such unhappiness, such a splendid wreck so early in life! There was great tenderness in his nature. It seems to have been perverted by the misguiding hand of his own mother." "Yes," said De Vane, "your judgment is just. If he had married differently, his life would have been a dif- ferent one. His wife is evidently a cold person--wholly     360          DE VANE.              under the dominion of the rules of society, which are called practical, too often but another name for selfishness. The mother and the wife both helped to ruin him. There was no sympathy with his real nature, and his infirmities grew to be crimes against society." "And do you believe," said Waring, " that there was a]ly real tenderness in his nature? He was harsh and vin- dictive. The rules of society which he violated, are essen- tial to its protection."' "There certainly was great tenderness in his nature," said Esther. "The opening lines of one of the cantos of his Childe Harold attest it unmistakably: 'Ada, sole daughter of my house and heart, Is thy face like thy mother's, My fair child?' It has been some time since I read the lines, but I believe I quote them correctly; and I well remember how this blending of the names of daughter and mother affected me when I read them, and thought of his exile and his desolateness-destined never again to see wife or child." De Vane heard this beautiful, pure being vindicate the claims of the noble but ruined man to the forbearance of society, and the tender judgment of a world that survived him, with the deepest admiration for her courage and her truth; and even Waring found his heart touched with a new sympathy for the man whose genius he had admired, but whose course he unsparingly condemned, because he thought it likely to mislead others. A servant entered, and announced to Mrs. Springfield that supper was on the table. And De Vane, giving his arm to Esther, said: "We must, at some future time, renew this discussion." "Then," said Waring, as they took their seats, "' 1 must find an ally in Miss Godolphin. If I do not misinterpret- a   DE VANE.         361 remark of hers, she will join me in condemnation of the noble poet." "I have the impression,s" said De Vane, "that she has seen him. I am very sure that she is familiar with his history. And I think Miss Guilford informed me that Miss Godolphin had met Lord Byron, when she was very young." "The critics have treated him with such unfairness," said Mr. Springfield, " that I find myself strongly inclined to search for some ground upon which a man of such Splendid abilities may be vindicated against his accusers." "His reply to the critics," said Waring, "makes one half inclined to pity them." "It is somewhat strange," said Mr. Springfield," that Sir Walter Scott not only admired Lord Byron, but felt for him a sincere friendship." "Yes,' said De Vane, " and Lord Byron felt a true re- gard for Sir Walter; and their friendship is in itself a proof that Lord Byron possessed redeeming qualities; for Sir Walter Scott was a pure man, and no friendship could have existed on his part toward any man totally aban- doned." ' So I think," said Mr. Springfield. "Miss Godolphin," said Mrs. Springfield, " went to Ey- rope some five or six years since, and she may have met Lord Byron." "Yes," said De Vane. "He was then in Italy, project- ing his enterprise in behalf of the Greeks; and I know that some persons, very nearly related to Miss Godolphin, accompanied him into Greece." Esther fixed her eyes searchingly upon De Vane's face, as if she would read his whole meaning. It was clear that he had touched a topic which interested her, one in some way connected with the history of Miss Godolphin; and she waited with anxiety to see if he would add any thing 16     362         DE VANE. which might make it plain that he was-acquainted with it. But he said nothing( more. "She was the brightest young person at that time," said Mrs. Springfield, "that I had ever known. Animated, vivacious, joyous; and so young, yet so cultivated. She is even more beautiful now than she was then, for her ex- treme youth was full of promise only, which has now ma- tured into perfection. She is splendidly beautiful, but, there is a shadow upon her brightness which I do not comprehend."  De Vane said not a word. Mr. Springfield said: "I think Miss Godolphin is fast regaining her cheerfulness. She may have lost some near relative abroad, which plunged her into grief; but what- ever may have caused her sadness, it is evidently passing away." "Yes, I think so," said Mrs. Springfield. "Did you carry out your purpose, Miss WordsTworth," asked De Vane, " of taking rides in the saddle?" "Oh! yes," she replied. I was in the country for some time with Miss Godolphin, and it was our habit to ride on horseback daily." "Yes, sir,"-said Waring. "I am happy to :be able to assure you that the ladies both ride excellently. They, of course, ride with grace, and they manage their steeds with admirable skill." "I must thank you," said Esther. "I can assure you, Mr. De Vane, that it is more than Mr. Waring ever said to- us."  "I am bound to make a faithful report to my friend, Mr. De Vane," said Waring, "c of your progress during his absence. I think I promised something of the kind, did I not?" Esther's conscious blush was her only reply; but De Vane said:   DE VANE.          363 "I believe it was understood that you were to keep me informed of events that interested our friends; but he really wrote so rarely, Miss Wordsworth, that I did not know but I might be forgotten before my return." "Wrote so rarely, indeed!" said Waring. "I think I wrote punctually, every Thursday morning; but I was absolutely neglected. Whether I must attribute it to politics, or to the Virginia ladies, or whatever else, I can not say; but I received only some two or three letters from him through the whole summer.", "You know, Waring," said De Vane, " how unjust that accusation is. I assure you, Mrs. Springfield, that I was so engrossed With business, that I found but little leisure for writing to friends; for when I was disengaged from actual occupation, I found it necessary to ramble through the woods to refresh myself. It would have been any thing but a kindness to inflict letters upon a fiiend, written in moments of weariness. And besides this, I was for some weeks engaged in a- struggle to free myself from restraints about me, which threatened to become life-long, unless I was vigorous in resisting them; and it would have been selfish to write under circumstances, when I must have re- cited to a friend what would not have been agreeable to him."' "We are so happy to have you with us again, Mr. De Vane," said Mrs. Springfield, " that we may very well ex- cuse your silence, while engaged in preparations for your return." "So I think," said Mr. Springfield. "Well," said Waring, " as a general amnesty seems to be agreed on, I shall not be so unamiable as to disturb it." "I hope," said De Vanre, " that the horseback riding is not to be relinquished." "By no means," said Esther. "We must enjoy this fine season. The evenings are cool and bracing."     364         DE VANE. "I shall enjoy the rides more than I have ever done," said Waring; " for my friend, Mr. De Vane, has generous- ly brought me from Virginia a very fine horse." "That is a treasure," said Mr. Springfield. "Does he equal Manfred?" asked Esther. "I think he does, fully," said Waring; "and that is high praise, you know." ' Manfred?" said De Vane. "I have not the honor of his acquaintance." "No," said Waring; " he arrived after your departure. He is Miss Wordsworth's Arabian." "Then I hope soon to be introduced to him. Is he an Arabian?" said De Vane. "Yes," said Mr. Springfield, "and a very fine anim'al. Having a decided taste for horses, I have taken great trou- ble to secure the best breeds; and I have bestowed the same care on Esther's plantation that I have on my own. We own several imported horses, and among them is Manfred." "I sympathize strongly with your taste," said De Vane. "I must show you two of my own horses. They are of our very best blood, imported into Virginia-from England, and I think an improvement on the original stock." "They are very fine," said Waring; " but I think that Mr. De Vane, with his accustomed generosity, has present- ed to me the finest of the three." I am glad that you think so," said De Vane; " but it would be no easy task to decide between the rival claims of three animals really so fine." "I shall take great pleasure in seeing them," said Mr. Springfield. "The taste for fine horses is one which I think grows on us. I doubt if we ever lose it. I believe that Esther has it as intensely as I have." "I believe so," said Esther. "I care little for fine car-   DE VANE.         365 riages, or luxurious vehicles of any shape. I like them simply neat. But-I do love fine horses."\ "You are very unlike the Spanish ladies, then," said De Vane. "They rejoice in splendid equipages-the har- ness loaded with plate--and content themselves with mules to draw them." "Some of them are very fine, though," said Waring. "The Andalusian race is said to rival the finest horses." "Nothing," said De Vane, *' can ever rival a blooded horse; and I could not be induced either to ride or drive any other. But we must arrange for an equestrian excur- sion very soon, Miss Wordsworth." ' With pleasure," said Esther. "But we must first see Miss Godolphin." "Of course," said De Vane. "When shall we call, Mr. Waring?" "At any moment that it may be agreeable to you," said Waring. "Very good," replied De Vane. "Then it shall be early." "You will find Mr. Waring," said Esther, "ready to accompany you, I am sure, at any time." ' Ah! he is not reluctant, then, to place himself in dan- ger," said De Vane. "He has shown some courage in that way during the summer," said Esther, "and I suppose has lost nothing of his spirit." "I think, Professor," said Mr. Springfield, "that your friends are so much interested in you, they observe your movements."      . "I regard it as a compliment," said Waring; " and I frankly admit that one who visits Miss Godolphin often, will find it no easy task to remain indifferent to her charms; but I have so long escaped danger, that I am not easily alarmed."     366          DE VANE.               "Take care, Mr. Waring," said Mrs. Springfield. "I    J think Miss Godolphiiu very fascinating."' "I freely confess that," said Waring.  "No one can dispute it who knows her," said De Vane.  "She is very attractive." "She has made a great impression since her return from Europe," said Mrs. Springfield. "I hear every one speak of her in terms of the highest adlmiration."  "The real nobleness of her nature can only be appre-  I ciated by those who know her well," said Esther. "And has Mr. Waring learned to know her well?" asked De Vane.                   '  "He must answer for himself," said Esther. "He car- tainly has had the opportunity to learn her real char-   I  acter."                          I "Come," said M1Irs. Springfield, "I shall protest against Professor Waring's being so closely pressed." "Thank you, madam," said Waring. "It is not the first time you have shown yourself my friend."       i "Mrs. Springfield has rescued you at a  very critical i conjuncture," said De Vane, laughing. "At some time     i Miss Wordsworth, we  must attack him when he is not  supported by his allies."  Rising, they returned to the library, where the conver- sation became -eneral, turning upon the state of the coun- try, at that time  mnuch excited by the presidential can- vass, just drawing toward its close. After some time, De Vane requested Esther to give them some music; and conducting her to the piano, she took up some new sheets of music, which had been placed there that day for the first time. "  What shall I sing, Mr. De Vane?" asked Esther. "You must do me the favor to make your own    selec tion," he replied. "Then," she said, "I will sing one of the songs of Lord   DE VANE.          367 Byron, of whom we have just been speaking. I never saw the music before to-day, but it rivals the lines, and that is great praise." "Ah! and what are the lines?" asked De Vane. "They are one of the Hebrew melodies of the noble poet; sad, of course, but exquisitely tender and beauti- ful," said Esther. "He cals them Herod's Lament for Mariamne; and they are founded upon the account in Jewish history of the murder of that beautiful woman, by a misinterpreted order of Hlerod, upon his departure for battle." She sang the lines with matchless pathos, giving to them a depth and tenderness which were irresistible. When she c ased, every one in the room was in tears, De Vane striving in vain to repress his emotion. "Wonderful!" exclaimed Waring. "Absolutely won- derful! I never comprehended the anguish which Herod must have felt, until now. It is the saddest incident in history--the murder of the beautiful Mariamne, and the impotent rage and self-accusing remorse of Herod upon his return." "I do not know," said De Vane, " whether the lines or the music affect us most. There is wonderful pathos in both. Thanks, Miss Wordsworth: I have once more heard music." Esther rose from the instrument, and soon after the gentlemen took their leave. "Waring," said De Vane, "lMiss Wordsworth is the most extraordinary person I have ever known. Her ac- complishments alone would make her peerless; but when you regard her character, she is absolutely wonderful. I have compared her with others, and when absent from her, thought that some might rival her in personal charms and accomplishments; but since I have seen her once more, I     368         DE VANE. do not hesitate to pronounce her superior to any woman on earth." "I am not surprised to hear you speak of her in such terms," said Waring. "She is a very lovely person, and her whole life is as remarkable as her beauty and her ac- complishments." "You heard me speak of M/Iiss Guilford this evening," said De Vane. "It was the Mm of my aunt to bring about our marriage. Her soul was interested in it. I never witnessed so intense a desire on the part of any one to ac- complish an object; and we were thrown with each other on every occasion. We rode together, walked together, read the same books, conversed without reserve; each studied the other; and I found her a splendidly beautiful and ac- complished woman. She evidently regarded me as lawful spoil, and looked upon me as her captive from the first hour we met. But while she interested me, and filled me with admiration, my heart was as tranquil as if I had been studying a historical personage, or looking daily upon a being of another realm, with whom it was impossible to feel a living sympathy." "I felt a little nervous about you," said Warling, 1" though I said nothing of it in my letters to you." 'i There was not the slightest occasion for it," said De Vane. "My aunt, who is really a noble woman, at length became satisfied that I could never love Clara Guilford; and she has too much heart to wish me to marry one whom I could not love, so that she reluctantly relinquished her scheme. She then spoke to me about Miss Wordsworth, remarking that H had written of her in glowing terms, and that she feared for me. She spoke with kindness, but perfect frankness, and said that it would make my father very unhappy if he supposed it possible that I could ever form such a connection; that she knew he would never require me to marry any woman who was distasteful to   DE 'TVANE.         369- me; but that she was equally sure he would never give his consent to my marrying any one at all inferior to me' in social position. Wealth he cared nothing about. We had that. But social position he did value. I then gave my aunt an account of Miss Wordsworth throughout; described, her as she is-her beauty of person, her accom- plishments, her intellect, her character, her self-sacrificing life, her freshness, her soul. In short, I said to her all that you can imagine I would say of suceI a woman; and I saw that my aunt was interested. 'But then,' said she, she is a Methodist, and the daughter of a. M!ethodist preacher, and your father will never tolerate that.' I insisted that such a prejudice was unworthy of any one, and that I was sure my father was too noble to suffer it to sway him, if he could but know Miss Wordsworth. I spoke of Mr. and Mrs. Springfield, and of yourself, Waring; and she became deeply interested. From day to day she spoke of the matter to me; asked minutely about Miss Words- worth, and, indeed, about you all; and I saw that she was fast coming over to my side. She has great con- fidence in two things-my pride and my truthfulness. Miss Guilford had described Miss Godolphin to my aunt, and when she found that she was intimate with Miss Wordsworth, who was at that tiane actually her guest, as you wrote me, it effected quite a revolution in her senti- ments. I said to my aunt that I felt the greatest interest in Miss Wordsworth, but that I had never made up my own mind in regard to our future relations, and that, of course, I had never spoken to her on the subject, nor could I know how she regarded me. My aunt seemed to fancy that Miss Wordsworth was too much engrossed- with her benevolent and romantic scheme, as she called it, at Lea- sowes, ever to relinquish it, and that she could not make any man a good wife, unless she abandoned it, so far, at least, as to intrust it to others. But I became satisfied 16*     370          DE VANE. that I should find a warm supporter in Mrs. De Vane, if it ever became necessary to appeal to her, in a contest with my father, respecting Miss Wordsworth. "I have spoken to you, Waring, with great frankness. My interview with Miss Wordsworth has reawakened all my interest in her. She is transcendently lovely; and she is the only woman who really ever made any impression upon my heart." In their conversation, they had unconsciously extended their walk far beyond their lodgings. They stood now near the College grounds; and the scattered lights in the windows showed that some of the students were yet busy with their books. "De Vane," said Waring, "I am very glad that you have spoken to me. From the first day that we met each other within those walls, that now stand out against the starlit sky; I have felt an interest in you, which has deep- ened into unchanging friendship. My regard for rMiss Wordsworith is as great as it is for yourself. Never until this evening, did I comprehend the nature of the interest which you feel in her. Allow me to say, that when you met, I observed you, and I became satisfied instantly, that what I had supposed might be only admiration, was some- thing deeper and intenser. It has filled me with anxiety. I speak frankly; for I am too deeply interested in you to speak with indifference, or in the language of complaint. You might well hope to interest any woman. But there are great barriers between yourself and Miss Wordsworth. She is as proud as you are. A loftier spirit I never knew. She would suffer martyrdom rather than yield to a sen- timent which she thought should be checked and re- strained." "But what barriers can there be?" exclaimed De Vane impatiently. "The aristocratic position and unyielding prejudices of   DE VANE.          371 General De Vane, and your own want of sympathy with the religious views of Miss rWordsworth." De Vane was silent. He put his arm in that of Waring, and they retraced their steps. Rising clouds swept over the heavens. The whole Southern sky was dark, and as the night-breeze strength- ened, the stars began to disappear. In spite of his own judgment, De Vane felt saddened by the aspect of the heavens. That lurking belief in the sympathy of nature with our fortunes, and of its power to foreshadow coming events, which we all experience, caused him to turn his eyes anxiously upon the darkening sky; and he found more to cheer him than he would admit to himself, when the freshening wind drove the clouds before it, and he saw through the rifts a star shedding its radiance calmly amidst the surrounding gloom, and lighting the Southern horizon with its lustre, when blankness covered the face of every other planet that burned in the firmament.     CHAPTER VII. WHAT is your substance, whereof are you made, That millions of strange shadows on you tend? Since every one hath, every one, one shade, And you, but one, can every shadow lend. SHAKESPEARE. Tar. next morning, when De Vane and Warnng were seated Bt the breakfast-table, Mr. Swan, the public garden- er, entered, bearing a most elaborate bouquet. Advancing to De Vane, he made him a set speech, expressing his gra- tification at his return, wishing him the greatest prosper- ity, and concluding by asking him to be so condescending - as to accept the flowers which he had gathered from his garden.   De Vane thanked him for his kindness, and as- sured him that he appreciated the flowers, which were really beautiful; and then Mr. Swan, making a bow which was intended to be magnificent, retired. "Those flowers are rare and beautiful," said Waring; "and Mr. Swan is certainly an admirer." "Yes," said Mrs. Bowen, "that Mr. Swan is really a nice man; he seems to be very well disposed." "I  He is quite an ardent friend of Mr. De Vane," said Waring; "   and that, of course, argues a certain degree of merit in the man himself." "Thank you," said De Yane. "But Mr. Swan is really a good man; he loves his calling, and extends his regards naturally to any one who sympathizes with his taste. I was able to explain to him, at one time, the history of a   - DE VANE.      -    873 tulip of extraordinary beauty, very rarely seen in this country, and he has been my friend from that hour." "Ranking you for wisdom with King Solomon himself," sfaid Waring, "who spoke of trees, from the cedar-tree that is Lebanon, even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall." 'Then he greatly overrates my knowledge," said De Vane, laughing. After breakfast, De Vane called Caesar to him, and in- structed him to show his servant the way to Mr. Spring- field's. He then handed to Tully a small silver waiter, upon which the bouquet was placed, with a note addressed to Miss Wordsworth, and directed him to deliver it to her servant. Tully, returning some time after, brought a note on his waiter, which he presented to his master. It was the first note that De Vane had ever received from Esther, and its perfectly graceful and faultless style, while it did not surprise-certainly charmed him. He placed it with his treasures. In the evening, Waring proposed to De Vane that they should walk to the river, and they turned their .steps in that direction. Reaching the mill, they stood to admire the scene. The flashing water flew in silver spray from the wheel; the river rushed over the rocksj which strove in vain to impede its course. Evergreen trees hung over its banks, and the vine dipped its red berries in the stream, while the sunbeams flamed over the picture, giving it a warm coloring. "1How beautiful this is!:' said Waring. "Do you re- member, De Vane, that we took this very walk about twelve months since?"  4 ' Perfectly well," said De Vane; " and every thing vivid- ly recalls it. It seems a great while, when I look back, and yet but twelve months have gone by; but what event-     374         DE VANE. ful months! I can scarcely recognize myself. The truth is, we date the length of existence by our emotions." "True, most true," said Waring. "We have no actual measure of time but consciousness." Following the windings of the stream, they came to the road leading from the ferry; and involuntarily both paused, and both were silent. With De Vane memory was busy, and Waring respected his emotions. The past rose before them both. The brilliant evening, the glowing western sky, the waters reddening under the glancing sunlight, the ferry-boat still plying between the risin  banks--all were before them once more. De Vane saw trough the luminous past the traveling-carriage, the party following it as it ascended the hill, and Esther in her glorious youth- ful beauty; and he felt that his real existence had taken i its conscious vitality from that moment. "Yes, it is true," said De Vane. "We live only as the  soul receives its impressions. It sheds its own inherent light upon the outward world."           i He spoke unconsciously. His eyes were fixed upon the  stream, which flowed swiftly on its shining way, in itself a picture of human life: sometimes brightened by the  i splendors of the sun, then darkened by overhanging sha- dows; but, whether in sunshine or shadow, gliding on- ward to the wide sea. Turning away from the scenery which so much interest- ed them, they retraced their steps; and just as they were crossing the main street, near the State House, the splen- did equipage of Mrs. Habersham drove up. Mrs. Haber- sham and Miss Godolphin both recognized De Vane, and the coachman being ordered to draw up his horses, the gentlemen advanced to the carriage.  "We are delighted to see you, Mr. De Vane," said Miss Godolphin, extending her hand to him, " and we give you a warm welcome."   DE VANE.          375 Mrs. Habersham, too, shook his hand with real pleasure, find said: "Yes Mr. De Vane, we are happy to see you once more." De Vane made his acknowledgments for their gracious- ness, and Waring coming up, they entered' into conversa- tion with the ladies, which was closed, after some minutes, by an invitation to them to pass the evening at Mrs. Ha- bersham's, an invitation readily accepted; and the spirited horses dashed away once more. "How resplendent Miss Godolphin is!" said De Vane. "I never saw her looking so well." ' She is brilliant," said Waring. "Have you seen much of her through the summer?" asked De Vane. "Yes," replied Waring. "I have been much with her. She is deeply interested in the subject of religion, and is  an earnest seeker after the right way. With all her intel- lect, she is child-like-not childish, :which is a widely dif- ferent thing, but simple, truthful, guileless," De Vane heard Waring's glowing tribute with interest, and he observed how much his ardor in speaking of Miss Godolphin had increased, since his recent intercourse with her had enabled him to study her character more closely. It was not to be wondered at; no one could know her without coming within the range of her fascination. Ear- ly in the evening they made their visit. They were received by Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin with mrarked cordiality, and the tea service was immediately brought in. The elegance, indeed the splendor of every thing-the furniture, the pictures, the statuary-imparted an aristocratic aspect to the house, rarely seen in this country; and the tastes of both the ladies were under- stood to partake of the same character. A certain hau- teur appeared in the manner of Mrs. Habersham, and there was a stateliness about Miss Godolphin that repelled many,     376         DE VANE. who thought her pride quite equal to that of her aunt. They recognized De Vane as a peer from the first; and they had learned to appreciate Waring--to6 comprehend the elevation of his character and the high order of his abilities-by an intercourse with him which had now be- come so well established, that he was always received as a friend. His fine sense, his large attainments, his pure and yet warm nature, had won upon them both; and Miss Godolphin had unconsciously become deeply interested in him. All unacquainted with the cause of her occasional sadness, Waring saw so much to admire in the high quali- ties of Miss Godolphin, that he found a strange pleasure in her society; and his visits of late had become so fie-  quent, as to attract the observation of his friends. Mr. and Mrs. Springfield, of course, could not be ignorant of his growing interest in her, and they had once or twice  spoken to him playfully in regard to it. This evening De i Vane became satisfied that his friend's interest in Miss Godolphin was really deep, and he felt that he could no longer forbear to disclose to him all that he had learned respecting her history from -Miss Guilford during his late visit to Virginia. It so happened that the conversation turned upon subjects which touched European events. "And you met the Guilfords, Mr. De Vane, when in Vir- ginia, did you not?" asked Miss Godolphin. "Often, very often. They are near neighbors and Mrs. De Vane and Mrs. Guilford have long been friends," re- plied De Vane. "We traveled with them so long in Europe," said Miss Godolphin, " that we knew them well. Not only were we with them on the Continent, but we were much together in England. Are her tastes as English as ever?" "Quite," said De Vane. "She is to go out again early next spring." "It does not surprise me," said Miss Godolphin. "She o                 .  -" Wt L17   DE VANE.         3" can never be happy in this country. England is, in all. respects, suited to her-tastes." "That is the conclusion that I reached," said De Vane. "She is a person of extraordinary beauty," said Miss Godolphin, "and her accomplishments are rare: I felt a little curious to know how you withstood her attractions." "I am so patriotic," said De Vane, "that I found myself in perpetual antagonism with Miss Guilford. Our disputes ran so high, that Mrs. De Vane found it necessary some- times to interfere, for the preservation of amicable relations. She-charged me-with a want of loyalty to my caste, and I retorted by charging upon her a want of loyalty to the country; so that you may imagine the disputes ran high." Miss Godolphin laughed heartily. "And so you were not ensnared?" she said. "Oh! no," said De Vane. "There was a state of quasi- hostilities between us all the while, and she at length gave me up to my degenerate tastes." "Clara Guilford," said Miss Godolphin, "is a splendid person-intellectual, accomplished, full of animation and energy; but she is wholly unsuited to this chuntry. Noth- ing short of a visit to Europe every year or two will con- tent her; and where one is so wholly dependent upon society for happiness, I can not believe that there is much heart. Yet she certainly is not destitute of feeling." "' No," said De Vane. "She possesses sensibility-a-high degree of it; and it may be that she is not incapable of forming a very strong attachment. But I should fear that her tastes would interfere with it. She loves rank, splen- dor, the great world; and if she should encounter a re- verse, if an eclipse should come over her fortunes, I do not know how she would bear it." "I never thought her capable of feeling what I should call a strong attachment," said Miss Godolphin. Mrs. Habersham and Waring had been in conversation, -      378      ,    DE VANE. but as Miss Godolphin said this, he fixed his eyes on her with a steadfast gaze, and was silent. Mrs. Habersham observed this, and said: "Who are you discussing, Hortensia? You must per- mit Mr. Waring and myself to share it." "I was speaking with Mr. De Vane," she said, " of a friend of ours in Virginia. Do you not remember Clara Guilford?"' "Perfectly well," said Mrs. Habersham; " the most bril- liant person we met in Europe." "So I remember you thought her," said Miss Godolphin. "Mr. De Vane has been much with her through the sum- mner, and has returned unscathed by her charms." ' That is very wonderful," said Mrs. Habersham. "I never met a more attractive person. EIow did you escape, M{r. De Vane?" "It must be, madam, some defect in myself, some insen- sibility to such charms; or it may be that I was shielded by some invisible goddess, as JEneas was sometimes pro- tected when in danger." "There may be much truth in what you say," said Miss Godolphin mischievously. "Nothing else can account for it," said Mrs. Habersham. "Do you not say so, Mr. Waring?" "The extreme danger that Mr. De vane was in, and the extraordinary escape which he has made, would seem to authorize such a conjecture," said Waring. "Mr. DeVane well knows that one of the rules of dramatic classical art is, never to introduce a celestial being, without something worthy of such interference should demand it; and I sup- pose the rule has not been violated in his case." (' But who is the celestial being that interposed?" asked Miss Godolphin. "Some one it must have been that felt a deep interest in Mr. De Vane's welfare," said WTaring.   DE VANE.          379 "And lovely enough to rank with celestials, of course," said Miss Godolphin. "It seems to me that you are combining against Mr. De Vane," said Mrs. Habersham. "I must really take part with him." "Very well, aunt," said Miss Godolphin; c if you think it necessary to succor one who is aided by some celestial being." "I am grateful to you, Mrs. Habersham, for your friend- ly sympathy," said De Vane. "I did not understand their object when I made my re- mark as to the mode of your escape from Miss Guilford's charms, iMr. De Vane, I assure you. Hortensia is, I see, somewhat disposed to perstecute you this evening." "No one can be more innocent than I am, aunt. Mr. De Vane himself first suggested the nature of the assist- ance he had received; and I was only curious'to know something of the personnel of a being at once so benevo- lent and so charming. Are you sure about her wings?" 'a To all of which I can say nothing," said De Vane. "If I am indebted to celestial aid at all for my escape from the charms of Miss Guilford, the being who succored me was invisible. I only intended to assure you, in the most em- phatic way, of my insensibility. Of that, there can be no doubt." "Perhaps the revealing future may yet bring to our view the friendly goddess," said Miss Godolphin. ( If so," said De Vane, "I shall gratefully acknowledge her kind offices, and submit myself unfalteringly to her guidance." "You could not do better, I assure you, than to do so," said Waring. "It sometimes happens in life, it may be, that an impression made on us, of which we are ourselves scarcely conscious, renders us insensible to the attractions of all the world besides, however it may array itself after- ward.',     380         DE VANE. Miss Godolphin's face was a study. The light which illumined it had been unusually brilliant-never more so. It was the cloudless sky of a summer day; but now a cloud stole over it, dimming its splendor. She was silent. Waring observed it, and was embarrassed. De Vane saw that the subject must be changed, and he said to Miss Godolphin that he had heard, since his arrival, of her growing taste for equestrian excursions. "Mr. Waring informs me," he said, "that he had the pleasure of joining you in several rides during the sum- mer." "Yes," she replied, "Mr. Waring was good enough to accompany Miss Wordsworth and myself several times; and when in the country, we often rode the whole morn-  ing without any one to attend us. We found it delightful." "I hope that you will not discontinue the habit," said De Vane. "I have been promising myself the pleasure of attending you frequently. Miss Wordsworth assures me that she will be ready to accompany us." "Thank you," said Miss Godolphin. "I shall be happy to join you at any time." "Then," said De Vane, "we will make an early arrannge- ment for a ride. iMr. Waring will, of course, join us?" "With the greatest pleasure," said Waring. "The fall is beautiful; and in fine weather, I much prefer the saddle to a carriage of any description." It was settled that during the next week they should begin their excursions. De Vane requested Miss Godolphin to give them some music. "Do you prefer the harp or the piano?" she asked. "Which shall it be, Mr. Waring?" said De Vane. "With Miss Godolphin's voice, I prefer the harp," said Waring. She instantly rose, and took her seat by the instrument.   DE VANE.          381 Her fingers swept its chords with marvelous skill; and after playing a symphony of exquisite beauty, she sang those lines of Moore, so full of tender sympathy, "Has sorrow thy young days shaded?" And the deep, almost spiritual tenderness of her tones affected those who heard her indescribably. It was as if an angel, saddened by some scene of the past, forgot for a moment the bliss of heaven, and touched the harp at- tuned for celestial melody, with the tones of earthly sor- row. As the last lines were uttered by her, her clasped hands, half hidden by the drapery of her dress, disclosed the strength of her own emotions. For some minutes she did not move, and then rising slowly, she seated herself near Mrs. Habersham. "Thank you," said De Vane. "There are no songs like those of Moore. Their beauty and tenderness are inim-  itable."  "It is wonderful," said Miss Godolphin, "that a person so gay as Moore shourd have been able to write as he I  does. He must have suffered."  "One would suppose so," said Waring. "It is said that a comedian in Paris, who drew immense crowds night after night, to witness his unrivaled gayeties, called on an  eminent physician, to consult him in regard to a depres-  sion of spirits which he could not shake off, and which he therefore thought must be the result of physical disorgan-  -.ation. He called incognito; and the physician, unable to discover any symptoms of disease, advised him to visit  the theatre, and witness the performances of the cele-  brated Monsieur .Vaudeville, then attracting such audi- ences. 'Alas!' exclaimed the actor, 'I am that very  Monsieur Vaudeville.' So little can we judge of the inte-  rior nature by outward gayety. It may be so with Moore."      382         DE VANE.  "Moore sings his own songs exquisitely," said Miss Godolphin. "We heard him in London. He sat down quickly when invited to sing, ran his fingers over the keys of the instrument, and then sang like an imnprovisatore, iving the fullest effect to every sentiment, by his manner of uttering the words. I remember that on one occasion,  in the presence of a somewhat large company, he sang one of his melodies with such resistless pathos, that every one  sympathized with him; and when it was ended, he rose  from his seat, bowed to the lady whose reception he graced with his presence, and glided from the room. Something was said by one of the party, within my hear- ing, of an early attachment between himself and the lady  at whose house we were entertained."  "There is enough in the condition of his country to  awaken his patriotism," said De Vane. "I wonder that he has not written olre on that subject than he has. Sonme of his national songs are very fine."  "He is much in England," said Miss Godolphi, " and  welcomed by the aristocratic circles, not only of London,  but in the country; and this, of course, while it does not lessen his loyalty to Ireland, softens the asperity which characterizes all that is written by most men of genius in that country." "Y et," said Waring, nothing can be finer than some of his tributes to Ireland." "  Oh! unquestionably," said De Vane. "Some of them would rouse Ireland to flame, if they could be su n  or recited throughout the country, as the ancient bards re- hearsed their poems in the midst of their countrymen. After some formal conversation upon local topics, the gentlemen took their leave of the ladies, and walked slowly homeward. "You must have observed, De Vane," said Waring, how sudden the change in Miss Godolphin's spirits was,   DE VANE.          383 and it was evidently caused by the conversation upon the subject of some reigning attachment, which made it im- possible for one who had experienced it to feel any deep interest in another afterward. What does it mean? Can it be possible that she has loved, and loved hopelessly? One can hardly suppose so. And yet there are circum- stances which, at times, almost satisfy me that it is so. What do you think of it?" "There are recollections," said De Vane, "which sad-  den Miss Godolphin. I learned her history from Miss Guilford. It- is proper that I should make known to you what has been stated to me. I should have written to you in regard to it, but I was unwilling to commit  to paper statements of such extreme delicacy connected     , with the name of a lady. "It seems that when Miss Godolphin went to Europe,  now nearly five years since, when she was very young,  that she passed the first six months in England with her relatives. She was much admired, and received atten- tions from several gentlemen, who saw her at the resi- dence of her uncle, Sir George Godolphin. His only son, at that time barely twenty-two years of age, became very  strongly attached to Miss Godolphin, and addressed her.  She rejected him; and finding her stay under the same roof with her cousin embarrassing to both, she prevailed  on Mrs. Habersham to go to the Continent. Passing  through Paris, after a brief visit to that city, they pro-  ceded to Italy, and took up their residence there. Lord Byron was at that time residing near the place where they had fixed their own residence, and was projecting his en- terprise for aiding Greece in her great struggle for inde- pendence. He saw the ladies, and sometimes visited them. At this time young Godolphin, unable to conquer his pas- sion, came to Italy, and renewed his suit to Miss Godol-   j phin. He urged her to reconsider her resolution-to per- sion, came to Italy, and renewed his suit to Miss Godol-     384         DE VANE. mit him to hope-to subject him to any probation, that he  might satisfy her of the unconquerable strength of his love. She was touched by his ardor and constancy, but  still steadily refused to contract any engagement with him.  Young Godolphin remained with them, joined them in . their excursions, and made the acquaintance of Lord Byron. Miss Godolphin herself had caught the enthusi-  astic interest in the fortunes of Greece which filled the  soul of the noble poet; and she expressed the wish in the presence of her cousin, that she could do something to aid that heroic people, struggling for liberty. Inflamed with the hope of acquiring some real interest in the heart of Miss Godolphin, by offering his services to Greece, and sharing, too, the enthusiasm which fired Lord Byron, he  devoted himself to the same cause. "Miss Godolphin encouraged his purpose, and for the first time really regarded him with admiration. Young, noble, accomplished, and generous, he might well interest any woman. His fortune was very large, and he employed much of it in the cause which he had espoused. The whole energy of his nature was enlisted-for he never did any thing by halves. "Hle accompanied Lord Byron when he entered Greece, and perished in an engagement in which he took part, soon after the death of the noble poet. Sir George Godolphin was overwhelmed with grief, when the tidings of the death of his son reached him; and wrote to Miss Godolphin, re- proaching her in bitter terms, as the cause of the desola- tion of his house. "She was plunged into deep grief. Her own spirit gave the keenest edge to the accusations of Sir George. She felt that she had inflamed the ambition of the generous man who loved her so ardently, and she could not still the voice of her own soul, which spake to her in tones of an- guish, of the fatal effects of her visit to the house of her   DE VANE.         385 uncle, then so bright and happy, now so dark and deso-  late. If she could have brought herself to yield to the passionate entreaties of her cousin, all might have been averted; but then she did not love him. She might have done so in time; but she had searched her young, true heart, and found it impossible to promise him any thing which could encourage him. Then ambition, rising up within him, while love was yet unconquered, impelled him to the step which sacrificed his own life, brought darkness upon the stately towers of his ancestral home, and threw a rayless shadow upon the morning of her life. "You comprehend now, much that has seemed so mys- terious to us in the manner of Miss Godolphin." "Yes, yes," said Waring, "I see it all. Self-accusing, full of remorse, she has mourned young Godolphin as none but the most generous natures can mourn the dead. The youth, the ardor, the enthusiasm, the self-sacrificing spirit of the man whom she could not love while living, all con- spire to make her love his memory."             i "It is the settled opinion of Miss Guilford," said De Vane, "that Miss Godolphin not only never loved her     X cousin, but that she never could have done so. She ob-    i served their intercourse, and knew the sentiments of Miss  Godolphin well. She attributes her sadness, which was much greater formerly than it is now, to remorse. She fancies that the fate of young Godolphin was caused by herself, and she has tortured herself, as a generous and strong nature will do, under such circumstances. She is satisfied that this is the true solution of Miss Godolphin's grief. She had brilliant offers while abroad, from Engl;sh gentlemen, and from her own countrymen, but she reject- ed them in every instance, unhesitatingly." De Vane was full and emphatic in this sttement, from a desire to relieve Waring of that apprehension which he knew he must entertain of the nature of Miss Godolphin's  17 i     886         DE VANE. sadness. He saw how deep his interest in her was-too deep now to be concealed; and from a generous sympa- thy with his friend, he sought to remove the slightest ground for the belief that she had ever loved. "Thank you, De Vane, for your kindness," said War- ing. "I comprehend Miss Godolphin now. She is alt extraordinary woman, whose glorious nature has been too long darkened by sorrow-sorrow that she should never have indulged. I am greatlyrelieved. I confessto you that my interest in her is very strong, Her generous reception of me from the first hour of our acquaintance; her glorious scorn of all little and contemptible conven- tionalisms; her grand love of truth wherever she sees it; her beautiful appreciation of what is good, whether in high life or humble life-all this, and much more, has won me, in spite of my reserve and caution. Still I could not banish some distrust. I feared that she had loved, and loved hopelessly; and to one of my nature, this would have been intolerable. I am greatly relieved. I did not comprehend until now, the extent of my interest in Mist Godolphin." "I rejoice'to be able to contribute any thing to your happiness," said De Vane. "I have observed your inter- est in Miss Godolphin, and I felt it my duty to make known to you the statement which I had from Miss Guil- ford. She speaks with enthusiasm of Miss Godolphin, and wonders that any one can withstand her charms." "So do I," said Warin earnestly and quickly, an with perfect simplicity. It does not surprise me to hear you say so," said De Vane. "But fortunately, the fatal arrows from one quiver do not pierce all hearts, otherwise the world would be in a'hopeless state." "Certainly," said Waring, laughing, "certainly--you are right."   DE VANE.         387 "So excuse me for not attempting to rival you," said De Vane. "I am, De Vane, under great obligations to you for your forbearance,' said Waring. "I do not know how Miss Godolphin may regard my presumption, but I certainly can never regard any other woman than herself, as entitled to the homage of my heart." "Presumption, indeed!" said De Vane. "Any woman on earth might feel herself honored by your addresses. If I do not misinterpret Miss Godolphin, she is capable of appreciating you. She is a noble woman, and her soul rises above the distinctions which some regard as so vast and so important." They had reached home; but neither felt inclined to sleep. They sat down in Waring's room, and De Vane, opening the melodeon-which he had not touched since his return-played a grand old piece. Through the notes there rolled the exultant tone of youth and hope; and as he con- cluded it, the volume of sound, rising beyond the limits of the apartment, floated out upon the night air, and was borne toward the heavens, which, bending over the earth, seemed to sympathize with human hearts, and to cheer all souls which could look away from the present and the actual, to the invisible but still real and revealing future. * \     CHAPTER   VIII. "SHE her throne makes Reason climb, While wild passions captive lie, And each article of time, Her pure thoughts to heaven fly; All ler vows religious be, And she vows her love to me." WILLIAM HABINeTON. SOME engagement took Waring to the College, the next morning, Saturday as it was, and De Vane walked to Lea- sowes. He had not visited it since his return, and he felt a strong inclination to walk through the grounds. It was not at all certain that he should meet Esther, as it was only occasionally that she visited the place on Satur- day; but he wished to visit walks so endeared to him by associations. He entered the grounds at about ten o'clock in the forenoon, and turning to the right, walked slowly through the wild orange trees, whose branches, trimmed in a tasteful way, suffered the sunlight to fall upon the graveled Walks, as through the windows of a cathedral upon its paved floor. No one was visible; and seating himself at length upon one of the iron settees, he recalled the morning when, walking by the side of Esther by this very spot, he had named her place Leasowes. The warmth of his manner had, on that occasion, startled her. He had observed it, and he had restrained himself afterwarld, up to the very hour of his departure from Virginia. Even then he had asked no more than to be admitted upon a footing of fiiendship--friendship in a high sense, but only (388)   DE VANE.         389 friendship. His future was at that time all uncertain. His residence had not then been fixed--at least, his own selec- tion was open to objections which his father might urge- nor had he then satisfied himself as to the nature and strength of his sentiments respecting Esther. But now no question could be raised as to where his home was to be, nor could he longer doubt that he loved with all the ener- gy of his nature. Why, then, should he longer delay a frank declaration of his love? Why should he leave him- self in doubt as to Esther's interest in him? Why hesitate to obey the strong promptings of his own heart? After sitting for a half-hour almost unconscious of his surroundings, he heard voices in a neighboring walk, and he instantly recognized them. Miss Godolphin and Esther were in earnest conversation. He heard his own name mentioned by ]Miss Godolphin, and he at once rose and walked away, feeling that he ought not to hear a conver- sation which was not intended for his ear. Passing into another walk, he pursued it until it emerged at the base of the hill whvre the fountain was throwing its bright waters into the pure morning sunlight, and he seated himself upon.  the very spot which he occupied when he had last met    I Esther here. Again memory was busy. The past was re-  called; and the beautiful, clear truthfulness of Esther, her modest yet noble utterance of her sentiment, her glowing beauty-all were before him. He had risen from his seat, and was looking over the railing that surrounded the mar- ble basin into which 'the waters of the fountain fell, per- fectly abstracted from all the objects about him, when he was startled by a voice very near him: "Good morning! Mr. De Vane. I welcome you once more to Leasowes." -He started, and turning, saw Esther. There she stood in her resplendent beauty, more elaborately and elegantly dressed than was usual with her when at Leasowes, and \              390 390         DE VANE. her manner so playfull and bright, that De Vane felt he had never seen her when she appeared so lovely. I owe you an apology, lMiss Wordsworth he Said,  "for trespassing upon your seclusion here without your permissiol, but could not resist my wish to isit this spot once more." "(Permission!" said Esther. "Do you not remember that I gave you an invitation long since to visit Leasowes whenever you found it agreeable to do so?" "Perfectly well," said De Vane; 'but as I have been an exile for the last three months, I should have sought anew your gracious permission before entering your realm." "I am not so arbitrary a sovereign as to require a new pledge of loyalty every three'months from friends." Thank you," said De Vane  for not doubting my loy- alty. It has been unswerving I assure you. I am de- lighted to meet you alone, that I may say so with all the ardor which my nature prompts." Esther colored, and then became very pale, but she made no reply. De Vane's manner, much more than his languagrre, startled and embarrassed her. "I am very fortunate, Miss WYordsworth in meeting you here. I was by no means sure that I should find you." "I have been driving with Miss Godolphin this morn- ing," she replied, "and she had put me down here but a short time since. We hard walked some little time through the grounds, when she left me, that I might pay a flying visit to my little girls; and as I entered the house, I saw you, and came to welcome you." "Miss Wordsworth, it would be impossible to conceal my interest in you, ifI desired to do so. Long before my departure for Virginia it must have been known to you, but I was not at liberty to speak of it. Every thing was ynsettled--my residence, my whole future. Now every hint is understood--I am to reside here, and whatever   DE VANE.         891i plans may have been laid out for me by others, of course are disposed of by my fixing upon this place as my resid- ence, and deciding to take part in the active employments of life. I am at liberty to speak to you. I know my own heart, and you are enthroned in it for all the future." Again Esther's face was flushed to the temples, and she was evidently deeply moved. Her emotion did not permit her to speak. De Vane, ardent as he was, treated her with the profoundest respect. She had seated herself, and  he stood before her, his arms folded and' his lips corn-  pressed. ' Speak to me, Miss Wordsworth, speak to me. I love  you deeply, passionately, unchangeably. Will you per- mit me to l1.ve you? Will you say that I may indulge a  sentimlent Nwhich it would be impossible to conquer? Or are you too cold to experience the glow of earthly pas-  sion?" Esther raised her glowing face, and far down in her fathomless eyes he read a soul capable of profoundest sen- timent. "I do not know how to answer you, Mr. De Vane. Coldness is no part of my nature."  De Vane sat down by her side, and took her hand; it  trembled.              . "And may I hope, Esther, that you do not regard me with indifference?" - "I should always reproach myself; Mr. De Vane, if I were to speak to you now in any other way than with perfect frankness. I do not regard you with indifference, but I fear to trust my own heart."  "And why should you fear, Esther? What is there to  i inspire distrust?" "Oh! much, very much. The solemn injunction of a dying mother binds me to duties which might be distaste-  fal to you. Your views of religion differ widely from  !! - A)  ,          X,     392         D E VANE. mine; and wlile I honor you too much to believe you capable of sharing the prejudice, yet I know that your father and your aunt regard me as belonging to a despised people." "And what are their prejudices to us?" said De Vane. "When they come to know you, they will honor and love you." "Still," said Esther, "I could never consent to intro- duce unhappiness into any family. It was but a few mo- ments since that I was with Miss Godolphin. She spoke of you, of your father, and of your aunt, and I saw. our re- lations as I had never seen them before. Never, never could I be happy if I were to darken any house, especially such a house as yours, so full of ancestral pride, all of which is centered on you." "But, Esther, dearest Esther, do you not regard my happiness? WTould you sacrifice me on the cruel altar of family pride? Then, too, you overrate the barrier to which you refer. It will at once give way when you are knowIn." "I would not sacrifice you, Mr. De Vane, to any false sentiment of my own. It is due to truth to say that I prize the love with which you have honored me, but in the face of an unhappy father you would read my condem- nation; and if your magnanimity did not permit you to reproach me, your heart would suggest accusations against me. Then, too, the want of sympathy in our religious views would deprive me of the consolation which I should so much need if I saw you made unhappy because of me." "O Esther! do not torture yourself and me by such ap- prehensions. My dearest Esther, these are only summer clouds, which will pass over, and leave us a cloudless heaven." "Still, Mr. De Vane," she said, "while I must be loyal to truth, and say as I do that my own heart pleads for   DE VANE.          393 you, I must say too, with perfect sincerity, that while these barriers exist, we can only be friends." Tears filled her eyes, and after trembling for a moment upon the dark lashes, rolled down her cheeks. She could no longer restrain herself. She wept as if the fountains of feeling so long repressed had broken from the control under which she had hitherto held them, and would have their way. Her young, pure, generous heart suffered in the fierce struggle between love and duty, and she could not still its throbbings. De Vane was deeply affected. His respect for her was as great as his love. The perfect puri- ty of her character, the nobleness of her nature, which, disdaining all false sentiments, prompted her to avow her regard for him; while the majestic sense of duty which reifgned within her prevented her from yielding to his wishes, and forbade her to enter into any engagement with him; all this filled him with a sentiment almost of ven- eration for the woman whom he regarded with a feeling amounting to adoration. He held her hand in silence for some moments, suffered the violence of her emotions to subside, and then spoke to her cheerfully: "Well, dearest Esther, all that I ask is, that you will give me time to remove these barriers. We understand each other. I can trust you without vows. There is no possibility of change on my part, and all will yet be well with us.'" "O change! There can be no change in me. I am not subject to change even in friendship, and I have never known what it was to feel an interest in any one such as I feel in you. Do not urge me, Mr. De Vane. You are right, you can trust me without vows. We comprehend each other now, and we must trust each other for all the fu- ture." De Vane bowed, his head, and kissed her hand-the first touch of lips, warmed by passion, which she had ever felt.     394         DE VANE. She withdrew her hand, and rose from her seat. They stood by the fountain; its waters flashed in the sunlight, and fell in sparkling spray; and as the breeze swept it lightly, a rainbow spanned the little basin. "See, Esther," said De Vane, "you think that a cloud rests upon our future; there is our bow of promise. It spans your own fountain." A smile, bright as sunlight, overspread her face, and her eyes shone through the lingering tears with a richer lustre than that which gilded the falling waters of the fountain. They turned into one of the walks, and De Vane said: "You refuse, Esther, to bind yourself to me by vows, but you have made me transcendently happy by avow- ing your interest in me. Your decision is not the result of indifference. I shall labor to remove the barriers which to you seem so formidable; when that is done, I hope to claim you as my own." "You may underrate the magnitude of the obstacles to which I refer, Mr. De. Vane," she replied. "I have spoken with perfect frankness, but I can promise nothing what- ever. I am your friend, and it is impossible that I can be more, until I become satisfied that my duty-I mean, until I am able to feel that considerations which affect us both make it proper that I should yield to your wishes." "And is this all that you can say to me, Esther?" "All," she replied. "It must then be my task to satisfy your distrust, and to make you feel that you can become mine without doing violence to your own sense of duty. I repeat, I am yours unchangeably. I bind myself to perfect loyalty to you, for all the future." She walked by his side in silence. They reached a part of the grounds where the walk, emerging into a broader one, brought them into view of the house; and   DE VANE.         395 Esther, turning to him, said: "I must take leave of you now. I have yet a commission to execute with my little girls." 'Then I must bid you good morning. A thousand thanks, Esther, for your frankness. It would have made me very unhappy to distrust you. I shall soon see you again. Good morning!" "Good morning!" said Esther, extending her hand to him. He clasped it warmly, and, turningaway, passed out from Leasowes into the great, busy world. His emotions were not sufficiently well defined to enable himt to feel either exhilarated or depressed. He was deeply moved. The whole grand nature of the man was roused. His abouinding love swept, like a rising flood, every thing be- fore it; but the sky which overarched'it, was not cloudless. Like a landscape through which the Rhine pours its re- joicing waters, bright with the summer's sun, and yet sometimes darkened and turned out of its course by overshadowing mountains, so the current of his soul ran. He felt that he was loved, and yet he was not accepted. Great barriers rose between him and the woman he adored. Could they ever be removed? He had striven to cheer Esther, but he could not conceal from himself the diffi- culties in his way. His father's indomitable pride of fam- ily, his utter prejudice against the religious sect to which Esther belonged; Esther's own womanly pride and self- respect, and her gentle but unswerving sense of duty; all this troubled him. Still he was loved, and there was rap- ture in the thought. He walked into the main street, and entered the book-store of Mr. Muller. The richly-bound volumes on the shelves, the new tempting books on the table, attracted and cheered him. How vividly he re- called his meeting and conversation with Esther, upon this very spot, twelve months before! A beautiful edition of     396         DE VANE. Milton's poetical works, in two volumne, just imported from England, lay before him, and, turning its pages, he found the passage to which he had called the attention of Waring at that time. He read it again-it charmed him; and, stepping to the counter, he requested Mr. Miiller to have the volumes sent to his room. "This is a splendid edition, Mr. De Vane," said Mr. Muller. "The finest I have ever seen. But I thought you  had Milton's works entire-a very handsome edition that I imported for you, some time since."  Yes," said De Vane; "I have the set to which you refer, but I intend these volumes for a friend." ' I hope your friend will appreciate them, sir. There is nothing like them in this country, and they are so ex- pensive that I was afraid to duplicate them." De Vane returned to his lodgings, and wrote a note to Esther, to accompany the edition of Milton which he had just purchased: "I send you, Esther, the accompanying volumes. Please accept them. The Parad-ise Lost is succeeded by the Paradise Regained. Woman cheered man in his ex- pulsion from the Eastern garden, and helped him to find his way to a brighter realm. I can not look forward to the path which my feet must tread through this wide world, with any thing like hope, unless you consent to walk by my side. Cheerfully then should I pursue it, with an humble trust that with such companionship, and Providence my guide, I should attain that blissful seat of which Milton sings.   Always yours "Saturday morning."     GEOG  DE  He sent Tully with the package, who, returning after some time, reported that he had waited for Miss Words- worth, as she'was not in when he first called at the house,   DE VANE.         397 and he handed his master a note. De Vane opened it, and read: "Thanks.       ESTHER WORDSWORTH." He laid it away, counting it, brief as it was, a precious thing. Waring came in, and asked him what he had been doing with himself all the morning. "I have been walking," said De Vane. "That is very indefinite," said Waring. "Where have you been walking? I went to the College a little while, and when I came back you were gone. C0esar was ignor- ant of your whereabouts, and Tully was as obscure as an oracle." "Oh!" said De Vane laughing, "I did not confide to them my plans when I walked out, and of course they could only offer conjectures as to my locality." "Yes, and I met Miss Godolphin driving, and she could give no account of you. She said she had just been at  Leasowes, and you were not there." "Indeed!" said De Vane. "Was she searching for me"  "Oh! I suppose not," said Waring; " but not finding you on the street, I fancied that you might have called on the ladies, but she assured me-that she had just left Miss Wordsworth, and that she had not seen you." "So I am discharged from that suspicion," said De Vane; "acquitted upon the strength of circumstantial evidence. But what did INiss Godolphin have to say for herself?" - "Nothing very special," said Waring. "She was in her carriage, and I stood conversing with her on the side of the street." "So, when I am talking my morning walk, you are look-     398         DE VANE. ing 'p tple ladies," said De Vane. "You must take me wSrith you helreafter." "I should have been happy to do so this time; but I had no idea that I should have the good fortune to fall in with any of them.7" "Waring," said De Vane, "let us take a ride this even- ing. O ur horses are rested, and it will do them good, as well as ourselves, to take the exercise." "Very good," said Waring. "Then I will go to Tom- linson's at once, and purchase my bridle and saddle." I will go with you," said De Vane. "I think I com- prehend those things." So they went to Tomlinson's, and looked throubgh the establishment. Waring selected a light bridle and an English saddle, under De Vane's counsel, and they were sent forthwith to the livery-stable, for Ivanhoe. The evening came, and De Vane and Waring mounted their horses. They took the road leading to Mrs. Iaber- sham's country-seat, Clearbrook. The ride exhilarated them. Never had Waring felt the same activity i a horse that he found in Ivanhoe. The clear springy Ad, the vigor and elasticity of motion, the perfect ease with which the animal moved, whether in a slow gait or in a gallop, made the exercise delightful. "Ie is superb, De Vane!" exclaimed Waring. "I am pleased that you like him," said De Vane. "There are few finer horses." "I know none," said Waring.  I ositively believe positively believe him to be superior to Manfred." "I have not yet seen AIanfred, you know," said De Vane. "Is he really very fine?"  , "Beautiful," said Waring. "I thought him unrivaled, until I saw Ivanhoe." "The horse I am riding," said De Vane, "is a thorough. bred. Have you observed his action?"   I              DE VANE.          399 "It is fine," said Waring, "his stride is rcemarkable." "Yes," said De Vane, " and active as he is, he possesses uncommon power. See how his shoulder slopes; and his long arm, and shortness from the knee to the lower joint, with his muscle, mark him as a fast horse." He was a superb animal, and the ease with which De Vane controlled him, showed him to- be a perfect horse- man. The stream which flows through Mrs. Haberslham's grounds, winds across the road, and is so transparent that its golden sands may be seen at the bottom, while its waters wash the axles of vehicles passing through it; and those who rode or drove from the town usually passed through it in their excursions, and then, after a shorter or longer advance upon the road beyond, just as their incli- nations prompted, returned. Just as De Vane and Waring reached the stream, a light open carriage drove into it. Bliss Godolphin and Esther were seated in the carriage, and the gentlemen drew up their horses, to allow the ve- hicle to pass. "Ah! gentlemen, why were you not an hour earlier?" exclaimed Miss Godolphin. "We have made a delightful visit to Clearbrook." "How unkind not to invite us!" said Waring. "Unkind, indeed! How ungallant not to invite us to join you on horseback!" she exclaimed. "I could not have supposed, Mr. De Vane, that you would overlook us." De Vane bowed low, soinething of a conscious look appearing in Esther's face, as their eyes met, and he said: "I assure you, Miss Godolphin, that it would have afforded us both the greatest pleasure to join you in a ride if we had supposed that it would be agreeable to you to permit us to do so this evening. We are just exercising our horses, and hope early next week to attend you." "Shall we pardon them, Miss Wordsworth, and, suf     400 400         DE VANE. fer them to show by their good conduct that they merit it 9 " "I think," said Esther, "that we must accept the invi- tation to ride next week. Shall we not?" "Very well, gentlemen," said Miss Godolphin, "will  . you have the kindness to name the day when we shall go forth a cheval?" "Would Tuesday be agreeable to you?" asked De Vane. I Let it be Tuesday, then, Miss Wordsworth, if you have no engagements with which it will interfere."  None whatever," said Esther. "The gentlemen, it shall be Tuesday."        i De Vane and Waring both bowed.  "What a very fine horse you are riding, Mr. De Vane," said Miss Godolphin. "He looks English." "It shows how admii'able your judgment is," said Do Vane.  He is of the best English blood." He is superb," she said. And yours is a beautiful creature, Mr. Waring," said Esther. "I really think him almost equal to Manfred." Ah! Mr. De Vane, do you hear that?" said Wal in.   : "You are not to carry off the honors without my contest- ing the matter with you." "sYou hlave always borne the honors away from me," said De Vane. "But he shall not do so this time, without a divided vote," said Miss Godolphin. "Ir. Waring's horse is beautiful; but I give the preference to the bay." "The best judges, ladies, are divided in opinion in re- gard to the two horses, just as you are," said De Vane. "Mr. De Vane's judgment and taste" said Waring, "were shown in the selection of both. le was generous enough to present this horse to me; and if he had offered me the choice, I should certainly have selected him." "Ah!" said Miss Godolphin, bowing to De Vane, "your   DE VANE.         401 judgment, your taste, and-what is worth far more than either-your friendship, Mr. De Vane, are all shown, in presenting to Mr. Waring so beautiful an animal, and one which he so entirely approves." De Vane lifted his hat in acknowledgment of the com-  pliment. The ladies then bowed to the gentlemen, and drove on. Waring and De Vane rode through the stream, and passing some short distance beyond, turned their horses' heads toward the town. ' Miss Godolphin and Miss Wordsworth seem to pass much of their time with each other," said De Vane. "Yes," replied Waring. "It has been so throughout  the summer; and I am happy to observe it. Miss Words-  worth's influence over Miss Godolphin is steadily increas-  ing, and it must be for good. I said to you, some days  since, that Miss Godolphin felt great concern upon the sub-  ject of religion, and I attribute it to the influence of her fiiend. Miss Wordsworth sent to England for a copy of Lady Huntingdon's Life, which she presented to Miss Go- dolphin, and she has read it with the greatest interest." "Miss Wordsworth," said De Vane, "is a Methodist, and holds the views of that people conscientiously and firmly ;. but, I trust, she is not bigoted."  "Not in the least so," said Waring ; "no one can be further from it. But she holds with the tenacity of perfect conviction and incubitable faith, the doctrine that one who enters the kingdom of heaven must repent, and believe il the Lord Jesus Christ. She comprehends that no super- ficial work will do; that there must be forgiveness of sins  and a change of heart before one can be acceptable to God." "And is that essential, Waring? May not a pure life and good deeds be acceptable to the Deity, without abso- lute conformity to a creed?"  "De Vane," said Waring, " read the third of St. John's  $W   5:fIii     402         DE VANE. Gospel. Read it searchingly, and you will be satisfied that your question can be answered only in one way: 'Except a man be born again, he can not see the kingdom of God.' You will observe that when the Jewish ruler, who seems to have been a man of singular candor and directness ex- claimed impatiently against what appeared to him an im- possibility, unless the doctrine of the transmigration of souls were true, our Lord corrects his error by assuring him that what is born of flesh must be flesh, and that what is born of the spirit must be spirit. In other words, if it were possible for a man to be reproduced, inheriting his fallen nature, and living under any imprgement of his physical condition, any degree of high-tont civilization, that could bring him into no nearer relation to God, who is not only good but holy; and that it was a spiritual birth to which he referred-a thorough change, to be wrought in us by his Spirit: so that it might be said of our moral nature, Old things are passed away, behold all things are become new." De Vane rode for some time in silence. lIe was profound- ly impressed by the fresh, clear view of conversion which Waring had presented. Waring had quite too thorouoh a knowledge of human nature and of De Vane's peculiar line of thought to attempt to subclue him by mere author- ity, by referring to miracles as authenticating the divine mission of our Lord, and demancing that his teachinrs should be accepted upon that basis. He comprehended how thoroughly De Vane was imbued with the German idea of accounting for our Lord's miracles upon natural grounds; as, for instance, explaining that stupendous work of feeding five thousand persons-faint, weary, and hun- gering for food-by supposing that a caravan, opportunely passing with a large supply of bread, furnished it to the apostles for the use of the Master. And how fully he was acquainted with the acute philosophy of Hume, which in-   DE VANE.         403 volved all reliance upon human testimony in impenetra}ble clouds, and made even the eternal granite a quagmire under the tread of human feet seeking some stable foutl- dation for their hope of immortality; and he therefore pre-  ferred to rest his argument upon the incontestable basis that, God being holy and man sinful, there could be no    I reconciliation without a change'of nature; for without it,  there could be no harmony. "In the same connection," Waring proceeded to say, "you will observe that our Lord says, by way of encour- agement to the ruler, who had sought an interview with him by night, 'For God so loved the world, that he gave his only-begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life;' and thus re- vealed to him the single condition of salvationi-trust in the great sacrifice offered for the sins of the whole world." "You speak of a sacrifice," said De Vane. "Where is its necessity? God is an absolute sovereign. Why might he not pardon unconditionally, and save the whole race?" '"Ah!" said Waring, " that is the grandest problem in the universe. We may not comprehend its whole extent, no more than we can see the entire disk of an orb like Jupiter, or the extent of a belt like that which encircles Saturn; but of this we may be quite sure, while God is an absolute, he is not an arbitrary Sovereign. -His govern- ment is a moral one, and the considerations which demand- ed a sacrifice for a guilty world relate to the whole realm of intelligent being embraced within the divine adminis- tration. Where all are sinners, as our race are, to grant no pardon would be to exterminate the beings just introduced into the circle of creation; to grant unconditional and universal pardon would be to inaugurate universal license to sin and rebellion, and to overthrow all government; and to select a part of the race capriciously, as objects of  the divine compassion, would inspire no respect for the     404          DE VANE. government, nor veneration for the Sovereign. The only plan is that of the Gospel. By offering as a victim the Son of God, who suffered vicariously, the just for the unjust, every thing is preserved: the divine administration is vin- dicated; sin is punished in the most impressive and dread form; and the offenders are encouraged' to love and trust the Almighty Father, who gives such a signal proof of reverence for his own law and love for our race." Again De Vane was silent. At length he said: "Thebe are dread subjects; they are to be studied pro- foundly. You do not think me capable, Waring," of re- garding them lightly?" "Of course not," said Waring. "Your trouble is in as- selrting the supremacy of reason over subjects which lie beyond the range of its largest powers. Depend upon it, we need a revelation to instruct us in invisible things, and we must limit reason to an investigation of the claims of any disclosure which professes to be of divine origin, and not venture to examine the truths revealed to us for our instruction by any standard within our own minds." They were entering the town, and the descending sun filled the heavens with its glory. The tall pines were ablaze with its lingering beams, and the clouds, like huge castles or vast mountains, wore deeper splendors than ever gilded the scenery, even of Eastern climes. The horsemen rode on silently, both feeling that disposition to meditation which we all experience under the deepening shadows of twilight, as we see night descend upon the earth.   CHAPTER   IX. rERFECT let us walk before Thee- ! Walk in white To the sight Of thy heavenly glory!" CHARLES WESLEY. Of course, Esther communicated to her aunt what had taken place on Saturday. She suffered the Sabbath to pass before she mentioned the subject, seeking in the mean while that guidance which the Father gives to all humble and trusting souls. Mrs. Springfield was deeply affected when she learned that Esther, adhering firmly to her sense of duty, had declined to enter into any engagement with De Vane. She comprehended the struggle through which her niece had passed. She interpreted her heart rightly, and knew how loyal it was to De Vane, at the very mo- ment when she restrained its promptings, and silenced, if she could not still, its throbbings. She heartily approved Esther's course, and said so to her, cheering her, at the same time, with the assurance that doubtless all would yet be well, but that, in any event, nothing could harm one who simply followed the path of duty, no matter how flinty it might be to our weary feet. Unselfish, pure, and wise, this noble woman counseled her niece to be brave and cheerful; and as Esther, unable to restrain her emo- (405)     406          DE VANE. tions, bowed her face on her aunt's knees, and wept as if her heart were breaking, Mrs. Springfield caressed her ten- derly, and waited for the outhurst of tears to pass away before she spoke to her. She then kissed her forehead, and said: "Esther, you have done just what you should have done. Nothing of principle should ever be yielded in forming such a relation as that of marriage; it must be altogether pure. Remember we are a peculiar people. Let the great world form alliances from motives of ambi- tion or worldliness. It must not be so with us. We are seeking a better country, that is, an heavenly, and we must connect ourselves in such close relations as those which marriage creates, only with those who will walk with us. But all will yet be well. I have the highest respect for Mr. De Vane, and my confidence in the nobleness of his nature satisfies me that he will find the right way, and all will be overruled for the best." Soothed, if not cheered, Esther rose, and her aunt left her to compose herself. Soon after, she walked to Leasowes, and entered cheer- fully upon her self-appointed tasks. De Vane wrote to Mrs. De Vane a very long letter, full of ardor, and informing her of the precise state of his rela- tions to Esther. He described, in glowing terms, her char- actel with which lhe had already made his aunt acquaint- ed; and he detailed at length the interview of Saturday, the gentle but decided refusal to engage herself until she was assured that she could do so consistently with her self-respect and her sense of duty. He urged Mrs. De Vane to break the matter to his father, and to impress upon him the noble nature of Miss Wordsworth, and the purity and elevation of her character. He assured her, finally, that his happiness was involved, and that he would   DE VANE.          407 marry no other woman under heaven, if he did not marry Miss Wordsworth. Mailing his letter, he awaited a reply with anxiety. In the mean while, he entered upon his studies in Mr. Clarendon's office with new energy. His life-tasks were before him, and they roused his manhood. Mr. Clarendon was gratified to see the ardor with which he took up his professional labors, and encouraged him to the utmost of his power.. Not mercenary himself, he did not limit his view of the legal profession to its money-yieldinog capabilities, but took the larger and more generous view, which Cicero entertained, and which made him so eminent in defense of the innocent, and so resistless in prosecuting the guilty. Tuesday evening came, and Waring and De Vane joined Miss Godolphin and Esther in the equestrian excursion agreed on. Without any preconcert, Waring and Miss Godolphin rode in advance, and De Vane, riding with Esther, followed them, the party taking the road that led most directly to the country; and after quitting the town, turning toward the river, they pursued its course. De Vane, with a taste for fine horses, was delighted with: Manfred, and he observed the perfect skill with which Es- ther controlled him, spirited as he was. Manfred is really a fine animal," he said; " but does he never give you trouble?" "Not now," replied Esther. "'When I first rode him, he startled me by his fleetness, dashing off sometimes at great speed, as if he rejoiced in his strength; but he was never vicious, and I have taught him to yield to the rein." "Then he suits you perfectly," said De Vane. "I have not seen a finer horse, for the saddle, for a lady's use." Miss Godolphin rode a very handsome black horse, and she showed to the greatest advantage in her rich, dark     408         DE VANE. riding-dress, and her splendid hat, with its plume-all in harmony with her style of beauty. "I am happy to see," said De Vane, "that Aiss Godol- phin is brighter than she was when she returned from Europe. Do you not observe it?" "Oh! yes," said Esther. "The shadow is, I trust, pass- ing away. I did not know, until she spoke to me upon the subject some weeks since, what she had suffered." "Did she explain every thing?" asked De Vane. "With perfect unreserve she unfolded her history, and I comprehended for the first time what she must have suf- fered. Have you ever heard it?" "Yes," said De Vane; "I learned it from her friend Miss Guilford, whom I met in Virginia. You know, of course, that they were in Europe together?" "Yes," said Esther, "I have heard her speak of Miss Guilford. But what Miss Godolphin has suffered! How dreadful to feel what she has endured for many, many months!" "She has accused herself needlessly," said De Vane. She was not in the least to blame. The course of Sir George Godolphin was harsh, and unworthy of him." Wharing and Miss Godolphin had reached the point in the road leading to the ferry, where the two fentlemen had first met Mr. Springfield and his family; and they drew up their horses, to await the coming of De Vane and Esther. "We mark the progress of time by events," said War- mSg, as they reached the spot; "and you may, perhaps, notl have forgotten, liss Wordsworth, that some twelve months since a traveling-carriage drove up this road and the party following it were arrested by two young gentle- men who stood in the highway?" "Oh! yes," said Esther, coloring. "I remember it per- I    DE VANE.         409 fectly well. Has it' been twelve months? It scarcely seems so long." "Twelve months, almost to a day," said. Waring. "How swiftly time flies!" "Was it here," asked Miss Godolphin, "that you met Miss Wordsworth for the first time, Mr. De Vane?" "Upon this very spot," said De Vane. ' Mr. Waring and I were taking an evening walk, and we stood here to admire the effect of the light upon the water and the sur- rounding objects. Mr. Springfield and his party were just returning from their summer's travel, and we met them here. Really, in looking back to it, it seems as if I had been studying one of Claude Lorraine's pictures; and I can scarcely feel that the scene was one of real life. I feel as if I had known Mr. Springfield and his family all my life." Miss Godolphin smiied. Unconsciously, De Vane had uttered his heart-thoughts, and only said, in different lan- guage, that his real existence had only begun on the banks of the stream which flowed before them, twelve months before. She perfectly comprehended it, but she forebore to speak her thoughts. Esther was present, and she spared her. What is life until the heart expands? Like plants that are full of verdure and brightness, but yield no fra- grance, until suddenly the flower bursts into beauty; so the life, exuberant and joyous as it may seem, has no real meaning until the soul wakes to consciousness, under the power of some great sentiment. "The scene is one of remarkable beauty," said Miss Godolphin. "Observe that light upon the rapids. The water flashes like molten silver, and the spray that rises, catching the slanting sunbeams, is like a shower of tiny pearls. See that wheel of the mill above us. How the glancing water reflects the light, as if it were draped with liquid mirrors, while the wild vines, climbing the great 18     "O         DE VANE. trees on the river-bank, catch the sunbeams, and hang over the waters like a canopy of green and gold! picture is Southern.'" "Very beautiful!" said Esther. " After all," said De Vane, "I like ferryboats better than bridges. It is a little voyage that one makes be- tween the two banks. You are upon the water and enjoy its current, and the very exertion which it requires to overcome its swiftness, imparts a pleasing sense of triumph." "Unless you are in haste to get over," said Waring g then the delay is an annoyance." "Oh! of course. I speak of pleasure excursions said De Vane. "Business is quite another thing. But observe those two men. How vigorously they exert themselves in bringing the boat over! The carriage and the horses, and the foot-passengers are heavy enouglh to make it neces- sary to put out strength in accomplishing the voyage; and when they reach this bank, a sense of relief will be experienced, as if another dangerous adventure in life were well over." "On the Rhine," said Miss Godolphin, " there are bridges of boats, and when a vessel approaches, a space is made sufficiently wide for it to pass, by dropping some of the boats out of the current, and reconstructing the bridge after it has gone by, bringing the boats back to their place. The scene is full of animation, and the ar- rangement in every way convenient, affording a safe inter- communication between the two banks of the stream, and yet offering no obstruction to commerce." "I think," said Waring,-"I should prefer a bridge of that kind to a ferry, however picturesque." "Oh! certainly, if you intend to apply your utilitarian philosophy to the beauties of nature," said De Vane. 'But then you would do better to construct your bridges as they do upon the Thames--grandly-and make them beau-   DE VANE.          4" tiful objects in the landscape, compelling the steamers to lower their smoke-pipes when they pass through the arches. But I insist upon keeping some part of the realm of nature free from the encroachments of commercial despotism." "Well," said t iss Gololphin, "I think with Mr. De Vane. Long may our ferry-boat ply between these banks!" "I am sorry to disturb your plans," said WYaring, "but I learn that an enterprising set of people have made up their minds to throw a bridge over the river very soon." "Then," said De Vane, " we must preserve this picture in the chaibers of memory, for it is one of great beauty." They rode on, making a circuit about the town, passing beyond the Collegee, and returning by the way of the sand- hills. The party rode- as much together as possible, and the conversation was general and animated. They reached home exhilarated with the exercise, and full of the joy which youth feels in the present, while hope illumines the future with its strong light. On Thursday morning, at the breakfast-table, Mrs. Bowen reminded Waring that the love-feast was to be held the next evening, informing him that it had been announced the preceding evening, at the close of the service. "Yes," said Waring, "I might have forgotten it, if you had not named it. - I thank you for reminding me." "A love-feast!" said De Vane. "What is that?" "It is a meeting," said Waring, " held by the Method ists once in three months, in which each one who feels dis-, posed to relate his experience as a Christian, may do so without reserve." "Indeed!" said De Vane.  "Do explain it to me. I confess that my curiosity is roused." "We hold," said Waring, "a conference once in the year, where the preachers assemble to report the results of their labors, and receive from the Bishop Who presides,     their appointments for the following year. This is called the annual conference, and it presents a scene of high mloral interest, At times it rises into sublimity. A body brought together fr'om extensive fields of labor, composed of men of intellect and character, submit themselves to the Bishop, who, surrounded by several ministers--elders in charge of districts-as a cabinet to advise him, looks out upon the whole work embraced within the bounds of the conference, and assigns them to such posts as he may think best for the great cause. A rigid examination of character is made, and the minister learns his appoint- ment for the first time fromn the lips of the Bishop, who, at the close of the conference, reads out the list. Then these presiding elders hold in each of their districts--into which each conference is subdivided-a conferene every three months, called a  quarterly conference, composed of the official members of the circuit or station, where the plroper business is transacted ancl character is examined. On the Friday preceding, a meeting of the members of the church is held, with the view of relating to each other their experience.   Ancient usages are adhered to by us. -The early Christians had their feasts of charity--the Method- ists hold their feasts of love. None are admitted but Christians, and serious persons who request the p'ivilee. The doors are rigidly   closed, and the worldl shut out. W  ater and bread arle handed around, and  each one partakes of it, in token of good-will, felt by each toward all. Then every  one rises  alnd speaks who may be disposed, briefly stating his experience as a Christian." De Vane listened   with great interest to Warinc's de- scription, and then said, when he had concluded: "I   should be happy, BWaring, to attend the love-feast to-morrow evening. Can I be permitted to do so?" "I will inquire, " said Waring. "The Presidingr Elder is to be here to-morrow, and I  will apply to him for a ticket."   "3   DE VANE.   "Thank you," said De Vane. "I really wish to attend." Mrs. Bo wen heard this with amazement. I The idea that De Vane should desire to attend a love-feast, aston- ished her. She admired him extravagantly, and had often felt saddened by his indifference to the services of the Church. She prayed for him fervently, and was now inex- pressibly thankful that he felt a desire to attend one of those meetings, peculiar to her people, and which she esteemed so highly. Waring obtained permission for De Vane to attend the love-feast, and after early tea, they accompanied Mrs. Bowen to the MHethodist meeting-house.  It was soon pretty well filled, quite a large number of persons belong- ing to other -churches having been admitted. The Presid- ing Elder was the -Rev. William Chalmers, an educated and accomplished gentleman, and a preacher of the hilghest order; and his presence never failed to attract many per- sons, not members of the chureh, to his ministrations. After the introductory prayer and hymn, Mr. Chalmers explained, briefly, the nature of the meeting ; and the bread and water wei'e handed to every one in the house, all par- taking. Mr. Chalmers then rose and related his experience, which, without being too minute, was pointed and deeply inter- esting'. He had been converted when young, and had en- tered upon the work of the ministry immediately upon quitting college. His first attempt to persuade others was in exhortations following the sermon of some of the preach- ers, and he had continued to experience a clear manifesta- tion of the favor of Gocl up to the present moment, enjoy- ing a constant sense of his acceptance. His remarkls were very impressive, the good taste which characterized, and the fervor which imbued them, making them felt by every one. De Vane had never before heard any thing like it. It was as if he had been suddenly intro- duced into the presence of the early Christians.     "4         DE VANE. After Mr. Chalmers had resumed his seat, some moments of silence ensued. Then a venerable man rose from his seat on one of the side-benches, and spoke for about five minutes. He had been a member of the Church for more than forty years, was still enjoying a clear sense of the divine approval, and was prepared, at any hour, to pass over the waters which his feet already touched, and enter the home of the blessed. As he took his seat, a hearty "Amen!" was uttered by several of the leading members, and a single stanza of a hymn was sung. Two or three others followed, speaking with distinctness and confidence of their sense of sins forgiven, and of as- sured peace. Among the females, there now rose up one. She was tall and middle-aged, and dressed with marked simplicity and neatness. She, too, spoke for a few moments of her religious state, describing it as fill of peace and hope. She was followed by a much younger person, who spoke with such marked intelligence, that every one heard her with interest. She described her conversion, the intense wretchedness which had preceded it, and the rapture which followed; stating her present peace as the result of an unswerving trust in God, and realizing, as she said, the truth of the promise, uttered by an inspired prophet, "Thou shalt keep hiM. in perfect peace, whose mind is staid on thee;" and as she resumed her seat, great emo- tion was exhibited throughout the assemblage. The testi- mony delivered was so clear, simple, fervent, and in such perfect taste, both as regarded manner and language, that it was not only above criticism, but it found its way into the depths of every listening soul. Mr. Chalmers in- stantly sang a stanza, descriptive of the triumph of a re- newed soul, beginning with the lines "Ye winged seraphs, fly!"   DE VANE.          415 and it was taken up by others, who swelled the sound until it filled the house with its exulting rapture. "It is good to be here!" exclaimed Mr. Chalmers. "Amen!" responded many voices. The pastor of the church now rose, and spoke for a few minutes. He had been converted when young, and had entered the ministry at eighteen. It was to him a happy work in the midst of all its toils and responsibilities, and he had no other aim in life but to preach the Word and honor the name of the MASTER. A deep sympathy with his remarks was exhibited, and as he sat down, Mr. Chal- mers exclaimed: "The Lord bless thee, my brother, and cause his face to shine upon thee i" "Amen!" was uttered all over the house. Mr. Springfield rose, and spoke for a few minutes, with marked clearness and fervor. He re- ferred to his conversion-which had occurred just as he attained the age of twenty-one-and his abiding sense of pardon and peace. He looked to the future with hope, for he had learned to trust, as well as to obey. He was heard with deep interest. Several of the leadin members of the church followed in quick succession, speaking the lan- guage of faith and hope, and several describing the man ner of their conversion, referring to the hour and the place. A very young man rose. He was from the low country, and was present casually, traveling for a few weeks with Mr. Chalmers around his district; and he felt that it would be no intrusion if he added his testimony to the goodness of his redeeming Lord. He described his awakening and his conversion, and he said: "After peace entered my soul, the whole aspect of nature was changed; the heavens were bright, and the trees seemed to wave their branches7 in praise of their Creator." He stated that it was his pur- pose to give his life t tthe task of inviting sinners to the Lord whom he had found so gracious, and to identify himself with the only cause which was worthy of the en-     i'ri VANE. tire consecration of an immortal being-a cause which would display its beneficent triumphs, when heroes, and statesmen, and empires, and all human glory had disap- peared. "The Lord guide and strengthen thee, and give thee good success 1" exclaimed Mr. Chalmers, which was re-, sponded to by many voices, uttering an earnest Amen! Mr. Chalmers now rose, and remarked that it was time to bring the meeting to a close. That it had been one of ; marked interest, and he trusted of great profit. A hymn was sungo-  "How happy every child of grace, Who knows his sins forgiven!" md Mr. Arthur, the pastor, made the closing prayer. The love-feast had ended; the doors were thrown open, nd the congregation    h dispersed. t  n o s=3^^^^                      I De     ne was passig to t  he door, he joined Mr. pringield and his party, and spoke to the. They re- oived him warmly, and eMrs. Springfield expressed her Ltisfaction at seeing him there. "It is new to you, Mr. 'e Vane," she said, "and may not be agreeable to your stes ; but it is a profitable meeting to Christians." "I do not doubt it, madam, he said.  have been much interested in it."  Offering his arm to Esther, he walked with her, preceded Mr. and Mrs. Springfield; and upon reaching the house, accepted an invitation to enter. "Well, Mr. De Vane," said Mr. Springfield, " you have witnessed a meeting peculiar to us as a people, and I trust you found nothing in it to offend you." On the contrary," said De Vane, "I was profoundly rested in it. I can imagine nothing more areealg an earnest believer in Christianity, than to hear others  of its effects, as wrought in them. I love earnestness   DE VANE.          417- in every thing; and every one must concede, that if the claims of religion are to be admitted at all, they must be recognized as supreme. I can conceive of nothing so dis- tasteful as conventionalism, and a deference to the world's opinion in matters affecting one's relations to God. No, sir; such a meeting as I have been permitted to witness this evening can never offend me." "You must allow me to say, sir," said Mr. Springfield, "that I am highly gratified to hear you express yourself in this way. Persons of culture, unacquainted with our usages, sometimes find their taste offended by them. I am not, however, surprised to find that you are differently affected by our love-feast." De Vane ebowed, appreciating the compliment which was paid to the real nobleness of his nature. "I was much pleased with Mr.. Chalmers and Mr. Ar- thur," said De Vane. "They are superior men," replied Mr. Springfield. "Mr. Chalmers was educated at your College, and is a person of fine acquirements. Both as a writer and preacher, he ranks high. You can hear him on Sunday morning, if you wish, as he is to preach at that time." "I shall certainly avail myself of the privilege," said De Vane. "Mr. Arthur," said Mr. Springfield, "is a Georgian; not thoroughly educated, but self-taught, and he is still rapidly improving. He is a very able preacher, and his increasing library attests his love of books and his prog- ress in learning. His language is remarkable for its pnrity, and his style possesses a great charm." "I must hear him at some timie," said De Vane. "I admire him greatly. There is a manliness about his air very pleasing to me." "I quite agree with you," said Mrs. Springfield. "He is a great favorite of mine."     DE VANE. "I do not know which of the two I prefer," said Esther. "I admire them both. They are charming men." "You are fortunate in having such ministers," said De Vane. "Very much so" said Mrs. Springfield. After some conversation upon other subjects, De Vane rose and toolk leave of the family, saying that he should not fail to hear ir. Chalmers on Sunday. He found Waring in his room awaiting his return, and anxious to kno-w how the meeting had impressed him. "Well, De Vane, what do you think of a love-feast?, "I was profoundly impressed with it," said De Vane "and I shall hope to have the privilege of attending one sometimes, I love its earnestness." "Just as I expected," said Waring. "I was confident that you would see it in that light. Ah i De Vane, you ought to be a Christian."  "I wish I could be one," said De Vane. "Did you like Mr. Chalmers?' asked Waring. "Greatly," said De  Vane. "I aim to hear him  on Sunday. Mr. Springfield informed me that he would preach." "Yes," said Waring, "it will delight you. He  is a charming preacher. A more polished one you never Then followed a  long conversation upon other subjects; and when the friends separated for the night, the town clock was striking twelve. On Sunday morning the Methodist church was filled to overflowing, and the flrst people of the town pressed eagerly to hear Mr. Chalmers. Mr. and Srs. Clarendon were both present, and were accompanied by Mrs. Haber- sham and Miss Godolphin. Mr. Hallam and other emi- nent men were scattered through the congregation. War- ing took his accustomed seat, and De Vane was by his   DE VANE.          41L side. Mr. Chalmers rose in the pulpit, and opened the services by reading a portion of the Old and the New Testament. His appearance was that of a man orfintellect, sensi- bility, and refinement. His dark lambent eyes were full of expression, and his finely-chiseled features bore the ineffaceable stamp of genius and sentiment. His reading was very fine, clear, and rhetorical, and his hearers caught new views of the meaning of particular passages of the Scriptures, as he uttered them. A hymn followed-one of remarkable beauty-which was read in a way to impress the sentiments which it em- bodied, almost as deeply as if it had been sung, and then the whole congregation, rising to their feet, sang it, Mr. Chalmers himself leading the music. The prayer that fol- lowed impressed De Vane, and he thought it the finest he had ever heard. Another hymn followed, sung, without the lines being recited from the pulpit; and then Mr. Chalmers rose, and announcing his text, proceeded to de- liver his sermon, without reference even to notes. His text was from the eightieth Psalmi, first verse: "Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth." It was a transcendently great discourse, blending argu- ment, illustration, beauty, and fervor in wonderful combi- nation and mnathless power. The tenderness of the all- merciful Father; the glory o  f the God of hosts dwelling between the cherubims; the outshining of his nature in manifestations of love for a lost race, until at length, on Calvary, the expiring Son, encircled by the angels who bent in wondering gaze over the priceless sacrifice laid before the mercy-seat-all w as described in language so perfect, so pure, so much in harmony with the sublime theme of the preacher, that all who heard him yielded ready sympathy, and wept those tears which come froim   420         DE VANE. the depths of the soul. Some sobbing was heard, but the prevailing tribute of the audience to the power of the dis- course, was that of profuse weeping. Never in all his life had De Vane been so deeply affected. His taste, his sensi- bility, his judgment-all approved what he had heard, and there was no room for criticism. Mr. Arthur concluded the services in his fine, warm, natural way; and so far from impairing the effect of the discourse, heightened and strengthened it. As the congregation were dispersing, De Vane met Mr. Clarendon and his party; his eyes were moist, and the ladies were still weeping. "What a discourse!" said Mr. Clarendon. "I forgot the world and time and myself, until it was ended." "You have described my own emotions," said De Vane. "It was glorious." The ladies entered the carriage. Esther came up, to take the extended hand of Mr. Clarendon. "What do you Methodists mean?" he said. "Do you intend to cap- tivate us all?" "Only to make you free indeed," she replied, smiling through her tears. De Vane shook hands with her silently. She turned to speak to Mrs. H-abersham and Miss Godolphin; and De Vane, joining Waring, who was standing near him, walked away from the Methodist chapel.   CHAPTER X. "LOVE not! O warning! vainly said, In present hours as in years gone by; Love flings a halo round the dear one's head, Faultless, immortal, till they change or die. Love not 1" CAROLINlE MORTON. TIEn weeks flew by swiftly. Waring was closely engaged with his duties at the College, and De Vane was pursuing his studies with diligence. He made rapid progress, and was alreadly nearly prepared to pass the examination re- quired for admission to the bar. Still he had no thought of making immediate application, intending to take a more extended course, before entering upon the duties of the profession. he had not received any reply to the letters which he had written to Mrs. De Vane. Occasionally Waring joined him in riding with Miss Godolphin and Esther, and they sometimen drove in the evening in De ane's open  arge, stopping to  isit friends or to walke in the public garden, just as they found it most agreeable. One evening Waring and De Vane were riding with Miss Godolphin and Esther; they had been on an excursion to the sand-hills, and upon their return were just entering the town,  hen  anfred started suddenly, and plunging to the side of the road where it was precipitous, came near leaping into the ravine which skirted it. But for the ad- mirable skill with which Esther controlled him, he would have done so; and even when restrained, he stood with expanded nostrils and dilated eyes, the very picture of (421)     D VAN'E. terror. De Vane instantly rode to the aid of Esther, and soothed the firightened horse by speaking to him cheerfully and laying his hand firmly upon his neck. Waring and Miss Godolphin, who were a little way in the rear, came up, and the group formed a subject for the pencil of an artist. The sun, which shed his strong red ery boundaries of the town, revealed a being standing on soke atX       TT Hent^tl Dee"Vane s y  one projecting rock on te road-side, who s  srl  his world. She was very tall, dark as an Indian, her black hair streaming down her shoulders like a mantle,  her eyes blazing and wild with some strane passion, her  ross fantastic as that of a stage-queen, and her attitude Varin and Miss Godolphin looke on fo a moment in "I of unconscious majesty. The sunlight fell upon her, a very la,   perfectly black groeyhound stood by hero de, while the party on horseback, arrested by the object foe them, a confrontee her silently, and with almost a rnse of awe. Several minutes elapsed before any one )oke: at length Do Vane said; "My good woman, why do you stand there on the road- Je? Are you in want of any thing?" The woman fixed her eyes on the face of the young man, d seemed to study it as if she would read his soul. She oke at length, in tones so sad as almost to sound like wailing of deep grief. "You are brave, and she is ung and fair; but will that make your path bright? I Ve seen the past and can read the future. Clouds will 'ken the morning sky, though the sun be never so On11 . In spite of his own judgment, and the cool courage for ich he was remarkable, Do Vane could not treat the rds lightly.  He was distressed. Esther became very Varing and Miss Godolphin looked on for a moment in nee, but observing the effect of the woman's words on her, Waring rode nearer, and said:.   DE VANE.         423 "My good woman, who are you? What can we do for you?" She turned her eyes on him, and then looking steadily at Miss Godolphin, who sat moveless in her dark dress on  her black horse, like a queen mourning some dead loved one, she said: "' Darkness sometimes comes in the morning, and then the sun bursts forth and the sky is all bright." Miss Godolphin trembled, she scarcely knew why; a vague terror possessed her. The innate superstition of her nature was touched, and she felt for a moment as if the strange being before her-unearthly and superhuman- could read the sealed book of fate. "It is very strange!" said Waring. "What does she mean?" "What can she mean?" said De Vane. "She must be some maniac who has wandered from her keepers. She may be in want." Taking out his purse, he threw a gold- piece at her feet, and said: "Perhaps you are far from home; there is something that will buy food for you until you find your people." The woman fixed her gaze on him once more; a kindly look passed into her brilliant eyes, and she said gently: "Brave souls endure long. When storms pass by, the cloudless heavens are bright, and the earth rejoices once more." Turning away from the spot where she stood, without stooping to take up the piece of gold which De Vane had thrown at her feet, she walked slowly into the woods and disappeared. The party rode on. "She is a strange being," said Waring. "She must have friends near here, and if her pride revolts against the offer of money, doubtless she will return to secure it, or send some of her people for it." "She is most extraordinary," said De Vane; "her ap-     424          DE VANE. pearance is that of an Indian woman, and yet her features  are those of the white race." "I have a faint recollection of having seen her," said Es- ther, "but when or where, it is impossible to say. She frightened me, I am ashamed to say, dreadfully." "I do not wonder at it," said De Vane. "Her appear-  ance was sudden, and it was enough to startle any one." She is a very strange person, said Miss Godolphin.  i "She really seems unearthly. Do you think, Miss Words- worth, it is possible that you can have met her anywhere before?' "I am confident that I have," said Esther. "It seems a i mere dream, but it is too distinct to be unreal." "What remarkable language she uses!" said De Vane.  i "It is really poetical." "Do you know," said Waring, "that it is very much in  tile Indian style? They are poetical, as all tribes dwelling in the midst of nature are found to be, and some of the Indian tribes rise in the use of language to a highly figur- ative and even ornate and elegant style." "The language of that woman," said De Vane, "reminds one of Ossian-it is lofty, figurative, and sad." "She assumed the tone of a sibyl," said Miss Godolphin. "She spoke as if human fortunes were revealed to her." Yet she was as indefinite as an oracle," said Waring. "Her generalization was such that it would be easy to verify her prophecies, whatever turn human fortunes might take." "Still," said De Vane, "there seemed to be some deep meaning in her words. I confess to a vein of superstition in my nature." "That comes of your passion for the classics," said Waring. "Augurs and soothsayers decided the fortunes of men and states in former times." "I confess too," said Miss Godolphin, "that I share Mr.   DE VANE.          425 De Vane's respect for such predictions as we have just lis- tenel to. That woman may be enaower with supernatu- ral vision."'IIus C Scarcely, I should thinkl," said Waring. 'W e ust inquire about her." It was understood tt , they were to pass the evening at Mrs. Springfield's, it being Thursday, when she received, without issuing cards of invitation. The evening was fine, and an unusually large company assembled in the attractive drawing-rooms of Mrs. Spring- field. The cheerfulness, the unpretending elegance, and the high culture which reigned in the house, made it a most agreeable one to visit. 7Large entertainments were never given, but at the receitions the numbers were some- times such as to rival those brought together by regular cards of invitation. Mrs. lHabersham a ccomlpanied Miss Godolphin, and Mr. Clarendon soon sought them, anl entered into conver- sation vith them. "O Mr. Clarendon!" said Miss Godolphin, '" we had a rare acventure this evening, and I have not ceased to trem- ble yet." Indeed!" said he, opening his eyes very wide, and looking sympathetic horror; "and what shape did it come in?" "Oh! I can not undertake to relate it, in the absence of Miss Wordsworth. She was present, and shared my ter- ror," said Miss Godolphin. "Then let us find her," said Mr. Clarendon, offering her his arm. They made their way into the library, where Esther was engaged in conversation with Waring; and going to the spot where she stood, Mr. Clarendon bowed, and said: "I am here, Miss Wordsworth, to hear you repeat a tale which is to freeze my young blood, and make my  "Ou         DE VANE. hair to stand on end, like quills upon the fretful porcupine. Will you deign to speak '?" "And has not Miss Godolphin informed you of our ad- venture?" said Esther, smiling. "' Only that you have had an adventure; but not a word farther can I prevail on her to utter," said he. "Oh! here comes my uncle," said Esther, " and he call recite it, and enlighten you better than: I can. I told him what had occurred upon my return home, and he is confident that he knows the person who startled us so i much." Mr. Springfield came up, and he was appealed to for an  explanation. "Where is Mr. De Vane?" hA asked, turning to Waring. ' He should hear what I have to say." "I am looking for him every moment," said Waring. "He received letters from Virginia just as we reached home, and he said that he would lbok over them, and  follow me before a great while." At that moment, De Vane entered the room, and ad- vanced directly to the group in which Esther was stand- ing,. He looked somewhat graver than usual, and bowed with stately grace to the party awaiting his approach. "An opportune ,arrival!" said Mr. Clarendon, extending his hand to him. 'I await with impatience the unfolding of a tale, which can not be disclosed until you are ready to hear it. Welcome sir!"  "I regret my late arrival on every account," said De Vane, but I trust that I am yet in time to be enlightened by a ny disclosures that are to be made." "Mr. Springfield, will .you please to proceed?" said Mr. Clarendon. "It seems, then," said Mr. Springfield, "that our young friends were returning this evening from an excursion on horseback, when, just at the limits of the town where the   DE VANE.         427.  vines rise in such a fine grove, Esther's horse started ntly, and threatened to go over the precipice on the side  of the road, when Mr. De Vane, with great coolness and judgment, soothed Manfred, and held him from doing mis- thief; when, looking across the road, to discover what had frightened him, a strange woman was seen standing on a projecting rock, in a- queen-like attitude, and dressed quite at of the way in which civilized females are accustomed to appear; and, upon bein'g accosted, she proceeded to utter one or two prophetic sentences, in highly figurative style. her language was fine, her manner majestic, and the words evidently designed to convey some hidden mean- "What were the words . asked Mr. Clarendon. Esther colored deeply, and De Vane looked uneasy. Waring hesitated to say any thing, and Miss Godolphin was profoundly interested. "Upon my soul!" said Mr. Clarendon, "I am becoming deeply interested. This begins to look as if it m'neant somethinrg." Waring smiled, and said: "I suppose I must answer your question, as Mr. Springfield was not of our party when the woman appeared to us. ObserVing her strange demeanor, I was curious to know what she might have to say, and therefore observed her closely. In reply to a I question from Mr. De Vane, as to 'Why she stood on the road-side? if she was in want of any thing?' she looked on hin with the eyes of an awakened sibyl, and after a full survey both of himself and Miss Wordsworth, she said, in low, sad tones: ' You are brave, and she is young and fair ; but oill that zmake your path bright? I have seen the pfast, and I can read the futare. Clouds will darkenZ the morning sky, though the sun be never so strong.' I then rode nearer, and asked her if we could do any thing for her; when, fixing upon me the same steady gaze which she had turned     DE YAN1E. . on De Vane, she said- : Darkness sometimes comes in the Mor", and then the sun busts forth, and the sky is all bia.' Upon this Mr. De Vane threw a piece of gold at her feet, which she disdained to touch, but looking kindly ': on him, she said, '-Brave soos endure long. Wh'en Storms pass by, the clotudless heavens are bright, ancd the earth . rejoced once more;' when she turned away, and disap- peared." "It is very wonderful!" exclaimed Mr. Clarendon, evi- dently deeply impressed by what he had heard. "I found Esther so much agitated when she reached home," said Mr. Springfield, "that I tried to soothe her, by giving her the only explanation which, I think, can apply to an incident so extraorldinary. Vhen I resided in Georgia, I became acquainted with some of the leading men of the Cherokee nation, and I learned from one of  theim an account so remarkable and interesting that it haunted me. An English gentleman, becoming embittered aainst his friends, came to this country, and entered the Cherokee nation, adopted their habits, their dress, and, in short, became one of tlhem. -ie married the daughter of a chief and lived with the people of his adoption to the day of his death. A daughter was born to him, and she was sent to Philadelphia, where she received a thorough edu- cation. Returning, to visit her people, who had made great progress in civilization, she was the object of much attention fronm all travelers passing through the nation and she attracted the notice of the son of a gentleman of fortune, who actually asked her in marriage. Obstacles were interposed by her father, and the gentlemana, find,- ing him inexorable, and the daughter refusing to dis- obey, abandoned her. Shut up in the nation, her mind eting on itself, with so little to divert it from dwelling on her sorrow, she lost her reason, and at once became, in the estimation of her people, a prophetess. They vene-   DE VANE.          429 rated her, and exalted her into the highest rank of in- spired beings. Some years since, when Esther was a child, some of the tribe came to Athens, where. we were on a visit,'and she accompanied them. Going out to their encampment, we met the prophetess, and she took a wonderful fancy to Esther, who, while greatly alarmed by the appearance of the Indians, seemed to approach her' without fear. I think, even then, she uttered some pre- diction about Esther, in which cloud and sunshine were much intermixed, but I do not recall it distinctly, of course regarding it as of no moment." "But," said Mr. Clarendon, "can it be possible she is here? Can this be the prophetess?" "I do not know how that may be," said 31r. Springfield; but it is possible that some wandering party of the Che- rokees may may be visiting here, in prospect of the as- sembling of the Legislature." De Vane, Esther, and Miss Godolphin had all listened to the conversation with the deepest interest. "Her language," said Miss Godolphin, " was that of an educated woman. Did you ever hear any thing more im- pressively uttered, Mr. De Vane?" "Never," said De Vane, "' never; and her appearance was nothing short of majestic." "It is very remarkable," said Mr. Clarenridon; " that per- sons wo profess to be able to read the future at once acquire a certain ascendency over us. I doubt if the strongest minds are not to $ome extent underithe dominion I of that subtle superstition which asserts its sway so widely as to be almost, if not quite, universal. It is one of those points where civilization and barbarism meet. Humanity, in all its conditions, desires to fathom the infinite, and to read the invisible; and we yield some deference to the claims of those who profess to be able to see coming events in-the shadows which they cast before them."   480          DE VANE. "The observation is, I think," said Waring, ' a perfectly just one; and I confess that I experienced this evening, when we were confronted with that extraordinary woman, a certain degree of deference and more respect for her ut- terances than they were at all entitled to." "By the way," said Mr. Clarendon, " her words were very remarkable. She has uttered a prophecy almost in the language of poetry, and yet susceptible of clear inter- pretation." The heightening color of Esther, the conscious look of De Vane, and the expression of Miss Godolphin's face, sat- isfied him that it was a subject too deeply involving the happiness of those about him to be discussed lightly; and he added : "I must look into this, and see if the prophetess can read my fortunes."  "Ah! Mr. Clarendon," said Esther, "it requires no pro- phetess to read your future. It is to be a brilliant one." "And you are ascending the tripod?" said Mr. Claren- don. "I yield to such a priestess," and bending low, he kissed Esther's hand. '( No sweeter language could greet me if I stood at Delphi." The group dispersed, other persons coming forward, and 1Mr. Springfield turning away to attend to guests just cornm- ing in. In the course of the evening, De Vane sought a conversation with Esther, but found her so surrounded that he could only express his wish to speak with her alone, and it was understood between them that he should call the next day at twelve. tIe took a seat by the side of  Miss Godolphin, and had a long and earnest conversation. She was eager to speak with him of his visit to Virginia, and she asked him seriously what his relations were with Miss Guilford. "Were you jesting, Mr. De Vane, when you said, some evenings since, that she had made no impression on you?"   DE VANE.          431 De Vane smiled. "And do you suppose that I am really a prisoner at large?" he replied. "Do not evade the question," she said, " but do answer me frankly. I know that she looked forward to meeting you in Virginia with the greatest interest. She often spoke of you, and you were the subject of correspondence with your aunt. She was much admired in Europe, and I am curious to know if you have really escaped, without sur- rendering to charms which many thought were irresistible." De Vane saw that she was seriously interested. He did not doubt that the interest grew out of a generous concern for her friendc Miss Wordsworth. The event of the even- ing had startled her; the roadside prophetess, the strange prediction in regard to the future of the persons before her-for she had evidently designed her words to be pro- phetic-the emotion of Esther, all satisfied her that the happiness of at least one party might be involved in the growing intercourse between De Vane and Esther, and she resolved, with true and unselfish courage, to seek a free conversation with him. "I assure you, Miss Godolphin," he said, " that I am perfectly sincere. I found Miss Guilford's beauty resplend- ent, and I admired her greatly. She transcended my ex- pectations. She is a brilliant woman; but after an unre- stricted intercourse of a summer's duration, I lef't her with- out the slightest interest in her, beyond the admiration which she excited when we first met. I beg you to believe me when I assure you as a friend-and I trust that you will permit me to hold that relation to you-that it would be impossible for me to regard Miss Guilford with any stronger or tenderer sentiment than that of admiration." He spoke earnestly. Miss Godolphin extended her hand to him, and said: "I am honored by your friendship, Mr. De Vane; always regard meas your friend, and allow me to say that my in-     432          DE VANE. terest in you is far deeper since this conversation than it was before." De Vane bowed. Esther had never hinted to Miss Go- dolphin her interest in De Vane, nor had she at any time referred to their relations; but her observation had satis- fied Miss Godolphin that a nature so noble, pure, and true as that of Estler, if impressed at all, must be so-inefface- ably. Her heart, she felt, was like the plant that blooms but once, exhales its sweetness, and then die, She had felt it to be her duty to speak to Esther some weeks since in regard to De Vane, to explain to her the peculiarities of his family, the hopes founded upon the expected alliance with Miss Guilford; and she had related to Esther, for the first time, her own past; her relations to the family of Sir George Godolphin; and the suffering which she had en- dured. In the conversation which had taken place at Lea- sowes, and in which De Vane had heard himself named, MAiss Godolphin had made this communication to Esther. At this moment several persons came to the sofa where De Vane and Miss Godolphin were seated, and spoke with them, breaking off a conversation intensely interesting to those who were engaged in it, and turning upon subjects which must have led to farther explanations, if it had con- tinued; but society is imperious, and presently quite a general and sparkling talk sprang up, in which Miss Go- dolphin bore a leading part. Music followed, Miss Godolphin taking the piano, and Esther accompanying her with her voice, in one of those grand old songs which made every thing yield before the sway of passion uttering itself in the language of poetry, and borrowing harmony to raise and spiritualize it. And, so the evening wore away, and the guests departed. Not all to sleep, however; for Waring and De Vane outsat the early hours of the night in conversation; and Miss Godolphin and Esther invoked tired nature's sweet   DE VANE.          433 restorer all in vain, until long after midnight, when they sank into slumbers full of dreams, in which the majestic   j form of the wild prophetess stood once more before them; speaking of the past and the future. The next day, at twelve o'clock, De Vane called on Es- ther, and was received by her in the drawing-room. "I hope," said he, "that you are bright to-day, and that you have suffered nothing from the adventure of yesterday." "Not quite bright," said Esther. "I found it impossi- ble to sleep last night. Visions of the strange woman whom we met floated before me, until daylight streamed in through the windows, bringing quite a sense of relief." " She seemed to impress you," said De Vane; " and she was certainly an extraordinary person to meet on the road- side. I intend to ride out to the same spot this evening, to see if any trace of her can be found." "Do," said Esther. "I feel the greatest interest in knowing more of her. My aunt agrees in thinking it must be the person whom my uncle described to us last evening." "I do not doubt it,'" said De Vane. "How strange it is that such beings utter words, which seem to come fireighted with supernatural meaning and emphasis! It is very remarkable that upon returning to my room last evening, my servant handed me a package of letters, and among them was one from my aunt. 4t is very long, but I shall put it in your lrands to read, for I intend, Esther, to treat you throughout our intercourse with perfect frank- mness. I can give you no higher proof of my love and con- fidence."  Hte handed her the letter, and added: ' Do not read it now. I shall leave it with you. You will observe that the prediction of the sibyl is speedily verified; clouds be- 19     434          DE VANE. gin to overspread our path. But let us take courage; they will not linger forever." A deep flush overspread Esther's face, but she was silent. "My father," continued De Vane, " does not know you, and his conventional prejudices are like the Virginia mountains, deep-seated, and shrouded often in mists and clouds, which shut out the light and warmth of the bright- est and purest mornings. I am not surprised at this. I looked for it, but my aunt, like a glorious woman as she is, is for us, Esther, and that secures every thing. It de- lights me, and fills me with hope." Esther looked at the address of the letter which she held in her hand. The writing had a stateliness about it, and elegance. It was thoroughly English, and, she fall- cied, thoroughly aristocratic. "I am happy to know," she said, " that Mrs. De Vane regards me kindly. I am of course indebted to you for that." "I have only described you as you are, Esther," said De Vane; "and Mrs. De Vane has great confidence in my taste and judgment. We often spoke of you when I was in Virginia; and when she became satisfied that her plans for me respecting Miss Guilford would not succeed, she began to hear my representation of you favorably. But my last letter, in which I described an interview at Lea- sowes, seems to have completed the conquest, and she is " now earnestly, our friend." Esther smiled. "We must be brave, Esther," he continued., 'My fa- ther's confidence in Mrs. De Vane is fathomless. He knows how fastidious she is, and how thoroughly devoted she is to caste. I shall bring every thing right, and our sky will yet be cloudless." "You must not suffer me, Mr. De Vane," she said, " to   DE VANE.          435 introduce unhappiness into your family. I should be wretched if I saw any estrangement between you and your father. Never, never could I forgive myself if that should follow." "My dearest Esther,"' said De Vane, " you must take a brighter view of our relations. I can await the passing away of the clouds. Can you not?" "I have already said," replied Esther, " that you need not doubt my interest in you. It is too sincere to permit me to darken your home, by bringing the shadow of your father's displeasure upon you. You need not fear any change in my regard for you, but every consideration sat- isfies me that there should be no change in our relations without the full approbation of General De Vane." Her soul, full of truth, shone through her eyes, and she seemed almost majestic as with tones sad and gentle, but firm and steady, she uttered these words; as a priestess of Apollo glowing with earthly love, but yet true to the vows which bound her still to minister at the altar, might, repel the love who sought to lead her away from the tem- ple where she worshiped. "Well, Esther," said De Vane, "I can not doubt the future. I will never relinquish you; never but with life itself. Life to me without you is desolate. I scorn its highest prizes, its ambition, its glory; and as to its heart- less, soulless conventionalisms, Hhate and trample upon them. The paltry things that the world values, I detest; and the stately establishments which it sets up and vene- rates are but pyramids to hold the ashes of the dead--hol- low, gloomy vaults, where every thing is cold and life- less."  The young patrician rose from his seat, and stood in the full height of his strength and pride. He felt that he was a MAN. "They shall never bind me," he continued, ' with their     436          DE VANE. fetters, golden though they be; nor compel me to bow before their false gods. While I live in this breathing world, I will give my soul its full expansion, and whatever place the world may assign me, I shall preserve my self- respect. Ancestral honors! family alliances! what are these to me? The poor Indian exchanges his gold for glass beads, and fancies himself happy; but I will never sell my soul for the world's baubles." His form towered, as he uttered these words with start- ling energy; and Esther felt that she had never seen him when he appeared so full of glorious manhood.  He seemed a demii-god roused to indignation, and yet restrain- ing the passion that shook his soul. He strode across the floor several times, and, turning to Esther, said with gen- tleness: "I leave Mrs. De Vane's letter with you, Esther. I can not trust myself to speak of these things just now. Good morning!" Esther gave himl her hand. He grasped it with energy, and, bowing low, walked away. The mid-day sun was in the heavens, and drifting clouds, sweeping away to the eastward, left his disk unvailed. De Vane thought of the sibyl.  In the evening, De Vane and Waring rode to the spot, the scene of the adventure of the previous day; but they could find no trace of the strange being who had startled thleir Darty. They rode into the neighboring woods, but they sought in vain for the prophetess or her people. The only sign of any stranger footprints to be discovered was near a spring of pure and abundant water, some half-mile from the road. There a party had evidently pitched their tents, but they were already gone, and silence reigned over the spot.   CHAPTER XI. "UPON her face there was the tint of grief- The settled shadow of an Inward strife- And an unquiet drooping of the eye, As if its lid were charged with unshed tears. What could her grief be?"  "ORD BYRON. THE effect of the appearance of the sibyl upon Miss Godolphin's spirits, was even more marked and abiding than on Esther's. Her sadness seemed to return with in- creased power. She re-visited the past; and the gloom which wits passing away reasserted its dominion. Like the starlit heavens over which drifting clouds fly, obscur- ing their glory for a, time, but leaving the orbs which burn in the far depths the brighter for the passing shadow, all the splendid qualities of her nature were shining out with increasing brilliancy, as her melancholy gave way. But now, deeper gloom overspread her soul, than when she first returned from rEurope. Esther observed this with great pain, and sought to attract her from the dark stream where she had seated herself, hanging her harp, like a cap- tive Jewish maiden, upon the willows which fringed its banks. She was much with her; placed in her hands books which might interest her, and brought her under the influence, as often as possible, of those elevating and consoling views of life which cheered her own heart. Calling one morning on her, she found her seated in her boudoir, with a letter lying before her, with its margin deeply traced with the lines of mourning, and it was wet (437)     438 &DE VANE. with tears-fresh tears, though the letter was an 61old one; I and Esther, under an impulse which she could not resist, threw herself on the sofa by the side of her friend, and put her arms around her tenderly. Miss Godolphin, inex- pressibly touched by a mark of sympathy so warm, from one whose habitual self-restraint made her sometimes appear even cold, laid her head on Esther's shoulder, and wept as if the fountains of sensibility would pour out all their floods. Soothed by Esther's gentleness, she at length  lifted her head--that proud, beautiful, splendid head-and i kissed her friend passionately, and then, smiling through her tears, she said: "You will think me weak, Esther, very weak. I do not know that you have seen me weep before. But I have been re-visiting the past, and it has overwhelmed me with its shadows." She handed Esther the open letter. It was from Sir George Godolphin-that in which he reproached her with having brought sorrow and desolation upon his house. It was a cruel letter, and it had crushed her spirit. After reading it, Esther folded it and laid it on the escritoire. "Hortensia," she said, "'let me speak with you freely. You are ungenerous with yourself. You have become an ally of Sir George in accusing yourself. A more cruel let- ' ter-a more unjust one-I never read.   The visit to his house was at his own solicitation; his son was thrown in your way; you dealt honestly with him throughout; you left England; he followed you to the Continent; you never at any time encouraged his addresses; and when you per- sisted in decliningr to yield to his wishes, he surrendered himself to a generous but wild adventure, which bore him away from his home and his country, it seems forever." "Yes, but I encouraged him, Esther. I cheered him on in the glorious but perilous course which he had resolved   DE VANE.          439 to pursue, and which would never have been entered on if I had given him any hope for the future." "But," exclaimed Esther, " you never loved him. Why should you sacrifice yourself for a man whom you never loved, and never could have loved?" "Oh! never, never! But still, Esther, he loved me, and but for me he would now be the caressed and honored son of a stately but now broken-hearted nobleman, who sees his hopes extinguished forever." H Iortensia," said Esther earnestly, " have you searched yonr heart? 'Was there no love in it? no slightest interest which time might have developed?" Miss Godqulphin hesitated not a moment. She replied instantly, as.,l with her natural energy: "My heart required no searching. I never loved hilm- never, never-nor would it be possible for me to love him, if he stood before me to-day in all the strength of his young manhood." "Then," said Esther, with a beaming smile, "you must disnziss this sadness. I assure you it ought not to darken your life a moment. I am qualified to judge the case. M3y interest in you has made me study it, and I ain per- fectly sure that there is nothing whatever with which you should reproach yourself." ( "Thank you, dearest Esther," said Miss Godolphin. "You are indeed an angel visiting me in the wilderness, to comfort and guide me; and I will try to drink of the waters of consolation which you have shown me." Both smiled through their tears, for Esther had wept with her friend. It was a beautiful picture-two young beings, so colln- trasted in their personal appearance, yet both surpassingly lovely; the one with her profuse fair hair falling in rich curls about her bright face, the other with her dark locks braided in heavy masses and gathered in a clasp of gold     "O         DE VAN'E. at the back of the head, leaving the full outline of her classical features visible; seated side by side, as if an angel, quitting heaven for a season, had come to visit and cheer another who was striving with passions which would not permit her yet to rise to her celestial home. "The appearance and language of the strange woman whom we saw on the roadside," said Miss Godolphin, "in some way revived the past powerfully. The allusion to darkening young days, and the whole aspect of the extra- ordinary being, affected me strangely." ' I have observed it," said Estlher, "and can sympathize with you, for I was startled and saddened by it myself; but I have reasoned myself out of it. There can be-nothing in what she has said." "I do not know," said Miss Godolphin. "I almost be- lieve that some beings do, in some way, read coming events." "Oh! no," said Esther. "It can not be." "Of course," said AMiss Godolphin, "reason rejects their claims to supernatural power; and yet it is wonderful that their predictions are sometimes verified by succeeding events. I well remember that the evening before my cousin started on that disastrous adventure, a woman, not unlike her whom we saw a few days since, came to the spot where we were standing, and looking wildly into his face, uttered a solemn warning to him, not to make the journey which he contemplated.  He laughed at her words; but she repeated them, saying that if he persisted in going, sorrow would darken his father's house. Oh! I remember so vividly her appearance and her words. The brave young man flushed for a noment at the woman's earnestness, but putting a piece of gold in her hand, he turned from her, and we walked away." "Such things are strange," said Esther. "But it is quite   DE VANE.          441 impossible that one can read the future without divine en- lightenment; and we know they do not possess that." "Perhaps I am superstitious,", said Miss Godolphin; "but I can not free myself from the dominion which such beings exert over me." "Every one," said Esther, "I suppose, has a tinge of superstition, which gives its coloring to life. I am very sensible of it. I require some time to bring my reason to my aid; and for days after meeting the strange woman who startled us, I could not regain my composure." "Is it not related of King Saul,.that he consulted the Witch of Endor?" asked Miss Godolphin. "Yes," replied Esther, " and the result was a great shock to the stately king. When the prophet appeared, he fell straightway along the earth, and was sore afraid." "It is very wonderful," said Miss Godolphin. "What power could the witch have possessed over Samuel?" "None whatever," said Esther. "The appearance of the prophet must have been permitted, to carry out the purposes of God, in regard to the erring monarch. The incantations of the pythoness could have had no power over a prophet of God. It was when the king heard the awful words from the lips of the prophet, that on the next day he and his sons were to be slain in battle, that, over- whelmed with such a heavy message, his strength gave way, and he fell prostrate." "My heart always mourns over his fate," said Miss Go- dolphin. "I have heard Mr. Waring describe him in a way that interested and saddened me beyond expression: his early life, his modesty, his splendid person, his grand administration of the affairs of his kingdom, his declining iortunes, his clinging to the sceptre until it was torn fropi his grasp on a bloody field; and then his regal courage, and his death upon a mountain-side. from which he could 19*     "2         DE VANE. look out upon the lost battle, a disaster which his pride would not suffer him to survive." The next day Waring called at Leasowes, and held a long conversation with Esther. He had observed the deepening gloom of Miss Godolphin, and it saddened him. The cloud which threw its shadow upon her, wrapped him too in its folds, for his interest in her had become so strong, as to control his thoughts and emotions. Esther dealt with him frankly. She knew that De Vane had informed him of the history of Miss Godolphin, and she therefore spoke with the greater freedom. Her interest in WariVg could not have been greater if he had been a brother. She was resolved that he should not be deceived in any thing, if she could prevent it; and therefore, when he spoke to her at Leasowes, she gave him a full statement of facts so far as she was herself acquainted with them. "This I learned," she said, in concluding her statement, "from Miss Godolphin, and I am sure, that so far from wishing to conceal it from you, she would desire you to be fully informed of it. "It corresponds perfectly," said Waring, "Writh what De Vane said to me; and he heard the facts from Miss Guilford. But upon one point, I wish you to speak to me' without reserve. Did Miss Godolphin ever love her cousin?" "Never," said Esther. "Of that I am fully assured. She herself spoke to me in a way to satisfy me that her heart was never interested. On that you may rely." "Why, then," said Waring, "this sadness-this pro- tracted grief?" "It springs," said Esther, "from deep sensibility, and from unjust self-accusation. That is the sole cause of it, I assure you. She has suffered beyond description; but if her cousin stood before her to-day, to urge his suit, she would reject him."   DE VANE.          443 Waring looked relieved. "Thank you, my friend," he said, " thank you. I need not explain to you why I have sought this interview. Of course, you comprehend the nature of my interest in Miss Godolphin." Esther smiled. "I think so," she said. "I do not know how Miss Godolphin regards me, She is so brilliant, and is, in some respects, so aristocratic, that it is impossibleto say how she may view me, my opinions, my creed, or my people." Esther was silent for a moment. She felt the extreme difficulty of her position. She did not know how Miss Godolphin regarded her friend, and she thought it possible Waring's Apprehensions were not unfounded. "'Miss Godolphin's nature," she said at length, "is a noble one. She has he-art, but I think that her habitual sadness-produced by the fate of her cousin-has prevented her feeling an interest in any one, beyond that of friend- ship." "I hope," said Waring, " that you will permit me some- times to speak with you upon this subject." "Most willingly," said Esther. "You know, Mr. War- ing, that you are my brother." "And you may be assured that I shall be, while I live," said Waring. He took his leave; and Esther felt a strong desire to do what she could to make brighter and happier the path of the noble and true man, whose pure heart and great intel- lect were consecrated to the noblest task of life, and who, with all his learning, had the guileless simplicity of a lit- tle child.  9     / CHAPTER XII. "A CHANGE came o'er the spirit of my dream; The Wanderer was returned." "ORD BYRON. ON Saturday morning, Esther had gone to Leasowes early, intending to pass an hour or two vith the little girls before going into the town. It was her wish to visit the book-store of Mr. Miller, that she might select soluethinc to present to Mr. Springfield upon the recur- rence of his birtlhday--a mark of respect and affection which she never omitted. She had been in her grounds but a half-hour, and was walking with little-Mary Sinclair and one or two others, when she saw Mrs. Habersham's coach dash up to the gate.  The footman threw open the door, and Miss Go- dolphin, leaping out, disdaining the steps, rushed through the gate, and sprang to where Esther was standing in the midst of the little group, who, dismayed at her impetu- osity, gave way.  She threw her arms about Esther, and exclaimed: "O Esther! Esther! he lives! He has reached Eng- land!" Her agitation was very great. HTer face was glowing, and it beame:d with a joy which Esther had never seen it wear before. "Do   you not understand?" she exclaimed. "Hubert Godolphin, my cousin, who was lost to us, is living, and has returned to England." (444)   DE VANE.          445 "Oh! is it possible?" cried Esther. "The dead is alive, and the lost is found." "Yes," said Mviss Godolphin, " that beautiful saying is realized perfectly. I have just received a letter from Sir George, overflowing with kindness. He begs me to par- don all his harshness. Oh! what a mountain has rolled - from me! It really seems as if the words of the strange woman had already been fulfilled-that the darkness which clouds the morningpasses away, leaving the heavens bright- er than ever before." How resplendent she was, standing in the October sun, the whole face anld form  radiant with joy! She accom- panied Esther to the house, and handed her Sir George'9 letter. It recounted the 'adventures of his son. He was dangerously wounded, but not slain in battle, and had been carried a prisoner into the mountains, where he had passed some three years, before he could effect a commiu- nication with' the British Minister  at Constantinople. After that, he was speedily released, returned to England, and intends now to visit the United States." "Then we shall see him here," said Esther. "So it seems," said Miss Godolphin. "We shall expect him daily, until his arrival. Oh! you can not imagine how happy I am." Esther looked a little grave. She was the soul of truth. She had assured Waring that Miss Godolphin had never loved her cousin.  Had she misinterpreted her own heart, when she said so to Esther? Did she really love him? Would his loyalty, under so many adverse circumstances, win her heart, if he had never succeeded in doing so hitherto? She trembled a little for Warinug; but a few weeks would decide the questions which she so rapidly addressed to herself. Her solicitude was so great, that it appeared in her manner. Miss Godolphin observed it, and said : v:     DE VANE. "You do not sympathize with me, Esther. Oh! if you could know what I have suffered, you would rejoice with "I do rejoice with you, dear Hortensia, heartily," she said. "No one has felt a truer sympathy with you than myself." She rose, and kissed Miss Godolphin fervently. "And now," said Miss Godolphin, "I must hasten back to my aunt. These letters came' only this morning, and after we had read them, I said to her that I must see you, and let you know my joy." They embraced each other, and Miss Godolphin was about leaving the house, when, turning again to Esther, she said: "But you are not to pass all the morning here. Will you not take a seat with me, and drive into the town?" "With pleasure, said Esther.  '.'Let me detain you but a moment." Giving some directions to Irs. Green, she accompanied Miss Godolphin to the carriage, and driving to the book- store, she entered it, to make her selection for Ir. Spring- field's library. After looking over the shelves for some time, turning to the table where the books just received were placed, she found a fine copy of Jeremy Taylor's works, an Eng- ]ish edition, just imported, and she directed that it should be sent to her. She was about to leave the store, when Waring and De Vane entered it, and seeing her, walked to the alcove where she was standing. "We   are fortunate, Miss Wordsworth," said Waring. "We  did not know that we should meet you here." Esther explained the object of her coming, and showed the volumes which she had purchased.  "They are beautiful," said De Vane; "and the little   DE VANE.          447 acquaintance that I have With the writings of Jeremy  Taylor, makes me desire to read his works at length." "They are 'most attractive," said Waring. "They are as varied and beautiful as nature." Stepping to the counter where Mr. Miuller stood, he inquired if he could duplicate the set which Miss Words- worth had just purchased; and being informed that there was one more copy, bound in somewhat different style, he directed that, it should be stamped with the words, GEORGE DE VANE, on each volume, and sent to Mrs. Bowen's. Returning to where De Vane and Esther were standing, / she said: "I have a very gratifying piece of intelligence to communicate." Both the gentlemen looked eagerly at her, and awaited her words. She then proceedede to inform them of the facts made known to her by Miss Godolphin, in regard to her cousin, Hubert Godolphin. Both expressed their as- tonishment and their gratification. "And how does it affect Miss Godolphin?" asked De Vane. ' It has filled her with joy," said Esther. "Never have I witnessed such an effect produced by a letter, as Sir George Godolphin's produced on her. It was an ample apology for all his previous want of generosity; a full atonement, so far as an acknowledgment of the kind could constitute it, for his harshness." "And the heaven of her soul will now be cloudless," said De Vane. "Yes," said Esther, with emphasis. "And I must in- form you, also, that Hubert Godolphin is to visit his cousin immediately, and bear his father's acknowledg- ments in person, for past injustice." Waring's face flushed, and De Vane looked surprised. "It is all very strange," said De Vane. "Mehercule!     "8         DE VANE. Waring, I believe that the 'sibyl saw the coming event, when she looked so steadily at Miss Godolphin, and ut- tered those remarkable words." "It is simply," said Waring gently, "one of those re- markablc things which sometimes occur in the moral world, to startle us." He looked a little troubled. Esther felt for him. She had almost dreaded to make the communication to him; but she thought it better that he should hear it from her, rather than be startled by the announcement from Miss Godolphin, with her exuberant joy. "I am somewhat culrious to see a gentleman who has endured such otnes, said De Vane.  When is he to arrive   o?"      e  Vane. "t "He is to be looked for daily, as he was to sail in the next vessel after that which brought his letters." Waring Hwas very grave; but his self-possession had re- turned, and he entered into cheerful conversation with De Vane and Esther upon the effect which this event must produce upon Miss Godolphin. After speaking of books and friends, Esther left the store, and Waring and De Vane soon followed; walking slowly homeward. "By the way, Waring," said De Vane, "let us take the 4hop of our firiend Hobbs in the way, and give him instruc- ;ions about our horses; their shoes want attention." Waring assenting, they visited the blacksmith; and it )eing his habit to rest at noon, they found him deep in a book, as if utterly unconscious of forge and sledge-ham- -IIow are you, Mr. Hobbs?" said De Vane, rousing "Bless my soul and body, Mr. De Vane, is that you? 'm well, thank'ee. How is it with yourself? Hlow d'ye o, MrI. Waring?"   DE VANE.  .       449 "We are both pretty well, Mr. Iobbs," said De Vane. "Our horseback exercise does us good." "Nothing like it in the world, sir," said Mr. Hobbs. "but striking with the sledge-hammer; that'll cure any dyspeptic in the world."  "I suspect you are right," said Waring. "But, Mr. Hobbs, we should soon break down at that business." Not a bit of it," said the blacksmiith. a I didn't weigh a hundred and thirty when I began the trade, and now I go hard on to two hundred." The gentlemen both laughed as the honest blacksmith raised himself to his full height, and looked as if he could give Hercules a tight wrestle. "What are you reading to-day, Mr. Hobbs?" asked De Vane. "Why, sir," said he, " my boy, who is named after Gen- eral Marion, brought home his life, by Weems, that Mrs. Steele, his school-teacher, gave him; and I was reading  that." "A very interesting book," said De Vane. "I like to read it myself."  "It is interesting," said the blacksmith. "Jasper and Newton gave them chaps that they attacked thunder." "Oh! yes," said De Vane; ( they were brave fellows." "But the best thing in the book," continued the black- smith, "is where Sergeant McDonald got Seline out of the clutches of that infernal old tory. I should have liked to have the shoeing of that horse. I'd have done it for Mtc- Donald all the days of his life without charging him a cent." Perceiving that Mr. Hobbs was becoming rather ani- mated, De Vane said: ' Speaking of shoeing horses, we called to request you to pay special attention to the feet of ours. Perhaps it would be well to make their shoes somewhat lighter."     450         DE VANE. "I like a good heavy shoe on a horse, myself," said th6 blacksmith; "but as you so seldom drive yours, it' may be just as well to make them lighter." "Do," said De Vane; " and instead of heels, make the swell in the shoe a little fuller at the back part of the foot, and the toe thinner." "I'll do it, sir," said Mr. Hobbs, "but the shoes won't last any time." "Oh! never mind that," said De Vane. "We do not ride a great deal." "That horse of yours, Mr. Waring," said the black- smith, "is the best conditioned thing that ever I saw. He's most equal to Miss Wordsworth's horse." "I am glad to hear you speak well of him," said War- ing; " and if he equals Miss Wordsworth's horse, he must be fine." "That horse," said the blacksmith, "has got almost as much sense as a human. I've seen Miss Wordsworth riding him, and the way he behaves himself is beautiful; and when I go to shoe him, if I just tell him to hold up his foot, lie does it as natural as if he spoke English." "I suspect he understands it," said Waring, laughing. Bidding the blacksmith good-morning, they walked to Mrs. Bowen's. Waring's interview with the blacksmith had done him good; and De Vane was pleased to see that he was be- qoming cheerful. "That man," said Waring, "has a great amount of good in him. He sees the strong points of a book at once. If the fellow was not quite so strong in his language, I should enjoy his conversation more." "He restrains himself in your presence," said De Vane. "If you could hear him indulge his vocabulary when I am alone with him, you would pronounce him decidedly emphatic."   DE VANE.         451 "You must break the habit in him, De Vane. He has great faith in you, and you- can control him." "I have once or twice remonstrated with him," said De Vane, "but, before he knows it, he breaks out again. I must give him the names of some of the heathen gods 'to swear by-Vulcan, for instance." Waring laughed, and they entered the house. Some short time after De Vane had entered his room, Mr. Muller's messenger came with the package of books, which he said he had been directed to leave there. '"There must be some mistake," said De Vane.  "I made no purchase at the book-store this morniing." "Mr. Miller said they were for you, sir," said the mes- senger; and setting down his basket, he laid the books on the table. Do Vane opened the package, and found his name, stamped in gold, on the back. "Mr. Waring bought them, sir," said the messenger, "and said they were to be left here for you." De Vane at once comprehended it, and dismissed the messenger. I-e was touched by this act of kindness on the part of Waring. The selection of books, the delicacy with which it was done, and the value of the gift, were felt by him. When he met Waring in the evening, he thanked him  warmly, and assured him that he could have made him no more acceptable gift.  "I trust, De Vane," he said, "that you will find your interest in the grand old preacher increase as you read his works. There is a wonderful richness in his style, and a refreshing purity pervading his teachings, of which one never grows weary." "I shall put myself under his instructions systematical- ly," said De Vane, "and skall endeavor to follow them faithfully."     402          DE VANE. Waring was delighted. He felt that the taste of De Vane would not only not be offended by the works whllich he had put into his hands, but that their beauties would allure him into far deeper researches than he could be in- duced to make in any theological writings less attractive. And this pure, generous, thorough Christian found, in his effort to bring his friend into the path of life, something  to brighten his own spirit, just now troubled by appre- hensions respecting his relations with Miss Godolphin, as the clouds which skirt the horizon are sometinies illumin- ed with golden tints by a warm ray of light streaming upon them from the sun, which they mantle with their drapery as he sinks to rest.   CHAPTER   XIII. "I HAD not known her long, but loved her more  Than I could dream of then. Oh! even now  I dare not dwell upon my passion: more Than life itself I loved her, and still love."  WILLIAM CROSS WILLIAMSON. TIIE town was unusually gay. The assembling of the Legislature had brought there the most eminent men in the State; who were either members of that body, or who  came as visitors, many of them bringing their families, to  pass a few weeks at a place so attractive. Some of them took furnished houses, and entertained handsomely;      : brought their equipages, servants, and plate with them; and the little capital shone with a far higher splendor than  many larger ones. The triumph of General Jackson was complete; and the prospect of a new administration, com- ing in with so much of popular favor, lent extraordinary interest to political topics. Mr. Clarendon was in the highest spirits. He enter- tained magnificently, and assembled at his house, from      ; time to time, the most brilliant people. De Vane was recognized as a man of great promise, and he received marked and flattering attentions from the leading men of the State. Mr. Le Grande was known to be his friend, and Mr. Clarendon openly predicted his future eminence. A grand career was opening before him. As a very marked compliment, he was invited by Mr. Le Grande to meet at dinner a select number of the most eminent men in the State, where the programme of the incoming Administra- (453)     454         DE VANE. tion was discussed, its policy foreshadowed, and the mem- bers of the Cabinet were brought on the tapis-a political  dinner, where the work of the whole political campaign was laid out. Nor was it an empty compliment paid to De Vane, for he was drawn out in conversation, and his large views were appreciated by the eminent men who sat with hiln. Self-possessed, and yet deferential to men of larger experience than himself, he expressed his opinions with freedom when called out; and so successfully did he repre- sent them, that he made an impression upon that small but brilliant assemblage that never was effaced. The session of the Legislature was one of unusual inter- est; and Mr. Le Grande diEtinguished himself by a lumi- nous speech upon a proposition which had been brought forward to reduce the laws of the State into a code. It being understood that he was to speak on a certain day, the galleries and lobbies were thronged, and among the number De Vane and Esther were seen favorably seated. There, too, Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin, attend- ed by WYaring, had seats. Mrs. Clarendon was present, with two or three ladies from the sea-board, attended by Mr. Clarendon. The speech of Mr. Le Grande was made in opposition to the measure. He insisted that a great system like their law could not advantageously be embraced within a code; that the Code of Napoleon afforded no proper precedent for any such undertaking; that our law had grown up with society, advancing with its progress, accommodating itself to its wants; and that Napoleon introduced his Code really to reconstruct society, when the French Revolution had swept away every thing established, and had over- thrown all barriers. The argument was fine, and it heightened the reputation even of Mr. Le Grande. The scheme was defeated.   DE VANE.          455 At this session, too; a case of impeachment came up, of very great interest. It affected the privileges of an emi- nent citizen, whose public services and high personal quali- ties endeared him to the people of the State. Several of the ablest members of the House of Representatives were appointed to conduct the prosecution, the Senate being the tribunal before which it was heard. The defense was con- fided to Mr. Clarendon. He conducted it with so much ability, so much energy, so much grace, so much learning, that it earned for him imperishable renown. The whole trial, from the beginning to the end, was most impressive. The venerable man who took his seat day after day with meek dignity, the august tribunal before which he was ar- raigned, the deep sympathy felt foi him by his judges, the recollection of his public services,-the clouds which were already hanging their solemn drapery around the far-ad- vanced evening of his life, the splendid array of talent in the committee selected to conduct the prosecution, and the brilliant and powerful exhibition of intellect and ardor shown by his great advocate-all contributed to make it a deeply affecting spectacle, over which a sad splendor reigned throughout. Mr. Clarendon's speech was full of learning and eloquence, rivaling the highest oratorical display which was elicited upon the trial of Warren Hast- ings; and if it had been delivered in Westminster Hall, on such an occasion, it would'ave ranked him at once with the great Parliamentary speakers whose fame is limited only by the bounds of civilization. Uttered where it was, in the presence of an audience as cultivated and appre- ciative as any country could furnish, it won for hifm the highest distinction, and inaugurated that splendid career which the whole nation subsequently witnessed. Power- ful and brilliant as the defense was, it could not avert the solemn sentence which the great tribunal was compelled, from a controlling sense of duty, to deliver. But even     456         DE VANE.' then, the brief, subdued, but beautiful speech which the venerable man uttered as he bowed before the inexorable authority of his judges, prepared by Mr. Clarendon, melt- ed them to tears; and the words of the President of the Senate, sonorous and full of dignity, touched with a gener- ous sympathy, almost trembled as they conveyed the stern judgment of a court too pure to yield to passion, and too great not to be affected by such a spectacle-age and suf- fering appealing in vain in sight of the form of Justice holding aloft the scales in the clear light of Truth. De Vane heard Mr. Clarendon's great speech with un- controllable enthusiasm. It swept him like a torrent, and Esther, who was seated by his side, observed him, as the grand and ardent nature of the young Virginian, fired by the oratory of his noble friend, flamed up with full sympa- thy and increased admiration. "fehlercule! Miss Wordsworth," he exclaimed, "the world rarely hears any thing like that. It is the revivifi- cation of the-godlike speech which was uttered under the skies of Greece. It has never been excelled, in ancient or modern times." "Gloiious!" said Esther, " glorious! O Mr. De Vane  what power there is in eloquence. Neither the thunder of cannon nor the fury of the storm itself can rival it. It is, as you say, godlike." All around them there was the greatest enthusiasm, and praises were lavished upon the orator. Presently they met Waring and his party, and the friends greeted each other in that warm way which prevails when great senti- ments animate and control us. ' I'll venture to say," said Waring, addressing himself to Esther," that De Vane has been swearing by Hercules. Has he not, now?" She laughed, and said: "I believe I did hear some such elaseical exclamation, but I think it must be pardoned, and    . DE VANE.          457 conceded as an involuntary: tribute to surpassing clo-  quence." "Certainly," said Miss Godolphin; "Mr. De Vane should  be allowed to swear by all the gods of Olympus in wit- nessing such a triumph of his fiiend." At this moment Mr. Clarendon, accompanied by Mr. Le Grande, came up to the group, where they stood waiting  to receive him, and they offered him their congratulations. He- thanked them, and said: "Would that I could have done more for the old man! His gray hairs appeal to me in a way that is positively dreadful. I suffer unspeak-    i ably." "Then you can not save him?" exclaimed Esther.  "My dear child," said he, laying' his hand kindly on hers, "I fear not."  "It is too, sad," said Miss Godolphin, her eyes filling with tears. They entered their carriages and drove away. It was as Mr. Clarendon feared it would be, but it afforded one of the finest exhibitions of the ascendency of the higher quali- ties of humanity which the world has ever witnessed. In the course of the session, Mr. Hallam was elected one of the Chancellors of the State, and became associated with the venerable Chancellor De Lolme, whose learning, accomplishments, and manners had long adorned that bench, and whose elegant hospitality contributed largely to refine and elevate the tone of the society in which he lived.  Some few days after the delivery of Mr. Clarendon's great speech, De Vane met him walking toward the State House, with a gentleman whose appearance at once inter- ested him. He was evidently a stranger, as evidently a foreigner, and there was in his manner something so dis-  tinctly aristocratic, that it was impossible to overlook it.  His features, without being decidedly intellectual were 20     458         DE VANE. fine; his complexion was dark, as were his hair and eyes; and there was a manliness ili his bearing which imparted unusual dignity to the appearance of one so young--he could scarcely be thirty. As De Vane was about to pass, after lifting his hat to Mr. Clarendon, that gentleman said: "Excuse me, Mr. De Vane, for detaining you a moment. I wish to present you to Mr. Godolphin, son of Sir George, who has just arrived from England." After an interchange of the usual civilities,. the gentle- men separated, and De Vane walked directly to Mr. Sprinog- field's; and upon being shown into the lib'ary, asked for Miss Wordsworth. Esther had but a moment before re- turned from Leasowes, and coming into the room with hat and shawl on, she said: "Rather than keep you waiting, Mr. De Vane, I come without even stopping to take off my hat." "Thank you," said De Vane, rising to take her extended hand. "I was anxious to see you, and I am glad that you are so prompt in coming to meet me. Do you know that Hubert Godolphin is here?" "Indeed!" exclaimed Esther, becoming very pale. "No, I had not heard it. Have you seen him?"  "Yes," said De Vane. "I met him on the sidewalk with Mr. Clarendon, who presented me to him. Have you met Miss Godolphin this morning?" "I have not," said Esther. "I have been all the morn- ing at Leasowes. Do you know when Mr. Godolphin ar- rived?" "Last night," said De Vane. "He brings letters of in- troduction to Mr. Clarendon, and he has gone with him to the State House, to present him to Mr. Le Grande, and some two or three celebrities besides. I feel the greatest anxiety to know how Miss Godolphin will receive her cousin. My interest in Waring is such, that I am positive- ly unhappy about him. His nature has wonderful depth,   DE VANE.          469 and lie is attached to Miss Godolphin in a way to involve his happiness for life. If he should be disappointed in her, I do not know how he could bear it. He is so noble, so gentle and yet so strong, so pure, so full of truth, and with such an intellect as to entitle him to t;he homage of all men; that I do not know how' any woman can'resist him, if he should honor her with his love." Esther smiled at his earnestness, and said: "Your in- terest in Mr. Waring does not exceed my own. I have observed AMiss Godolphin, and have wished to know whether her regard for our friend is that of mere friend- ship, or something deeper and intenser; but I have not been able to satisfy myself respecting what is at once so interesting and so delicate a subject. That she does not love -Hubert4 Godolphin, I am confident; at least, I am very  confident that she has not loved him heretofore. What his presence may effect, and this new proof of the strength of his own attachment, I can not say; but her nature is nobleand the earnestness and truth of her character really rise info grandeur." "Then Waring is safe!" exclaimed He Vane. "No wo- man of a really grand nature can refuse his love." "You must not overlook," said Esther, "the influence of caste. .The tastes of Miss Godolphin might incline her to the style of life which, as the wife of the son of Sir George, she could lead, notwithstanding the contempt which she avows for mere conventional rank, unaccom- panied by refinement and worth." "Never!" said De Vane, with great vehemence, " never!  I would stake a kingdom upon the loyalty of Miss Godol- phin to those sentiments which I know, Esther, you prize so highly. You must not suffer yourself to believe that Waring is not prized just as highly as he would be, if he were an earl's son." "He is, of course, by you, Mr. De Vane, and by all who     "O          DE VANE. feel as you do. But after all, he belongs to a despised sect, a ld high as Miss Godolphin's nature is, it may be that she would hesitate to walk through life by the side of one who has consecrated himself to the task of preaching the Gospel, not only to the rich and the great, but to the poor and the outcast." De Vane rose, and walked rapidly across the room sev- eral times. He was profoundly moved by Esther's lan- guage. He knew that she loved Waring as a sister loves an only brother, and he saw that at this critical con- juncture of his fortunes, all her pride was roused for him; he was to be lneasured with a patrician, the son of a noble- man; wealth, family, every thing to aid the one, while the other could only offer his own glorious nature and splendid endowments, without fortune or rank to aid him. And the very majesty of her own transcendent woman- hood displayed itself in behalf of her friend. Her form rose to its fuill heighlt, as she stood near the centre of the library, and her large eyes blazed with full lustre. Never had De Vane seen her more roused, never more splendidly beautiful. Her height and color gave extraordinary bril- liancy to her face, and the consciousness of speaking for her friend, for her sect, for her people, for humanity in its native worth-as compared with the pride of life, and the pretension of rank, and the assumed glory of conventional and privileged classes--imparted to her an air nothing short of majestic.  There she stood, a daughter of the peo- ple, and De Vane felt that in her presence the titled and the great might bow their heads, encircled with coronets, and bend their jeweled necks in homage. "Esther," said he, "I should regard any woman with immeasurable scorn, who could weigh fortune or rank against the simple, native qualities of such a man as War- ing. He absolutely ennobles the race by belonging to it. He vindicates humanity from  its low estate by the glory   DE VANE.          461 of his nature. As to Miss Godolphin's estimate of him, we shall see what disclosures time may make. He has never yet spoken to her of love; nor will he, until this visit of her cousin has ended. He is too proud, or, perhaps I ought to say, he has too much self-respect, to enter into competition with any man for the hand of the woman he loves."     .  Taking Esther's hand, he bent his head and touched it with- his lips, and left the house. As he walked toward Ilrs. Bowen's, he revolved every thing in connection with the relations of Waring and Miss Godolphin, which could in any way affect them, and yet he could reach no satis- factory conclusion. He sympathized with Esther's anx- iety, and almost shared her jealous pride for Warinrg; for he comprehended the full magnitude of the opposition which was to be encountered by him in seeking the halnd of Miss Godolphin. His own relations with Esther were cloudec by influences springing from aristocratic preju- dices, and he felt how powerful they were, even when di- rected against one so peerless as herself. He saw, too, that his own hopes were endangered by the view which Esther was now disposed to take, of the inherent antago- nism between the tastes of that aristocratic class and thle opinions and habits of her own people; and he knew her well enougch to comprehend that she would never consent to ally herself to a family that looked with disdain upon a people of whom she believed the world was not worthy. She would never consent to be received into an aristocratic circle as an exceptional case, with the understanding that she was to look coldly upon her people and make her re- ligrious views as little obtrusive as possible. She was 'at any time prepared, like the Jewish maiden, to offer up her life as a sacrifice for the glory of the despised people to which she belonged, and she would have smliled as she yielded her pure bosom to the glittering steel of the heroio     "2          DE VANE. hand that was to smite her; but she could never renounce them for the sake of an aristocratic or even royal alliance. She was content, too, to endure whatever reproach or con- tempt might be visited upon her people, and she would not ihave exchanged the privilege of being an humble worship- er in that chapel for a diadem, and all the splendor of the most gorgeous establishments. . All this De Vane felt, and his passion deepened as he thought of her whom he had jlst seen in all the glow of awakened and almost indignant earnestness. He entered the house. Waring had not yet arrived. Going to his own room, he found on his table an invitation from 1Mr. Clarendon to meet Mri.-Hubert Go- dolphin the next day at dinner. Soon after, Waring entered the house, and presently came into De Vane's room. He held in his hand a note. It was an invitation from Clarendon to dinner. De Vane rose to meet his friend with more than usual respect in his manner, and offered him a seat. "It seems," said Waring, " that Mr. Godolphin has ar- rived. Have you met him?" Yes," replied De Vane, "I met him this morning, in company with Mr. Clarendon. He came last night; and we are to joiln hiii at dinner to-morrow, when you will have the opportuntity of judging for yourself, how much he is to be admired or-dreaded." Waring smiled, and said: "'I see that you do not intend to describe him. You go to Mr. Clarendon's, of course?" "Of. course," replied De Vane; " and you?" "Yes," said Waring. "Are there to be ladies, or is it a dinner for genltlemen?" For gentlemen only, I suppose," said De Vane ; "the object being to introduce this young Englishman, who rivals Othello, at least, in hair-breadth 'scapes, to the celebrities who are here, you being one of them."    DE VANE.         463 c And you," said Waring. "Oh!" said De Vane, laughing, "I am invited to-see the dignitaries, and to make myself agreeable generally. I shall expect you to shine, Waring. You must lay aside reserve, and give them an opportunity to see something  of that wealth which you so carefully conceal in general society." Waring smiled, but made no reply. "The truth is," said De Vane, "it is only when you are with friends-such, for instance, as Mr. Springfield, Mr. Clarendon, and myself-that you seem at all disposed to employ your capital; and while we are very much hon- ored by your confidence, we feel a natural desire that oth- ers should know you as we do; so you must really rouse yourself."  Such is my organization," said Waring, "that I con- verse freely only with those who appreciate what I have to say. You never knew any one who was so much affected by the audience he addresses, as I am. Unaffect- edly, I grow warm and sympathizing when I am surround- ed by those who are cultivated, and in whom genial nature has created the living soul-not a mere half-torpid faculty called by that name. Opaque bodies darken me, and dense souls oppress me," "I have observed it," said De Vane; " but we shall not meet such people at Mr. Clarendon's. I have observed, too, that you must be drawn out, to enable you to take part in conversation in general society, even when it is composed of the most intellectual people. In short, I think you are a little proud, and do not like to display your power, unless you are invited to do so, or roused by oppo- sition; then you are yourself. I would give a great deal to see you fairly roused to-morrow, by Mr. Le Grande, for instance, or by Dr. Hume, if he should happen to be present.'     "4          DE ,VANE. , "We must hear Mr. Godolphin," said Waring. "It  would hardly be proper to engross the conversation at a dinner-table where he is the honored guest."' "I am inclined to think that he would be very much  obliged to you for taking that part of the entertainment off his hands," said De Vane, " if I may judge by his face. He is pleasant-looking, but not intellectual." "' Ah!" said Waring. "Did you have much conversa- tion with him?" "Very little," replied De Vane. "He is gentlemanlike and agreeable; but his aspect does not disclose the rcg- nant mind."  "'We must call on him," said Waring. "It is due to Miss Godolphin, that every mark of respect should be paid to her relative." "Certainly," said De Vane. "Let us ;go now." Calling at the hotel, they were informed that Mr. Go- dolphin had not yet returned from his walk; and leavinlg their cards, the gentlemen returned to Mrs. Bowen's. When Waring and De Vane entered the drawing-room of Mr. Clarendon the next dlay, they found quite a large party of gentlemen already assembled; at least, it was large for a dinner at a private house, where the number should not exceed twelve or fifteen, if it is to be genial and not strictly ceremonious and stately. The two Chin- "Ilors were there, and several of the eminent members of the Legislature--Mr. Le Grande one of them; Dr. Hume, Professor Miles, and Professor Waring, representing the College. Mr. Godolphin had not arrived, but came not a great while after, and the gentlemen present were for- nmally presented to him by Mr. Clarendon. Mrs. Clarendon did not make her appearance at the table, and Mr. Clarendon seated Mr. Godolphin on his ri;ght, with Mr. Le Grande for his vis-a-vis, placing War- ing on the right of that gentleman, and De Vane on the   DE VANE.          465 other side of him,; so that the group were able to inter- change conversation with each other with ease. On the left of Mr. Clarendon sat Chancellor De Lolme, whose elegant manners and fine conversational powers, imparted a great charm -to the party. Mr. Godolphin, accustomed as he was to meet cultivated, refined, and em- inent persons, soon felt that he was in the presence of men of no common order; and as the conversation became free and general, he could scarcely forbear to express his sur- prise and gratification; but while his own good breeding restrained any remark of the kind, he exhibited in his whole manner his appreciation of the gentlemen who sur- rounded him. EIe excelled in conversation, and was very entertaining, because thoroughly informed as to the prog- ress of events in the actual world. As to books, he did not seem disposed to speak of them; so that when, by some remark of Mr. Le Grande, addressed to Waring, the subject of ethical philosophy, as it was treated on the Continent, in contrast with the opinions held in England and Scotland, came up, he took no part in it, but listened with marked attention to the learned and brilliant dis- course of those gentlemen. De Vane's wish was fully gratified, for Waring was thoroughly roused by Mr. Le Grande, and he unconsciously displayed those rare treas- ures of intellect and learning, which his friends well knew him to possess, but which he usually disclosed only in genial conversation with them, or from his Professor's chair. For some time the whole party were attracted by - the conversation of the two gentlemen; and as it ad- vanced, the fascination became so complete, that it was with reluctance the guests rose from the table, after a sit- ting so unusually long, that they found the hour was quite late when they returned to the drawing-room to take their coffee. 20*     "6     .    DE VANE. Even Dr. Hume expressed his gratification, and coming to where Mr. Le Grande was standing, he said: "I am very much obli(red to you, sir, for all that you have said; and I hope at some time to hear the discussion renewed between yourself and Professor Waring; you both maintain your opinions well." "You are very good," said Mr. Le Grande. "I think the College has great reason to be proud of the young Professor.' "So we are, sir," said Dr. Hume. 'He is skilled in dialectics." All who heard the remark smiled. : De Vane entered into conversation with Godolphin, and inquired if it was his purpose to make an extended tour through the United States. "I think not," he replied. "I shoull be pleased to visit your great West; but I have been so long absent from Enigland, that I shall return early in the spring. I wish in the mean while to pass some tilme in Washincton, where some of my countrymen are sojourning. "I should be pleased to show you any thing here which may interest you during your stay," said De Vane. "You are very good," replied Mr. Godolphin. "I am charmed with the place. It quite surpasses my expecta- tions, though it had been described to me in glowing terms by friends who reside here.'" Waring came forward, and said: "We shall be happy to see you, Mr. Godolphin, at the College, during your stay here. We have a library which may interest you; for, while it is not very extensive, it is well selected. "Thank you," he replied. "It will, I'm sure, afford me great pleasure to visit the College. You must allow me to say that it is well represented here to-day." Waring bowed. The next morning, cards of invitation came, both to   DE VANE.          467 -Waringt/ and to De Vane, from Chancellor De Lolme, in- viting them to dinner on the following day. It was the first time that Waring had been honored with an invitation to that house, and De Vane was delighted; for it was a tribute to him, as a man, from a very exclusive and aris- tocratic quarter, and it was the most satisfactory proof of the decided impression which his conversation on the previous day had made on the brilliant circle assembled at Mr. Clarendon's table. De Vane felt that Waring's social position was now perfectly well settled, and that from this time forth all the consideration would be extended to him which his preeminent abilities and noble qualities so richly melited. Eager to learn what Miss Godolphin's impressions were, since the return of her cousin, De Vane walked to Lea- sowes about twelve o'clock, when he knew he should find Esther released from her morning's engagement with her little charge. Entering the gate, he was advancing upon one of the winding walks leading to the house, when he saw both Miss Godolphin and Esther engaged in earnest conversation, walking in one of the paths which conducted to the gate by a still wider circuit. They had not seen him, and hurriedly retracing his steps, he emerged from the grounds, and passed on to the town. He congratulated himself at not having met Miss Godolphin under circum- stances so embarrassing, and he was now confident that he should be able to learn from Esther what he so much de- sired to know; for his .interest in Waring was too deep to suffer him to wait inactively while the crisis of his fate developed itself. He' resolved to call on Esther in the evening, and after a full conversation with her, to contri- bute what he might to protect his friend from any unne- cessary pain, or, if possible, to advance his hopes. In the evening, he called at Mr. Springfield's, and asked for Miss Wordsworth. He was shown into the drawing-     "8          D, VAtNE. room, and after some little time Esther entered. She was radiant, and De Vane felt that she had good ticlings for him. He rose to meet her, and she welcomed him with her brightest smile. "If I should ask you, Esther, in the beautiful language of the Scriptures, ' What of the night?' what would be your reply?" "I shoulcl answer," she said, " in the same language: 'The morning cometh, and also the night.' " "I must beg you to interpret for me," said De Vane; "for I really do not comprehend the language, couched as it is in such a ficgure. Do you mean that Waring's sky is to be visited with the morning, light, after such a weary night of doubt and watching, and that then a still darker and longer night is to close in upon it?" "Al! Mr. De Vane," said Esther playfully, "you must study the Scriptures. You appealed to me by quoting the langluage of the sublime prophet, and I could do no less than answer in his own words." "But really," said De Vane, "I am compelled to confess that I do not understand the beautiful but mysterious lan- guage of the prophlet. Will you not condescend to en- lighten me?" "Upon the hope that I indulge, that you will look more diligently into the inspired volume, whose authority you seemed to invoke by appealing to it, I will give you the interpretation which is, I believe, generally accepted. It is understood that two captive ntations appealed to the proplet, as a watchman, for some sign of hope, some ap- pearance of coming deliverance; and he replied to their question, ' Watchman, what of the night?' in these words, The morning cometh, and also the night ;' meaning that morning was about to dawn upon the one people, and a protracted night to settle down upon the other: the one   DE VAN'E          469 nation was presently to be delivered, while the other was to undergo a long captivity." "Thank you," said De Vane. "I am, then, to understand that morningo is about to dawn upon our friend, and that the Ather is still to endure the darkness which has so long covered his sky?" "Such is my interpretation of the signs," said Esther. "Of one thing I am quite sure, there has been no change in the sentiments of Miss Godolphin, so far as her cousin is concerned. That I am at liberty to say to you. As to the hopes of our friend, I, of course, can not speak; for not a word has ever been uttered in regard to him that would authorize me to form any opinion. I had this morning a conversation with Hortensia. She came to me at Leasowes, and communicated every thing. Mr. Godolphin renewed the offer of his hand, and she decidedly declined it. He assurpd her of his unchanging love, and urged her to with- hold!her final decision until his return to England, and then to write him. She explained to him every thing-her wretchedness at the thought of his having fallen in battle, her joy at the tidings of his return to England, her deep sense of his constancy, and her sincere friendship; but she assured him it was impossible that she could ever regard him in any other light than that of an honored friend and relative; and she implored him to conquer a passion which she insisted was only a fancy, which a year's residence in society such as he would meet in London, would easily overcome. He prevailed on her to give him the opportun- ity of proving his constancy by awaiting his return home, that he might assure her, from the very midst of the most brilliant circle of his own country, that he could love no woman but herself. And so the affair rests." "I pity him from the very depths of my heart," said De Vane. "He is a noble fellow, and such constancy I have rarely known. It is wonderful. He had known his     470          DE VANE. cousin but a short time in Europe; he was very young when he saw her--indeed, is still young; and yet now, after years of absence and sufferincg have tried his love, it is as ardent as at first." Esther was touched by this generous tribute to one who was striving to bear away from them one so loved and prized as 13iss Godolphin, and whose success would shed disastrous eclipse over the life of one so dear to him who uttered it, as she knew Waring to be-dear as an elder brother, upon whom no shadow could fall without cloud- ing Illis own happiness. "Do you knowV, Miss Wordsworth," said De Vane, rising, and speaking in a stately way, "that I committed a trespass this morning, for which I have yet to ask your pardon?" "A trespass!" exclaimed Esther. "I am not conscious of it." "Still I must sue for pardon,"' said De Vane. "At an hour when you were in the full possession of your prero- gative as mistress of Leasowes, and before you had emerged filom the sanctity which invests you there, and repels in- truders, except on holidays, I actually entered your do- main, and was advancing upon your seat of empire, when I saw, you walking with a fair lady; and conscious of the intrusion, I retraced my steps without making myself known to you." "Were you at Leasowes this morning?"Esther asked eagerly. ' I must confess it," said De Vane; " and seeing, Miss Godolphin in conversation with you, I withdrew." She laughed, and said: "It was very well that you did not join us, for at tlhat moment Hortensia was speaking to me with great earnestness, and your presence would have distressed her." "So I conjectured," said De Vane; " and like an illus-   DE VANE. trious personage whom Milton describes, I fled from the sight of happiness which I was not to shaie." Esther laughed heartily, and De Vane took leave with a heart full of joy, and love, and hope. a:joy)     CHAPTER XIV. "Wia in this furnace is my spirit proved Like steel in tempering fire? Because I loved! Because I loved what not to love, and see, Was more or less than mortal, and than me." THE LAMENT OF TASSO. IT is a beautiful compensation in human life, that when we feel and toil for others, the pressure of our own sor- rows is lighter; the soul receives strength from sympa- thy, and by a beneficent law of humanity, we grow strong as we strive to do good. De Vane's solicitude for Waring was so great, that he almost forgot his own troubles; and he awaited calmly, for a time, a reply to letters which he had recently writ- ten, both to Mrs. De  Vane and to General De Vane, ex- pressing in earnest terms his love for Miss Wordsworth, and his resolution to be loyal to his own heart, no matter what opposition he might encounter. He described her to his father in manly but glowing terms, and he expressed his perfect indifference to any advantages which he might acquire by a marriage such as General De Vane projected for him. Nor could he restrain the utterance of his pro- found indignation against those rules of conventional life, lwich would exclude a person, however cultivated, refined pure, and lovely she might be from the circles which they governed. In the mean while, he saw Esther constantly, and their intercourse yielded the purest enjoyment. Books, conversation, music, excursions to the neighboring coun- (472)   DE VANE.          473 try, wherever objects of interest attracted them, and a thorough cooperation in doing good t t those who needed their kindly offices-all gave a charm to the flying days. Their relations had undergone no change since the expla- nation which took place at the little fountain in the grounds of Leasowes. Esther was firm, and De Vane never for a moment swerved from his attachment or his purpose. .They saw much of society, and Esther was greatly admired. Mr. Le Grande was marked in his at- tentions to her, expressing without reserve his apprecia- tion of her beauty, her intellect, and her character; and others, still younger, and more disposed to possess what they so extravagantly admired, pressed their attentions upon her. But, with a gentle dignity, she kept within a charmed circle, which she did not suffer any one to over- step. Her bearing was such as to repress the language of passion, and without giving offense, she, in every instance, prevented an actual appeal to her decision, by making it plain that a declaration of love would be unacceptable. Mr. Clarendon said to her one evening: "Miss Wordsworth, with your glorious beauty, and all your attractions, you are like the sibyl repelling Apollo himself, who pressed her with all the ardor of the god; and you still exclaim to the great throng of your ad- mirers: ' O profani, procul, procul este ' " De Vane, who was standing near, smiled as he saw Es- ther's eyes turn quickly toward him, but he said nothing. The dinner at Chancellor De Lolme's brought together mainly the same guests who met at Mr. Clarendon's ta- ble, and it was an entertainment of marked elegance. The conversation turned on politics, and De Vane was drawn out by Mr. Clarendon in a way to make him the observed of some two or three gentlemen of distinction, whom he met for the first time. Waring and Mr. Le Grande did not renew their discussion, but Chancellor De     474          DE VANE. Lo1lme paid marked attention to the young Professor, and conversed -with him for some 'time on a subject which deeplly interested them, both--the relations between eth- ical and political philosophy. From that time Waring became a frequent guest; at the Chancellor's elegant and hospitable house. Some days after, cards were issued for an evening party at Mrs. Habersham's, and it proved to be unusually bril- liant. Eminent men from all parts of the State were pres- ent, and the families of several from the sea-board accom- panied them. The handsome house, with its elegant fur- niture, aflorded ample room and abounding' means for such an entertainment. Natural flowers shed a perfiume through the spacious saloons; and statuary and paintings imparted that indescribable grrace which nothing can sup- ply in their absence. There was no dancing. There never was at Mrs. Ifabersham's. Her own taste and that of Miss Godolphin's agreed in excluding it. But musical instru- ments of the rarest and most costly kind were placed in the drawing-room this evening, the harp alone occupying its accustomed place in the octagonal green room. One or two eminent professors of music were present,*vhose skill was so well known, that their performance alone would have attracted numbers to hear them. Esther was standing near the door, opening into the octagonal room, in conversation with Mr. Le Grande, when Mr. Clarendon -advanced, Mr. Godolphin leaningl on his arm, and said: "I wish, Miss WYordsworth, to present Mr. Godolphin." Mr. Godolphin bowed low, and said: "I have for some time desired the honor of meeting you. You are not unknown to me,3l{iss Wordsworth'- Esther bowed, and a conversation followed, in which she took part, with Mr. Godolphin, Mr. Le Grande, and Mr. Clarendon. Various topics were introduced, among others the costume of the people of Europe, as compared   DE VANE.          475 with that of Oriental nations, and this led to some re- marks as to the effect of civilization upon the fine arts.' At that moment, Miss Godo0lphin came up to the group, and invited Esther to give them at least one song, saying, that it was the wish of those present, many of whom had never heard her, to have that gratification afforded them this evening. Mr. Godolphin offerel his arm, and con- ducted her to the piano, at which she seated herself with apparent comlposure, but really under the influence of great embarrassment. The presence of so large a comipany, some of them total strangers to her, ancl the fact that the entertainment was intended to owe its chief interest to the music of the evening, awakened natural apprehension in one so full of sensibility. With perfect grace, she touched the keys of the instrument, playing first a wild exuberant piece, perfectly new to almost every one, and in whiclh the music seemed to exert its full power in ut- tering the voice not of mirth, but of deep and earnest gladness; now rapid, and again slow ancl tender, with a joyous outhurst finally, which was so exultant that it moved many to tears, from. pure sympathy with its almost hmuman passionateness. The room rang with applause, and Mr. Godolphin, bend- ing low, thanked her in the warmlest terms. "And now," said Miss Godolphin, " we must have the song?" "What shall it be?" asked Esther. "We leave the selection to yourself," she replied; " but, if perfectly agreeable to you, I should wish you to sing Judith.' This was a new .piece, almost unknown as yet in this country, describing, Judith's solemn consecration of herself to the perilous task of delivering her country from the As- syrian hosts that stretched their beleagnering!nes around the city where she dwelt, who trusted in shield and spear,     4'6          DE VANE. and bow and sling, and knew not the Lord that breaketh the battles, in which she prays that their stateliness may be broken down by the hand of a woman. It was a piece of wonderful power, music and language conspiring to produce the greatest effect; and it was a piece of con- siderable length. Esther took the fresh sheets of music lying near, and placed them before her. Her style of dress was in harmony with the piece which she was about to play, for it was unusually rich this evening. Her golden hair was intertwined with pearls, and her faultless neck was encircled with a necklace, of exquisite workmanship, of the same precious material, from which hung a cross, formed of the largest and pures pearls, of very great value-an ornament which had b en her mother's, and which she rarely wore. Her robe yas white silk, trimmed heavily with the finest lace.  She was roused by her own music, as she advanced in the piece, and her voice gave out all its power as she ut- tered the sentiments, so heroic, so devoted, and so sublime, that the whole scene of the beleaguered city, and the sur- rounding heights covered with the tents and streaming with the defiant banners of the haughty Assyrians, came up to view, while the soaring spirit of the glorious woman preparing to go forth to spoil the pride of the fierce leader of the mighty host, broke forth in tones so grand, and of such imperial triumph, that all who heard them felt as if they stood in the presence of some being already inspired with authentic power, to proclaim the deliverance of her country, and the utter rout and destruction of her enemies. As the closing notes died away, and Esther's hands fell from the instrument gently, the enthusiasm of the com- pany was such, that it did not seek to restrain itself, but everywhere exclaumations of rapture were heard, which betrayed the power that the wonderful music which had just ceased, had swayed over their souls.   DE VANE.          4" Esther rose froma her seat, and again Mr. Godolphin, offering his arm, conducted her to a seat. Mr. Clarendon and Waring came directly to her, and tendered their thanks, and a moment after De Vane joined them. "It occurs to me," said Mr. Clarendon, "that in a con- versation in which some of us took part, some months since, when the comparative power of the fine arts, and of language in expression, was discussed, we overlooked music; and really I am not prepared to say, after what I have just heard, that it does not transcend every thing, in the utterance of the higher emotions of our nature, and in swiaying the soul." c Ah but you must consider," said De Vane, " that we have just now heard music associated with language, and it goes far toward confirming my theory, which claims the ascendency of human speech over the fine arts in the power of expression, to observe the effect produced by the piece of music to which we have just listened; for what is music, after all, but speech in its passionate tones?'. "Very cleverly stated," said Mr. Glarendon. "But you claim rather more than I can concede, when you class music with language. The truth is, music is one of the fine arts." "Quite true," said Waring ; "and even when we listen to music unaccompanied by language, we are often pro- foundly moved by it; as in the Miserere, for instance, when the human voice can not be distinguished, and the tones float upon the air, the effect is described as very great." So it is," said Miss Godolphin, "for I have heard it just as you describe it; and it was wonderful how one felt it." "Yes, said Mr. Clarendon, "I perfectly well recall it." At this moment Miss Godolphin came up, leaning on Mr. Le Grande's arm. "We are reopening our discussion, Miss Godolphin,"     478          DE VANE. said De Vane, "as to the comparative power of language and of the fine arts to affect us, and Mr. Clarendon has appealed to the impression made by music as an art. Now is that allowable?" "Why not?" she said. Because," replied De Vane, "it consists of sounds, and language is made up of sounds, so that music is kindred to it." Ah! Mr. De Vane," said Miss Godolphin, "   you re- member that the controversy, as it stood before, was not as to. the power of uttered language to move us, but as to the capability of its descriptions-its capability of bring- ing to view scenes and ideas which, when realized, would affect us. And it seems to me that you vary the ground of our discussion when you add vocal sounds, which ap- peal to us in quite a different way." "Very fairly done," said Mr. Clarendon. "Do you not think so, Le Grande?" "I must be allowed to say, while I admire the skill and dialectic power of Miss Godolphin's remark," said Mr. Le Grande, " that in testing the power of language in its rela- tions to thought and emotion, it is quite 'proper to take into the estimate the highest forms which it wears. Elo- quence, for instance, is not dependent only upon a colloca- tion of words, but the tones of the human voice must enter lar'ely into it. And if this be true, music partakes in some sort of the nature of speech." "Still," said Mr. Clarendon, " that varies the original inquiry, started some time since, as to the capability of statuary or painting to move us, and of the comparative power of verbal description to do so, when representing the same object. And I remember that one of the illustrations offered was the Dying Gladiator-the work of art appeal-' ing to us by its mute suggestions-and Lord Byron's de- scriptive lines, in which he introduces the rude hut on the   DE VANE.          479 Danube, the boys at play, and the unconscious Dacian- mother. Now, vocal utterances are not to be taken into the account in such an inquiry. Is it not so, Miss Words- worth, for I believe you sat arbitress then?" Esther smiled, and said: "I think you are right, Mr. Clarendon."; "The truth is,' said Mr. Clarendon, laying his hand on De Vane's shoulder, "this young gentleman, seeing the complete ascendency of music established this evening, wishes to press it into the support of his theory; and I confess the same anxiety to rank it as one of the fine arts." All laughed. "The power of music to affect us," said Mr. Le Grande, "is nothing less than wonderful. The ancients have at- tested it in the fable of Orpheus moving beasts and woods, and all nations employ martial music to animate their sol- diers in preparing for battle." "There is a remarkable instance of the power of music over human passion," said Waring, " in the case of King Saul, whose wild and stormy soul could only be soothed by the harp of David, who, while yet young, swept the chords of that instrument in the presence of the monarch who at the same timel hated and dreaded him, and' yet was swayed by the notes that he produced."     , "It is a most felicitous illustration," said Mr. Le Grande. "I confess my own susceptibility to the influence of music," said De Vane. "It subdues or rouses me as noth- ing else can. Its descriptive power, too, is almost unlimit- ed. In that very piece which we all heard with so much emotion just now, it was easy to trace the varying senti- ment in the notes, as they rose, or sank, or wailed, or de- nounced, or triumphed, without observing the words in which the sentiment was expressed. I do not wonder at the effect produced by the Marseillaise. I never hear its notes, even upon a feeble instrument, without instantly     480         DE VANE. calling before me Paris--its streets filldd with armed men, torclles borne by women, who join the chorus of the wild song as the deeper voices of the maddened populace shout it out, and the frantic drums rattle it forth to animate the tread of the fierce band, a band in which both sexes mingle and all ages are seen, from the boy of twelve to the gray- haired octogenarian. That hymn would bring an empire toppling down." De Vane had unconsciously, in his animation, uttered this with amazing power, and his language, attitude, and gesture were all so striking, that the group about him re- garded him with unconcealed admiration. Mr. Le Grande fixed his eyes upon him, and said: "Ir. De Vane has just given us a great argument in support of his theory-the transcendent power of lan- guage to represent scenes which are not before us." His face flushed with pleasure, and he bowed. Esther's face beamed as brightly as his own. "It is to be observed, too, I think, Mr. Godolphin," said Mr. Clarendon, " that the national anthem of England breathes the majestic breadth and strength of her imperial sway. One who hears it can imagine the circling hours of the day never ceasing to light the wide extent of her realm." "I'm very much obliged to you, I'm sure," said Mr. Godolphin. "We are loyal people, and we love our na- tional anthem." "We have none," said Mr. Le Grande. "Will not Miss Godolphin give us some music now?" said Waring. "I am sure that we shall all be happy to hear her." "You should excuse me this evening, I think," she re- plied. "Do you hot say so, 1Mr. Clarendon?" "My dear lady," said he, " you should not appeal to me,   DE VANE.          481 when the question respects your being excused from sing- ing. I am incapable of impartial justice in that matter." Waring gave her his arm, and conducted her to the octagonal room, as a wish was expressed to hear her per- formance on the harp; and she seated herself by the instru- ment, and threw her fingers over its chords so as to produce instantly low, sweet tones, as if its spirit, sleeping before, became conscious now of the hand of an enchantress which woke it to life and tenderness. Gentle, almost wailing notes breathed forth, until, rising into higher tones, the music swelled into louder and grander circles, which filled the hearers with delight. It was as if the early morning of spring, dewy, and cheered by the song of a single bird, expanded into light and glory, until it became vocal with the glad caroling of a forest of songsters. It was the remark everywhere throughout the thronged and- rapt audience, that it was not conceivable such music could be produced from the harp, and the professors who stood near her could not repress their surprise at such a triumph in one of the most difficult instruments belonging to their art-an instrument upon which many perform, and over which they acquire some skill, but which the fewest number ever master so far as to make it yield those fluent tones which fill the soul with their ravishing melody. Some one requested a song, and she said: "I will give you one that is destined, I think, to immortality. It is true at once to nature and to the heart." Touching the strings again, she made them vocal under her fingers, and sang those lines of Moore, which breathe sentiments as pure as they are tender, "'Tis the last rose of summer;" and the depth, and richness, and passionateness of her voice entered every soul. Tears flowed freely while she 21     482         DE VANE. sang; and as the dying cadence of her tones was mingled with the exquisite sweetness of the air, which seemed to linger over the chords like the breath of an angel, the large drops rolled down the cheeks of Mr. Clarendon, at- testing the power of her music over his noble, grand, and yet gentle nature. When she had withdrawn her hand from the instrument, he advanced to her, took her hand in his, and said: "You are right, dear lady; that song can never die, so long as nature reproduces her flowers, or human hearts cherish loved objects on earth." It was painful to De Vane to observe the emotion of Hubert Godolphin. He was very manly, and yet he could hardly restrain the tears which welled up into his eyes. His agitation was so great, that he turned away, and walked to another room, that he might conquer it. Miss Godol- phin was brilliantly beautiful this evening. The shadow that had so long dimmed the lustre of her extraordinary charms had passed away, and she was as resplendent as a tropical morning, when the glories of nature are illumined by a light undimmed by mists. Her dress was in har- mony with her rejoicing spirit-rich, and adorned with all the appliances which a liberal but pure taste could bestow upon it. She wore no curls, but the diamonds flashed in her richly-braided hair, and a necklace, precious enough to ransom a queen from captivity, encircled her throat; while a dark green silk robe, trimmed with Brussels lace, dis- played her form in all the stately and yet graceful ele- gance which so preeminently distinguished her. It was proposed that the two ladies who had so grati- fied the guests by their performance, should contribute their voices in addition to the instrumental music which the two eminent professors were about to execute; and they took their places near the piano. The piece selected was from the 'Creation;' and one of the artists took his   DE VANE.         483 seat at the piano, while the other accompanied him on the violin; and Miss Godolphin and Esther, together vith the professional performers, sustained the several parts of the piece. The effect was very great; and as the last notes of the instrument, under the vigorous touch of the Ger- man professor; died away, an outhurst of applause broke forth from the delighted company, Mr. Godolphin and Mr. Clarendon shouting "Bravo! bravo!" vehemently. "ffehercule /" said De Vane, turning to Waring. "Stat- uary, and painting, and language must look to their laurels if they compete with music in the power of expression." Waring laughed, and advancing to the ladies, thanked them warmly for their music. "Let us go to supper," said Miss Godolphin. "Mr. Godolphin, will you take Mrs. Habersham to the table?" He bowed, and advancing to that lady, offered his arm. Waring conducted AIiss Godolphin, and De Vane took Esther to the table. It was a magnificent entertainment, such as lMrs. Habersham's great wealth and Miss Godol- phin's fine taste could supply; and it was intended as a compliment to one who had strong claims upon their con- sideration, and who had been accustomed to the most profuse elegance at home. Not until a late hour did the guests depart, and every one bore away an impression of rare splendor and ele- gance-an evening to be remembered for its brightness; for the grace and intellect and gladness which character- ized all its festivities. Some few days after, Hubert Godolphin took leave of his cousin, and returned to Washington, to join a party of his friends, who had come over with him to visit the great Republic. Letters came to DeM Vane-a very long one from his aunt and a pretty full one from his father. Mrs. De Vane urged him to yield to his father's wishes-to consent to     484          DE VANE. quit his present residence, at least for a time, and to satisfy the exactions of General De Vane, by proving that his love for Esther was not the result of mere intercourse with her, but a true and vigorous sentiment, which could survive through time and absence. She did not know that General De Vane had himself written to his son, and she therefore entered fully into all the reasoning by which the counsels of that gentleman were animated. General De Vane's letter was direct, and yet kind. Its tone may be learned from a passage taken from it, in which he treated the question 'of his son's wishes in regard to Miss Wordsworth: "I am not insensible to the strength of the sentiment which you profess to feel for Miss Wordsworth. I have outlived my youth, but not my heart; and my views in regard to you, while they may have been ambitious, have never been selfish. While I ardently desire that .you should marry a woman of your own class, (I do not mean to depreciate Miss Wordsworth, who, I do not doubt, is a very worthy young person,) I do not wish you to marry one whom you could neither love nor respect. The fact that the young person to whom you are just now so much attached is a friend and associate of Biss Godolphin, cer- tainly speaks much in her favor, and she could not have the approval of Mr. Clarendon if she did not possess con- siderable merit. Still, she is of a people not just of our own class; and I should somewhat fear, that hereafter your tastes might be offended by the persons who would surround her. There are very good people of her persua- sion-the Hamiltons, for instance-but they are rare, and there is always a certain clinging to each other, it seems to me, which might seriously offend you, when, hereafter, you come to look at things 'in a dry light,' as my Lord Bacon says. Still, I hold that every man has the right to   DE VANE.          485 choose the woman who is to walk by his side through life; and if you are content to subject your regard for Miss Wordsworth to a fair test, I shall waive all objection on my part to your marriage. Go to Europe in the spring, and travel there a year or two; and if, when you return, your sentiments are unchanged, I shall then respect your wishes, and offer no obstacle to their accomplishment. "Mr. Randolph was here yesterday, on his way to Wash- ington, and asked after you with interest. He is in high spirits, and says that he feels all the ardor of a fox-hunter -intent upon being in at the death. He means to see the present administration out." De Vane read his father's letter with mingled emotions. There was light in it, but it was remote. Time, distance, the ocean-all these rolled between hilm and Esther bythe plan submitted to him, and, in the ardor of his nature, it seemed a vista as long as that through which Jacob saw Rachel, was opening before him. He felt a profound re- spect for his father; he kn ew the terrible strength of his ideas of caste. His tastes were not only aristocratic, but his sentiments were such. The whole structure of his char- acter was exclusive; and yet he actually had brought him- self to yield to the alliance, which at one time he so utterly opposed, provided it should be consummated after subject- ing the parties who were to enter into it to an ordeal of time and absence. lie read and re-read the letters; re- volved every idea which they contained; and the deep and silent hours of midnight found him walking in his cham- ber, and looking in troubled anxiety over the dim, wide sea which stretched before him, as he sought to read the future.     CHAPTER XV. "OVE took up the glass of time, and turned it in his glowing hands; Every moment, lightly shaken, ran itself in golden sands. "Love took up the harp of life, and smote on all the chords with might; Smote the chord of self, that, trembling, passed in music out of sight." TENNYSON. WHEN we submit ourselves to an ordeal which is to prove us worthy of a beloved object, there is a cheerful cotrrage which takes the place of anxiety.  Conscious of our strength, we address ourselves to the tasks before us, and glory in suffering or in doing whatever awaits us. Love sheds over the objects about us its own glowing light, and the days which fly by us are gilded with its hues. The descending night, which comes to remind us that there is one day less of doubt and trial, sends its harbinger of hope, the star of evening, which glitters above the horizon, to lure us from despondency. De Vane had represented to Esther the state of his af- fairs, and she cheerfully acquiesced in the arrangement proposed to test the strength and loyalty of the sentiments which lie avowed.  Now that General De Vane had yield- ed his objections to her personally, and required only that he might be satisfied of the strength of his son's attach- ment, she could not withhold her own assent to a plan which was to demonstrath it. Heretofore she had firmly refused to enter into any engagement with De Vane, and now she would do no more than encourage him to believe that, when his father's objections were removed, she would (486)   DE VANE.         487 be ready to show her own appreciation of a regard so true and enduring. De Vane himself began to view their re- lations under brighter lights, and while the intervening months which must roll away before he could look upon Esther as his own, by a positive promise from her own lips that she would be his, seemed interminable; yet the thought that when they were ended, all uncertainty would have passed away with them, at length tranquillized if it did not cheer him; and he bent himself to his studies with redoubled energy, that he might be admitted to the bar before his departure for Europe. His progress was very' great, and the only relaxation which he took from his in- tense study was a ride on horseback with Waring, or an evening drive, when the day was so inviting as to make it agreeable. The weeks flew by rapidly. The winter was already gone before he could comprehend that its reign was over, and the signs of opening spring met his eye, as if by some enchantment the leafless trees had caught the breathing warmth of the tropics. It was arranged that he should return to Virginia in May, and by the close of that month sail from New-York for London. March was now almost gone. In April, the court before which he was to be ex- amined opened its session, and he was introduced to the judges by Mr. Clarendon, as an applicant for license to practice. His examination was perfectly satisfactory, and he was admitted, with evident marks of consideration by the judges, to the bar. Then followed a few weeks of de- lightful recreation. The circling hours were bright, and in the society of Esther he enjoyed those exquisite pleas- ures which love and hope shed over youth-pleasures as pure as they are perfect. The early spring flowers, the deepening foliage, the songs of birds, the breath of nature laden with the perfume of the early-blooming plants, the sunsets kindling a glory in the western sky as deep and     488          D E VANE. pure as if the opening portals of heaven shed there a supernal light-all this, De Vane and Esther enjoyed as we enjoy such scenes but once in life. As we advance upon the path of existence and comprehend the ways of the world; as we see so many illusions which cheered us in our youth fade away, and as the actual engrosses so much of time and lays its imperious claims upon our finest faculties; as we become acquainted with sorrow and stand in the presence of death, we feel that the sad strain which sighed over the harp of a noble poet as he swept its chords in exile and bitterness is but too true: "The tree of knowledge is not that of life." But De Vane and Esther were full of youth, and joy, and hope. The light which flushed their foreheads awoke their souls to gladness, as the earliest beams of the sun, falling upon the statue of Memnon, made it vocal, and called forth music to welcome the day. Waring's sympathy with his friend 'was perfect. His own spirit was refreshed; and as he saw the two young, bright beings moving in ,the realm of love and hope, he was accustomed to breathe a prayer that no cloud might darken a sky so full of light and joy. So far as his own hopes were involved, every thing was uncertain. He had not breathed a word of love to Miss Godolphin; he awaited her decision as to the addresses of her cousin Hubert. Acting in perfect good faith, she with- held her final reply until he should reach England and write to her; it was then her purpose to answer him in the most formal and emphatic way. Waring saw her often, sent her books to read, some of them intended to enlighten her as to evangelical religion, and they discussed the merits of these books, and kindred subjects, when they met. Nor did he limit his reading, nor seek to restrict   DE VANE.         489 hers, to this subject alone. History, criticism, poetry, and general literature, all these engaged them, and Miss Go- dolphin learned to appreciate more and more the extraor- dinary mind and elevated character of a man who, conse- crating himself solemnly to- the work of -the Christian ministry, and exerlising its functions among a people upon whom the great world looked down with no patronizing aspect, was yet so cultivated, so refined, so transcendently superior to the self-appointed magnates of that class who regarded Christianity as that circle did who, when the fame of Jesus began to take hold of the heart of the people of Judea, inquired: "Have any of the rulers, or of the Pharisees, believed on him?" The time came at length when De Vane was to take his departure. But a few days remained before he must say "Farewell!" for a time, to those who were so dear to him. The quarterly meeting for the Methodist Church was about to be held; and Waring, yielding to the earnest request of the presiding elder, consented to preach on Sunday night. De Vane was to leave on Tuesday, and that was one of the considerations which induced him to consent to preach at a time and in a place where there was so much to embarrass him. A very large congregation assembled to hear him. Per- sons of all denominations flocked to the Methodist church, and filled its simple, pllain seats. Mr. Clarendon attended Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin, and Chancellor Ial- lam and several of the professors from the College were present. The subject of Waring's discourse was from that brief but noble Psalm, in which King David, after survey- ing the wide-spread heavens through which the moon floated, and over which countless stars shed their light, extols the glory of the Lord of the universe, and utters his adoring wonder that, bending from all the splendors of creation, he should be mindful of man, and exalt the son of     "O         DE VANE. man to such dignity as to visit him. He treated it with the finest effect, exhibitirn man, at the first view, as a feeble being, the proudest and most heroic of the race sub- ject to disease and death. He then presented him as an intellectual being, achieving the highest triumphs in the arts, in literature, in science-a being capable of compre- hending the works of God, susceptible to the noblest emo- tions-love, gratitude, joy, adoration; who, while inani- mate nature, in its sublimest forms and most brilliant as- pects, could only reflect the majesty of the Maker, was himself so organized that he could vie with angels and archangels in swelling the pomp of worship which filled heaven with its mighty anthems and bore to the farthest verge of creation the sounding praise which made his ex- cellent name, known throughout its amplest bounds. He then described him as an immortal being-a being whose very nature the Son of God had assumed; who, by his triumph over our enemies, had exalted the form of human- ity to that high seat which the redeemed and sanctified should finally attain. And he proceeded to press, with wonderful power, the thought that the life of such a being ought to be consecrated to the noblest tasks and the highest aims; that such a being, viewed in the revealing light of divine truth, was too great for the little schemes of worldliness or the most towering objects of human am- bition; and that his whole earthly existence should be in harmony with the glory which was to be his inheritance, when states and empires, and the world itself, had per- ished, and nothing stood but the objects which God had made to endure forever. The sweep of Waring's thought was broad and vigorous, and he bore those who heard him on its majestic tide; so that when the sermon was ended, the world and its proudest and most dazzling ob- jects stood dwarfed in the presence of the sublime scenery which had just been brought to view. The effect was   DE VANE.          491 very great, and De Vane experienced, at the same time, the highest satisfaction at the glorious success of his friend in preaching the Gospel, and a. deep and awful sense of the majesty of revealed truth. Never before had he so com- prehended the relations of man to his higher destiny; never had he been so profoundly conscious of the moment- ous issues which attend life; and long after, he recalled the scene, the words, the thoughts of the preacher, and uttered two lines of the closing hymn, lines written by Montgomery:  "'Tis not the whole of life to live, Nor all of death to die." Upon the rolling seas, and in distant lands, the vision came back upon him; and he would stand and look up to the deep, limitless heavens, spreading their constellations above his head, as if they lighted -the way to the throne of God, and breathe a prayer that the great Being who dwelt beyond those visible glories, would be mindful of him, and lead him in the way of truth and life. As the congregation dispersed, De Vane joined the group, where Mr. Clarendon, Mrs. Habersham, and Miss Godolphin were standing near the door, waiting to speak with Waring; but he had passed out of another door, and walked with Mr. Springfield, who, with Mrs. Springfield and Esther, had succeeded in making their way out of the thronged avenue some moments earlier than others. "Ah!" said Mr. Clarendon, " he has made his escape. I really did wish to thank him. I feel that we all are in- debted to him." "So I think," said Chancellor Hallam. "I confess my- self under the greatest obligations to Professor Waring for that discourse." Miss Godolphin was silent, but her face was glowing.     "2         DE VANE. She was full of animation, but she did not trust her heart to express itself in words." "And you are to leave us on Tuesday, Mr. De Vane?" asked Mr. Clarendon. "Yes," he replied. ' I regret to say that I must take my departure so early." "But I should think," said Mrs. Habersham, "that the prospect of a visit to Europe would be very pleasing to you." "So it is, madam," replied De Vane; "b but it can not be an unalloyed pleasure, as I must leave my friends be- hind me." Bidding them good-night, he walked to his lodgings, and had a long conversation with Mrs. Bowen, who was so full of joy, that she could not think of retiring to rest, until she had expressed it to some one; and she. found a willing listener in De Vane, whose affection for Waring was not less than her own. While they were engaged in conversation, Waring passed on to his room, and retired, without seeing De Vane that night. The next day, De Vane was busily engaged in com- pleting his arrangements for his departure. He had pur- chased a large, handsome lot in that part of the town which stretched between the public garden and the Col- lege, and he had already caused several out-buildings, in- cluding a stable for his horses, to be erected, thus settling the question as to his residence so plainly, that no one could doubt his purpose to make his home there. He left every thing in charge of Waring, putting his horses and servant fully at his disposal until his return; for he pre- ferred to take public conveyances in traveling to Virginia. There was something pleasing to De Vane in leaving these objects behind him-in leaving something to remind his friends that he was gone only on a visit, and that he would   DE VANE.         493 return to resume the every-day life which he relinquished only for a season. The very shrubbery, which began already to grow luxuriously, and which was both rare and beautiful-having been supplied through the kindness of Mrs. Habersham, and the partiality of Mr. Siran, the public gardener-imparted a home look to his place, and helped to attach him to the spot. Mr. Swan offered his services in looking after the place  during his absence, and it was often observed afterward, that no garden in the town displayed more beauty than De Vane's, even in his absence. In the evening, Waring and De Vane took tea at Mrs. Springfield's, where they met Mr. and Mrs. Clarendon, and Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin, who were invited to join them. Itt Was very agreeable, both to De Vane and Esther, to have pleasing associations connected with the last evening which they were to pass with each other previous to their long separation. It was bettor to part cheerfully, than to take leave of each other in sadness, and doubt, and gloom. They were as yet but friends- friends to be sure answering in their relation to each per- fectly, that fine description of such a state in the felicitous phrase of a noble poet: "Friendship between the sexes is love full fledged, waiting for a fair day to fly." But still they were only friends, and Esther shrank from an unwit- nessed leave-taking. The evening was very bright. The supper was a happy one; all enjoyed it. Those who sat about the table were kindred spirits, and the winged hours rustled lightly as they flew over them. Conversation flowed freely. Mr. Clarendon excelled himself, and Mr. Springfield, who rival- ed him in that delightful gift, was as genial as possible. Music was not attempted; it wouldc have touched chords too deep not to bring tears. In such hours we can not enter the realm of song, without losing control of our sen-     "4         JEVANE. sibility; and when we begin to use and listen to voices which we may not hear again for many months, if ever, the spirit of sadness spreads her mists over the soul, and we abandon ourselves to her sway, yielding our homage in passionate tears. Music was not attempted. The strings of the magic interpreter of sentiment lay mute. Waring. and De Vane lingered a few moments after the other guests had taken leave, and Mr. Springfield invited them to join in the evening prayer, which he was accus- tomed to offer before the family retired to rest. He read the eighty-fourth Psalm, which breathes a beautiful trib- ute to the peace and blessedness of the courts of the Lord, and declares with triumphant faith, " O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee;" and kneeling, he offered a fervent prayer, imploring the divine blessing upon them all, and especially commending to the care of Him who neither slumbers nor sleeps, the friend who was about to .leave them for a season; entreating that he might be kept from the dangers of the land and the perils of the sea, and from whatever would harm soul or body, until, bro ught once more to join in worship with them, they might all mingle their praises as they bent again be- fore the throne of grace. As they rose from their knees, Esther's emotion was such, that she could not repress the tears that, if she were alone, would rain from her eyes; even now they glittered upon the lashes, and one or two fell like dew-drops upon the hand of De Vane, as she bent her head, while he said, cheerfully: "Esther, farewell!"He shook the hand of Mrs. Springfield tenderly and respectfully, grasped that of Mr. Springfield with energy, as that gentleman uttered a fervent "God bless you!" turned upon his steps, and was gone. Was he ever again to enter that house where he had- passed so many happy hours? That belonged to the Il   D DE VANE.        495 future and the unknown. But as he walked away, with Waring, ,under the star-lit heavens, it seemed to him that the blessing which Mr. Springfield had implored for him, filled the air, invisible but felt; as music floats in it, un- seen but not voiceless. The next morning saw him on his way to Virginia, and again the dashing horses bore him swiftly away from a spot the dearest to him in all the world. After his departure, Esther devoted herself to her duties at Leasowes with new activity. She found it a greats resource, for occupation was essential to her; and the consciousness of doing good to the little girls, whose eyes welcomed her so brightly every morning, cheered her indescribably. Waring often called at Mr. Springfield's; and the inter- est which he felt in De Vane seemed to bring the absent one nearer, as he spoke of him cheerfully and hopefully. * Some weeks after De Vane's departure, Waring came, bringing a letter for Esther, which had been received under cover to himself; and he at the same time stated that he also had a very long one addressed to him. Both were written in New-York, just previous to De Vane's going on board the ship America, a splendid vessel, which sailed regularly between that city and London. Esther instantly retired to her own room to read the letter which Waring handed her; and he remained in the library with Mr. and Mrs. Springfield, giving them a full account of his friend's movements and views. It seems that De Vane had made but a brief stay in Virginia, and had proceeded to New-York to make ar- rangements for his voyage. There he met Hubert Godol- phin and his party of friends, who were to sail in the same vessel with himself. le had found in this something to cheer him; for he was to go abroad with one person at least, who knew those who were so dear to him; and M1r.     "6         DE VANE. Godolphin had expressed the greatest satisfaction upon learning that De Vane was to go out in the same vessel. The fiiends, too, who were with him, De Vane found to be most agreeable people; among them, Sir Arthur Clifford and family, who were related to the Guilfords, and who had been making them a visit. The family consisted of Sir Arthur and Lady Clifford, and two daughters, one of them some twenty years of age, and the other about four years younger. Their only son was at Oxford. De Vane's letter to Esther was very long. It, described everything; and its last lines were written just as the vessel was about to leave the. wharf. A glowing farewell, and a passionate assurance of changeless love, closed it. It filled her with happiness; and kneeling in the stillness of her own chamber, she offered a fervent prayer that the wanderer might be kept by the tender mercies of Him e whose power overspreads the sea and, the land, and be brought back in safety to those who would watch for his coming as they watch who wait for the morning light. Descending to the library, she entered into conversation with Waring, who read aloud parts of his letter-not those which referred to herself, but his descriptions of persons and places. It was his first visit to New-York, and he was delighted with the bounding activity and energy of the people; with the signs of wealth which filled the streets; with the shipping crowded at the wharves of the city, as if bring- ing from all parts of the globe tributes to its supremacy in the world of commerce; with the magnificent bay, opening, through gates grander than the Pillars of Her- cules, into the wide sea; with the spirit of enterprise that projected the extent of the metropolis in larger lines than those which bounded the greatest cities of the Old World; and with the stately ships, launched by its own men, which already outstripped those of all other nations.   DE VANE.         497 These, then, he described, as they impressed his vigorous mind; and he sketched, with power and ardor, the future of a city which was seated upon the ocean, in such rela- tions to a continent whose exhaustless resources were far beyond the power of human calculation. Mr. Springfield expressed his gratification at the views exhibited by De Vane in his letter to Waring, and the conversation turned upon the future of him who had gone abroad to explore the great world. "Mr. De Vane's powers of observation," said Mr. Spring- field, c are extraordinary, and his mind will be greatly en- riched by foreign travel. He will profit more by one year's residence in Europe than most persons of his age would by five. He not only sees with quick perception the objects about him worthy to be observed, but he looks at them in a way to understand their value and their influ- ence. I shall be exceedingly gratified, I am sure, to read his letters written in the midst of the scenes which will surround him for twelve months to come." "Yes," said XWaring, "he will be thoroughly educated as to some subjects which interest him by the time he re- turns home. His will not be an idle tour; he will study the institutions of the states of Europe closely. His tastes are aristocratic, but his principles are not all so; and he -:will see for himself the actual working of the political systems, which require such an expenditure of money and blood to maintain them." "He will find himself most favorably introduced to English circles, by going to London with Mr. Hubert Godolphin," said Mr. Springfield. "Of course he bears letters with him; but he might be slow in presenting them. Mr. Godolphin will not suffer him to avoid society," "He will enjoy every advantage in that way," said Waring.  "It is not his purpose, however, to remain     "8         DE VANE. more than three months in England. He goes to the Con. tinent, to pass some time in Paris, and he will spend the winter in Italy. Classical in his tastes, he desires to spend some time in Rome; and his plan is to return through Germany to England in the following spring, so as to pass a few weeks in London during the sitting of Parliament. Since his late visit to Virginia, he has decided to rettrn to this country by the latter part of the summer of next year." "Indeed!" said Mrs. Springfield. "He will, then, be able to reach home-for his home is here-by October twelvemonth." "That is his plan," said Warling. Esther looked a little conscious, as if she had been al. ready enlightened upon that point; but she was silent. "Italy is, just now," said Mr. Springfield, "a country of very great interest. Her condition is, in every respect, volcanic. The internal fires not only threaten to upheave the land, but to flame up against the political system which crushes and degrades her." "Yes," said Waring, "the shock must come. The signs of coming disturbances in France, too, are too clear to be misunderstood. Two or three years will develop a popu- lar outhurst that will shake the reigning dynasty from the height where the strong arm of united Europe has placed it, if the storm is not subverted." "So I think," said Mr. Springfield. "Mr. De Vane visits Europe at a period of unusual interest. I feel a very strong inclination to go myself, but I must wait yet long- er before I gratify that wish." "It may be that I shall join you, when you complete your arrangements for the tour," said Waring. "I should wish. to make it an extended one, passing into the East, and visiting the scenes associated with the greatest events in the history of our race."   DE VANE.         499 "Let us keep it in view," said Mr. Springfield, "and we may yet accomplish it." The ladies smiled, and Mrs. Springfield said: "Esther and I must be of the party. We should enjoy it beyond expression." "Of course," said Mr. Springfield, " we must take you with us. Is there any other person, Mr. Waring, that you would suggest, as necessary to complete the happiness of the party?" All laughed, and Mrs. Springfield said: "It is hardly fair to call upon Mr. Waring so directly to avow his preference for traveling companions." "Oh! I was not inquiring about a companion for the journey of life," said Mr. Springfield, "but only for a tour through Europe and the East, though there is no saying how that might terminate; for if Mr. Waring foundl a lady friend agreeable upon such an excursion, he might be disposed to invite her to tread the still longer road with him." At that instant the door-bell rang, and in a moment after Miss Godolphin entered the room. All rose to re- ceive her, and Waring was so embarrassed by the sudden- ness of her appearance in the midst of a conversation so closely touching her, that Mr. Springfield was very much amused, and he said pleasantly: "Ah! Miss Godolphin, it is said that the approach of an angel inclines us to speak of the celestial being; and we were just now saying to each other how happy we should be to make the grand tour, if we could take with us cer- tain friends; and we were upon the point of naming you as you entered the room." "Thank you, Mr. Springfield," she replied. "I should be most happy to accompany you upon any journey that ,you might propose, and especially to travel with you through Europe and the East."     500         DE VANE. "Very well," said he; "that is settled. Hold yourself in readiness. The time is not yet fixed, but the plan of travel is fully mapped out." "I am delighted to hear it," she said. "But sit down," said Mr. Springfield, "and pass the evening with us." "Oh! thank you, no," she replied. "It is nearly sun-. set, and I ran in to ask Esther to drive with me to-morrow morning to see a poor woman, who, Mrs. Gildersleeve sends me word, is sick and needy." "I shall certainly go with you,9 said Esther; "but you must pass the evening with us. We will send a note to Mrs. Habersham, informing her that you are here." "There is no resisting you," she said. "Let me write the note, Esther." Sitting down at Mr. Springfield's library-table, she wrote a note to Mrs. Habersham, explaining her detention, and dispatched it by a servant. Then followed a gay conversation, in which the plan of travel was fully discussed, and as definitely arranged, as if it were to be undertaken the next week. She, too, had received a letter from New-York, in which Mr. De Vane's presence was named, and her cousin expressed the great pleasure which it gave him to find that he was to be a fellow-voyager across the Atlantic. She spoke of this with perfect naturalness, without the slightest embarrass- mernt; and it v-as easy to see that she regarded Hubert Godolphin only'as a kinsman and a friend. Rarely had Waring passed a happier evening. All were bright; Mrs. Springfield and Esther feeling greatly cheered by the letters from De Vane, and sympathizing with Waring in his evident gratification at meeting Miss Godolphin, and in hearing her speak thus of subjects which interested him so profoundly. Mr. Springfield was much brighter than usual, cheerful $   DE VANE.         501 as he was habitually; for he, too, was relieved by the tidings which came from one whose fortunes seemed so closely interwoven with those of a being so dear to him as Esther. Waring walked to Mrs. Habersham's with Miss Godol- phin, and in taking leave of her, could not forbear thank- ing her for the pleasure which she had conferred on him that evening, in consenting to stay, when she came only  to make a moment's call. "I have been so much engaged," said he, "of late, that I have not had the pleasure of meeting you so often as I desired, and I count it a piece of good fortune to have been able to enjoy your society this evening." "Thank you," she replied. It was further than Waring had ever gone before; and Miss Godolphin's voice almost trembled as she uttered her brief reply. The "Good-night!" spoken and returned, was uttered in tones, which revealed the truth of which neither was so fully conscious before, that the dawn of a new creation was kindling its glories over their souls.     CHAPTER XVI. "DEAD and gone is the old world's Ideal, The old arts and old religion fled; But I gladly live amid the Real, And I seek a worthier Ideal. Courage, brother, God is overhead!" ANONYMOUS. THE summer came, spreading its verdure all over the town. Leasowes was in its full beauty, and Esther passed most of her time there. She found in the duties which engaged her there, more to cheer her than anywhere else. There was an indefinable satisfaction in dwelling in the midst of scenes which De Vane was familiar with; and the consciousness of doing good to the little girls who were- left to encounter the perils of orphanage at so early all age, yielded the richest compensation. It required but little stretch of faith to believe that in the midst of those shaded walks, angels trod, or spread their sheltering wings around the little forms that dwelt there.  Waring had now made it a rule to call every Saturday morning, and make Esther a long visit, suggesting what he could to guide or lighten her tasks, and conversing with her about the past, the present, and the future. It was Saturday. He had not yet called, and Esther, seated under the sheltering vines that ran over the front piazza, was raising her head occasionally to look toward the distant gate, when at length she saw him advancing toward the house with rapid strides, and involuntarily she rose to meet him. As she walked toward him, he (502)   DE VANE.          503 held up letters in his right hand, and shook them gayly. Her heart leaped within her; for she had not had a line from De Vane since he sailed from New-York.  When Waring approached near enough to be heard, he ex- claimed: "I congratulate you! Good tidings!" The tumultuous blood rushed to her face; and as she stood for a moment, awaiting TVaring's coming, he felt that he had never seen a brighter impersonation of "oy, and youth, and beauty. "Here are letters, Miss Esther," he said. "They bring good news from a far country. I waited this morning for the mails to be opened before making my visit; for I felt that I should receive something from our friend." "Thank you," she said, earnestly, as he placed two letters in her hand. "It seems," said Waring, " that by some mischance our letters have been detained. I have received two; one written the very day after De Vane arrived in London, and the other three weeks later, and yet they both reach me by the same mail. But I am delighted to find that our friend is not only well, but in all respects what we could wish him to be. And now, I am not going to trespass upon you. You must read your letters, and I will call and see you this evening, when we can talk over every thing." "You are very good, Mr. Waring," said Esther. "I shall be delighted to see you." She gave him her hand, and bidding her "Good-morn- ing!" he walked away. Esther was touched by the delicacy of his conduct, for she could not bear to look into her letters in his presence; and, hurrying to the little fountain which threw its bright spray over the summer flowers, she seated herself and opened her treasures. When she rose to return to the     504          DE VANE. house, two hours had flown by, and Mrs. Green was won- dering what she had found to detain her in the grounds so long. "Bless me!" she exclaimed, as she saw Esther, "I did not know what had become of you. Jacob told me he had not seen you, and I should have thought you had gone home, but for your bonnet and parasol, which I saw lying just where you placed them this morning." "No," said Esther, "I have had letters, and have been reading them at the fountain." "I hope your friends are well, Miss Esther," said Mrs. Green, using the plural number, though she had but one person in her thoughts when she spoke. "Oh! yes, thank you," said Esther. "My letters bring good accounts." She had scarcely seated herself, before Miss Godolphin entered the house, who, running to Esther, embraced her ardently. Her face was beaming. "O Esther!" she exclaimed, "I have had letters from England; and I now feel, for the first time for years, that I am as full of joy as when a child." They entered a small apartment, which Esther had fur- nished as a drawing-room, and seated themselves where the summer air, breathing through the shrubbery, brought refreshing coolness with it, and the fragrance of flowers. Miss Godolphin then proceeded to relate to Esther, the precise state of her correspondence with her cousin Hu- bert; her good faith in awaiting a letter from him after his return to England; her reluctance to wound him, and her distress at his persistence in a suit which she wished him to see was hopeless. His promised letter had now reached her, and it appealed to her once more earnestly to consult her heart, and try to give him room to hope that she might be able to reciprocate a sentiment which had glowed not only with ardor, but which had burned steadily through   DE VANE.         505 all discouragements till now; but that if she found it im- possible to feel the interest in him which he so much de- sired, he would cease to trouble her with his importunities, and beg only that he might be regarded as a friend, ready always to serve her. "You can not conceive, Esther," she added, "what a sense of relief this letter brings to me. I shall now write to my cousin as a friend, claim him as such, and strive to hold my ascendency over his generous nature, in that re- lation; for his is truly a noble and generous spirit." "Yes," said Esther. "I do not doubt it. He must be noble and generous. But I am almost as much relieved as yourself'; for, dear, dear Hortensia! I do not think that you could evv love him; and the thought of giving one's self away ulder a sense of gratitude, or of yielding to importunity, is to me simply dreadful. I should never quit these shades, if such a fate awaited me." "Of course,' replied Miss Godolphin, " it is not to be thought of; I have never loved my cousin, and it would be impossible for me to yield to his wishes. This I shall' state to him again, and this time so emphatically as to malke it final. Marriage! I shudder to think of it, where any interior consideration induces the parties to enter into it. Wealth, position, worldly advantages--these I scorn beyond expression; and if I even loved Hubert, I should almost shrink from yielding to my own inclination, lest the splendid position which it would conduct to might in some way seem to influence me. If I ever marry, it will be because I prefer the man to whom I give my hand, to any one on earth."  In her animation, she rose from her seat, and stood in all the splendor of her beauty, her eyes flashing with the light of her awakened soul. "' You will marry, Hortensia, I hope; and marry a man whom you can love," said Esther, smiling. 22     506          DE VANE. Miss Godolphin's face flushed, as Esther fixed her eyes upon her, and she said playfully: "Yes, let us hope, dear Esther, that the fates may deal kindly with us. By the way, my letters say that Mr. De Vane is greatly admired in England. He is overwhelmed with attentions. Of course, you have heard from him." "Yes," said Esther. ' Mr. Waring brought me letters this morning.)" "Ah!" said Miss Godolphin; " and of course you are very bright. Is he dazzled with the splendors about him?" '"Far from it, fat from it," she said. "He is studying the institutions of the country, and while he admires much that he sees, he thinks that life is too artificial in the hig'her circles, and that the pressure of the aristocratic ' system upon the inferior class is too severe." "I am delighted," said Miss Godolphin. "It is so like him. He is not the man to be misled by false lights, but I did not know how the social life of England might affect him." "You must come and pass the evening with us," said Esther, "and we will discuss the whole subject." "Very well," replied Miss Godolphin; " and now you must take a seat with me, and let me set you down at homef" "Is your carriage at the gate?" asked Esther. 's Yes," she said. "I drove."  "I will go with you with great pleasure," said Esther. And, taking leave of Mrs. Green and her little girls, she walked with Miss Godolphin to the carriage, and was soon set down at Mr. Springfield's. In the evening, Waring and Miss Godolphin both came to tea, and the topics which such parts of the letters as were communicated suggested, were freely discussed. Waring's letters from De Vane were very long, and, independent of   DE VANE.          507 the personal interest which pervaded'some of the para- graphs, which paragraphs were not read aloud, there Wvere views of public affairs, which engaged those who sat in Mr. Springfield's library, in the most entertaining way. The freshness and vigor with which De Vane described what he saw, and the independent and manly toife in which he expressed his opinions, not only imparted a great charm to his letters, but awakened trains of thought that held the friends grouped in delightful conversation for hours. "So," said Mr. Springfield, " our friend Mr. De Vane, with all his aristocratic training and tastes, is not pleased with the aspect of English social life. I must confess I had supposed that he would be fascinated, for .whatever evils may exist, there must be refinement and culture." "That is quite true," replied Waring, " but he has not limited his observation simply to the results of their social system, as they appear in the matured and ripened fruits found in the mansions of the rich and the noble. He has looked at the working of the system in humble life, in the streets and lanes of the great metropolis, and in the glimpse which he has caught of it by a brief visit to the country, where there are fewer cases of casual suffering, and where the effects of the order of society in its settled arrangements may better be seen; and while he is charmed with the culture and refinement of which you speak, he is most painfully impressed with the terrible cost to the lower orders, by which it is brought about and sustained. To use his own expression: ' It reminds one of the sparkling wine pressed out of grapes whose vines are nourished by human blood.' All the splendor of the social system can not compensate for the destitution which it engenders; and he adds: 'Any people who can glory in wealth- andi splendor, produced by a system which drains the lower classes of even the common necessaries of life, are in great danger, as Herod, who, clad in garments glistening like     508         DE VANE. silver, was smitten and eaten up of worms, because he dared to assume what it belonged not to man to appropri- ate.' So that he is filled with admiration of the power and glory of England, but he is utterly opposed to a sys- tem which confides the legislation of the empire to the control of the very class who are to profit by giving it a direction which shall work to their exclusive advantage." "He would carry out, then, in the British empire," said Mr. Springfield. "those free-trade ideas which he insists will alone develop the power and glory of this country." "Just so," said Waring. "He does not oppose a social aristocracy, which holds its supremacy by its own inher- ent power to regulate the order of things about it, and which maintains its ascendency by its wealth, its culture, and its proscriptive rights; but he thinks that the laws of a country should leave open to every one the paths to success; that they should be equal; and that they should not put it in the power of one class, holding the soil in undisputed possession, to legislate for their own advan- tage, and to shut out supplies for human comfort, and even human life, while they revel in luxuries." "And he is right!" exclaimed Miss Godolphin with energy. "So every one must say, I should think," said Mr. Springfield. "The British government is a wise one, and it is developing the national power and glory to a wonder- ful extent; but there must be some concessions made to the working classes by the land-holders, or there will fol- low in its train social evils so great as to darken the brightest pages of her history." "My own sentiments," said Waring, "'are settled. I am not in any respect an admirer of aristocracy. I be- lieve in man, as man, and all the conventionalism under heaven can never impart any elevation to a soul that does not derive its nobleness from something within. Nor   DE VANE.          509 would I exclude from any position, political or social, a man who was worthy to fill it, because of his humble birth. I, from my heart, yes,+ from its very depth, feel with the Ayrshire plowman-poet: 'A prince can mak a belted knight, A marquis, duke, and a' that-; But an honest man's aboon his niight- Guid faith he manna fa' that! For a' that, and a' that, Their dignities, and a' that; The pith o' sense, and pride o' worth, Are higher ranks than a' that.'" He uttered the lines with extraordinary power. Their beauty and elevation were never before so appreciated by those who heard them; and as he ceased to speak, Miss Godolphin's eyes were fixed on him, while her whole face expressed the highest admiration. Her lips parted, as if she were about to speak, but she remained silent. "Oh! how fully I agree with you, Mr. Waring 1" said Esther. "What are we, to set hedges- about us, to keep away from us the poor? It is our privilege to associate with us the good, the true, the refined, the really noble of all classes, and we may limit our social life to such; but surely it is our duty to endeavor to enlighten and elevate even the lowliest." "Just as our Lord," said Waring, " was welcomed to a home with Martha and Mary and Lazarus, where he found purity and goodness and refinement, after walking through the day with the poor and the outcast, seeking to do them good." "I mean to say," said Esther, "that our friends and associates we are at liberty to choose by our tastes and our sympathies, but we must not disdain those, who are beneath us because we do not make companions of them."     510          DE VANE. "That is just the thought," said Waring. "How many there are that fail to see it! The truth is, we, as Method- ists, are sometimes contemned, because we embrace in our Church so many of the poor and ignorant; just as if our Lord had not, with special earnestness, directed the Gospel to be preached to the poor." "May it ever be our reproach and our glory!" said Esther. "Is the light sullied because it streams into a hovel, and lights up an abode of wretchedness? Surely the sunbeam that cheers the sick pauper on his pallet of straw, is as pure as that which falls upon the marble corri- dors of a palace." Her face, as she uttered these words, glowed with un- usual ardor, and the beauty which swept her perfect fea- tures was as pure as if illumined by celestial light. Tears trembled on the eyelids of Miss Godolphin, who sat oppo- site to her; and in her own generous soul she felt, at that moment, how transcendently superior Esther was to all the mere artificial beings which the whole circle of society could produce, if it searched through all its saloons, either in this country, where a self-constituted aristocratic class claimed superiority, or in England, where the ancestral pride of generations sought to perpetuate distinctions by the laws of the realm. She knew that such women were not limited to any class; that in the aristocratic circles of England, where she had observed society, and in the cor- responding circles of this country, true, noble, whole-souled women were to be found; women to be valued for their own inherent qualities, and not for the accidental advan- tages of rank and wealth; and she knew, too, that such women were not produced by those circles alone, but that they existed in many families which made no aristocraticp pretensions-households in the midst of which all the pure, gentle, grand, and really elevated virtues flourished, as plants of richest verdure and fairest flowers in their natal soil.   DE VANE.          5" The months flew by. October, with its glories, was making the woods even more beautiful than when they awoke to new life under the breath of spring. The vary- ingc hues of the leaves-the bright-red dogwood, the crim- son sweet-green, the yellow poplar, the rich evergreens, the clinging vines, running to the very top of the tallest trees--made a picture of rare beauty. The sunsets were glorious; the western sky sometimes flamed with the strong beams as they streamed over the hills, behind which the glowing axle of the sun was already hid; and at other times, the clouds which hung about the king of day, mantling his departing moments with their trails of splendor, were more gorgeous than imagination could con- ceive. The tow-n, with its trees planted thickly, not only on the sides of the streets, but down the centre of each, except those in which business claimed their entire breadth, was exhibiting its autumnal beauty. The public garden and Leasowes were both giving signs of the de- cline of summer, and Mr. Swan and Jacob were busy with the falling leaves, which the freshening breeze of the cool mornings would scatter over beds and walks in their respective domains. Waring had again resumed his labors at the College, after his summer vacation, and was deep in his studies. EstHer, too, was busy at Leasowes, her number of little girls being as full as ever. She was in perfect health, and her form was developing into that matchless combination of robustness with grace so rarely seen in this country. Mrs. Habersham and Miss Godolphin were yet at Clear- brook, lingering there to enjoy its autumnal beauties; and it had been arranged that on Saturday morning Esther was to make them a visit, attended by Waring. Letters were looked for from De Vane. When he last wrote, he was in Paris; but he was on the eve of starting for Italy. By this time he must have reached Rome, and his friends were     512         DE VANE. eager to know how the objects which would appeal to him there might affect him. Still no letters came; and when Waring called for Esther on Saturday, he was com- pelled to say that nothing had been heard of De Vane. The visit to Clearbrook was a pleasant one. There was every thing to make it attractive which wealth and taste could bestow. Mr. and Mrs. Springfield had been invited to come to dine, and they reached there not long after the arrival of Wajngc and Esther. Mr. Springfield was a great favorite with Miss Godolphin. She admired him for his intellect, his learning, his religion, and his accomplishments. And she often declared that it was no easy task to decide which was the more attractive of the two, Mr. Clarendon or Mr. Springfield. She never lost the opportunity of hearing him preach, and she expressed her unbounded gratification at the privilege of listening to one whose eloquence in the pulpit rivaled that of Mi. Clarendon in the forum. The day was delightful. And in the evening Mrs. Hab- -: ersham and Miss Godolphin retuied with their guests to the town. Their establishment was already prepared to receive them, and they had desired to have their friends with them the very last day that they passed at Clear- brook. Several weeks passed by, and yet no letters came from De Vane. All felt anxious about him. One morning, Mr. Clarendon met Esther at the book- store, and said to her: "What on earth has befallen De Vane, Miss Wordsworth? Do any of his friends hear from him?" "I can not say, Mr. Clarendon," she replied. "I have not heard of late of letters being received from him." "Confound the fellow!" said Mr. Clarendon. "I sus- pect he is engaged in some conspiracy for liberating Italy, and they have thrown him into one of their airy dungeons. That fellow at Naples is just the man to do it."   DE VANE.         513 Esther laughed, and said: "I certainly trust that no such ill-fortune has befallen him." "Or can it be," said Mr. Clarendon, "that the Pope has got hold of him, and is. trying to make a Christian of him by confining him in some convenient cell, where he can read him a lecture occasionally upon the absurdity and wickedness of his German transcendentalism? Depend upon it, the fellow has fallen into some such scrape, or he would have written to his friends. He wrote to me' from Paris, but I had that letter' two months ago." While Mr. Clarendon was speaking, Mr. Le Gnrnde walked into the store, and came immediately to where Esther was standing. Bowing very low and lifting his hat, he said: "I am very happy to meet you, Miss Wordsworth." Esther thanked him, and inquired when he had arrived. "But yesterday," he said. "I c uld not be here on Monday, as I should have been, to wutness the opening of our session, being kept at home by ngagements which I could not put aside."     / "I observed that you were not in your seat," said Es- ther.  "Thank you for taking the tr uble to look," replied Mr. Le Grande.  "Why; Le Grande," said Mr. C   don, "that we all did. Could you imagine that your vaint seat would be unobserved? Was not the statue ofrutus demanded in the presence of all the thronged p ocession?" "You are very good," said M.! Le Grande. "I was to ask after Mr. De Vane. Has he been heard from lately?" "We were just speaking of him," said Mr. Clarendon. "My last letter from him was received some two months since, and I do not know what to say about his silence." "He perhaps finds so much to engross him in observing the objects of the old world, that he can not find leisure 22*     514          DE VANE. to put his sensations into words just yet," said Mr. Le Grande. "When you and I were there, Le Grande," said Mr. Clarendon, "we were not very good letter-writers, I be- lieve. We dwelt in the presence of objects which filled the imagination, and we could not quit them for the task of coldly recording our sensations." "Yes," said Mr. Le Grande; " and comprehending Mr. De Vane, as I do, I can very well conceive his emotions in visiting Rome, a spot where there is more to awaken thought as tolthe comparative-claims of the old worldc-I mean the ancient, the classical world-and those of the modern, than in any other place on earth. He is intensely repu'blican, and as intensely modern, much as he loves the classics; and as he stands in view of the monuments of a past civil- ization, confronting the objects of the present age, as they are seen there, he will be more than ever disposed to re- gard America as the field where the ideal and the actual, combining their forces, will produce a higher and nobler civilization than the race has ever yet attained." "Yes," said Mr. Clarendon; "there is nothing of the actual in Rome. The Eternal City stands upon the ashes of its former glory, and the structures which the Church has reared there seem like solemn temples erected to cele- brate the memory of its past, with pompous and imposing ceremonials. One monument yet stands, a fit memorial of its ancient magnificence and colossal power -the Coli- seum. What a conception it gives us of the grandeur of the people who once dwelt there!" "Every thing that one meets there," said Mr. Le Grande, "is so suggestive, that we want leisure to compose our thoughts. We must study our own ideas before we are able to make them intelligible to others. It is impossible to stand in the presence of the shattered civilization of an -empire, and observe its seats of power, without feeling O-          eI   DE VANE.         515 disposed to observe more closely and to study more pro- founcily the institutions about us. There can be no better training for a statesman than to give him the opportunity of observing the working of the political systems of mod- ern Europe, and then place him in Rome, where he may study the history of a colossal empire lying all about him in ruins. He will comprehend what Bolinghroke means when he says 'that history is philosophy teaching by ex- ample.'" "After all," said Mr. Clarendon, " we are working out a grand problem in this country; but it is a problem not yet solved." Mr. Le Grande shrugged, his shoulders, but made no re- ply. He said to Esther, however; "And what do you say to that, Miss Wordsworth?" '"Oh!" she said, "I think that the affairs of nations are ordered by One who will conduct them in the right way, if the people acknowledge his right to rule. You know it is written: 'Blessed is that people whosd God is the Lord.' " Both the gentlemen bowed. Mr. Le Grande took up a number of a Review which had just been published, and asked Esther if she had yet read it. "Yes," she said; " and I think it promises to be pre- -- eminently successful. I have met with no Review which, I think, approaches it in excellence. The State may well be proud of it." Mr. Le Graride was much gratified; for it'was understood that he had contributed largely to its pages. After some further conversation about books, Esther bowed to the gentlemen, and was about to leave the store, when Mr. Clarendon said: "Miss Wordsworth, suffer me to attend you. You are walking, are you not?" Esther replied that she should be happy to be so attend-     -516          DE VANE. ed; and Mr. Clarendon saw her home, taking the oppor- tunity of saying, on the way, that he was confident De Vane was only waiting to put his ideas of Italy into a satisfactory form before he wrote, and that there was not the slightest occasion for uneasiness. After he took leave, Esther felt grateful for his consider- ate kindness, and for the delicacy with which it was ex- pressed; and she was cheered by the words of one who felt, as she Awell knew, so true an interest both in De Vane and herself.   CHAPTER XVII. "AND hopes, and fears that kindle hope, An undistinguishable throng, And gentle wishes long subdued- Subdued and cherished long 1" SAMUEL TAYOR COLERIDGE. THE winter, which had been an unusually brilliant one, was drawing toward its close. Miss Godolphin had given to the social entertainments of the season a great charm. The shadow which had somewhat obscured her brightness had passed away, and her fascination was everywhere felt. Tributes to her charms had been offered by more than one gentleman, which might have flattered the pride of many who moved in the circle which she adorned; but she heed- ed them not. Like some brilliant child of song at whose feet bouquets are showered, but who disdains to stoop to gather them, she passed on, as if unconscious of attracting the admiration so lavishly bestowed. Speculations were hazarded as to the cause of her indif- ference to the homage that was tendered her. As to Es- ther, she had so distinctly repelled all attentions which transcended the formal lines of mere politeness, the im- pression made very generally was, that she must be en- gaged to De Vane, and that the high principle which was known to govern her conduct in all things, made her dis- courage every thing which could lead any one to suppose that she would receive any tribute tinged with sentiment. But in the case of Miss Godolphin, it was believed that no (517)     518          DE VANE. such motive existed. She was frank, perfectly easy, gay, but, it seemed, impressionless. Some pronounced her cold, but yet every feature, every motion seemed informed with soul. Warinug visited her frequently, but he had never even-hint- ed love. Every thing else was freely discussed by them-- literature, the arts, religion, society; but of love they never spoke. In many benevolent enterprises they assist- ed each other, and they often met at Mr. Springfield's, Nrwhere in delightful conversation their views-were inter- chlanled. Returning on a very fine morning from the College, Waring walked into the public garden to observe some plants of rare beauty which were beginning already to feel the breath of the coming spring. An unusual number of visitors had been attracted by the genial warmth of the dlay, and as he stood observing the groups scattered over the grounds, he saw Miss Godolphin in a walk not far from lim, stooping to speak to a child who was attended by a maid-servant. He walked over to join her, and as he approached, he heard the conversation between 3Iiss Go- dolphin and the child--a little girl of extraordinary beauty, and dressed with exquisite taste. The fair hair and blue eyes of the child were such as the old painters loved to transfer to their canvas, and her intelligence was wonder- ful. Only some six years of age, she conversed with grace and propriety. Her language was beautiful, and her man- ner imparted a womanly dignity to all that she uttered. "My dear Marie," said Miss Godolphin, " are you about to return home? It is very early yet. Stay and enjoy the flowers a little while longer, will you not?" "Oh! thank you, Miss Godolphin," replied little Marie, "mamma said I must not stay long out, and I ought to go now."   DE VANE.          519 "But would mamma object to your staying a little longer with me? I will take you home." The child looked as if she very much wished to stay, but her face was troubled. She wore a pretty apron, and as Miss Godolphin stooped to speak to Marie, she saw a very small stain on it, as if a flower had been crushed against it. The child's eyes, too, were fixed on it, and she said, after a moment's pause: "I think, Miss Godolphin, I had better go now. I was so unfortunate as to bruise a hyacinth upon my apron, and mamma told me I must not get a speck on it." The child was very unhappy. She evidently dreaded to meet her mother. The whole splendor of the day was eclipsed for her young soul by that one spot on her apron. Yet with perfect delicacy she said not a word as to what would follow the discovery of the stain upon her return home. Miss "Godolphin's eyes filled with tears as she looked down upon the bright little creature, wretched because of a trifle, which would be magnified into a serious offense by the cruelty of a mother who could punish as a crime a casualty so trivial. At that moment Waring came up, and Miss Godolphin lifting her face to him, he saw her moist eyes. She extended her hand, smiling but silent. "Ah!" said Waring, " this is my little friend Marie." The child's face brightened asjf a sunbeam had passed over it, and she exclaimed: "O Mr. Waring! I'm so glad to see you." I-e stooped and kissed the child. "Well, my little Marie," said he, " are you really about " to go? I heard you say to Miss Godolphin that you must return home." "Yes, sir," she said, " it is better that I should go. I'm so sorry that I bruised that flower upon my apron; I ought to have been more careful."     520         DE VANE. Waring's heart was touched. He thought of the little girl returning home to meet a mother so artificial as to think dress a more serious thing than the happiness of her child, a mother so cruel as to punish as a grave offense a little flower-stain, which a heedless step of little feet had produced; and he resolved that she should not go unat- tended, that he would go and plead for Marie. Miss Godolphin looked on. She comprehended how the great, manly nature of Waring was wrought on, as he turned to her, and said: "3I will walk home with Marie." "Thank you, Mr. Waring," she said; " do walk home with her, or rather, as she has perhaps staid a little over the time, take my carriage, which is at the gate, and I will await its return." He thanked her with one of his brightest smiles, and taking Marie and her servant with him, he drove to Mrs. De La Roche's residence. As he handedMarie up to the door, she said: "Will you not come in and see mamma, Mr. Waring?" "Yes, my dear Marie, that I will," he said; adding in a low tone: "I think lions at the threshold could not turn me back." Mrs. De La Roche welcomed Waring warmly. She was a young person, of some twenty-seven years, very animat- ed, and not naturally deficient in heart; but she had for some years led a life so artificial as to dull her better na- ture, and she had fallen into the error of restraining her daughter-an only child-from the sportive exercise so essential to health and physical development. She ad- mired and respected Waring, and she was much flattered by his attending the little girl. Of course, her better na- ture was awake. "I am happy to see you, Professor Waring," she said. "I owe the honor of this visit to Marie, I'm sure." "Yes," said Waring, "I should not have called- at this   DE VANE.          521 time, but for the pleasure of escorting my dear little friend. I found her in the public garden, and she was upon the point of starting for home. I prevailed on her to come with me in the carriage." "I'm very greatly obliged to you," said Mrs. De La Roche, "for I began to fear she would stay longer than I intended she should." "She was resolute in coming," said Waring. "Both Miss Godolphin and myself urged her to stay longer, but she said her mamma would expect her, and I could not deny myself the pleasure of coming with her. I found her somewhat distressed too about a trifle, and I could not bear to see her unhappy when I knew she was not in fault." Marie, who was present, began to look conscious, and presently walking directly to her mother, she showed her the stain on the apron. For a moment Mrs. De La Roche's face flushed; she then smiled, and said: "Oh! that is not a great matter, Marie; but you must be more careful next time." A glow of happiness suffused Marie's face, and returning to Waring's chair, she looked up into his face with unut- terable thanks shining through her blue eyes, and then disappeared. Waring then proceeded to describe the unhappiness which the little girl had suffered on account of a matter so trivial, and ventured to express his views as to the freedom and unrestraint which children should enjoy, saying some- thing too of the distinction betweenwthe demerit of casual- ties and of crimes; so that before he tobk leave of Mrs. De La Roche, he had really made her conscious of the errors and mischiefs of the system into which she had drifted. She thanked him warmly for his interest in her child- for Waring had spoken of her in glowing terms after Marie had gone out of the room-and invited him to call often      522          DE VANE. and visit them. Waring's brief visit had accomplished much for the happiness of Marie De La Roche. He left sunshine in a dwelling where too often clouds had sur- rounded a little form fair as an angel's. Entering the car- riage, he returned to the public garden, and found Miss Godolphin seated near the green-house, while Mr. Swan was expatiating upon the glories of some new flowers whllich he had succeeded in rearingu for the first time. He lead presented to BIiss Godolphin a bouquet of great beauty, and as Waring approached, she rose to meet him, saying: "See how generous Mr. Swan has been. Are not these beautiful?" "Very," said Waring. "You must be almost as great a faxvorite as De Vane." She laughed, and said: "I really believe that I am in- debted for the flowers to the interest which I displayed, while 1Mr. Swan spoke of him. He has been the subject of discourse since you left me here. But how was Marie received?" "Graciously," replied Waring. He then gave an account of his interview with iMrs. De La Roche.; Miss Godolphin was deeply interested, and she thanked Waring with warmth for his interposition in behalf of the little girl. She had never admired him so much as at this moment, and her soul shone in her face as she spoke. Waring, too, as he saw the noble nature of the rwoman, so roused by sympathy with a child's sorrow, comprehended more clearly than ever before her tran- scendent superiority over the whole tribe of artificial beings who compose the gay world, and who would de- spise as a weakness the sensibility which could be touched by such a cause. They were passing down the broad walk leading to the principal gate, and as they approached it, lesser walks, di-    DE VANE.          623 verging on either side, conducted to the more sheltered parts of the garden. "Miss Godolphin," said Waring)', "are you eager to re- turn to the town?  Or will you take a turn with me through the garden?" She looked up into his face quickly, for there was some- thing in his tone which startled her. There was the inde- finable voice of the soul, which her own soul heard; and she read in his face that upon that hour trembled the fate of both. "I will walk with you," she said, in low tones. They turned into the right walk, bordered by ever- greens; and for some minutes not a word was uttered by either. At length Waring spoke. "Miss Godolphin, I do not know what fate awaits me. For many months I have observed you; pardon me for saying it, I have studied you, but I have been unable to comprehend you. Some men would risk nothing under such circumstances--they would seek to know, by some token, what was before them. -I am incapable of trifling; and, without in the least knowing what may be the result of my frankness, I can no longer restrain the energy of a passion which sways my whole nature. I love you!" Instantly Miss Godolphin stood still. She turned her soul-lit face full upon Waring. Her lustrous eyes sought his eyes. Steadily for a moment she fixed her earnest gaze upon him; then solemnly she laid her ungloved right hand in his, and burst into tears. "Forever mine!" said Waring passionately,. "forever mine!" and lifting her hand to his. lips, he impressed on it a fervent kiss. After a moment, she raised her bowed head. Her face was radiant, and smiling through her tears, she said: "Let us go." All about them, plants in tropical splendor bloomed.     524         DE VANE. They were shut in from all the world. None but these mute witnesses of their vows were present. They walked, as did our first parents, amid the glories of nature; and as they turned their steps once more toward the gate, Waring said: "Iy beloved, we quit this garden not with tears, and sorrow, and regret, but with a blessing; and looking up- ward, we may feel that Providence is our guide." How brightly she smiled on him, as he handed her to her carriage! The spirited horses dashed away, and as the flying vehicle passed out of sight, Waring looking up to I-eaven, uttered thanks, and implored a blessing: thanks for the bliss which was his, and an earnest prayer for the blessing which enricheth everlastingly.   CHAPTER   XVIII. "BUT where they are, and why they came not back, Is now the labor of my thoughts. 'Tis likeliest They had engaged their wandering steps too far." MILTON'S Comus. DE VANE was in Rome. Letters came, full of enthu- siasm. The ruins, the fallen columns, the shattered arches, the broken monuments of a dead empire, filled his im- agination. The modern world, too, interested him pro- foundly. The arts, painting and statuary, woke his soul to new ardor. He had lingered at Florence longer than he intended; but how could he. tear himself away from its galleries, filled with the triumphs of ancient and modern art? How should he quit the banks of the Arno, upon which Milton had lingered? How could he withdraw his gaze from the paintings of Raphael, or cease to look upon the works of Michael Angelo? How leave the gar- den of Lorenzo, de Medici, or the spot where Galileo stood to watch the stars in their wide circuits through the pellucid heavens? But he was in Rome, treading upon an empire's dust. The past and the present met before him. The pomp of triumph had ascended the steps of the capital, in full view of the spot where he stood; but the very capital was lev- eled, and the men who thronged its approaches were gone. Saint Peter's rose before him; its matchless dome, its illu- mined cross-the whole structure a monument of modern civilization, attesting the triumph of Christianity. (525)     526          DE VANE. De Vane, standing in the midst of such impressive ob- jects, found his soul roused. He re-visited the past, trav- eled over its track, guided by the lights of history; and he saw at his feet the ruin of the proudest structure man had ever reared-the Roman Empire! What had survived of it? Where were its temples? Where its gods? Where its priests? Where was its religion? The Niobe of na- tions was voiceless! How was it that a faith, springing up in a province of that empire, had outlived all its power and glory, and while the palaces of the Csesars had passed away, reared its own temples upon the hills where they once stood? How was it that while the fierce legions which, return- I ing from the conquest of distant nations, had thundered through the streets of the imperial city, were all gone, the disciples of Itim who, upon the slopes of the Mount of Olives, had inaugurated a kingdom, still trod these streets which had been the scene of so much pomp and splendor? Along the banks of the Tiber, Cicero had walked, utter- ing his lamentations for a daughter torn from his arms by death-a stricken, hopeless father, seeking to perpetuate the memory of a beloved object, by erecting a temple on the spot where his eyes rested with a fond and yet sad association. But father, daughter, temple, all were gone; while a triumphant faith, making its way only by preach- ing its doctrines with a simplicity-that did not aspire to rival his eloquence, to-day threw its illuminating splendors over a realm wider than the empire in its proudest days, and uttered, in almost every language under heaven, its consolations over the graves of the loved and the cle- parted. One night, De Vane had walked out. HHe was alone. The moon was flooding the heavens with its silvery splen- dor; the distant hills stood looking down upon the Eternal   DE VANE.          527 City. He saw the Coliseum standing out grandly against the sky, and he recalled the fierce sports of the people who once filled its ample amphitheatre. The past rolled before him with all its deeds; the civilization of that age he saw for the first time in all its revolting barbarism-splendid, but hard, barren, and material; and he asked himself if the world had reached its highest triumphs under such a tutelage? What were the proudest achievements of the mighty men who had bowed at the shrine of the imperial city, compared with the career of a single apostle of Christian- ity, Saint Paul, whose very presence there had thrown a noonday splendor over the whole empire? Christianity rose before him in the sublimest propor- tions. He surveyed its progress; he saw its trophies gath- ered out of every nation which it had visited-splendid, gloirious, and not stained with blood. He saw its silken banners everywhere spread in all climes to cheer and to bless, uttering its invitations to the nations to cease from war, and seeking to gather the whole race of men into one brotherhood. He retraced his steps. He saw the dome of Saint Peter's, and upon the cross the pure light lay. It was the symbol of a faith that upheld the very badge of its humiliation above the proudest monuments of worldly power and glory: the only symbol which it emblazoned on its conquering banners. The clear heavens were spread out upon him. There were the stars that had looked down upon all the eventful history of the imperial city which lay at his feet, brilliant chroniclers of the steady progress of that faith which, without arms, had extended its domin- ion over the proudest seats of empire that the world ac- knowledged. The by-gone centuries swept into view; and there, with the past and the present meeting upon the site of the world's capital, shattered monuments of hu-     528         DE VANE. man glory and towering Christian temple, he exclaimed: "CHRISTIANITY IS TRUE!" From that hour, with the directness and frankness of his nature, he submitted himself to the teachings of thegChrist- ian system; and it might be said of him as of Saul of Tar- sus, after he had seen the overpowering display of supernal glory which burst upon his vision on the road to Damas- cus: "Behold he prayeth!" All this progress in the spiritual development of De Vane had been observed both by Waring and Esther, who, as they read his letters from time to time, expressing his convictions, emotions, and views, comprehended his state; and when they saw at last that the morning-star for which they had so long watched, had risen upon the soul of the wanderer, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. The spring came; and nature was once more robed in beauty. The woods were vocal with the songs of birds; the China-trees, with which the town abounded, were covered with their delicate purple blooms; the gardens were brilliant. Miss Godolphin and Esther saw each other daily, and Waring was often with them. They were in sympathy with each other, and De Vane's letters to Waring were seen by the others, and were, of course, eagerly read by Mr. and Mrs. Springfield. For some weeks none had been received from him. The advancing season was deepening into summer, and the time for De Vane's return-voyage was not distant. One evening Waring hurried to Mr. Springfield's. He was just in time for tea. Miss Godolphin was there; and entering the library almost without knocking, he found the party rising to pass into the room where the table was spread. All greeted him warmly, and Mrs. Springfield said: "Ah! Professor, you are very welcome, and I am glad   DE VANE.          529 to have you with us, to partake of the finest strawherries we have had this season." "Strawherries!" said Waring, "so late as this?" "Yes," replied Mrs. Springfield, " and the very finest we have had. They are just now in perfection." "Thank you," said Waring. 'I will most gladly join you." And giving his arm to Mrs. Springfield, they all entered the supper-room. Mr. Springfield said: "Well, Professor Waring, what of Mr. De Vane? Any late tidings of him?" Waring smiled and said: "How is it that you anticipate me?" All looked eagerly at him; and taking a letter from his pocket, he handed it to Esther. Perfect as her self-control usually was, she rose to receive it, and, unable to conceal her emotion, she hurried from the room. "It was my intention to withhold Miss Wordsworth's letter," said Waring, "until after the strawherries were discussed; but there was no resisting such an appeal as her face made to me, after your question." "It was a little unlucky," said Mr. Springfield; " but I trust that you have good accounts from him." "Very good," said Waring. "He writes me at some length, and gives a very interesting account of a discovery whichhe has just made. Miss Godolphin, the mystery which has hitherto hung about your picture-the Daughter of Herodias-is explained." "Indeed!" she exclaimed. "And how?" "Do you not remember that De Vane has more than once written about an artist for whom he felt a great lik- ing, from his first visit to his studio?" said Waring. "Yes; a painter, a native of this country, whom he de- scribes as full of genius and all fine qualities. But I do not know that he has ever given his name," said Miss Go- dolphin. 28 .      530          DE VANTE. "He has never done so till now," said Waring. "He has until recently resided at Naples, but he is now in Rome." "Can it be Mr. Lawrence," exclaimed Miss Godolphin, "the artist who painted the picture which Esther so strongly resembles?" "The same," said Waring. "He has explained every thing to De Vane. Do you remember, Mrs. Springfield, to have known some years since, a painter of that name?" "Perfectly well," she replied. "But I have heard noth- ing of him for years. I knew that he had gone abroad, but for a long, long while, I have lost all trace of him." "I do not remember to have known him," said Mr. Springfield. "I do not know that you ever met him," said Mrs. Springfield. "I saw him when I was very young." "And how is the mystery explained?" asked Miss Go- dolphin. "It seems," said Waring, "that De Vane became inti- mate with the artist whom he so much admired, and visited his studio habitually. Calling one morning, he found Mr. Lawrence not at home; but still, without hesitation, he entered the rooms of the artist, and seated himself to await his coming.  The room where Mr. Lawrence slept opened into his studio, and as De Vane sat awaiting him, he saw what he had never observed before. The door of the artist's bed-chamber was open; it had hitherto been kept as scrupulously concealed from the view of visitors as the interior of a Turkish mosque from Christians. In full view of where De Vane was seated, stood the light, graceful bed of the artist, and over it hung, in an elaborate oval frame a painting in the highest style of art. It was the bust of a girl of some seventeen years, the face slightly averted but the large, blue eyes visible, and the profuse golden hair falling about the perfect neck. It was a portrait so   DE VANE.          531 perfect in its resemblance to Miss Wordsworth, that De Vane started." "A portrait of Esther?" exclaimed Mrs. Springfield, with astonishment. "So perfect," said Waring, " that De Vane sprang from his chair, and was standing transfixed with astonishment when Mr. Lawrence entered. Observing De Vane's ex- citement, he was himself at a loss to account for it; and an explanation followed, which is given at length in the letter which I received this evening. It seems that early in life Mr. Lawrence had known Miss Wordsworth's mother, and had been employed to paint her portrait." "It hangs now in Esther's room," said Mrs. Springfield, t "and answers perfectly the description which Mr. De Vane gives of the'picture in Mr. Lawrence's possession." "The young painter loved the beautiful being whose picture he had been engaged to paint, and meeting no en- courageoment, did not venture to breathe a passion which he felt was hopeless. He copied the picture which he had painted, and it had, from that hour, been the sole solace of his lonely hours. He has never married; the one fatal, hopeless passion of his youth has continued to flame up in a heart which would be desolate but for its fires. He has never reproduced the form and features so precious to him but in one instance; wishing to paint a picture of the very highest style of art, he represented the daughter of Hero- dias, with that ineffaceable image enshrined in his heart- the picture, Miss Godolphin, which you possess. De Vane then explained to the artist his own interest in the picture. You may imagine how it deepened the friendship which had already grown into strength between De Vane and a man whom he so much admired, and with whom he now so piofoundly sympathizes." "It is very wonderful!" exclaimed Mrs. Springfielid. "I well remember young Lawrence. His genius and his ar-     532         DE VANE. dor interested us, and my brother contributed every thing within his power to his advancement." "That accounts- for his wish, that the picture which he so much prized should be seen here," said Miss Godolphin; "for he must have heard of Esther, and of her residing here." "Yes. So De Vane states. Mr. Lawrence has never lost sight of the family of one that so deeply interested him, though he has had no direct communication with them," replied Waring. "Does he not intend to re-visit this country?" asked Mr. Springfield. "He has resided abroad so long," replied Waring, "that he has now no attachments to bind him here; and his tastes and habits would unfit him for society, as it exists with us." "I should be very happy to meet him," said Mr. Spring- field. "He is one of the most agreeable persons I have ever met," said Miss Godolphin. "His library is immense, and his collection of works of art would enrich a king. His conversation of itself would attract you; and if there were neither pictures, nor statues, nor books in his house, it would be still filled with the first people of all countries, who travel for sight-seeing, and who know how to prize genius. At Naples his villa was the most attractive place in the kingdom." "De Vane writes me," said Waring, "that it is the in- tention of Mr. Lawrence to reside permanently in Rome. He is arranging a residence at this time. He is a man of very considerable wealth. His pictures have brought him a great deal of money. Several of them are in royal gal- leries. Two of his finest are in the palace of the Duke D'Arenberg at Brussels, and the King of Bavaria has just   DE VANE.          633 engaged him to paint an historical piece, which will re- quire two years for its completion." "I greatly admired the pictures which I saw at Mrs. Habershal's," said Mr. Springfield. 'But I shall study them now with increased interest." "I was never before able to account for the extraordi- nary resemblance between Esther and the picture of the Daughter of Herodias," said Mr. Springfield. "It has often perplexed me. She is the very image of her mother, at her age. I have never seen a likeness so- perfect, and the fact that Mr. Lawrence has in his possession a portrait of the mother, enabled him to paint from it a picture which could not resemble Esther more perfectly, if she had stood before the artist in person."  They rose from the table, and passed into the library. Esther was seated, still reading the letter which Waring had handed her. It was very long; and after reading it, page after page, she had again read it, and was dwelling upon some of its passages when she was interrupted by the party coming from the supper-room into the library. It gave even a fuller explanation of the picture of her mother-its possession by the artist, and his enduring loyalty to his first love-than that contained in the letter to Waring; and it described vividly De Vane's own emo- tions upon seeing it. It was to her a precious letter, full of passionate tenderness and glowing hope. As the party entered the room, Esther raised her radiant face, and look- ing at Waring, she exclaimed: "Is it not wonderful?" "We have all been saying so," he replied; " for, in your absence, I gave to our friends an account of the discovery made by De Vane, which he has, I suppose, communicated to you." "And did you know Mr. Lawrence, aunt?" asked Es- ther.     534         DE VANE. "Yes; and I well remember him. Full of ardor and genius, your father, both before and after his marriage, gave to the young artist such assistance as enabled him to pursue his career." Mrs. Springfield then gave a full account of the early life of Mr. Lawrence, which interested all, and made them feel as if a new friend had been added to their circlg. De Vane had written that he was about to make a brief visit to Greece, in company with Mr. Lawrence, and that, upon their return to Rome, he should pass rapidly through Germany and Belgium into England, to take passage in an American vessel at Liverpool for New-York. Weeks fled by, but no letters were received from De Vane. A vague sense of uneasiness began to steal over the minds of his friends. It took no defined shape; but the heart grew sick under the very uncertainty which hung about his fate. To those who love, absence is an ordeal of suffering; but if we are utterly ignorant of the very place where the loved and absent are, of all the perils to which they are exposed, when wide seas roll their fathomless waters between us, the uncertainty which overspreads every thing connected with them, chills hope with its mists, if it can not cool the ardor of a sentiment too strong to be quenched by all the waves and the billows which roll over us.   CHAPTER XIX. "WHAT is this old history, but a lesson given, How true love still conquers by the deep strength of truth- How all the impulses whose native home is heaven, Sanctify the visions of hope, and faith, and youth? 'Tis for such they waken!" The Awakening of Endymion. SuMrIER c-ume with its splendors, but no tidings had yet been received from De Vane. Waring and Miss Godolphin were more than ever with Esther, and cheered her with their hopeful view of the causes which had hindered the arrival of letters. The beautiful lines of her own character were now distinctly visible. Never for a moment did doubt cloud the heaven of her soul.   She was unhappy, but it was from  apprehension that the treacherous sea Inight have engulfed the object of her solicitude.    Her own loyalty was unswerving; and she did not suffer the faintest shadow of distrust of his to steal upon her heart. Prayer was her resource when alone; and often she out- watched the stars.  Like Tennyson's Mariana, she would throw open the lattice-blind, and lean upon the balcony: "There all in spaces rosy-bright, Large Hesper glittered on her tears, And deepening through the silent spheres, Heaven over heaven rbse the night." But hope shed its lustre over her troubled spirit, and she would retire comforted by her trust in Him whose sleepless (535)     536          DE VANE. care is over all his works, and whose power is as great in the wide sea as upon the high places of the earth. She was at Leasowes, engaged in some of the little tasks which called her there at times on Saturday. Three or four of the larger girls were seated near her; one of them, Mary Sinclair, who was busy with a piece of embroidery. Esther sat with her face drooping over a sketch which she was making, as a guide for one of the little girls, who had exhibited both taste and genius in drawing. "There is Mr. Waring coming, Miss Esther," said Mary Sinclair. Esther started, sprang to her feet, and ran to the door, borne by an impulse which she could not control. Waring was rapidly approaching the house. His face was resplendent; his great soul beamed through his eyes, and he exclamed: "All's well!" Esther could not restrain herself. She sank upon a seat, and passionate tears rained from her eyes. It was a sum- ner shower; for, presently recovering her self-possession, she looked up to Waring, as he stood, in mute respect awaiting the subsiding of her emotion, and a smile like sunlight illumined her features. " Mr. Waring!" she exclaimed, "you must pardon my weakness." "You ladies," said Waring, smiling brightly, " are ex- traordinary beings. If one brings you a piece of good news, you are sure to greet him with tears. But I ought not to reproach you; for, upon calling at the office this morning, when letters from De Vane were handed me, I found the lines which I was reading wet with my own tears; but they were tears of joy. The fellow has been wandering through Greece with Mr. Lawrence; and like a couple of enthusiasts, they were six weeks longer than they had intended, exploring out-of-the-way places and searching ruins, and so neglected to write. De Vane now writes from Dresden, where Mr. Lawrence has accomn-   DE VANE.         537 paniled him; for that gentleman seems to have taken a prodigious fancy to our friend, just as if he deserved it. They are now exploring the galleries of art; and De Vane is to be in Paris by the latter part of this month. He has decided to sail from Havre, and he will not re-visit Eng- land; so that, if prosperous, he may reach New-York by the middle of September. He handed Esther a package of letters. She looked her thanks. "Will you be at home this evening?" asked Waring. "Yes; and we, shall be happy to see you," she replied. "Will you come?" "' With the greatest pleasure," he replied. "And would you offer any objection," said Esther arch- ly, " if I should propose to invite Miss Godolphin to join us, and hear the tidings from our absent friend?" "Oh! none whatever," said Wiring, laughing, and act- ually blushing. "And now I leave you to your letters. Good-morning." "Au revoir " said Esther, not entering the house, but snatching her parasol and hastening to the fountain. There was no spot on earth where she could read De Vane's letters with so much pleasure; and as she opened the package which she had just received, she felt that she possessed a treasure of priceless value. There were sev- eral letters, and they were very long. She read and re- read them; and the tears of joy which fell upon her soul- lit face, were as bright as the waters of the little fountain which sparkled in the sunbeams, glancing upon them through the surrounding shrubbery. In the evening, when Waring arrived at Mr. Spring- field's, he found Miss Godolphin already there. She had learned from Esther the good tidings respecting De Vane, and a glow of happiness overspread the party assembled in the library.  ")         OQ*     538         DE VANE. "So Mr. De Vane is really on his way to this coun- try, it may fairly be concluded, from what he reports of himself," said Mr. Springfield. "I suppose he may have sailed by this time." "Yes," said Waring, "he may be on the ocean at this moment, and I shall soon look for his arrival in New- York." "Of course he will make some stay in Virginia," said Mr. Springfield. "Oh! yes," said Waring; " and yet I shall look for him here early in October. I called at his place to-day, to give some instructions to his servant, who was almost frantic with joy upon hearing that his master was so soon to be here." "He has inquired of me, I think, at least three times a week for the last three months," said Mr. Springfield, " to know if I had heard any thing from Mr. De Vane; and the fellow seemed to think that I ought to set out to look for him, if he did not return pretty soon." "He is a faithful fellow," said Waring, "and has his master's horses in perfect condition." "My friend Hobbs is about as impatient as Coesar. He has actually called on me every Sunday morning for a month past, to know if I have had any accounts from his friend De Vane; and the last time he called, he began to swear that he thought some of the. people across the water had shown him foul play, and was especially hard on the British." "Oh!" said Miss Godolphin, laughing, " that must be a prejudice of his, derived from reading the Life of Marion lately, which you gave me some account of, Mr. Waring." "Quite likely," said Waring; "but I shall be able to relieve his mind in the morning, for he will certainly call." At this moment Mr. Clarendon entered the room, and all rose to welcome him.   DE VANE.         589 'f Mrs. Springfield," he said, " these young people do not treat me well, and I have come to you to complain of them." "Is it possible?" she replied. "We must inquire into that. I ow have they offended?" "Why, madam," said Mr. Clarendon, taking a hand of each of the young ladies, " they do not permit me to share their confidence. They receive letters from persons at home and abroad, and never inform me of their contents; and I appeal to you to say if this conduct is not wholly inconsistent with their professions of regard for me." "I do think," replied Mrs. Springfield, " that they de- serve some mark of your displeasure, if they have com- mitted so grave an offense; but I can scarcely believe that it was designed, for they both speak of you in terms so glowing, that I am sure they are delighted to have the opportunity of speaking to you about any thing that con- cerns them." "We shall see about that," said Mr. Clarendon. "Here is that fellow De Vane, for whom I had some regard, takes himself off-at the instance, I suspect, of one or the other of these ladies; he wanders in Europe, does not give me a single line for months together, writes to these ladies, one or both, and they say not one word to me on the subject. Now I insist, that after taking that young gentleman from under my- control, and then banishing him from the country, they should at least keep me in- formed of his movements, that I might do something for his relief, if he shpuld require it." Mr. Clarendon looked very much like an injured person, and still stood retaining the hands of Miss Godolphin and of Esther. "I assure you, Mr. Clarendon," said Miss Godolphin, 'that we are delighted to see you. We were burning     54'0         DE VANE. with impatience to talk with you about Mr. De Vane, and your coming is mlost fortunate." "We are indeed delighted to see you," said Esther. "Your coming has completed our happiness." "Then, Mrs. Springfield," said he, "I must pardon the seeming slight, and restore them to favor." And kissing the hand of each, he released them. "Well, Professor Waring," he continued, " what is this about De Vane? Is he really intending to come back to us? I met his servant riding one of his horses to-day, and he told me that you had letters from his master; so call- ing at Mrs. Bowen's to inquire- after pur friend, I was in- formed that I should find you here, and pursued you." "I am very glad that you did so," replied Waring. "We have the best accounts from De Vane. He was at Dres- -den, en route for Paris; and expected to sail from Havre, with as little delay as possible." "Indeed!" said Mr. Clarendon. "Then we shall have him with us presently. What has detained him?" "A visit to Greece with an American artist of celebrity, Mr. Lawrence, who has for some years resided at Naples, but is now establishing himself in Rome." "Lawrence!" -exclaimed Mr. Clarendon. "I very well remember him. I met him in Paris, and was proud of him as an artist from my own country. Le Grande and I both predicted his great eminence." "The pictures which you have observed at my aunt's are by him, Mr. Clarendon," said Miss Godolphin. "You amaze me," said he. "I remember that you said they were by an American artist, but it did not occur to me to ask his name. They are pictures of extraordinary merit. Do you not think them such, Mr. Springfield?" "I quite agree with you," replied Mr. Springfield. "I have admired them greatly. Do you know that one of his early pieces is in this house?"   DE VANE.          541 "In this house? How does that happen?" asked Mr. Clarendon. "Has De Vane sent it over?" "Oh! no," replied Mr. Springfield. "It was painted long  before Mr. De Vane knew the artist.   Esther, may we have the picture brought down, that Mr. Clarendon may see it?" She instantly rose, and, quitting the room, soon after returned, a servant bearing the picture. It was a portrait in the highest style of art; and the resemblance to Esther was so perfect that Mr. Clarendon exclaimed.: "What mystery is this? I do not comprehend it." Esther smiled, and replied: "That, Mr. Clarendon, is a portrait of my mother, painted by Mr. Lawrence, before he left this country." "My dear young friend," he replied, "'it is absolutely  " wonderful.  I could fancy that it was yourself, look. inl  out of that oval frame as a lady looks from her lat- tice. There is the great charm of Lawrence's pictures. Their naturalness is perfect, and the coloring has all the transparency that distinguishes the works of the old mas- ters."  "The picture, when painted, was thought to be per- feet," said Mrs. Springfield. "Esther's resemblance to her mother is really wonderful." "I thank you, Miss Wordsworth, with all my heart, for permitting me to see this. I can imagine how you mnust prize it," said Mr. Clarendon. The picture was restored to Esther's chamber. "I shall be delighted to see De Vane," said Mr. Claren- don. "He has not written to me of late, and I was not in any way informed as to his recent plans of travel." "In his letter to me, received to-day," said Waring, " he wishes me to assure you of his warmest regards, and says that his friend, Mr. Lawrence, the artist, has asked     542          DE VANE. after you with the greatest interest,-recalling vividly your visits to his studio." "Indeed!" said Mr. Clarendon. "I wonder that he has not forgotten me long since." "That would argue himself unknown," said Miss Go- dolphin. "Thank you," said Mr. Clarendon " that is so flattering to my amour propre that I must pardon your late ne- glect." It was late before Mr. Clarendon took leave. Miss Go- dolphin took her departure soon after, and fWaring accom- panied her. It was distinctly understood that they were to be mar- ried at some time, but no day had been agreed on. With perfect independence she conducted herself, and I took no pains to conceal her engagement to Waring. Such was her respect for him, that she disdained the affectation of indifference; and without avowing to others her regard for him, she left it to be inferred from her deportment. Mrs. Habersham had long known and appreciated War. ing, and she did not conceal her gratification at his pre- ference for her niece. She said to Mrs. Springfield: "Some persons might suppose that I would regard Professor Waring an unequal match for my niece. He has no for- tune, and he avows his purpose to adhere to the Method- ist ministry; but I really rejoice at the inequality of their circumstances, for it affords us the opportunity of show- ing our appreciation of a true man. My niece has an am- ple fortune, quite sufficient for them both; and if it were not, I would make up the deficiency. I should be delight- ed to enrich such a man as Mr. Waring.? Waring intended to await the arrival of De Vane before asking Miss Godolphin to appoint a day for their marriage; and she comprehended and approved the feeling which restrained him.   DE VANE.          543 The weeks flew swiftly. The approach of autumn was visible. Already some of the students were returning to the College, making their arrangements for the approach- ing session; and the town gave sigcns of cheerful activity. The streets were filled with young, bright, happy groups, meeting again after a separation of months; and the place wore that air of animation which so preiminently distin- guished it-the animation not of trade, but of society, in its activity and refinement, exhibiting itself in the many formis of life. Letters came from De Vane. He had reached New- York, and it was his purpose to pass some days there. Then he was to visit Virginia, and he proposed to reach "home," as he wrote to Waring, by the middle of Octo- ber. His letter to Esther breathed unchanging love. He was eaoer to return to her, that he mighto assure her of his loyalty, and claim her with the sanction even of his father-a sanction which he was confident would not be reluctantly given, now thhat he had borne the ordeal of TMrE and ABSENCE.       TIis love had conquered by the deep strength of truth.- Even when broad seas had roared between them; when he trod the streets of gay cities, and moved in the bril- liant circles of the capitals of Europe; or when dwelling in the midst of the soul-awakening scenes of those climes where glory still lingers at its anfcint .shrines, never had his love known languor nor decline; but, glowing, strong, and full of hope, it reigned supreme. The visions of hope, and faith, and youth were now to "be realized, The exile was ended. LovE and TRUTH had triumphed. \     CHAPTER XX. "AsK me no more: thy fate and mine are sealed." TENNYSON. o A MLD October evening had succeeded a brilliant day. The lingering rays of the sun fell upon Leasowes, and touched its foliage with golden tints. Esther, after a day of unusual exertion-for some two or three little girls had just been admitted for the first time into her establish- ment-sat at the fountain, her favorite resort for repose and meditation. The place had grown into perfect beau- ty. The rarest flowers bloomed around it, and the loses, yet as fresh as if spring still breathed upon them, bent over the clear water, and mingled their perfume with the spray which fell in the marble basin. Esther was dream- ing'. She recalled the events of the two past years. On such an evening as this she had met De Vane for the first time.  Since then, how had he influenced her very being! How blended was his image with every vision of the future! She might exclaim, in the language of Tennyson's lines  "I strove against the stream, and all in vain; Let the great river take me to the main." She was alone.  The thick shrubbery shut out the view of the house and the grounds, and yet the solitude was radiant with the light of love and hope. She was startled by the sound of footsteps very near her, and turning, she saw De Vane.  Instantly she started (544)   DE VANE.          55 to her feet, and with an impulse too strong to be resisted, she threw herself into De Vane's arms. He pressed her to his heart, and for the first time imprinted upon'her glow- ing lips a long, lingering kiss of love. Her eyes rained tears, and yet the face was bright with unutterable joy. "And are you mine now, Esther?" he asked. "Oh! yes," she exclaimed, ' forever." Again he kissed her rapturously, and looking down into her true, fathomless eyes, he said: ' "Yes, my own Esther,.you will walk like an angel by my side through all the future. Do you remember when I first spoke my love to you here? Then you were too true to deceive me. You would not consent to be mine. Now every lingering obstacle has been removed. My father is ready to receive you as a daughter, and my aunt is eager to embrace you. We have triumphed, my Es- ther, and we shall now live for each other." Her soul beamed in her fice. Her large, deep blue eyes, her golden hair, her perfect features, made her beauty daz- zling; and as De Vane looked down upon her, he, felt that in all his wanderings he had not beheld such matcKless charms. Neither in the aristocratic circles of Europe, nor in the day-dreams of the old masters still glowing in the t galleries of,art, had he found any form that cotild rival hers. t       - They turned their steps toward-the house, for Esther had said that she must call for a moment, to give some parting instructions to Mrs. Green: De Vane had called on entering the grounds, and had received a warm welcome from Mrs. Green, who, in answer, to his inquiries, had- told him that she believed Esther had gone to walk in the direction of the fountain. He therefore walked now to the gate to await her, that she might be unembarrassed in making her ar- rangements. She soon joined him, and they proceeded to Mr. Springfield's. De -Vane had already called there to     546         DE VANE. ask for Esther, but none of the family were at home. He now entered the house with Esther, who, conducting him to the library, went to seek her aunt. At that moment Mr. and Mrs. Springfield drove up, having just returned from an evening's drive, and entering the library, they welcomed De Vane as they would have received a long- absent son. "I need not say that we are delighted to see you, Mr. De Vane," said Mr. Springfield. "We have long since given you a place in our hearts." "I am very grateful," said De Vane. "If you could only know   I h  I ave longed to enter this house once more, you would comprehend how delightful this welcome is to me. In all my wanderings, my heart has been here every evening ; and but for the intervening space, I should have entered this circle every day at this hour." "You should have been most welcome,' said Mrs. Springfield. "You have never been out of our thoughts, and we are delighted to see you here once more. When did you arrive?" "Some two hours since," said De Vane. "I found War- ing upon the point of starting for the College, and I told him that I should pass the evening here, so that you may expect fim very soon." A moment after, he entercld the room, and exclaimed: "So you are really here. Well, I arndelighted to see you in this library once more." "And I am most happy to be here," said De Vane. "I hope that we shall now resume our old habits," said Mr. Springfield; "we must have our evenings here as formerly." "Let us begin at once," said Mrs. Springfield. "Esther, will you send for Miss Godolphin?" "With the greatest pleasure," she said. "Is the car- riage at the door?"   DE VANE.      .   547 It was driven round in a moment, and Mr. Springfield rising, said: "I claim the privilege of escorting Miss Go- dolphin this evening. She is too great a favorite of mine to be confided to any one else under these ciicumstances." He entered the carriage and drove off. "I believe," said: Mrs. Springfield, laughing, lthat no one loves Miss Godolphin better than Mr. Springfield does. If she were a daughter, she could not be dearer to him." "She is a very lovable person I suspect. Waring, is she not?" asked De Vane. "I believe, De Vane, that you always admitted her to be such," said Waring, " and I do not wonder that Mr. Springfield is attached to her, for she loves him dearly.". "Yes," said Esther, "she loves and venerates him be- yond expression. Their views of literature, of religion, and of society harmonize perfectly. And if they were members of the Roman Catholic Church, I think that Miss Godolphin would hardly wait for his death to have him canonized." "Mr. Springfield's esteem for Miss Gololphin is such," said Mrs. Springfield, "that he actually converses with her upon the gravest theological questions, and he says that he often find his own views much enlightened by her opinions." "I have always thought her a superior person," said De Vane, and I have learned to appreciate her more than ever since my visit to her relatives in England. I did not know before what she had endured. Her own account of it softened its severity," "And what has become of Hubert Godolphin?" asked Esther. "You will be surprised to learn," said De Vane, " that he is to marry my friend Clara Guilford." "Is it possible?" exclaimed Esther. "I am really de- lighted."     548          DE VANE. "Yes," said De Vane; " they will suit each other per- fectly. Clara's ideas of life will now be fully met-wealth, splendor, and a rigid aristocratic circle, where her beauty will make her an object of constant admiration." Wheels were heard approaching the house, and Esther, springingll  up, ran to receive her friend. Miss Godolphin entered the room, and De Vane, hastening to where she stood, took her hand in both his, and said: "I am indeed happy, Miss Godolphin, to meet you once more."  "And I am delighted to see you here, Mr. De Vane,' she said. "You must never wsander aoain." "Never until we can all go together," said De Vane. "I consent to that," said Waring. Esther said nothing, but smiled brightly as De Vane turned his glance upon her. The evening passed with charmed hours. A supper, after the old fashion, at Mr. Springfield's, was enjoyed by them all, De Vane declaring that he had found nothing to equal it in all his travels. Hie had grown somewhat more robust since his departure. He was now in high health, and ns he sat by the side of Esther, his dark hair and bronzel face afforded a striking contrast to her golden curls and perfect complexion. Vairing observed them with silent- pleasure, in his generous and noble nature forgetting for a tinme his own happiness. In the library, De Vane asked Esther for a song; and seating herself at her harp-a splendid instrument, which De Vane had sent to her from Paris--she sang those beau- tifull lines of Moore, beginning: "'Tis believed that this harp which I wake now for thee, Was a siren of old who sang under the sea." Her voice, unrivaled in depth and tenderness, was full of true passion, and gave to the closing sentiment an eloquent   DE VANE           49 power which was felt by De Vane to transcend any music he had ever heard. The perfect grace, too, of the tribute to his presence which the selection of the song conveyed, was deeply felt by him; and as the music ceased, he said to Esther, in tones of subdued tenderness, simply: "I thank you.:) She rose from the instrument. Miss Godolphin was in- vited to sing, but she declined. She felt that the beautiful appropriateness of the song which had just been heard should not be disturbed. It was late when the little circle of friends was broken by Miss Godolphin's rising to take leave. Waring accom- panied her, and soon after De Vane said: "Good-night i" On the way to Mrs. Habersham's, Waring pressed Miss Godolphin to Fname the day for their marriage, urging that as De Vane had now returned, there could no longer be any reason for delay. It was agreed that it should take place on Christmas morning, and that they should make a brief visit to Waring's friends in Georgia, at that time. As but two months intervened, no time was to be lost in making preparations for the event, and Mrs. Habersham's residence was the scene of the greatest activity for several weeks; Mrs. Springfield and Esther aidingl with their labors to prepare for the important coming event. Every thing was arranged with perfect taste. Winter wore its brightest robe. Snow had fallen the night before, and the sun that ushered in Christmas morn- ing saw his splendors reflected back by every object upon 'which they fell. The bridal party consisted of Waring and Miss Godolphin, attended by De Vane and Esther, Mr. and Mrs. Springfield, Mrs. Habersham, Mr. and Mrs. Clar-, endon, and a few other friends. The marriage took place in the Methodist church at nine o'clock in the morning and the service was performed by Mr. Springfield. Immediately after the ceremony, Waring and his bride [  -*      550          DE VANE.              I entered a handsome traveling-carriage, and drove to Mrs. Habersham's, where the whole party assembled, and sat down to a Christmas breakfast. TWhen it was ended, Waring and his bride, taking leave ( of their friends, entered their carriage, upon which their trunks were strapped, and drove away.  They were absent but a fortnight, and upon their return Mrs. IIabersham insisted so earnestly that they should re-  side with her, that they consented to do so. Iappy months  followed. One evening in every week, the friends now so :  endeared to each other, met at Mrs. Habersham's; and  every Thursday evening found them assembled in Mrs.  Springfield's library.                 X It was arranged that De Vane and Esther should be   It married on the first day of the following May. She would  not consent to an earlier day. She was very young, and she for some time insisted that the marriage should be de-  ferred for twelve months; but she yielded to De Vane's  earnest wish. Immediately upon his arrival, he had made arrangements for a handsome residence, to be built upon  his place, and it afforded him great gratification to observe  its progress. He consulted Esther from time to time as to changes in his plans, and her taste suggested several improvements which he at once adopted. The shrubbery was already beautiful; it had grown under Mr. Swan's fostering hand, and it rivaled the public garden in its at- tractions. Spring came at length, and the town was once more  robed in beauty. Never had a lovelier season opened upon  the earth. Leasowes was in its glory, and it was there that the marriage was to take place. Esther preferred it, and so did De Vane. It was endeared to them both by the most precious associations. The first of May was cloudless. The morning was balmy, and Leasowes wel- comed it with foliage and flowers of the rarest beauty. [    A,41+   DE VANE.             551 It was arranged that the ceremony should be performed at six o'clock in the evening; that a few friends only should be present; and that after it was over, the party should drive to De Vane's residence, which was to be opened for the first time that evening. Never had Esther appeared so beautiful. She wore white, always becoming to her; and the flush upon her face heightened her charms. There were no attendants, but the little girls, all dressed in ivhite, stood near her, objects of her er generous solicitude and witnesses of her happiness. Mr. Springfield performed the ceremony, and the bless- ing which he uttered sounded in the ears of De Vane and Esther as if an angel with outspread wings had hovered over them, to seal it with the impress of Heaven. Mr. Clarendon came forward, his face lit with the ardor of his great soul, and taking a hand of each, he said: "De Vane, if I had been a younger man and an unmar- ried one, you should not have borne away this prize with- out breaking a lance with me; but I feel bound to say that I doubt if, in all the world, Miss Wordsworth could have given herself to a young fellow who deserved her better." Both thanked him warmly. There, too, was Waring and his wife, splendidly beautiful, both full of joy. Mrs. Bowen and Mrs. Green, and Mr. Swan and Mrs. Gilder- sleeve, and some other friends, partook of the overflowing happiness; while Jacob and Caesar were aS jubilant as was consistent with their importance on the occasion. Refreshments abounded; and after passing an hour at Leasowes, the party repaired to De Vane's residence, where the amplest arrangements were made for the reception of a large company. Mrs. Springfield received the guests, and presided throughout the evening. The entertainment was very brilliant, and all who saw De Vane, with his young bride by his side, felt that two beings better suited z   ,        .  .  .     552         DE VANE. to tread the ways of life together had never plighted their faith since that happy hour when our first parents stood in Eden, hand in hand, and looked up through the stars to praise their Maker. Music, conversation, and refreshments were enjoyed by all who were present, and the evening was long recalled as one of the brightest ever known in a place remarkable for the elegance and grace of its entertainments. The guests had departed, and De Vane was left alone with Esther. She was now his own. She stood before him his wife, and taking her in his arms, he said: "I feel, my own Esther, that we shall live for each other always. Our blended being is an immortal union. From henceforth 'thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God."'    
         
      
   
