
    ----CITATION----
        Duffy, Owen.. Walter Warren, or, The Adventurer of the Northern Wilds .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6325 wright2-0795
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               WALTER WARREN;
               OR, THE ADVENTURER OF THE NORTHERN WILDS.
            
            BY OWEN DUFFY.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               STRINGER & TOWNSEND, PUBLISHERS, 
                     222 BROADWAY, UNDER THE MUSEUM.
                  
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, by STRINGER & TOWNSEND In the Clerk's office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.
            
         
      
      
         
            Walter Warren, or, the adventurer of the northern wilds
            WALTER WARREN.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE HURRICANE.
               In the centre of a dense forest in the township of Binbrook in that part of the American continent now known as Canada West, formerly as Upper Canada, lived a poor respectable farmer, whose entire time was taken up with the performance of his duty as a husband, father and neighbor. Caring little about the events transpiring in the world—a world that had in his youth wronged him out of considerable—his energies expended themselves in clearing his farm, and making this chosen solitary spot a comfortable residence for a loving, and beloved wife, and an only son on whom he doated, with a fathers fondest love.
               In his youth, Mr. Warren, who belonged to what is called a first family in England, had received an education that fitted him for the best society, was held in high estimation by all who enjoyed the pleasure of his acquaintance. But for the crime of falling in love, with one of God's loveliest creatures, and the honest manliness of making that creature his wife, he was banished from his father's house, snubbed by his companions, and without ever having earned a penny, or understanding anything about business, and with but a few pounds in his pockets, he, and his wife were driven to the necessity of earning their daily bread by the sweat of their brows. It is quits probable that Mr. Warren would have sunk down to obscurity like hundreds more of his countrymen—the victims of family pride—were it not for the affection of his mother, who, unknown to his father, had in a few months, by the sale of some family trinkets, obtained some three hundred pounds, which with the affection mothers alone possess, she gave to her needy son, and with this sum Mr. Warren bade adieu to the land of his fathers for ever, to seek for the happiness in some foreign shore that was denied him at home.
               Disgusted at the ingratitude of mankind, and the emptiness of the rules by which society is governed, he resolved to hold but little communication with the world, and to this end purchased a farm in what was then considered a distant and solitary spot; and so well adapted was this place to the misanthropic mind of Warren, that to this day, the secluded spot chosen by him, is known by the name of the "Hurricane Lodge."
               George Warren was by nature, possessed of many advantages. To a form 
                     symetrical
                     symmetrical
                   and stately, were added regular features, a pleasing countenance and good address. The quiet dignity of his demeanor, and his urbanity banity, so gained upon the affections of those whose acquaintance he formed, that he was looked up to with the greatest respect, and while neighbors generally, in those primitive days called each other by name in the most familiar manner, he was invariably spoken of as Mr. Warren.
               In many parts of the forests of Canada there are ridges of white pine extending for several miles in length, and varying in breadth from a few acres to about a mile. In Binbrook there were many of these ridges in which scarcely another kind of tree could be found, and although nearly all of them have now disappeared before the axe of progress and nerve of civilization "the hurricane" still exists, at once, a monument of the oldern wilderness, and the perseverance of those hardy pioneers whose labors converted immense tracts, on which the wild beasts, and wild men struggled for mastery, into farms on whose well cultivated surface happy homes, and broad fields of golden grain now please the eye of the traveller and fill with content the hearts of their fortunate possessors. As it may be necessary to satisfy the curiosity of the reader why a ridge of pine trees is called the hurricane, and as the event transpired to which it is indebted for this name, long before the foot of white man trod upon its virgin soli, it may be as well to relate here, the Indian tradition concerning it.
               "When the waters of Ontario reached many miles farther into the country than they do at present—when the ridge of rocks that now form one side of a nearly perpendicular mountain, and which follows, at some miles distant, the course of the lake, served as its banks, two powerful tribes of Indians dwelled upon its borders. One of those tribes loved to obey their fathers and follow the counsels of their wise men. They confined themselves to their own hunting grounds, each man loved his brother, and to show the great spirit was pleased with this portion of his children, the great fire he sent to light his children in the day lingered longest, and was seen last on the grounds of the Ke-hoc-sa tribe.—In the spring, when the deers were poor, and the Indians wanted to spare for reproduction, the game that wintered on their hunting grounds, the Great Spirit who is always good to his children, sent from a far off country, birds, whose shadows as they flew by darkened the earth, and so tame, that the Indians could approach near the tree on which they rested, and by shooting those at the bottom nearly all would fall victims to the steady mark of their feathered arrow before any of them took to flight. The council fire of the Ke-hoc-sa tribe was always lighted in peace, and the wind—the breath of the Great Spirit—blew so gently upon them, that their maidens grew as lovely as the flowers, and as innocent as fawns. The youths were possessed of the courage of the eagle, and tried to excel each other in their agility in the chase, and their affection for their fathers'. The tribe of the Ke-hoc-sa had been a warlike people. By the strength of their arms, and the courage of their braves, they had acquired their hunting grounds; but their love of peace and justice were so great, they never made war now, except in defence. This so pleased the Great Spirit that he granted them an unusual long life, and after death the first choice of the hunting grounds of the spirit world.
               "On the side of the great lake on which the daylight first arose, lived the Hare-feet Indians—a powerful tribe—noted for their love of war. Whose knife was ever in the breast of their brothers, and whose Tomahawk would rise in opposition to justice and right. They ate the flesh of their foes, and put their prisoners to death in the most cruel manner. They laid in ambush for their prey, and like the Vulture lived upon their carcases. The Great Spirit looked on in anger at their acts, and covered their country with the shadow of the wings of retribution. The game forsook their grounds. The day-light shone not upon them. On the surface of their water ran streams of fire, and each man caught death from the breath of his brother. The Wigwams of the Hare-feet were deserted, and a great plague consumed their homes.
               "Unable to live any longer in a land upon which everything was death, it was resolved in a war council, that the Hare-feet should make battle against the Ke-hoc-sa tribe, and take possession of their grounds. Like serpents they crawled around the head of Ontario, but the shade of the great Ke-hoc-sa was on their trail. At night they encamped near the village, in the ridge of pines in which the wise men of the Ke-hoc-sa often walked. The men were all engaged in the great annual hunt, and the morning would see the Hare-feet in their wigwams. But on that night the Great Spirit in his anger, breathed his fury against them. Like arrows in battle, his fires darted through the skies, and the loudness of his voice made the earth tremble. The waters that had always descended upon the land of the Ke-koc-sa in drops, now fell as though the lakes of heaven had been emptied, and the battle cry of the spirit warriors were heard all night in the air, as they tore trees up by the roots, and hurled them upon the Hare-feet warriors. The day-light shone brightly next morning—the birds sang their morning song—the Ke-hoc-sa hunters returned to their wig-wams—all appeared again as they left it, but the pine ridge of the wise men had been plucked up by the roots for miles, and 
                     burried
                     buried
                   for-ever the last of the Hare-feet."
               Probably a century before Mr. Warren purchased his land in Binbrook, a hurricane had swept over a portion of the country in which he located, and, in his desire to get as far as possible from the prying curiosity of his neighbors, he settled in the very centre of it. And, indeed, the Indian account of it appeared very probable, as it seemed scarcely possible that trees could otherwise be piled over each other to the height of fifteen and twenty feet, with the withered roots sometimes in the air, as though the tree had grown inverted.
               As may be supposed, this wild spot was infested with wild animals, and especially with wolves, which crept into its recesses in the day, but sallied forth in immense packs at dark, and with their demoniac howlings caused Mr. Warren many a sleepless night. Sometimes their boldness would bring them to the very door of his house; and he was often obliged to build a large fire in the middle of the night, that the sparks might frighten them to some distance.
               The hurricane was resorted to by Indians every fall, who hunted it for wolves, and sometimes large sums of money would be earned by them in a few weeks, as the colonial government paid five dollars for the head of every wolf that was presented to the regularly authorized agent to receive it.
               The wolf-hunt is often carried out on a very extensive scale. In the fall, when the business of the farmers were suspended, whole settlements banded together for the destruction of their common enemy. Providing themselves with provisions for two or three days, they arranged themselves in a half circle—that sometimes embracing several miles—and so arranged the order of their marching, that by gradually approaching the centre, the wild beasts of all kinds would be driven before them, and be obliged to pass through a narrow strip of woods between two clearances, where the best marksmen were stationed with rifles in readiness to deal death to the animals which came within their range. Everything being in readiness, with wild shoutings 
                     thehuners
                     the hunters
                   gradually approached the centre, and as the circumference of the circle was made less the wolves and other beasts were forced through the spot appointed for their passage. As the animals first appeared, one by one, they fell before the well directed fire of the riflemen. As the circle of the outside party narrowed still closer, the shots became more frequent, until at length, with the continual report of the guns, and the loud shoutings of the approaching hunters, the noise resembled the dim of some desperately contested battle. By this arrangement, as may be perceived, few of the fugitives escaped. When the outside party reached the scene of death the animals were divided ed, and a general carousal in some barn terminated the sport.
               As Mr. Warren's house was situated in a very convenient spot, the Indians usually stopped with him, or encamped near him; and for the privilege of storing their furs and skins in his barn, made him a present of sufficient venison to serve his family all winter. He sometimes joined their sport, and remained occasionally with them in the woods all night, and for the kindness with which they invariably treated him, he often invited them to his house, but although they often ate at his table, he could never induce them, even in the coldest weather, to remain in the house all night. Wrapping themselves in a coarse blanket, they scraped a hole in the snow to a sufficient depth to cover them, and thus the hardy sons of the forest slept all winter.
               There was one fine young Indian who, no matter what party came to hunt in the hurricane, always seemed to command them. He was a good looking fellow, standing about six feet, broad shoulders, and although he had not yet fully arrived at man's estate, everything in his appearance gave marks of superiority. Unlike most Indians, his forehead was high and prominent, and the quick flashings of his eyes contrasted strangely with the slothful, sleepy appearance of his companions. This young Indian, whose name was Henry, was very well educated. He spoke the English language very correctly, and in his calculations showed that he was used to figures. Henry was a great favorite of Mr. Warren's, who often spent the evening in listening to his hunting exploits; and Mrs. Warren, although at first very timed, and still shunned all others, became at length so familiar with Henry, that she would listen with pleasure to his wild and exciting narratives.
               A dispute having at one time arisen between Henry and his companions, concerning the division of their furs; after some wrangling among themselves it was finally agreed to refer the dispute to Mr. Warren, who, upon a patient investigation of the matter, felt himself bound to decide as Henry had formerly done; and although the decision was final, it was very apparent by their sullen looks, that they were not at all pleased with it. Although Mr. Warren did not heed their grumblings, Mrs. Warren, who had heard that an Indian never forgave an injury, felt somewhat 
                     roubled
                     troubled
                   about it at the time, but as the Indians all left the neighborhood shortly afterwards, she thought no more of the matter.
               One half the winter had passed in the usual manner. Mr. Warren divided his time between the care of his farm and the education of his son, who was an apt scholar; and on account of the depth of the snow, and the distance of the school-house, he chose to instruct him himself, rather than expose him to the extreme cold of those old-fashioned winters. Those old-fashioned winters—when the depth of the snow was counted by feet, instead, as now-a-days, by inches; when it fell with the falling leaves, and disappeared only with their appearance; when the merry rattling of the sleigh-bells delighted the ear six months of the year; when the backwoodsman rejoiced in the blessing of substantial ice-bridges over swamps and rivers; and when the youth of the country delighted to stretch their lungs and months to their greatest powers of extension, while attending the only fashionable gathering-place of the time—the singing-school.
               On a bitter cold evening, about the beginning of February, the wind moaned heavily through the trees, and as they were swayed to and fro by the blast, the loud cracking of their frozen trunks resembled the random shots of a straggling party of soldiers. The snow had fallen steadily the night and day previous, and the wind had now risen to a gale. The light snow was drifted in clouds so dense as to increase the darkness of the dreary night. The wind forced itself through every crevice in the walls of the humble dwelling-house of Mr. Warren, and with an immense pile of burning logs before them, they could, with difficulty, keep themselves warm. This might be accounted for in part by the peculiar construction of the chimney, which was indeed the only thing remarkable in the construction of those primitive dwelling-houses. It consisted of two slightly curved, moderately sized pieces of timber, with one end inserted in the wall of the house, the other resting against a beam that stretched across the house, and answered the double purpose of supporting the weight of the chimney, and the ends of the boards of an upper floor. As the chimney was very capacious, in addition the smoke, a great deal of heat also escaped, and it often happened that the heat alone escaped, while the smoke filled the room.
               The house of Mr. Warren although more comfortable than the generality of houses of its class, was, not with standing, in its coarse construction and material, 
                     ineficent
                     inefficient
                   to keep out the wind of that piercing cold night. The house was constructed of logs rudely, but firmly put together. On the outside, the bark and knots remained on the logs as they did on the trees; and the spaces were filled by chinks of wood, held in their places by a coarse kind of mortar. The inside gave more indications of comfort than the outside bespoke. The logs had been hewn square, and neatly white-washed, and the neat arrangement of the furniture, some of which would not have done discredit to a far more pretending mansion, gave it an air of comfort that could not be found in many other houses in the settlements. The whole of the ground floor consisted of one room, at the farther end of which were the beds, a very large fire was necessary therefore to keep up a comfortable temperature.
               As Mr. Warren once more renewed the fire, and piled the ends of the burnt logs together, he fell into a reverie that was broken by his wife asking—
               "George, what are you thinking of? you do not appear as cheerful as usual to night."
               "I have been thinking, my dear, of the similarity of this, to the night we last crossed the threshold of my father's house. The appearance of my father, as the wind tossed his gray locks, and passion lighted his eyes; and how his lips quivered as he told me in hoarse accents, 'never again to darken his door' is as fresh in my memory as though it happened yesterday."
               "Well, but my dear, I would not let such things trouble me now. I am sure, we are as happy here as we would have been had we remained in England and enjoyed your father's friendship."
               "And my poor mother," continued he, without appearing to notice what his wife said, "what agony of spirit she must have endured, as she stood behind him, with her face buried in her handkerchief, to see her favorite son thus driven from her presence forever, without even the melancholy satisfaction of a good bye."
               "It is now so long ago that I should have forgotten it; and as you cannot better the present, nor alter the past, you should not allow the thoughts of it to disturb you."
               "I do not repine on my own account, but on account of our boy Walter. Poor fellow—it is sad to think he will be obliged to spend the whole of his days in this wilderness, while others are enjoying, what by right belongs to him in England."
               "But, dear George, do not make yourself unhappy."
               "Unhappy, Emily! You who was intended by nature to grace the polished assemblies of the country of your birth, have now no companions for your evenings but the wolves of the forest; while if any accident should befal you the nearest neighbor is more than two miles distant."
               "I confess, I often thought of that with sorrow."
               "Yes, Emily, I fear this place is too distant, and I fear I have wronged you, in thus secluding you from the pleasure of society."
               "Your love for me more than counterbalances the loss of all besides."
               "I have been lately thinking seriously upon the subject, and I have half made up my mind to leave this place."
               "This is a very bad season of the year to remove, and now I have become accustomed to it, it strikes me that I should leave it with regret."
               "Ah! Emily you are contented in any condition of life, you have much to be thankful for in the possession of such a disposition!"
               "My dear George, how can I be otherwise than contented, when I have you near me?"
               "Emily, I have had strange forebodings the last few days, the loneliness of our situation never struck me so forcibly as it does at present."
               "You should not allow your mind to dwell upon such fancies.
               "I do not know why I think so much of home and old associations to night."
               "It is merely the effects of the storm upon your mind."
               "It may be so."
               "I have often heard that a change in the temperature of the air, causes a depression of the spirits."
               "I have often experienced weather as cold, and stomas as severe as this, with spirits as buoyant as the featherly snow-flake that is tossed about by the tempest, but to-night some strange feelings take possession of me. If I were inclined to be superstitious I should say something was about to befal me."
               "Nonsense, George!"
               "While I admit it is nonsense, I cannot help thinking of the loneliness of our situation. For myself I do not care; but should anything happen me, what would become of you? What noise is that?
               "The wind, I suppose."
               "I thought I beard some persons talking."
               "Your melancholy has affected your nerves; surely, no person could be found sufficiently hardy to venture to this place on such a night."
               "Hark! listen! I knew I could not have been mistaken. If they are men their intent cannot be good; for men with good intentions seldom use concealment."
               The noise of the wind without, as it moaned solemnly through the trees, for a moment drowned all other sounds. Mr. Warren and his wife listened attentively for awhile, but were unable to hear anything that could, with reason, be said to resemble the sound of a human voice. Having come to the conclusion that the sounds which disturbed them were produced by the wind, they sat down by the me again, taking the precaution of placing the candle in the window—a lesson that had been taught them by some of the older settlers, who had often found it necessary to do likewise, when they feared the attack of marauding parties of indians.
               "There, again; it surely could not have been imagination, there is surely something, either man or beast, prowling about the house."
               And to prepare himself for the worst, Mr. Warren grasped a pistol that he always kept loaded in a convenient place; and Mrs. Warren, with a curious mixture of caution and benevolence, allowed the candle to remain burning the while in the window, the better to assist friends to find the door, and to conceal from enemies the motions of those within. After a few moments silence a noise was heard on the opposite side of the house. A small window, resembling a loop-hole, which had been boarded up. was forced open, and the sharp ring of a rifle, and a loud whoop, sounded the knell of George Warren. With the pistol still clasped in his hand, he fell upon the floor, while his wife, powerless with terror, sunk upon her knees by the bleeding corpse of her husband. The next moment a bright flame shone about the house. The door was forced open; four painted savages rushed into it, seized her, and her son by the hair, and dragged them, with scarcely any covering, into the woods, to endure as best they could, the severe cold of that awful night. For a while Mrs. Warren seemed as though overcome with fear. The intensity of the cold gradually brought her to consciousness; and a last look at the house from which she was so cruelly torn, revealed to her the sad sight of the flames extending themselves rapidly along the roof, that was destined in a few moments to fall upon the body of her husband, and mingle its ashes with his.
               As her fainting form lay in the snow, the savages wrapped a coarse blanket about her, and with the first sighs of consciousness they rudely compelled her to arise.—Her cries and supplications were alike unavailing with her captors, who, in the roughest manner, commenced to tie her hands together with long strips of the inner bark of a tree. Conscious of security, they were in no hurry to leave the scene of their depradations, but remained in consultation considerable time. As Mrs. Warren was not acquainted with their language, she supposed they were debating among themselves the manner of her death, and expected every moment to be her last.
               What awful thoughts must crowd upon each other in that solemn moment, when a person supposes that the very next step they take, their foot will rest upon eternity.—But there was not sufficient benevolence in the breast of her savage captors, to terminate her sufferings by death. As soon as she was sufficiently recovered from the effects of her swoon to walk, she and her son were seized by two of the Indians, and dragged into the forrest, the other two walked in advance, to make a track in the snow in which they could travel.
               After making their way for about an hour through the most intricate part of the forest, they suddenly halted, and listened attentively to something which they supposed was following them, and in a low and hurried voice, muttered to one another.
               After a few moments consultation the Indians suddenly divided two of them forcing with them Mrs. Warren the other two taking a different direction with her son.
               The flight of the latter party, however, was destined to be a troubled one. Like the leap of a tiger from the branch of a tree, a man sprang upon them, and with blow of a tomahawk felled one of them to the earth: the other fled, and I walter Warren, that unfortunate son, was clasped tenderly in the arms of my deliverer.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               MYSELF.
               As I had but little to do with the events of the preceding chapter, I did not wish to obtrude myself upon the notice of the reader; but now my career has commenced, I beg to be allowed to introduce myself.
               Until that fatal night, in which I was deprived of all I held dear in the world, I had never known what it was to want for the smallest thing. Brought up in the solitary abode my father choosed for his residence, I had no desire for what I could not obtain—I had no knowledge of the world, more than could be gathered by a boy out of fifty 
                     acres acres
                     acres
                   cleared land, who had never been farther than three or four miles from home, and whose knowledge was confined to the routine of occasionally driving a yoke of oxen, and reading some of the simple tales in some old fashioned spelling book. My world was bounded on all sides by trees, and my ideas of it did not extend farther than that boundery.
               I was an only child. It had pleased providence to favor me with the company of two little brothers and a sister, and take them to himself before I received much pleasure from their companionship. As they left us one by one, the love of my parents, which had been divided among us, was transferred entirely to me. Oh! with what anxiety did my mother watch over me, with what tenderness did she supply all my wants, with what solicitude did she devote herself to my care. She never allowed the winds to blow roughly upon me, nor the slightest sorrow to cross my path. I had no wish that was not fulfiled, no desire that was not gratified. Accustomed at all times to do as I pleased, as may be expected, I did but little labor. Like a plant growing beneath the shade of the lords of the forest, colorless and tender, did I grow under the fostering care of my loving parents, delicate and sensitive. In the blindness of their affection they could not see that, at some future day, I should have to depend upon my own resources, and they, therefore, took no pains to prepare me for such an emergency. Their conduct to me was such as would lead to the supposition, that they would remain with me to the hour of my death, to take care of and provide for me. It has often been a matter of speculation with me, whether the love of parents does not sometimes so far overstep the proper bounderies, as to become in some degree criminal. Instead of love it descends to an insane passion, that seeks only to gratify itself; and sometimes 
                     sacrafices
                     sacrifices
                   the future of the child, to the present of that gratification.
               At the time of which I write, I knew less about the world than many not one third my age; and there is, no doubt, much of what I have since encountered, may be laid to the effects of the impressions made upon my mind at this period.
               Quick to perceive, possessing a power to comprehend, even beyond my years, and blessed with a most retentive memory, I could almost repeat the history of many ancient countries, and knew of the principal events in modern history more fully and accurately than many who had spent years at school. But they were to me as fairy tales, told in the evenings by my father or mother. The adventures of Simbad, the Sailor, possessed as much truth to me as the achievements of Alexander the Great, and the death of "the goose that laid the golden egg," caused me more regret than the destruction of the temple of Ephesus. The world was to me a book unread, which, from the appearance of the cover, was full of such caves as Alladin descended for his lamp, in which great treasures were to be found through the agency of witches, and in which to be virtuous, was in the end to gain, through some special dispensation, an immense fortune with all the appurtenances belonging to comfort and happiness. It is needless to say, when I opened the book, I found this a mistake.
               What little knowledge I had of mankind was obtained at the country school, where about twenty unmarried persons assembled for the purpose of taking lessons in the first rudiments. I say unmarried, for they attended the school, at all ages; and an occasional grey hair could be detected in some who were below me in the class. Many of the girls went there to get acquainted with the young men and learn to write and cipher—preferring this to waiting for a chance visit from some sweet-heart who lived at the distance of several miles; while the men over twenty attended for the double purpose of learning to spell and read, and have the pleasure of giving Nancy Fletcher or Kate Snider a good snow balling, or a roll in the snow. Beyond this none aspired. The noon spells were taken up with eating a slice of bread, and discussing the relative merits of two choppers, the most advantageous manner of lifting or rolling a log, or the difference in the modes adopted by James Duff or John Flood, in breaking in a yoke of steers.
               Some one from a settlement afar off would relate a new adventure of a hunter with a wolf—how it had broken into the pen and destroyed the whole of the live stock of some neighbor, and how in a few hours a poor man would lose all he depended upon to assist him in the labor of his farm—his yoke of oxen.
               Sometimes the older scholars would entertain us with stories of the trials of some of the first settlers, which were very interesting, as they showed the difficulties these hardy fellows had to contend against. The following of Hans Van Vranken, a 
                     Pensylvanian
                     Pennsylvanian
                   Dutchman, will serve to illustrate them all:
               "Hans having married one of the best working girls (take heed you do not read best looking) in one of the small villages on the banks of the Alleghany River, determined, with her assistance, to push his way somewhere north, and in a convenient and congenial spot found a new colony of Van Vranken's. Flushed with this idea, and the hope of some day becoming the possessor of 'vast domains,' he, with a large covered waggon and a yoke of oxen, pushed his way northward by land as far as possible. When he arrived at Lake Ontario, he chartered two canoes, and with two Indians as his guides, paddled his way to the very head of navigation. Here he disembarked, and, by the aid of his team, was, with all his worldly possessions, after two days travelling and prospecting, drawn to about the centre of Binbrook.
               The waggon in which he travelled now served as a house, until by the assistance of his wife, he was enabled to erect one.—When finished, it did not present so fine an appearance, as some of the houses Hans had seen in his native village; but it is doubtful whether a prince ever looked with so much pride on the gilded pinacles of a palace, raised upon the revenue of a nation, as honest Hans did on the humble results of his own and his wife's labor. And if human ingenuity was ever expended upon any one thing, more than another, that deserves praise, it is upon the effort of a poor honest man to erect, out of the material nature has placed at his disposal, a house, which, when erected, he can, with a breast 
                     sweeling
                     swelling
                   with pride, look upon, and exclaim:—"This is my house." To him no poor worker comes begging for the smallest share of the earnings of his honest labor. To him no man can send a threat of foreclosure against the mansion, in which character, reputation, and peace of mind have been sacrificed, to making a false appearance in the world. For what are the gilded mansions, with their curious cuttings and carvings, but the empty mask with which the face of riches is covered, fashioned to suit the whims of the designer. Take off the covering and what remains, but features so deformed, with the effects of contending passions, and wrinkles made so deep by the harrowing groans of the poor, upon whose losses are built those splendid monuments of extortion, that one look into the mirror of justice, would make them stand aghast at their own deformity.
               Day by day Hans and his wife strove on, clearing a little spot on which to raise some provisions to assist in keeping them over the winter. When the grain was cut, the usual method of pulverizing it, was, by burning out the heart of an oak stump in the shape of a mortar, and with a large wooden pestle, pound it, until the flour became small enough to run through a sieve, and in this way it was 
                     seperated
                     separated
                   from the chaff and skin of the grain. When, on account of wet weather, or the dampness of the grain, flour could not be produced in this manner, the 
                     perservering
                     persevering
                   Dutchman would have to travel some twenty miles to the nearest mill, and sometimes remain a week before he could get his grist. While he was possessor of oxen, a sufficient quantity could be taken at one time, to last several months, and in the long intervals between the times of his going to mill, the hardships attending it was forgotten.
               But, alas, for Hans, his darkest day had not yet come. As usual, his oxen had been turned out at night, to gather in the woods what food they could. Hans knew they had always come home safe—why should they not now? but Hans never saw his oxen alive again. This was a terrible blow to endure, but he bore up against it with the firmness of a stoic. Hans and his wife now redoubled their efforts, so that by their renewed exertions they, in some manner, made up for their late loss.
               The only animal Hans had now left him, was a large dog—the faithful companion of all his trials—and the only return this old companion in suffering received for his services, was the privilege of hunting in the forest for his food. As may be supposed, poor Growler often returned home supperless from a weary hunt, and the few crumbs that fell from the table of Hans only tended to increase his appetite, which, indeed, from his gaunt appearance, must have been always great.
               Little as Growler had received from Hans in time past, now the last grist was about exhausted, his share was still less; and it sometimes cost Mrs. Van Vranken a good deal of trouble to keep Growler from her little store-room. Between them, as other contending parties, it was a continual struggle for the spoils, and it often happened that instead of attaining the morsel for which his mouth had been watering, Growler received the full weight of the hickory broomstick.
               Hans Van Vranken was surprised one morning by the earnestness of his wife, who found that in looking over the provisions, her stock of flour was almost gone, and repaired immediately to where Hans was working in the field, to acquaint him of the melancholy and interesting fact.
               After 
                     listning
                     listening
                   to the sad tale of the scarcity of provisions, Hans cooly replied:
               "It can't be helped."
               "What are we to do?"
               "That's what I have been some time thinking of."
               "There is not much of anything to eat. We have but a few potatoes, and although there is meat enough, a person must have something to eat with it."
               "Well, my good woman, I see no other way to get out of the difficulty, than by carrying as much on my back as I can."
               "Why, Hans, you never could carry a bag of wheat on your back to mill, it is twenty miles."
               "Yes I can. I have done harder things than that, before now."
               "But you must also take something with you to eat. Hunger would make you faint under the weight of your load."
               "I can eat the wheat out of the bag; by that means my load will grow lighter, as I grow more tired," remarked Hans, playfully.
               "Well, I will go in the house, and prepare the best breakfast I can, so that you will have no need to start out on an empty stomach."
               So saying, Mrs. Van Vranken returned to the house, and exerted all her ingenuity in making the last of her flour into one good cake. She always prided herself upon being able to make a better cake, out of less material, than any woman she had ever seem
               After the necessary amount of fuss, the cake was produced in proper form, and its nicely browned sides so pleased Mrs. Van Vranken herself, that, as she left the house to call Hans, she remarked, as she gave it a look before leaving:—
               "I guess Hans will like that. Poor fellow, he wants something good before undertaking such a long, and lonesome journey, with such a heavy load, and although it took all the flour in the house to make it, it is better he should have it all, as I can get along very well without bread, until he comes back."
               Unfortunately for Mrs. Van Vranken's calculations, she did not take the precaution of turning the dog out of doors before she started. In the excitement and hurry of the baking, she forgot that Growler had been an attentive observer.
               She returned with her husband, just in time to see him gulp down the last mouthful of the cake.
               This was too much for human nature to stand unmoved, and Mrs. Van Vranken, overcome with emotion, burst into tears.
               Poor Growler was obliged to decamp for the woods, nor did he again make his appearance, until his peace was made by the return of his master with a bag of flour."
               With such anecdotes as these, the older scholars sometimes amused themselves during the recesses at school, and, although, that may serve to show what trials the first settlers had to endure, and to what inconvenient straits the smallest losses would occasionally put them, it does not fully exhibit the hardships many had to undergo. It very often happened, that the poor man who started with a bushel or two of wheat upon his back was overtaken in a snow storm, lost his way in the woods, and perhaps after wandering about for several days, would make his appearance at some settlement, many miles from the one in which his own house is located, and perhaps by the time he arrived at home, he would have consumed all the flour intended for the use of his family.
               To me those stories had all the charm of a romance. The first lesson I had received from my father and mother, who always amused me with the most marvelous tales, were of the same description. As with open mouth I listened to the exciting adventures of forest life. I could feel every nerve quiver with excitement, and as my fancy reached into the future. I used to ask myself—can I ever be the hero of such a tale.
               As I had a most inquisitive disposition, all with whom I came in contact, seemed to delight in recounting to me very strange things. To me, all that was told seemed truth. But I was not effected with the tales I heard as many children are. I was not afraid to be left alone in the dark. In fact, I felt happy in solitude. I would, when my father was at work in the farthest part of the clearance, go to him and talk with him awhile, and then wander forth alone in the woods for hours. I delighted in sitting under the branches of some shady tree, and muse upon the beauty of the forest. To my youthful mind, the trees appeared to hold converse with each other, as the wind made them lean first to one side, then another as I have seen persons at a party, who would engage the attention of several people at the same time. How I used to wonder if the trees did speak, what they could have to talk about—if they were insensible to any emotion, why they should put on such beautiful dresses, as if to please the eyes of one another.
               And again, I could see how they resembled people whom I had often seen. Here would be one with close, knotty, and crooked appearance, whose bark would cling to it as tight as the skin of the man whose hand closes when charity is mentioned, neither the tree nor man of this class are dealt with, except through necessity. Here the sturdy well-made, well-proportioned tree, throwing its branches to a great distance, and affording protection to those beneath it, whose roots take deeper hold with every fresh assault, and whose whole appearance denoted strength, power, and a difficulty to be overcome. These like men of their class were seldom interfered with, and when they were overcome, fell heavily bringing others with them, and sometimes crushing many in their fall. And here a comely well-made tree, with trunk as straight as an arrow, whose grain was so open as almost to invite a person to look into its heart. These, as with persons of their class, were the first to fall. And although from their grace and beauty, they should be spared the longest, they were invariably the shortest lived.
               Sometimes I would gather a bunch of the tender spring flowers, and bring them to my mother, who would seem to be so pleased that I remembered her, that she would repay me with a shower of the fondest kisses, or in the more substantial manner of an extra bit of some little delicacy she had made expressly for me.
               I had gradually become so acquainted with the woods in the vicinity of the "Hurricane Lodge" that there was not the least danger of me losing myself. And I could ramble away for hours without causing the least alarm. This early acquaintance with the forest was of infinite service to me in after life. For although in the middle of a dense wood, in which I had never before set foot, the knowledge of the trees, the habit of observing the sun, and the self-possession I maintained, enabled me to extricate myself, when others not thus early trained, would have failed to do so.
               In personal appearance I was somewhat taller than most boys of my age. I was slender and delicate looking, but quite active, and when excited, often wondered at my own strength. My features were regularly formed—my forehead was high, and full, and I was often complimented upon the beauty of my soft curly chestnut hair, which my mother used to fix in such handsome ringlets, that to a stranger I would have the appearance of a girl, with a boy's clothes on. An impression that would be made still deeper by the soft expression of my full eyes.
               Were it not that I am somewhat altered from that now, I would not be thus explicit in drawing a portrait of my appearance in youth. Age makes sad changes in all, but none are so old, and changed, as not to desire to make the world believe they were good looking once.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               TRAVELLING THROUGH THE WOODS.
               AS SOON as I was liberated from the hands of my first captors, I felt a degree of security that made me feel greatly at ease; and although my deliverer was, to all appearance, the same as the others, I felt an instinctive confidence in him.
               Without speaking a word, he motioned to me to stand aside. He then picked up the now inanimate form of the Indian into whose head he had sunk his tomahawk, and, upon satisfying himself that life had departed, proceeded to tie his body to the trunk of the tree under which he fell. He then with the same instrument, with which he had already done so much, marked the tree in one or two places, by cutting off a thin piece of the bark and wood—a mark made thus is called a blaze by the inhabitants of the back woods. After having made such marks as would enable him to find the spot easily again, he took hold of me by the hand, and started in a brisk pace to leave the place.
               The cold had begun to completely overpower me. At first I moved with great difficulty, but the pace at which he moved so started the circulation, that in a short time I began to perspire. I could see by the direction he was taking that it was his intention to take me to some place in the next settlement. Having now walked a considerable time he spoke. His first word sent a thrill of joy through my frame. I knew I was safe. The voice was Henry's.
               "Do you know the Indians who shot your father?"
               "No."
               "Would you know them if you ever saw them again?"
               "I would know one."
               "How?"
               "Because I noticed as he turned around to see the house burning, that there was a large scar on his left cheek, that extended from the outward corner of his eyebrow to near the middle of his upper lip."
               As I said these words I could feel by the slight jerk given my hand by Henry, that what I said caused him some emotion. He said nothing however, but muttered,
               "Bad Indian, bad Indian."
               After a short pause, in which he was so absorbed in thought that he seemed often upon the point of standing still, he asked:
               "Did you see the faces of any of the others?"
               "Yes, I saw the faces of them all."
               "How did they look?"
               "They were all painted."
               "Do you know whether the Indian who had the mark on his face was one of those who went off with your Mother?"
               "Yes, and he was the one who held the rifle when he came into the house."
               "Did you see the Indians when they first entered the house."
               "I saw them as soon as they entered the door. As soon as the shot was fired I jumped out of bed and had scarcely time to clothe myself when they dragged me out of doors."
               After a short silence, in which Henry increased creased his pace to a speed that made it difficult for me to keep up with him, I asked:
               "Do you know the Indian with the scar on his face?"
               "I think I do. Shortly after we left the Hurricane, one of the Indians who had been hunting there with me, felt dissatisfied about a decision that had been made upon the division of the skins, and one night undertook to steal a portion of mine, and sell them on his own account. But he had not been long gone when I missed them. I set out in pursuit, and on account of his heavy load soon overtook him. When he saw me, he prepared to fight, and leaped at me like the panther, to plunge his knife in my side. But I knew what the Indian would do. Before his knife reached my body, I had leaped aside, and as he passed me I sank my tomahawk into his cheek.—The Indian fell, and before he could again rise, his head would have rolled before my feet like a ball, but, in the most cowardly manner, he begged me to spare him. I did so. In the most humble manner he brought back my furs, and by his willingness to serve me wished me to believe he had completely forgiven me. But he is a bad Indian; I watched him so closely that he could do little that was not known to me. As soon as his face was healed he left my wigwam, but I set a spy upon his trail. He was traced to where he bought fire water, and in his drunkenness, he revealed his intention of destroying the Hurricane Lodge. As soon as I heard that, I started immediately to give warning to your father. I had a long way to travel, and as I feared before I could get to it, he had become sober, and in the promise of a share of the plunder, induced other Indians as bad as himself to accompany him. I am sorry they were able to effect their purpose, but they may yet repent it."
               "Can you save my mother?"
               "I do not know."
               "Oh, yes you can, I know you can."
               "If I knew who the Indians were I might, but I fear it will be difficult to find out. But to do this it is necessary for you to deny all knowledge of me. You must not tell my name, for some in the settlements know me, and if it once became understood that I knew any thing about it, I could never succeed in finding out your mother."
               During the above conversation we had been making our way through the woods with all the despatch we could. To me this was exceedingly difficult. Sometimes I was obliged to stand and rest myself, as it was beyond my strength to make my way through the deep snow. The travelling was very tiresome The darkness of the night prevented us from detecting the way clearly, and, although Henry seemed to be as well acquainted with the shortest way of getting from the Hurricane, as though there was not a tree the whole distance yet, even if there had been no woods, it would require more than ordinary nerve and power to have travelled an equal distance in such deep snow, upon a level plain.
               Sometimes I would stumble over a buried log, and the force of the pull that was necessary to keep me from falling, would almost dislocate my arm. Sometimes Henry would get tript, and pull me down with him and almost bury me in the snow. In addition to this, as a gust of wind shook the trees, and such an amount of snow would fall from their branches, on my head, as would almost smother me. To add to all my sufferings, the wind was in my face, and sometimes blew so much snow upon me as to almost take away my breath. But on we travelled with all the haste we could possibly make; now jumping over fallen trees, now crouching under the projecting branches of some stunted tree, and now, perhaps, breaking through the thin ice of some running brook, and with boots full of water pursue our way again.
               I found it so difficult to keep up with this athletic Indian through swamps and thickets, in such deep snow, that I was at length obliged to ask to rest awhile. This he seemed unwilling to do, but told me he would walk slowly, and that I must walk in his tracks, I would thus be able to keep up with him. Henry did walk slower, but so tired was I, that I was several times about to give up, and I felt as though I would rather remain and perish in the woods than walk another mile in the same manner. I could feel the tears trickle down my cheeks, and I found it very difficult to keep from bursting out into a loud cry. Henry would occasionally turn around and cheer me on with a few kind words, and it required all the power I could exercise over my voice to modulate it, so as to hide from him that I had been crying. After many vain struggles to still the emotions that were rising every moment to my throat, I burst out into a loud, wild cry that made Henry turn about as quickly as if he feared some wild animal had suddenly seized me. Finding that I was about exhausted, he once more took hold my hand and led me along for a short distance, and when I was too tired to walk, he took me in his arms and carried me over some of the bad places. When, at length, Henry remarked in a whisper—"there is the clearance"—a new life was infused into me. We emerged from the woods, clambered over a high rail fence, and here I hoped all the trials of the night would end.
               As soon as we advanced a few steps from the fence, we had just crossed, now said Henry:
               "I must leave you."
               Here I burst out crying again, as I replied:
               "I cannot find the house."
               "I do not want to go so near that they can by any means recognize me."
               "It is not very likely they will be up at this time of the night."
               "On a stormy night like this, white people are very likely to get up to see that nothing goes wrong."
               "You can come with me and show me the house, and as soon as we come in sight of it you can then leave me."
               My entreaties so overcome the scruples of Henry that he consented. And it was well he did, else my earthly career would have ended before I could have found a shelter. Although the wind blew piercing cold through the woods, the trees afforded sufficient protection to make it tolerable; but now, when there was nothing to break its force, I thought every fresh gust would have taken my breath entirely away.
               I was often obliged to turn my face around, to avoid the force of the blasts, and by keeping close behind Henry, his body afforded me a partial shelter.
               The house was much farther away than we had at first supposed. It appeared to me as though we would never get to it, and with climbing over fences, falling into pits, and running against stumps, I began again to loose my spirits. Never did a man at sea, in the sight of his home, get driven back to the watery waste, by stress of weather, and beat about the harbor in which his troubles were to end, without being able to reach it, suffer more than I did in trying to make my way to that house. At length the strong eye of Henry discovered through the gloom the long sought for place he intended to leave me, and neither my prayers nor entreaties could induce him to advance another step. When I told him that I could not see the house, and, therefore, would not be able to find it, he replied:
               "Do you see that tree there straight in front of you?"
               "Yes."
               "Walk to that tree, you will then see the house, and, remember, if you ever hope to see your mother again, not to tell any person Henry brought you here."
               I promised faithfully to keep his name secret and, before I could say another word, I saw his form disappear in the dense darkness, by which I was surrounded.
               As Henry said, when I reached the tree, the form of the house became visible; and a few steps more brought me to the door. As I passed the window I could see a dull light, as that proceeding from the embers of the last fire made on before the folks had gone to bed. The door was not fastened. As soon as I raised the latch, it yielded to the first slight push I gave it, and I stood once more under the shelter of an hospital roof.
               As Henry supposed the inmates did not rest very soundly, and the moment my foot sounded upon the floor a gruff voice called out—
               "What's that?"
               And in a second the gaunt form of Mr. Staples stood beside me.
               "What on earth are you doing here. Why how did you get here. What's the matter," said Mr. Staples, or, as he was more familiarly known, Joe.
               Before I had time to answer one of the enquiries he had in his surprise rattled off he again enquired.
               "How did you get here?"
               "Through the woods."
               Here Joe began to be sensible of the temperature of the room, and requested me to wait a moment until he put on some covering, and he would then return and make on a fire.
               Joe Staples was a first-rate specimen of the sort of man to locate in a new country. He was in height a little over six feet, square built and closely knit. Hard work had reduced all superabundant flesh, and exposure to the weather had given a dark hue to his skin, but a heart never beat in a better, or more generous breast, than did the heart of Joe Staples.
               Mrs. Staples was in all respects, except generosity and disposition, the antipode of Joe. Short, straight and fleshy, she presented a strong contrast to the tall, lean and bent form of her husband. Her plump round face radiated so much good nature, that all about her were happy. And Delilah Staplee was known through the whole settlement as the most obliging neighbor in it.
               It did not take Joe long to encase himself in his covering. He shortly appeared, and in a very few moments a good fire was blazing away on the hearth stone. The sudden heat now began to tell on me, and the pains of my hands, which were before almost stiff with the cold, became now almost unendurable.
               Mrs. Staples now made her appearance, and in the most affectionate manner commenced rubbing them, while Joe busied himself in making the fire still larger.
               The pain of my hands made me cry so much that I could not for a long time answer the anxious enquires about my father and mother. When at length I was sufficiently composed to tell of the horrible outrage that had been committed, the good couple expressed the greatest astonishment at the information, and the utmost sympathy for myself.
               "Well," said Joe, "I must go and wake up some of the neighbors. It will not do to let this thing drop very easily; although Mr. Warren may have lost his life, we may yet overtake the villains who have his wife. You say that you don't know any of them."
               "I do not know them. The one with the scar I will know, if I ever see him again."
               "Would you know the Indian who brought you through the woods, and seemed so kind to you, if you were to see him again?"
               "Yes."
               "Did he not tell you his name?"
               I now began to think that it was better to tell his name, for with all his kindness, he perhaps urged secresy through some bad motive. Joe noticed my embarrassment, and guessing that he had made me promise to keep all knowledge of him a secret, explained the necessity of knowing all, so that the monsters might the more speedily be brought to justice. I therefore replied:
               "His name is Henry."
               This seemed to give Joe some satisfaction, and taking down his rifle, and sticking a long knife in his belt, sallied forth in the storm.
               By this time I began to feel so overcome with the combined effects of the heat and fatigue, that I was unable to taste of the steaming cup of tea Mrs. Staples had placed before me. She then led me to a room, and when, by her assistance I had undressed, she kissed me upon my forehead, and I sank into bed.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE PRISONER.
               THE sun was shining brightly into the room when I awoke, and the snow dazzled in its beams, reflecting its light with the most intense brilliancy. The events of the preceding night had so bewildered me, that the heavy slumber I enjoyed did not completely work off its effects. For a few moments I could not fully comprehend my situation, or how it happened that everything looked so strange. I got up and walked around, to convince myself that I was awake. All at once the whole of my misfortunes burst upon me, with such a force, as to deprive me of the power of giving expression to my grief. I was not allowed to think very long upon my position. The cheerful voice of Delilah Staples, as she gently opened the door and said—
               "Your breakfast is ready," brought me to myself, and even made me feel cheerful. It was not the announcement of the breakfast that revived my spirits, for I had but little appetite; but the kind tone in which it was spoken, and the encouraging manner of the person who spoke it.
               As soon as I sat at the table, Mrs. Staples, in her anxiety to make me feel at home, and supposing that I must be hungry in proportion to the fatigue I had gone through began to press me to eat, as though it was her intention to make me devour all that was on the table, which was in reality enough for, at least, a half dozen persons—while her anxiety to hear the story of my misfortunes was equally manifest.
               "Here are some warmer cakes, those were baked early this morning for the men's breakfast."
               "I think either of them very good."
               And, until I had eaten my breakfast, she ran on in the following strain:
               "Those Indians, there is no trusting them. Come, take another cup of tea—poor fellow, you must have suffered severely last night in the cold. Now, Walter, you must take this little piece of meat, I know you must be hungry. My goodness, how cold it must have been when those brutes dragged you into the woods—here is a piece that is warmer than that—I hope they may get what they deserve—let me fill your cup again—I can't see how ever you got through the bush—here now you must take this—I would almost be inclined to shoot one of them myself—just this little bit—"
               "Not any more, thank you."
               "Now Walter you musn't be shy, I know you are hungry."
               "I have eaten all I want, I thank you."
               "Joe came back this morning, but he was in such a fuss and hurry, that he hadn't time to tell me how he got along."
               "Has he been out at the Hurricane?"
               "I don't know."
               "Do you know whether he found out anything about the Indians?"
               "He didn't tell me. He only stopped a minute to get something he forgot. There were some persons waiting for him out on the road, and I guess they all started off to the Hurricane together."
               The intelligence of the disaster at the Hurricane soon spread in the settlement, and aroused the spirit of every man in it. This was a thing in which all felt equally interested, as themselves expressed it, they did not know when the case might be their own. Almost every house turned out one or more armed men, who repaired in gangs of three or four to the Hurricane, determined to shoot every Indian they met. And as the day advanced, women from all parts called in to hear the news, and see me. Nearly all of them had seen me several times before, without appearing to think me different to other children of my age; but now, as soon as they laid their eyes upon me, they were most strangely affected. Some would kiss me most affectionately, while others, more sensitive and tender-hearted, would melt into tears. All viewed me with as much interest as though they could read the history of the event in my face, and all seemed eager that I should come and stay awhile at their place. Some who did not seem to feel so much for me, launched forth into encomiums upon my parents, and lauded them to such a degree, that, a person would be led to suppose they were faultless. There was no perfection my father did not possess in their eyes now he was no more, and the probable sufferings of my mother, repeatedly moistened their eyes. The visiting made it a busy day for Mrs. Staples, who was obliged before night to prepare a dinner for nearly all the women in the neighborhood. At this dinner I was enabled to get a tolerable correct idea of the history of all the people in the settlements for many miles around, and in the conversation on the affairs of the families of the place, I was entirely forgotten.
               Night came, and with it, the departure of my sympathisers. Mrs. Staples was busied in gathering up the fragments unconsumed by the Goths and Vandals, who had just made such an onslaught upon her larder. I was nestling down in a large arm chair, before the fire, looking at the grotesque forms that were continually, as it were bursting into life on the logs that slowly burned in front of me, watching the sparks as they silently clambered up the large chimney through the smoke, or tracing the outline of a picture in a square foot of ashes, in which appeared a representation of all living animals, trees, forests, lakes, and mountains, as it were distinctly drawn, and as finely shaded as the productions of a master-hand. And as I continued to look, the ashes seemed to rise and assume a thousand different forms, full of motion and life, and perform strange evolutions. The figures that rose up before me began to dance around in a circle, slow at first, but shortly so increased in speed that I began to feel alarmed for their safety when a loud and prolonged whoo-o-o-op a short distance from the house, returned into ashes and dust once more the creatures of my fancy. In a moment more, Joe Staples and six others entered the house.
               "What news Joe?" said Delilah.
               "Well, we haven't been able to get much news."
               "Did you see anything of the Indians?"
               "No, dod rot them, it would not be well for them if I did."
               "I would jest like to have the fun of pinking one of them yellow skins," said a man in the corner.
               "If I don't settle his business, for the first one that crosses my track," said a third, "I hope to holler."
               "I should like to have the pleasure of scalping one of the critters," said another.
               "Oh don't talk like that," said Deliah.
               "No boys, it aint any use to keep a talking that way. The Indians are human, just as much as we are," said Joe.
               "I'll be hanged if I believe that," said he who spoke of the scalping.
               "Yes they be, but the wild natur' is in them yet."
               "I don't believe there is any natur' in them,"
               "Now there is that Indian Henry, haint he got natur'. If he had not, would he have tried to save the Hurricane Lodge, or would he have come all the way through the woods with the snow breast-high, with Walter?"
               "Well, Henry is different to any Indian I have ever seen. I've heard that that fellow has got some education."
               "I happened to meet him once, when I was out hunting, and I think he knew more about book learning than almost any man I ever heard. I have often thought since, that, if instead of fighting with those creatures, and selling them whiskey, which made them mad, and then shooting them for the deeds they committed in their madness, we were to get them to settle with us, and go to school, they might all be just as good as white folks."
               "I don't believe they ever would."
               "Why?"
               "Because they're yeller."
               "Henry is yellow."
               "He ain't so yeller as most on 'em."
               "I don't believe the color makes any more difference in a man than in any other creature."
               "I jist believe if they were at first intended to be as good as white folks, they would have been made as white."
               "Well if that's the case, you ain't the best man in the world, yourself, I've seen a good many whiter men than you be."
               "Yes," said the man in the corner, "I met him one time in the woods, and if I hadn't seen his dog, I should have shot him in mistake for an Indian."
               Here a laugh was raised at the expense of the man who did not believe that the Indians had "any natur' in 'em," and to save his feelings, Delilah changed the subject by asking Joe to tell what he had found out relative to the burning of the Hurricane Lodge.
               "Delilah, you know I can never tell a story, so that you can make head or tail of it, when I am hungry."
               "Supper is ready, I was just going to ask you to sit at the table, so now without farther invitation, I want you all to commence at once, and make yourselves as much at home as possible. Joe always tells things better when he is eating than at any other time."
               As soon as Joe had helped his guests, and commenced on his own account, he began:
               "The first thing I did was to raise the neighbors, some of whom got ready, and started with me right off, while others promised to go around, and collect all the assistance they could. You see we did not know but there might be a good many of them critters lying around in the bush. In this however, we were mistaken. When we got to the Hurricane, it was broad daylight, and the Lodge was burnt down to the very ground. As soon as sufficient help arrived, we commenced to tear the burning logs away, in order to get the body of Mr. Warren. After a long search we found it, untouched by the fire, and taking it carefully out, I went to work and made a coffin, while others went to the barn and hunted up a spade, with which they dug a grave, and as we lowered the coffin into it, there was scarcely a dry eye in the party. Over the head of the grave we placed the large stone that stood behind the fire-place. It bears the marks of having been burnt, and will serve for a monument to point out the spot, and will tell as plainly as if it were cut in letters, the manner of his death. As soon as we got through with the burial, we went to work to set things to rights. I got out the cattle and sent them around by the road, by some of the boys. All hands then set to work, and in a short time we had the barn fastened up tight and everything made secure. We then began to search for the body of the Indian. We took the direction Walter told us, but after spending all the day in the search, could not find the place. We did find a tree marked as Walter described, but could not see any marks about it either of tracks, or blood. The track might have been filled up by the drifted snow, but I think if we had found the right tree, there would have been some marks of blood about it—"
               Here Joe's story was interrupted by a screech that would have done no discredit to the united efforts of a band of owls, and the party jumped up from the table, and grasped their rifles. Another screech followed the first, and another, and another, until the woods echoed them back again.
               "Those are some of the boys returning," said Joe, whose quick ear was the first to distinguish between this, and the whoop of the Indians.
               All in the house now rushed to the door, and we could distinguish through the dull twilight, something about which the whole party seemed to dance with the most savage satisfaction.
               "What on earth can be the matter with them?"
               "What have they got there?"
               As the party approached the house, they commenced singing a wild, boisterous kind of song, not one word of which was intelligible to any of us, and with the capers they were cutting, and the leaping into and out of the snow, was enough to convince a person, that every one of them had lost their senses.
               As they came nearer to the house, we could discover something in their midst, to which, all seemed to devote the greatest possible attention. When they came to the door, they formed into two lines, and in breaking apart, we could see that the object of their solicitude could stand erect.
               "Pull him along. Give the darned critter a knock with your musket. Be sure that his hands are well tied—yes, and his feet, too. We've treed the coon. We've hunted up the animal—keep close to him, do not give him a chance to get away again," and hundreds of such ejaculatory sentences were shouted forth by these enthusiastic young fellows, as they arranged themselves before the door.
               "What have you got here, boys?" said Joe.
               "We've got a wild bear."
               "Let me look at it."
               "Take care it don't bite."
               "Well, bring it in the house," said Joe, after he had looked at it a moment.
               As they advanced, "Why" said Delilah, who had been looking into the darkness at it, without being able to distinguish what it was, "Why do you want the critter in the house? Who wants a bear in the house all night? I want to know." Here the boys let out a loud laugh, and the next moment, the whole party, with their captive, were on the floor.
               "I declare, as sure as I live, it's an Indian."
               And sure enough, there stood the stately form of an Indian. He calmly cast his eyes about the room, and at the fire, then bent his head as if in deep thought, and looked gloomily at the floor. His hands were tied behind him with a rope, and he bore marks upon his face of having received rough usage. Without saying a word, or exhibiting the least symptoms of fear or concern, as soon as a space was cleared, he went and sat down by the fire, and seemed to care as little about what was going on, as if there was no person in the house. I could see, as he gazed at the hearth-stones, that a small stream of blood trickled down by the side of his ear; but to this, as to all things else, he appeared insensible.
               "Now Joe, we've brought him here, what are we do with him. Were it not for me, some of our boys would have strung him right up on a tree. But I told them, we had better bring him here, and have your advice."
               "Well, my advice would be to hang him up," said one.
               "Being shot, is an easier death," said another.
               "Boys," said Joe, "you must not be too fast, we had better find out whether he has done anything."
               "Every darned one of them ought to be shot. If he hain't done anything, it is because he has not had a chance."
               "Serve him right to burn him, the same as Mr. Warren was burnt."
               "Look here, boys," 
                     srid
                     said
                   Joe, "there ain't any use in talking in that way; he's now in my house, and must not be injured. If it was a wolf intrusted to my care, I would not treat him with unnecessary severity.—We must try and find out whether this is one of the Indians who attacked Mr. Warren's house. If it is, he shall have the full benefit of the law; if not, and it may not be, he should be allowed his liberty. We do not know but he is as innocent as any of us."
               'Do you suppose if he was innocent, he would hang his head down in that way? I never saw an innocent man, who would be ashamed to look another in the face."
               "We must not go by looks."
               "If we did, that fellow would be dangling from a tree before morning."
               "There is one thing pretty certain, that he will not dangle from a tree until we are sure he deserves it; but you have not yet told us how, or where you got him."
               "You see, as we were going out to the Hurricane, we thought we would go around a little, to see whether we could not head off some of the fellows who had been cutting up their pranks with Mr. Warren, or, perhaps, get on the track of the persons who took Mrs. Warren. So we were all looking around pretty sharp, all the way along, but could not see the least signs of any track, and we were just 
                     begining
                     beginning
                   to make straight for the Hurricane, when I saw this fellow skulking along from tree to tree, as though he wanted to steal away. 'So now,' says I, 'boys, keep your eyes open; do you see that fellow crawling along there? Now,' says I, 'lay low, and we'll soon have him.' So we all got behind trees, and waited a few minutes, and presently he came up with his gun trailing behind him, to the very tree, behind which I stood. As soon as he did, I jumped right out and hollered like an Ingin, and then all the boys came right up, while we were rolling in the snow, and pulled us apart, and then we gave it to him pretty well. He had this rope around his waist, so we took it off and tied him with it. After we tied him, we tried to make him walk, but he wouldn't at first; a few good kicks soon made him change his mind though, and he walked along as fast as we wanted him until he got in sight of the clearance, when he made a bolt, and tried to run away from us; but, as his hands were tied, he could not get along very fast, and in trying to jump over a log, he tript up and fell down, and in a minute we were all so close, that the most of us fell on top of him before he got up. I guess he got what put him from trying that again. From that he walked as quiet as we wanted him to, until we got here."
               "Didn't he say anything?"
               "Not a word, that I could make sense of."
               "Did you ask him where he came from?"
               "I asked him what he was doing here."
               "And what did he say?"
               "All I could understand was 'Moose.'"
               "Walter, do you think he was among the party that killed your father."
               To me the Indians appeared nearly all alike, so I replied:—"I do not know."
               "Does he look like any of them?"
               "I cannot tell. The others were all painted."
               "This fellow has had plenty of time to wash the paint off," shouted several voices; and as this was considered by them sufficient evidence to prove his guilt, Joe could with difficulty prevent them from giving him some severe kicks, in anticipation of the verdict of guilty.
               The Indian continued to gaze at the fire, or looked solemnly at the floor, and seemed more unconcerned about what was going on, than any person in the house.
               "I can tell by his down-cast look, that he knows all about it."
               "But," said Joe, "we must not go by looks."
               "How else are you to find out?'
               "We must look at the circumstances of the case."
               "I'd like to know what circumstances there can be about this case."
               "I don't believe that he would be skulking around in the woods, it he set fire to the house."
               "He was getting away as fast as he could."
               "When you met him, you say, he was coming towards the settlement."
               "So he was."
               "I don't think it likely that he would come to the settlement, if he had been at the murder of Mr. Warren."
               
               "Those Indians are so cunning, that there is no being up to them."
               "How far was he from the Hurricane when you met him?"
               "About two miles."
               "And you say he did not try to get away when he saw you."
               "He did not see us until he was close to us, and then he had no chance to run off."
               "Boys, I am very sorry you interfered with this Indian, I can't see how he can have had anything to do with the crime, with which you charge him."
               "Joe, you are always that way, you always want to make excuses for other people."
               "Not if I think they are guilty."
               "How are you going to find out he ain't guilty?"
               "I intend asking him a few questions."
               "Yes, do, he'll be sure to tell the truth," said the boys laughing.
               "I guess I can come as near to the right by what he says, as by the story you have been telling."
               Here Joe turned around so as to look fully in the Indian's face, and addressed the Indian, who now, for the first time, appeared conscious that he was the subject of their conversation.
               "What were you doing in the woods when these boys caught you?"
               The Indian looked up in his face as though unable fully to comprehend, and after some hesitation replied by uttering the 
                     monysylable
                     monosyllable
                  : "Moose."
               "That's all we could get him to say," said the boys.
               "You hold on," said Joe, as he continued.
               "Did you see any Indians in the Hurricane?"
               "Me see no Indian."
               "What were you doing there?"
               "Me hunt Moose."
               "Some Indians killed a white man in the Hurricane."
               "Me no kill white man, me love white man, great big love. White man Indian's brother."
               "Were you hunting a Moose deer when they stopped you?"
               "Me hunt Moose two day. Me going to shoot when white men stop Indian."
               "There, you see boys, said Joe, that this poor fellow had been hunting a deer for two days, and when he was just going to shoot it, you stopped him, by making him a prisoner, and tied him with the rope with which he intended to tie his Moose."
               "If you are soft enough to believe his story we ain't," replied the boys, who seemed determined to believe him guilty.
               "I would advise you to let him go."
               "We ain't going to do that until we know whether he is guilty or innocent."
               "How are you to find that out?"
               "We will try him ourselves."
               "Well, you must take him somewhere else, you cant do anything more about it in this house," said Joe, who now began to perceive the boys were determined to have some sport out of the Indian, to reward them for the trouble they had with him, in bringing him out of the woods. After some consultation amongst themselves, it was determined to adjourn to a room in the barn, in which there was a stove, and there appoint a Judge and Jury, by which he was to have a fair and impartial trial. Having lighted a fire, the Judge proceeded to take his seat upon an old bunk, in which the men slept who occasionally occupied the apartment, while the Jury were empannelled in an empty oat's bin that ran along the side of the room. When all things were arranged, the Judge, in imitation of the three cornered hats worn by Canadian Judges, pulled on an old sooty looking nightcap, and the prosecuting attorney, in imitation of the gown, encased himself in an old Buffalo skin that had been found rolled up in a corner of the Jury box.
               "Bring in the prisoner," said the Judge, with all the pomp and gravity of Judicial dignity.
               The Indian who had until now, appeared indifferent to all that was passing, looked around the room with a good deal of concern. Being unused to civilized life, he appeared to view what was going on, as some of the ceremonies used by christians, preparatory to offering a sacrifice.
               The trial proceeded; and after a good deal of legal 
                     quibling
                     quibbling
                   by the prosecuting Attorney, who exercised all his ingenuity in trying to impress on the minds of the Jury, the enormity of the crime with which the prisoner was charged, and how circumstances unmistakeably pointed to him as the man. After an extraordinary rhetorical effort that moved even the Judge to tears—by laughter—the counsel summed up with the following explosion of eloquence. "To prove now that the critter must be guilty, and to make it as clear as the mist through which the sun shines on a cloudy morning, I needn't only call to your mind, that when we first catched him, he tried to run away. If he wasn't guilty, wouldn't he have stood still. If he was innocent he would have been going to the Hurricane, instead of that he was coming away from it. And instead of owning to his crime like a man, he says he didn't do it. This shows at once that he is as black with the crime, as the heart of a burnt pine stump." The councellor sat down exhausted with the effort, and the jury after a moment's consultation, without leaving Oats Bin, returned a verdict of "guilty of manslaughter in the first degree, for trying to run away when he was catched."
               The verdict was received with the most deafening applause, and one who could not control his feelings, shyed his cap at the candle, and knocked it straight into the face of the Judge. All was now dark, and while some of the boys ran to the house for another light, the Jury made a rush for the Indian, who now struggled and kicked with an energy that made it difficult for the whole twelve to overcome. They at length succeeded in forcing him into a corner, and for every groan he uttered, or every effort he made, he received a kick or a blow from some of the Jury. A light was at length brought by Joe himself, who wanted to see what the boys were doing.
               He found them all huddled together in one corner, and each pressing with all his weight upon what they supposed was the body of the Indian.
               "Come boys said Joe, you musn't worry that poor fellow any more."
               "Well, we wouldn't have piled on to him, only when the candle went out he tried to get away;" and they now got up to give him a chance to rise, but instead of the Indian, they had been sitting upon and kicking the prosecuting attorney.
               When the light was extinguished the Indian found an opportunity to slip out unobserved, and his most active persecutor received the blows intended for him.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               HAMILTON.
               THE excitement consequent upon the death of my father, gradually subsided, and if talked of at all, was now, only incidentally alluded to, as an event long since passed. The name of my mother was seldom mentioned, and were it not, that my presence occasionally brought her to the remembrance of the people, I believe they would have ceased to remember there ever was a person of the name. So occupied are the minds of mankind with the objects which float past on the tide of the present, and in anticipation of what the future may bring, that the past is seldom again looked at. Life appears like a walk by the side of a river, whose velocity carries in a moment things beyond our grasp forever. And although we had the power to walk down with the stream, it rushes by so rapidly, that, whatever we may desire upon its waters, if not seized at the instant, is irrecoverably lost to us. We may continue to gaze upon it, with fondest longings, as it is carried from our sight, but as we can never hope to overtake it, nor stop the current by which it is borne away, it is useless to allow the memory to dwell upon it. Yet, who can refrain from sometimes casting the eye of recollection back upon the shining objects that at one time so pleased us, or mourn the loss of what added so much to our enjoyment. In youth, when the river is near its fountain head, how slowly and calmly it glides along; not a ripple disturbs its surface, nor a cloud cast its shadow upon it, and its currents move so tardily, that it seems almost willing to linger and play with us. As it increases in length, its volume and force continue to augment, until finally, like a raging, roaring 
                     cateract
                     cataract
                  , it is precipitated into the ocean of eternity.
               Whether it is the knowledge that they have no control over the past or not, that keeps men from troubling themselves much about it, I cannot tell, but all of those who were a short time before so very much interested in me, seemed now unaware of my existence. From this, however, I must except Joe and Delilah, who were always as kind to me as they could be to their own children. This honest couple now considered themselves my guardians, nay, they looked upon themselves as my parents, and their care of me, was as tender as if this was really the case. But their most assiduous attentions could not drive from me the remembrance of the past. Day and night, my fancies brooded over the fate of my poor mother. Of my father I thought less. The certainty of his fate, was in some degree a satisfaction; but my mother, to think that she might be, at that very moment, under the infliction of the tortures of those lawless savages! My fancy conjured up the most fearful pictures of her sufferings, and the tales I had heard of Indian cruelties, added to the horrors that presented themselves to my mind. I would sit in some lonesome spot, and brood for hours upon her fate. So clearly were the trials through which she had gone, pictured to my mind, and to such a definite path did my habitual thinking upon the subject, confine my thoughts, that I felt assured, I could trace her from the Hurricane to where she now lived. To be sure, I could not point to the spot on a map, with any degree of certainty, but felt confident the chain by which we were bound was only lengthened, not broken, and like the thread in the fabled labyrinth, I hoped by it to find her yet.—And although the chain was but a mental one, I felt an instinctive confidence that it would yet lead me to her. Sometimes in my sleep, I would start up, in the greatest excitement, the sweat dropping like rain from my temples and my whole frame agitated as in an ague, as I saw a lot of painted men with countenances in which were depicted the most fiendish passions, dancing in a circle around her, each adding some fresh torment or new indignity to increase their diabolical mirth.
               This continual state of excitement began to tell upon my constitution, and as there was no hope to improve it, where every object upon which I looked brought to my mind something that increased my malady; where every tree conjured up visions of the past, and every happy face tended to make me still more miserable by reminding me of enjoyments now no more; it was resolved by my benevolent and kind protectors, that I should be sent to some place where a change of scenery, and a continual contact with strange thing sand faces would occupy my mind, and drive away the worm of melancholy, which was silently gnawing at my vitality and destroying my constitution.
               The winter was now past, and Spring, in all its loveliness, gladdened the heart of nature. The invigorating warmth of the sun, had drawn into life, once more, the 
                     veegtable
                     vegetable
                   kingdom. The fields were clothed in the deep luxurious green, that promised to the farmer an abundant yield. The roadsides were carpeted with a soft rich grass, in which the daisies and whiteheaded little batchelor's-buttons were so handsomely interwoven, as to form the most beautiful patterns. The woods were clothed in the deep colored foliage which adds such a charm to a Canadian forest, and the birds warbled forth their songs in such sweet medleys that the very melody as it fell upon the ear, soothed, as well as gladdened the heart.
               Joe did all he could to direct my mind from the thoughts he well knew harrassed me. He would, when his work was done, take me into the woods, and discourse upon its beauties, for Joe, although not well educated, had a very fine conception of beauty. As he rambled about in search of his cattle, which were now turned into the woods, to feed upon the rich foliage of the young trees, whose tender leaves had just been unrolled to catch the warming southern breezes; or the soft and juicy plants that were springing up in their shade, he would divert me by plucking little flowers, and explain to me their loveliness, and useful medicinal qualities; and occasionally point to the full and smooth haired cows, and tell the effects of certain vegetables upon their milk and butter.—How this was watery, and made little milk, how another when eaten by the cow, imparted to the butter its peculiar flavor, and depreciated its market value; or as we passed some spot or particular tree, he would relate an anecdote concerning it How this large oak was felled in the Fall, in order to secure the honey of a swarm of bees which had fled from some neighbors and were traced to this place; how the marks in another, were made by the claws of some huge bear, as his weight dragged them through the bark in his attempt to climb it; and in fact, so 
                     familliar
                     familiar
                   was Joe, with every spot in the woods for miles around his house, that he seemed to know each particular tree, and could tell some tradition, or adventure concerning it. But notwithstanding the endeavors of this kind hearted man, my melancholy pressed heavily upon me, and would, probably, very soon have crushed me beneath its weight, if I continued any longer in the vicinity of the scenes upon which what it fed were enacted. While he was yet undecided upon what course to act with reference to me, a chance was presented of which he availed himself; and, as the most interesting portion of my life dates from this period, I think it better to be somewhat particular in relating it.
               As soon as the roads were sufficiently hardened, after the snow, and spring rains, to admit of easy traveling, the inhabitants, in the settlements of Binbrook were favored every Sunday, with a visit from a preacher from Hamilton—the county town. The meetings were held in the schoolhouse, and attended by persons of all denominations. For in those days, the desire to hear the Word preached, overcame the sectarian prejudices, usually engendered where preaching is more common, or where each particular individual can choose the man who denounces most what he is least guilty of, or preaches most in accordance with his own views. In this unornamented school-room, no particular sect was vilified for the sake of the approbation of another, but all were equally exhorted to love one another, and in the most simple and pathetic language, encouraged to put their trust in Him, without whose knowledge even a sparrow cannot fall to the ground, and in the most melting tenderness, all were entreated to look upon each other as brothers.
               As there was no particular preacher for this locality, the people were obliged to depend upon chance visits, except, as was often the case, some pious layman came from the town to conduct the ceremonies, and join them in offering up their hearts. These good people, usually accepted the invitation of some person to dinner, after the preaching was over, and the honor of the acceptance was considered a sufficient recompense for the meal.
               It happened at the time I write of, one of those men stopped to dine at Joe's house. He had never been in Binbrook before, and was, therefore, not very well informed upon the history of events in the locality. In the general run of conversation he asked.
               "How many children have you?"
               "Four," replied Joe.
               "This is a fine boy," said he, as he smoothed my hair with his hand. "I suppose you intend making a bushwacker of him. Is he your first born?"
               "He is not my son."
               "Some neighbor's maybe, who spends the holy Sabbath in running around, instead of staying at home and reading some good book?"
               "No sir, he is a good boy. This is his home, and will be as long as he wants one."
               "Oh! some relative, a young nephew eh."
               Joe, who was unwilling to speak in my presence, upon a subject which he knew would make me feel bad, was now obliged to run over a portion of my history, and its melancholy incidents appeared greatly to affect his guest. When he mentioned his intention of sending me away for a while, the preacher volunteered to take me with him to Hamilton immediately.
               I could not fully convince myself, from the appearance of the man, that it would be much to my interest to go with him. I was not in the habit of seeing strange faces, and was therefore not much of a physiognomist, but there was a 
                     sinster
                     sinister
                  , half-sneering kind of look about him, that made me feel uncomfortable when I looked at him. When he spoke, there was a studied manner in his delivery that contrasted strangely with the free and open-hearted way I had been used to and his smile was more like the grin of a person trying to look at the sun, when its brilliancy dazzled the eyes, than the good-natured brightening up of the features I was wont to call by that name. He appeared about the age of forty, but might be somewhat less, as the deep lines in his face indicated trouble more than years.—The top of his head was devoid of the natural covering, a deficiency which he supplied by combing on it what grew on either side, so as to cover as much as possible of the bald spot, but, like what his head contained, the more he tried to cover it, the more he showed its deficiency. His head was peculiarly shaped; and what struck me most forcibly then, in its construction, was, that it had the appearance of two small heads joined together, on account of a hollow in the centre, and elevation at both ends, particularly at the back. His strange appearance, together with the white neck-tie, which was always associated in my mind with a preacher, made me at first stand in awe of him. For I considered the sternness of his looks as proceeding from his great austerity and self-denial.
               "I think," continued Mr. Kamul—Alexis Kamul was his name—"I think it will be greatly to his advantage, to come with me to Hamilton. There he can attend my school."
               "Do you teach school when you are at home?" asked Joe.
               "Yes, I have one of the largest schools in the town."
               "Well, Walter is a sharp scholar; I guess you will find him quick to learn. I have often wondered how he could have picked up all the learning he has got, for he never went to school much in his life."
               "At first he would not be under my charge. I would be obliged to allow some of the younger teachers to prepare him.—I take charge of those, only, who are studying the higher branches.
               "All this will be new to Walter. I believe he has never been out of Binbrook."
               "Another advantage he will enjoy; I will introduce him into the best families, as my position enables me to associate with the first society of the place."
               "That will be a very great advantage."
               "Besides, consider that he can go to some place of worship every Sunday, instead of growing up in the woods as wild as an Indian. Oh!" continued Mr. Kamul, as he turned up his eyes in pious horror, "What an evil thing it is to bring up children in a place, where they cannot have an opportunity of hearing the gospel preached but very seldom."
               "They are not so apt to get into bad company here."
               "I know that, but under proper instructions, there is little danger of a boy keeping bad company even in a city. My scholars are spoken of through all the town, as being the best behaved and best taught boys in it. In fact, I have a great many applications now, from parents seeking admission for their children, that I cannot attend to; but as a christian, I consider it my duty to do all I can for the widow and orphan. The fatherless are, above all others, objects of my compassion, and if you entrust Master Warren to my care, depend upon it, the advantage will all be his. I do not desire to make any profit out of his 
                     eduction
                     education
                  ; all I want is merely what will pay for his tuition and board. Of course, you mean to clothe him, as you have the charge of the property, to which he is heir presumptive."
               This last sentence convinced Joe of the superiority of Mr. Kamul's learning, and turning to me, he said:
               "Would you like to go with this man?"
               The idea of seeing the town was enough to influence me, and I answered:
               "Yes."
               Mr. Kamul shortly afterward took his leave. It was settled that I should go with him the following Sunday, to Hamilton
               All the next week was occupied in making preparations for my departure. Delilah, with the most motherly tenderness, spent nearly the whole of the intervening six days in making me new clothes, or so altering my old ones as to make them fit for life in the town. She would occasionally stop her work to give me a bit of advice, and impress upon me the necessity of being a good boy.
               "Well, Walter," said Joe, as he sat at supper, on the following Saturday night, "to-morrow I expect Mr. Kamul here; you must try and have your things all ready."
               "I expect Mrs. Staples has them all ready now."
               "I have been fixing them up, but I am afraid Walter will not consider them very fashionable, when he gets there."
               
               "I will make arrangements with Mr. Kamul to have some made for Walter, by a tailor."
               "You had better do so, for I am sure Walter will soon get tired of the duds I've been putting together for him."
               "I think Mr. Kamul is a good kind of a man, and I am glad that Walter has had such good fortune as to get acquainted with him."
               "How much he looks in the face, like the man who coaxed Ellen Darwin to run away with him."
               "Why, Delilah, how you do talk."
               "I don't mean to say that a good christian like him would do such a thing, but I could not help thinking he looked like him in the face."
               "When I come to think upon it, he does look something like him, but it happened so long ago, I would not have thought of it if you had not brought it to my mind."
               "He aint a very good looking man at any rate."
               "I guess, if he was not a good acting man, he would not be allowed to come here and preach."
               "Yes, and he does preach very fervently, he throws his whole soul into it. He goes at it like a day's chopping."
               "I don't believe he is any better, or as good, as others who do not make such a fuss about it."
               "That depends on a man's disposition; some men are very earnest in what they undertake, others, never can work themselves into a fit of enthusiasm."
               With this philosophical remark, Joe retired to rest, and with him the family.
               The eventful Sunday came, and broke upon us in all the splendor of a June morning. The Sun shone brightly. Not a breeze 
                     stired
                     stirred
                   the leaves, nor disturbed the calmness of the little pond of clear water at the end of the house. The birds in the woods were warbling forth their sweetest songs, and some of them, not content with wasting their unappreciated notes among the trees and bushes, came and sang their songs of gladness to us, on the rail fence in front of the door. The lambs in the clover field leaped nimbly in their glee, and the old dog, in his desire to share their general happiness, indulged in the 
                     mischevous
                     mischievous
                   sport of chasing the cocks and hens about the barn yard. And even I felt a secret satisfaction in the thought of being now about to see that great world, of which I had heard so much.
               Alexis Kamul arrived punctually according to appointment. The meeting in the school-house broke up as usual. All who left it felt happy, and all were convinced that Mr. Kamul was a very worthy man.
               After dinner, Kamul, who appeared to be in a much greater hurry than he was the preceding Sunday, remarked.
               "I suppose, Mr. Staples, master Warren is now prepared to depart with me."
               "Yes sir, I believe he is. His baggage does not at present amount to much; but when you get to town, you will please to get him whatever you think he wants, and I will be responsible."
               Joe and Kamul, now conversed in a low tone; pens ink and paper were produced, and Kamul, after making an excuse about working upon the Sabath, of which all I remember was the word "necessity," and something about an ass that fell into a pit, he proceeded to write something, which when finished, Joe signed, and returned to him.
               The carriage in which I was to leave was now ready, and as my little trunk was tied on, Joe took me by the hand and said:—
               "Now Walter, as you are going among strangers, you must be careful to keep good company. Rather remain alone than associate with bad boys. I need not tell you to keep honest, for I feel assured to a person of your disposition, such an advice is unnecessary. When ever you want for anything, send me word, and whatever it is you shall have it, for I know you will not desire but what is useful and necessary. Above all things Walter, be candid and upright, then you will never be ashamed to look a man in the face; and remember, whatever happens you, that you may always reckon on Joe Staples." Here Joe's voice became tremulous with emotion, and as he 
                     squezed
                     squeezed
                   my hand in his, I could see his eyes filling. "I shall be into town, to see you as often as I can, but when you get there let me know whether you like the place or not, and if you don't, you shan't stop any longer than you're a mind to."
               Delilah, who had been stowing away some cakes and pieces of pie for me to eat on the road, now came to bid me "good bye," but as she approached me, her good natured heart melting with tenderness, she burst into tears. She could not speak, but pressed me to her affectionately, and implanted a fervent kiss upon my forehead.
               "All ready," shouted a voice from the carriage, and returning the kiss of Delilah, in a moment I was seated in it.
               "Stop a minute," said Joe, and he placed a small roll of bank bills in to my hand. I did not wait to examine the amount; the carriage rolled away, and I was shortly out of the sight of my kind protectors.
               Mr. Kamul was not very communicative. He seemed for the most part of his time wrapped up in thought, and when he did speak he did it in such 
                     authorative
                     authoritative
                   manner, that I felt in no disposition to continue the conversation. From Joe Staple's house to Hamilton, is only about twelve miles, but it seemed to me, a very long distance. As we approached our destination, the extensive clearances, large orchards, with trees yet in blossom, and the increased beauty of the houses, were the especial objects of my attention. I had never until now, seen a brick or stone-house, it may therefore, be readily imagined they were, to me, objects of wonderment. As Mr. Kamul did not seem as willing to answer as I to ask questions, I forebore to teaze him, and for some time we rode on again in silence. At length, I ventured to ask:—
               "How near are we to Hamilton?"
               "Very near it now. There is the lake."
               And he pointed to a great expanse of blue, lying some distance off, and a long way beneath us.
               "Oh my!" was all I could exclaim as the scene which now opened to my view, surpassed in beauty and grandeur all my imagination had hitherto conceived.
               "And is that Hamilton?" said I, pointing to a large house before which I could see a great number of heavy waggons, carriages of various kinds, and men assembled.
               "No. We are now near the mountain, and that is the Mountain View Hotel, where persons stop to rest their horses after coming up, and before going down."
               "Is it a great distance down?"
               "Yes, and the road is very steep and narrow."
               "Is there any danger?"
               "It requires great care for there is scarcely room in some places for two waggons to pass each other, and unless the horses are steady, there is great danger of being pushed off the edge, and thrown down a precipice of nearly a hundred feet."
               "I should think, then, accidents would very often occur."
               "Not so often as might be at first supposed, for persons exercise great caution; but a short time since a very melancholy thing happened. A company had assembled at the hotel we are now approaching, to celebrate the nuptials of the daughter of one of our most wealthy merchants. The party was a pleasant one, and all the beauty and talent of the town were present at it. Amongst the rest was one young woman, remarkable, even in this select company, for her loveliness. And if the expression of her features charmed men's hearts, the kindness of her disposition endeared her to all who had the pleasure of her acquaintance. Her father, who was extremely fond of her, neglected no opportunity and spared no expense in fitting her for a life of usefulness, in storing her mind with useful knowledge, as well as those lesser accomplishments which, unimportant in themselves, lend a grace to their possessors.—She had just completed her eighteenth year, and with the full developed beauty and sensitiveness of woman, still possessed the artlessness and innocence of youth.— Her father—a wealthy blacksmith—was also at the party. Although retired from business, and with the advantages of good society, and the purifying company of his lovely daughter, he still retained a portion of the roughness and coarse manner of expressing himself, he had contracted in his youth among his fellow workmen. While sober, he maintained sufficient self-command to conceal the vulgarity of his nature, but with each additional glass of liquor he retraced a year of his life, and when he reached the point of intoxication, he had also arrived at where he begun his life—a coarse, vulgarly, unmannered fellow.
               He had drunk freely that night, and in the course of a conversation which had several times crimsoned his daughters face, who sat beside him, he alluded, in broader terms than were fit in such a place, to a love affair of her's, in which he found it necessary to interfere. Stung to the quick by the language of her father, and conscious of the injustice he was doing her, she vindicated herself with spirit, which so maddened him with rage, that he struck her on the face. Unable to endure the insult in the presence of such a company, the indignant girl rushed from the house, and before her purpose was suspected, or an arm could interpose to save her, she had reached the verge of the mountain, and thrown herself down the precipice.—Lanterns were immediately procured, and her remains were a few moments afterwards found upon a heap of stones, which had been just quarried from the base of the rock, a mangled, broken, shapeless, bleeding mass. Her father, 
                     unconcious
                     unconscious
                   of what he had done, went to bed and slept soundly. When the morning brought to him his senses and the account of the fatal catastrophe, he went raving mad. In his lucid intervals, he drowns his sorrow in what caused it—liquor—and has gradually sunk down to the level of a degraded sot. With bleared eyes, and bloated countenance, he now wanders through the streets, cursing himself, and muttering the name of his daughter."
               "I think we will stop, now that we have reached the hotel, and let the horse rest awhile before we undertake to go down the hill," continued Mr. Kamul. As he said this he drove up to the door, and giving the reins to an attendant, with orders not to water the horse until he got cool, he entered the hotel. I followed close behind.
               There were a great many persons there, all of whom appeared to me handsomely dressed. Mr. Kamul was acquainted with many of them, and notwithstanding it was Sunday, I could see that he forgot the parson, and indulged in several potations at the bar.
               As I was unnoticed, and every one strange to me, I strolled out to take a more satisfactory view of the town that was to be my future place of residence, and never shall I forget the impressions of that view—all that was beautiful in my dreams, and sublime in descriptions I had read, seemed concentrated now within the scope of my vision.
               As I stood upon the acclivity, the broad squares, formed by the intersections of the streets of Hamilton, spread out beneath my feet, and the reflection of the light of the setting sun from the tinned roofs of the houses dazzled like burnished silver. I, fancied then it was silver, and this thought added to the beauty of the scene, On the side of the eminence upon which I stood, were splendid mansions upon which all the architectural ornaments of the age had been lavished, and others within a short distance stood in grand and massive simplicity. In front of them were the most beautifully laid out gardens, stretching towards the town in an easy slope. Far away to the right stretched a rich and well cultivated 
                     vally
                     valley
                  , on whose level surface, fields of waving grass, comfortable looking farm-houses, and clumps of trees extended, until they were lost to the eye in the broad blue expanse known as Ontario.
               In front of the town lay that beautiful sheet of water—Burlington Bay, or as it is called by the inhabitants, the Little Lake—upon whose calm, clear surface was mirrored the hills upon opposite the shore so clearly, and with such well-defined accuracy as to picture in its bosom the handsome villas, neat cottages, and tall waving pines which studded their sides. This placid piece of water was dotted with schooners and pleasure boats, with snowy canvass spread upon every spar, and as they moved slowly along upon the crystal waters, their inverted images seemed real. To the left of the town the eye roamed over a wide common on which herds of cows were grazing, and rested upon the glittering turrets of the castle of Dandurn. Still farther on were the Burlington Heights, famous for a battle between the Americans and British, and the extreme left of the picture the picturesque village of Dundas, nestling at the base of the Flamborough mountains, whose lofty summits were tipped with silver by the rays of the setting sun. Here this elevated ridge forms a curve which encircles this beautiful and romantic valley, the most fertile and most populous in Canada.
               My eyes had again rested upon the town, and the people walking to and fro in its streets, and as I was wondering at the gorgeous effects of the sun's rays upon the domes and spires of the public buildings, how the light rested upon parts of them with such 
                     brillancy
                     brilliancy
                   as to give to them the appearance of being on fire, my attention was arrested by a noise behind me. I turned around. It was the rattling of a carriage which had been driven up to the hotel with great speed. The carriage was a much better looking one than any I had ever seen, and the ornamented harness gave tokens that its possessor was a man of taste and wealth; and the horse was a powerful looking animal, full of bone and muscle. As the driver stopped him, I noticed he seemed restless, and eager to start.
               There were but two persons in the carriage—a full grown, good-looking man, whose air and manner indicated superiority. The other, a delicate, handsomely turned girl, in whose deep blue eyes seemed to dwell the very soul of loveliness.
               The gentleman stepped lightly from the carriage, and throwing the reins carelessly to a servant, turned around to assist the girl in getting out, but before she could make an attempt to stir, through the 
                     awardness
                     awkwardness
                   of the fellow who had charge of the horse, the reins fell against his flanks, and before any one could prevent him, he bounded, forward, and was soon out of their reach. A crowd of persons followed, shouting at the tops of their voices for some person to "stop the horse," but the effects of their clamor was to increase the speed of the animal, who now, suddenly turned and made direct for the precipice upon which I stood.
               Those who at first ran to catch him, now stood still, as if petrified with fear by the thoughts of the fate of the girl who seemed inevitably destined to be borne over the precipice, and as the horse neared me, a hoarse and piteous cry of "my daughter" arose from a person in the crowd.
               As the carriage swept by me, I noticed the reins trailing upon the ground. I instinctively grasped at them, and although I seized them with all my might, the speed with which the horse was going made it impossible for me to stop him. and stumbling, I fell forward upon my face. In an instant I was upon my feet again.—I noticed that the jerk I had given the horse had turned him partially around, and he now ran along the very edge of the rock. As I arose, the girl turned around in the seat, and stretched her arms towards me; this, with the excitement of the fall, strung up my nerves to their very greatest power, and being always remarkably swift afoot, I bounded wildly forward. In an moment I was by the side of the carriage again, and held the reins. I was now dragged forward, at a rate, that made my head dizzy. Fences, trees, and stump seemed to shoot by me, but I held the reins with the force of a vice. The horse plunged madly on, and he had now reached so near the edge of the cliff again, that the carriage wheels did not, sometimes, lack the breadth of themselves of going over. With a frenzied effort I stretched my arms towards the carriage, and the weight of the girl as she leaped into them pressed me again to the earth.
               After this, with the exception of a vague idea of still holding the reins, and being dragged along the ground, I lost all recollection.
               When I recovered my senses, I was lying on a bare level stone, with my head resting upon an old coat or two for a pillow, and a crowd of persons about me, each peeping over the shoulder of the other to get a sight of me.
               "Stand back, gentlemen, and let him get the fresh air," said some one, and presently some cold water trickled down my face. I tried to rise but could not, and faintly uttering a cry for a drink my head fell back again upon the pillow.
               My head was now gently raised, and a cool and refreshing cup of cold water held to my lips. One or two sips produced a most wonderful change in me, and after taking a good draught I was sufficiently revived to sit up without assistance.
               All around me pieces of the broken carriage were strewn, and a short distance below, I could see a knot of men, who busied themselves with a horse, which was tied to a tree. What seemed very odd to me, there were no horses in sight, and I reclined upon the side of a hill.
               "How did I get here," was my first enquiry.
               "My dear boy how do you feel?" said a well looking stranger, whom I had a faint recollection of having seen before.
               "I feel sore," said I, and I made an attempt to get up, but staggering backward I fell again upon the stone.
               "You must not attempt to rise yet, my lad" said the stranger, "wait a few moments and you will feel better."
               I now began to comprehend my position, and asked.
               "How is the young lady?"
               "She is safe," said the stranger whom I now recognized as the man I had seen in the carriage. "She is waiting at the hotel to thank you for saving her life."
               I now arose, and although my limbs were bruised and stiffened, with the assistance of the gentleman, I walked to the hotel. As we entered the door, we met a man who was coming out with a bottle. The gentleman upon whose arm I was leaning, stopped him and asked.
               "Are the wounds dangerous."
               "It is barely possible he may recover."
               "Are there any bones broken?"
               "I have not been able to find out yet, but there is a tremendous gash in the fetlock of the nigh fore leg."
               We now entered a kind of public sitting room in which were several ladies, all of whom were occupied in attending upon some one, who reclined upon a sofa opposite where I stood.
               As soon as she saw me, she got up, and the gentleman advancing towards her said—
               "Fannie, this is the young man who saved your life, I brought him here, that you may have the pleasure of thanking him yourself. As he said this, the young lady with a quick impulse advanced towards me, and threw her arms around me; but in a moment she shrank back again, and bursting into tears, hid her face in her handkerchief. At this moment, all my sufferings were forgotten. The beautiful form of the figure before me absorbed my whole mind, and a thrill of exstacy ran through my frame. But a sudden reversion came over my feelings, my brain seemed to reel under my confusion, and without saying a word I staggered to the door.
               Kamul, who had been until now engaged with some acquaintances, and ignorant of what had happened to me, came forward in search of me. As soon as he saw me he exclaimed.
               "So you've got into a fight already have you."
               "Is that your son." said a voice behind me.
               "No sir, he is a young scamp I have brought from the country to take care of."
               "Whatever he is I insist upon having him ride with me, into town."
               While I was standing, a crowd gathered around me praising my agility, and determination, while I could hear others a short distance from me, exclaim, his fortune is made if he gets into the family of the Stinsons. Mr. Kamul now approached, and turning to the gentleman whose daughter I had saved, I heard him say—
               "No sir, he is one of my pupils, and I prefer that he resides with myself."
               A splendid carriage drawn by two horses, was now driven to the door, and the young lady was handed into it by the attendents.
               "Allow me the satisfaction of driving him to your house." and before Kamul could reply, I was led mechanically to the carriage; and I sank back in its rich cushions by the side of Fannie Stinson.
               The carriage rolled slowly down the steep descent, and once as I raised my head and looked behind, I saw a great crowd following us.
               I was so much occupied with what had happened me during the last half hour, and feeling a great embarrassment in the company of strangers, I could not speak; and as Fannie and her Father appeared equally engrossed in their own thoughts, there was not a word spoken until we had ridden to the bottom of the hill. At length the 
                     genleman
                     gentleman
                   said—
               "What is your name."
               "Walter Warren sir."
               "Well, Mr. Warren, as it is now nearly dark, and as your friend seems averse to it, I will not ask you to come home with me to-night, but here is my card, come to my house to-morrow, and I will see what recompense I can make you for your noble conduct.
               The carriage stopped at a low frame building, and as I stepped out of it, Mr. Kamul, who had driven on in advance of us, stood on the door steps ready to receive me. Before the gentleman released my hand from the hearty grasp he had given it, before parting, the crowd, which had followed close upon us, came up, and as I entered the door, three loud cheers burst forth from them, for Walter Warren.
               Fatigued with the exertions I had undergone, and sore from the cuts and bruises I had received, I requested permission to retire for the night. The moment I was alone, I discovered for the first time, a fine chain hanging about my neck; looking at what was appended to it, I discovered it to be the portrait of Fannie.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               AN ADVENTURE.
               I found myself, upon the first morning after my arrival, in a small wooden building on the east end of King street. The house was new, part of it had been left 
                     unfinishd
                     unfinished
                  , and all, except the door and window-panes, was unpainted. Many panes of glass had either never been inserted, or lately broken, and their places supplied by shingles. The room in which I slept was a very small one on the second floor, I cannot say up stairs, as a step-ladder was the only means of communicating with it. Over the head of my bed, was a small window, the frame of which was filled with an old straw hat, and a few pieces of newspaper.
               Mrs. Kamul was a weak, easy tempered woman who seemed devoid of any passion. She had but very little to do with the affairs of the house; her time was almost entirely taken up in attending to a small grocery store in the front part of the building. She very seldom spoke, and when she did, it was with the most careful regard to the opinions of her husband. She appeared to have been at one time handsome, but as her mind sank beneath the pressure of her husband's will, her features became distorted, and were almost entirely without expression of energy or mental independence.
               The family consisted of two children—boys—the elder of whom was two years my junior. Both ruled over their mother most absolutely. When Kamul was away from home both had charge of the business; the elder of the school, the younger of the house. In almost all things they had the privilege of doing what they pleased; and in the absence of their father, the principal portion of their time was taken up in fighting with each other. If their mother interfered between them, as if by pre-arrangement, they both turned upon her, indignant, that she should overstep her proper sphere; and the poor heart-broken woman had no consolation but her tears, for the rudeness of her sons. In their childhood she permitted them to do as they pleased, it was now out of her power to make them do otherwise.
               Whenever they had an opportunity, they would steal the most of the receipts of the little store, and when questioned about it, would deny it with the most persevering obstinacy, and as their father would not believe them guilty of deceit, the blame was generally thrown upon their mother, who, suffering from the persecutions of her sons, and the overbearing tyranny of her husband, took consolation in tears, until they had worn such channels in her cheeks, as to give the most unmistakable evidence of her sufferings.
               The morning of my arrival I was ushered into a moderately sized, ill-ventilated room, in which Alexis Kamul dealt out instruction to about a score of very young, ill-clad, ill-favored, ill-conditioned children, and my appearance amongst them caused the most unmistakable marks of surprise. Some of the elder ones could not restrain their mirth as I walked across the room in the dress Delilah had reduced down for me, out of a suit of Joe's, and with the exception that they were a great deal too short, and much too wide, answered the purpose for which they were intended well enough, whilst the younger scholars peeped timidly over their books, and nestled up closer to their companions, as they enjoyed the to them, novel sight.
               "Class first in geography," called out Kamul, and a half-dozen bare-footed urchins walked up, and stood about his chair.
               "Who discovered the New World?"
               A vacant stare, with a forlorn look that betrayed the dread of some impending danger, was all he received for the required information.
               Having put the question to every one in the class without satisfactory answer, Kamul, in a great rage, gave the next one to him a couple of boxes on the ears, and was about to deal in the same manner with the next one, but first asked again.
               "Do you know who discovered the New World?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Who?"
               "Adam."
               "Why was it Adam?"
               "Because he was the first who saw it after it was made."
               "Take that," said he, as he dealt a blow upon the boy's face with his open hand so forcibly, as to leave the impression of his fingers upon his cheek, and in stupid bewilderment they again returned to their seats to study, not their lessons, but how they might avoid the inevitable thump or the head.
               My turn came next, and as it was a trial of how far I was advanced, I was remanded to my seat with a long task, and a longer exhortation upon the necessity of obeying the rules of the school.
               During the day Kamul walked into the school-room with a peculiarly happy expression on his face, and a newspaper in his hand.
               "Look here, Walter; here is an account of your adventure last evening," and he handed me that day's Gazette, in which a very lively description of the rescue of Miss Stinson, and the noble conduct of a boy, ended with the hope that a suitable testimony of their gratitude would be rendered to the lad who thus endangered his own life to save that of another. Kamul was in exstacies, and read the paragraph over, and over again.
               "Come, Walter," said he, after some reflection, "we must call and see the Stinsons immediately, as I have no doubt it will be greatly to your advantage. Go, get ready as soon as you can."
               I was not long in completing my toilette, along with what I already wore, a little more blacking on my boots, and smoothing down of my hair, ended the preparations for my visit. As soon as I appeared, Kamul seemed very much dissatisfied with my appearance. Throwing upon me a look, in which mingled pity for my judgment, and contempt for my ignorance of 
                     the the
                     the
                   world were blended, he said:
               "I want you to put on the clothes you wore yesterday."
               "They are all torn, and covered with mud and blood."
               "You silly boy, these Stinsons are very rich people, and it will excite their compassion all the more, when they see the marks of what you suffered for their daughter."
               The thought of the beautiful girl now shot across my brain, and as my fancy clad her in richest robes, the idea of presenting myself at her door as a beggar, stung me to the quick. I could feel the blood leap to my face as I most positively asserted, that I would wear the clothes I then had on.
               "Young man, when you have lived as long in the world as I have, you will learn that to get along smoothly, it will be necessary to stoop a little. These proud airs may do well enough in a boy, but be advised by me, and put on your torn clothes, and they will, do doubt give you what will enable you, at least, to buy a new suit."
               "I do not go for the sake of what they may give me. I go, as I promised I would that they may have the pleasure of thanking me."
               
               "Well, I am advising you for your own good. I do not expect any advantage from it."
               "I do not want any advantage from it. The gentleman said it would afford him pleasure to thank me at his house, and it is for the sake of the pleasure it gives him; that I go."
               "If I did right, I would make you do as I say, but as I am unwilling to be severe with you, I will let you do as you please in the matter, so put on your hat and come, on."
               As we walked along, Kamul was continually trying to persuade me to tell the greatest absurdities with regard to myself, and him, and his school; the sum of which, was, that I was a poor boy he had taken into his place through charity, and that his school was a large and well attended one. But while he spoke, the words of Joe Staples came to my mind, and I began to think to myself how I could look in the man's face, and utter such falsehoods.
               It happened that from Kamul's house to the mansion of Thomas Stinson, Esq., was a long distance, and that in passing from one to the other, it was necessary to cross a wide common, at the farther end of which Stinson's house was situated.
               "There it is," said Kamul, as he turned into York street. "There is the house."
               In a garden of several acres, in which a great number of fruit trees with their variegated blossoms shed forth in the soft evening breeze their sweetest perfumes, and the odor of thousands of flowers lent their pleasing fragrance to the mellow air. Surrounded by bowers, on which the vines and woodbines slowly creeped from opposite sides to join each other in extending the luxury of their shade to the fair hands that planted them. In the middle of an extensive collection of rare plants, arranged in the most curious and beautiful order of which art was capable, this stately habitation stood. Built out of the freestone, for which Hamilton is famous, the wealthy possessor-spared no expense in erecting a magnificent edifice. One that combined the light and graceful ornaments, as well as all the improvements and conveniences of the present. An arm, or inlet, of Burlington Bay ran up to the lower corner of these beautifully ornamented grounds, and its clear blue waters, as it washed the bright pebbles on its smooth beach, completed the view of the place, which, when I started out, I intended to visit.
               But "weak and irresolute is man;" when I saw the house, and grounds surrounding it, I began to feel some diffidence about advancing. After all, what was I going for? If not for some reward, why go at all?—Why should I present myself for their favors, who, the excitement was all over, would probably look upon me as a mendicant soliciting a favor, The consciousness doing a good action, is, of itself, a sufficient reward, thought I, and if I have rendered these rich people a service, there is a pleasing satisfaction in being their creditor, in having them under obligations to me.
               While I was making up my mind how to act, Kamul, who had also been making calculations, but of a different kind, now said to me:
               "When you go in, brush your hair up with your hand, so as to show the cut upon your head."
               "Why should I shock the ladies by exhibiting my wounds?"
               "So they may see that you suffered considerable on their account."
               "And then what?"
               "That they may be the more liberal."
               Shocked and indignant at the most abject method of attracting the attention of persons who so kindly acknowledge themselves so much my debtors, I replied:
               "If such submission is to be the price of my visit, I will not advance another step."
               And before Kamul had time to reply, I left him and returned to his house.
               From this time forward, Kamul's behavior towards me, was somewhat spiteful. He would impose upon me very long tasks, as well as compel me to do a great deal of work about the house. As he did not per mit me to make the acquaintance of any boys, my life was rather a lonesome one, and I began to sigh for the freedom of the woods again, where, instead of being cooped up in a room, no bigger than a respectable cage, in which the air was always oppressive, I might enjoy the wild unlimited expanse of wood, and the cool refreshing sweetness of the wind, as it whistled merrily through the trees.
               One day, in the course of a conversation, in which Binbrook was incidentally alluded to, I said to him:
               "I think I will soon go back home,"
               "Why boy! what put that into your head?"
               "I am getting lonesome."
               "When you feel lonesome in a large town like this, how would you feel in such a wilderness as Binbrook? But I will in future allow you to have more society.
               After the scholars had dispersed that afternoon, Kamul said to me:
               "Come, Walter, we will take a walk."
               And in a few moments we sallied forth. Having walked until dark through the principal streets, we turned towards the mountain, and were shortly out of the bustle of the business part of the town.
               The quarter we now reached, was composed entirely of low wooden buildings known by the name of shanties. These small houses were inhabited by the poor industrious sons of the Emerald Isle, who had, by the greatest frugality, saved out of their earnings, what secured to themselves a homestead, which, small as it was, afforded them all the comfort their humble ambition sought. As the majority of the in habitants of this part of the town come originally from the South part of Ireland, it was particularly distinguished by the name of "Cork Town."
               But even here the national characteristics were not forgotten, and in nearly every corner was a place in which a person might get a drop or two of the "crathur." In a long row of low houses, which presented the ragged appearance of buildings falling to pieces, was a brother kept by an old woman, whom, through charity and a love of fun, the men in the neighborhood used to patronize.
               In front of the door a party of men were jumping, and a clump of barefooted women were standing near by, applauding the victor. As soon as Kamul was recognized, the sport was for a moment suspended, and the men turned around to salute him.
               "Good evening, Masther."
               Kamul had evidently gotten into congenial quarters. I could notice a peculiar twinkle in his grey eye, as he responded to their salutation.
               "Good evening, kindly to yees all," said he, imitating their style.
               "Begorra, yer in time for the sport tonight," said one, as he come out of the crowd, and stood by us.
               "What's going on the night?"
               "I b'leve the ould ooman has a watch she wants raffled aff."
               "How much a throw?"
               "Only a Yorker*
               apiece."
               
                  
                  *The eight part of a dollar.
               
               "Does the watch go?"
               "The sorra bit o' me knows whether id goes now or not, but it'll go if I win id, mighty fast."
               "Be the powers, I oont stand id."
               "Cum, now, Terry, that wasn't fair," was shouted forth by the jumpers, and as all around were supposed to be 
                     interssted
                     interested
                  , Kamul was called upon to decide 
                     npon
                     upon
                   the length of the leap.
               "Now. 
                     Mickky
                     Mickey
                  , do your best," said one party; and Mickey did his best.
               "Terry, me boy, now is your time to show yourself, 'tis kind father for you to be a good lepper." shouted an old woman; and Terry leaped into the footmarks of his predecessor.
               "Clare the way there, here's Larry that can lep over yees all," said one.
               "The O'Gaffs wur always hard to bate leppin'," said another, and Larry O'Graff, a fine, trim-looking young man, came forward to the trial.
               "Now, Larry, me boy," yelled forth the crowd, as, with a great bound, he cleared the tracks of Mickey and Terry.
               "Tipperary forever," cried out the portion of the assemblage who claimed that part of old Erin as their birth-place.
               "The Tips are the lads, after all."
               "Faith, I knew 'twas in Larry. Give me your hand for that. 'Tis I that knew your mother's son could do id," said an old woman as she congratulated Larry upon his agility.
               "Begorra, it's too had that the Tips gained the day that ways," said some one, whose interest seemed to lay in another part of Ireland.
               "Come. Paddy, thry it you," said he, as he turned around to a young man, who had, until now, been an anxious spectator of the sport, but said nothing.
               "I'm too tired. 'Tisn't aisy for a body to lep well afther climin' up a buildin' all day wid a hod of brick," said Paddy.
               "Is it one of the O'Rafferty's that id be afeared to thry himself?"
               "Och, faith, if I had as little to do as Larry, it's meself that would'nt let id go wid him."
               "Then be me sowl, for the sake of ould Ballangar, you must bate him leppin' this night."
               "I know I can't do id, but here goes for an offer anyhow," said he, and straining every nerve, Paddy O'Rafferty jumped fully an inch farther than Larry O'Gaff.
               "Ballangar forever," was shouted by a few, who, although the victors in the leaping, were evidently in the minority.
               As it was getting dark, the company in the best of humor, adjourned into the house, for, although the love of the particular part of the country from which they came, was strong in the breast of every one of them, none seemed disposed to ill-nature because the victor claimed another part of the same land for his birth-place.
               The interior arrangement of the cabin was of a description that suited the outside. The old woman who kept the house was shrivelled with age, and bent nearly to the ground; she could with the aid of a staff manage to hobble along, and her voice was as shrill and grating as that of a parrots. The furniture was of the commonest kind. An old box, in which she had many years before 
                     storred
                     stored
                   sufficient provisions for a transatlantic voyage, formed a safe in which she stored her stock in trade, and its cover, a counter, over which to retail its contents.
               Come up all hands; for the honor of judging between such active fellows, its my treat. I think the land that gave you birth ought this night to be proud of you, said Kamul."
               "Here's to yer health, and may all yer scholars be as open-hearted as their masther."
               "Faith then it's yourself that desarves the big school and long life to you," said a woman in the corner, as she quietly sipped of her punch.
               "As long as I have a child, there is n'er another masther in the town i'll get em to tach," remarked a lady as she wiped her mouth with the corner of her apron.
               "I never want a larger school, than I can get from Cork town" replied Kamul, triumphantly.
               "I want the pay for that thrate, I cant be keepin the candle burnin for nothin," croaked the old dame.
               "Kamul paid the money for the liquor drank, and suggested the necessity of beginning the raffle before it was too late.—Upon his hint the bottles were put back into the box, the cover wiped dry, and the throwing of the dice began.
               Here I may be said to have taken my first lesson in the study of human nature. The trifling sum paid for a share and the 
                     priviledge
                     privilege
                   of a throw was in itself nothing, but there was as much interest manifested in the countenances of the performers as if all they possessed in the world were at stake. It was a picture that would have thrown Hogarth into extacies. The strangely marked features of those men as they leaned forward to count the spots, displayed nearly all the phases of human passion. One would, when luck went against him. I walk quietly away whistling a tune to himself, and say, who cares. It isn't for the sake of winning the watch, I put in, but for the fun of throwing. Another when fortune went against him, would swear with as much vehemence as if paid for it, and curse his ill luck with as much bitterness, as if he had lost an immense fortune. Some again would walk away quietly and laugh at the folly of their expectations, while in the bitterness of despair, others would seem inclined to quarrel with themselves and every one in the room because the only chance for winning did not happen to be theirs.
               "Forty for Terry," said Kamul as he counted the dice, I think that will take the watch.
               "What'll you take for your chance, Terry."
               "Bad luck to the one of me will sell 'id" said Terry.
               "Faith then take care but you might do worse."
               "No danger, forty 'ill take id."
               "Arrah, who knows what luck I might have myself," said Mickey as he rattled the 
                     dise
                     dice
                  .
               "Fourteen, good on your head Mickey, three fourteens will bate him. Give them another toss."
               "Sixteen, Mickey is the boy t'do id.—Eleven more bates him. Terry what will you take for your chance."
               "I'll hould my chance to the last," said Terry, with determination.
               "Throw again Mickey," said Kamul.
               "Nine, you can't come id, nor there isn't any of ye's in the house can come id," ye'll all see that its myself 'll take the timepiece," said Terry consequentially.
               "Hould on young man, Larry is to throw yet."
               "It'll be like the jumpin with Larry, he'll find there'll be somebody 'll bate him."
               "Rattle them up anyways Larry, let's see what you can do."
               "Twelve; a rising throw Larry me boy, thry again."
               "Twelve, again, you must do better than that, three twelves won't do id,"
               "Faith Terry, the watch is yours, and no thanks to them."
               "An who has a better right to 'id."
               "Hould on, I have another throw yet," said Larry."
               "Oh you may throw away, for all you can do," said Terry, as he cast a glance at the watch that was hanging over the fireplace.
               "Will you sell your chance, Terry?" said a half-dozen at once.
               "No, I would'nt sell id for the price of the watch. I'll be laffin' at yes all tomorrow, when yees be asking me the time o' day."
               "Well, throw away, Larry, and I hope you may win id, if id is only to take the consate out of Terry."
               "Seventeen! Tipperary forever," shouted the crowd.
               "Larry, you wur always lucky."
               "And may you live long to ware id."
               And many other such compliments were passed upon the fortunate man.
               "I see by the rules, that the winner is to treat the company," said Kamul. The cover of the large box was again lifted, and the fiery liquor was again most liberally served out.
               The party began to get boisterous in their mirth, and now, for the first time, they seemed anxious to add to my enjoyment.
               "Come, boy, you must take a sup wid me," said a woman, who appeared to be able to lay any of the assembly under the table.
               "Do take a dhrop, it cont hurt ye'" said another.
               "Walter, you must be cautious," hiccupped Kamul, who had began to exhibit symptoms of intoxication.
               Pressed on all sides, I had no alternative, and for the first time, I tasted of the cup, in which I had been taught to believe misery, vice and degradation were contained. One taste of evil, and the line of virtue is passed, without power of retraction tion. By the first stop in vice, a dark spot is made upon the soul, which the future of our lives cannot wipe out. But each error added extends the stain farther and farther, until in the end. there is scarcely a pure spot for the spirit of good that is within us to rest. The first step in error, like a pebble on a mountain's top, requires an effort to set it in motion, but once started, it soon becomes unmanagable and gathering in its descent the loose and putrid elements laying in its course, it is changed, to all appearances, into an ungovernable mass of corruption, the weight of whose accumulations sinks with it into the mire of its own 
                     polution
                     pollution
                  , to whatsoever it attaches itself. And although the elements of the pebble may not have changed, it requires the greatest efforts to extricate it from its loathsome mass in which it is enveloped.
               The whiskey, that at its first tasting was quite unpleasant, began, after a glass or two, to be more agreeable. I felt, after the fourth glass, as strong as four of my former self. A spirit had risen within me, which seemed beyond all control. I could feel my frame expand by its influence, and now felt assured I was a boy no longer.
               Drawing my chair up closer to the table, I demanded the right of drinking glass about with the rest, and enjoyed the triumph before long of seeing Kamul fall off his chair. The liquor did not affect me as it did the others. As one by one they fell from the table, I felt a courage and strength infused into me, until from its maddening, exciting influence, I felt myself able to undertake or oppose anything.
               "Come, there is only you and me for id, let us finish what's in the jug," said a man who sat opposite me. "Begorra, yer the makings of as good a man as I iver see," and he poured out a cup full of the burning liquor for both.
               Seizing the cup, I rose up to drink it, but that moment a light flashed into the room, that lighted up every part. Around me were stretched the forms of men, which, through some invisible power, seemed to perform a dance while lying upon their backs, and their strange contortions and ghastly features, gave to them the appearance of fiends. In one corner of the room was a hideous looking hag, beating time on a human skull, and the rattling of the teeth was the music to which the bodies danced. With all the strength I could command, I hurled the cup at the hellish looking musician. A wild shriek met my ear, and with one bound I leaped through the window and stood in the open air.
               Here I was met by a crowd of persons in a great excitement, who were running in and out of one of the buildings in such confusion that I could not for some time understand what it meant. The fresh air in a short time brought me to my senses. The row of buildings was on fire. As I was about to enter with the persons around me, to assist in saving what I could of the effects of those poor people, I was touched on the shoulder by the man whom I had just left at the table, and asked in a whisper:
               "What did you hit the ould ooman for?"
               "What old woman?" said I. "Do you mean the one that was playing the music on the man's head?"
               "What man's head, and what music? The ould ooman was only fixin her night cap. 'Twas the whiskey you drank that made you think it was a skull.
               Without waiting to reply I rushed into the burning house. Inside all was confusion, men were tearing as I thought, everything to pieces, and with holloaing, cursing, and swearing, no particular orders could be understood.
               The noise for a moment ceased. All at once a cry of "up stairs" was heard, and a rush was made for a few slender, rickerty steps that led to an apartment near the roof of the shanty, but they were unable to support the weight of so many persons, and before the first could reach the upper floor the stairway broke, and precipitated all into a heap at its base. Having understood that some one was up in the garret, and that it was impossible for her now to come down unless some one 
                     assited
                     assisted
                   her, before any person had time to devise a method by which to reach her, I jumped upon the shoulders of a man who was standing under the aperture, and before he was aware of my position I had sprung upon the upper floor.
               The place was densely filled with smoke and I could with difficulty see my hand before me. By groping around in the dark for a while I caught hold of what I supposed was the face of some one, but on account of the suffocation caused by the smoke, I was again obliged to return to the hole through which I got up to draw a breath or two of fresh air.
               Having received a light from those beneath me, I could now see nearly across the wretched apartment. There was not any furniture that I could see, nor did it give any indications of being tenanted by any human being. Moving along on my knees in the direction I had been before, I presently discovered some loose straw in a corner, and upon a closer inspection I saw the form of a woman. In her arms she clasped a child of about three years of age. Both were apparently sound asleep. I attempted to lift the child, in order to hand it down to the people beneath, but the woman held it so firmly that it was out of my power. I now tried to awaken the woman, but in this I was equally unsuccessful. As it was impossible for me to withstand the effects of the smoke much longer, I made an effort to pull her arms asunder in order to save the child, and with difficulty I accomplished this, but as soon as the child left her arms the mother awoke, and darting at me, like a fury, she seized me by the neck and dragged me to the floor. The light, which I had until then held in my hand, fell down and rolled over upon the dry straw on which the woman had been reposing. In an instant the room was all in a flame.
               "Give me my child," said the woman as he seized me by the throat.
               "Let me up, and I will," said I.
               "You will never stir out of this alive until you let go my child," said the woman; and as she said it her eyes flashed with an intensity I shall never forget.
               As the light of the burning straw shone in her face, I discovered in her the person who had so kindly induced me to taste my first glass, but a half hour's sleep worked a wonderful change in her. The features that were then so passive, and that in fact, bore a somewhat benevolent expression, were as stern and rigid as hate, and an excited animal nature could make them, and scarcely a trace of what I before saw in her now remained.
               The flames were gradually creeping along the roof, and would shortly be over my head. Finding that she was my superior in strength, and without much time for reflection I threw the child from me with all my might, as the only means of saving my own and its life. The mother made an attempt to spring after it, but as she passed me I seized her, and by my cat like activity I again had a hold of the child before she could get to it.
               Again we grappled. It was to me a struggle for life, for I now discovered that the woman was mad, and therefore had no hope but in forcing her to desist. She did not appear to pay the least attention to the flames, which threatened every moment to destroy us both. In vain I told her of the danger both of us were in. She, perfectly indifferent to all I said, but as if possessed of an evil spirit, now appeared equally determined to get her child, and force me into the fire. Seeing no other chance for escape, with all the strength I could command I pushed her towards the apperture in the floor through which I ascended, and giving her a sudden trip, I threw her upon the heads of the persons beneath.
               The child who appeared to look upon me a if I were some monster, crawled into a farther corner of the room, black with smoke, and would apparently rather be suffocated than approach me. There appeared to be a timidity about it, such as we see in the young of a wild duck, which although hatched by a domestic bird, will instinctively shun the presence of man. As the burning rafters crackled and spit their fiery sparks about the room, I was about to make my escape, but casting a glance at where the child had crawled, I could see the poor thing shrink from the fiery elements, which were darting their forked tongues within a few inches of its head.
               Resolved to save the child at any hazard, I covered my mouth with a handkerchief in order to guard as much as possible from the hot smoke that was now burning my lungs, and crawling on my knees to where it crouched, I catched hold of it. But through some cause the child slipt from my grasp, and threw herself lengthwise upon the floor into the very corner where the rafters and floor met. I was obliged to lay flat and reach for the child. Before I could drag it out of the retreat, the flames had spread about me, and the air was so heated that with every breath I fancied I inhaled some of the burning flame.
               I had now regained my feet, but the smoke had become so dense that I could not discover the hole in the floor through which to make my escape. I gave myself up as lost, and was upon the point of sinking with exhaustion, when all my energies were for a moment revived by the sight of my clothes on fire, and making an impulsive spring through the element in which I was enveloped, holding the child in my grasp, I alighted into the arms of some men, who still remained upon the ground floor, and before I could gather my lost self-control I found myself outside and rolling in a pool of mud and water.
               The daylight was breaking. The distance of this part of Corktown was so far from where the fire engines were kept, and the material of the shanties were so dry, that before any intelligence could be conveyed to the fire department they were burnt to the ground.
               The people of the neighborhood gathered around me; not one of those whom I had seen the night before, was present. Kamul had disappeared with the rest. The child had been taken out of my arms, and the people were busily engaged in rubbing the mud off me, in which I was so completely encased as to make it impossible for them to distinguish my features.
               "'Twas a narrow escape for him, anyhow, whoever he is," said a man, as he threw a bucket of water over my head.
               "Let him wash his face in the pail, so that we can have a look at him," said an other.
               "Arrah, then, who is he at all, and where did he come from?" said a third, as my countenance began to emerge from its muddy envelope.
               The most of those who were before engaged at the fire, now collected about me and the torn state of my clothes, the singed and burnt condition of my hair, with my own look of amazement to find myself in such a position, all conspired to make my advent amongst them a mystery they could not unravel.
               Instead of stopping to answer one of the many questions they put to me, as soon as I found myself able, I started to run home. As none of them had seen me before I dropped down through the floor all in a blaze, they had, of course, no idea how I got there, this joined to my strange appearance and manner of departure, either gave them an idea that I was some kind of Salamander generated in the fire, or the primary cause of the fire itself.
               I had not gotten many yards off, when, turning my head around, I saw several men in full pursuit of me. For a while the result was doubtful, but before long, I could see my pursuers were dwindled down to two or three, and soon these, finding my speed 
                     increasec
                     increased
                   the farther I ran, gave up the pursuit. It was clear daylight, and I could see a few persons moving in the street when I again reached the house of Kamul.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               I TAKE A DECISIVE STEP.
               AFTER the occurrences in Corktown, I became a boon companion of Kamul's; wherever he went he took me with him. The society he kept was not very refined. Old and middle-aged men who had a few children to send to school, were sought out by him for companionship, and he spent more time in pandering to their appetites, in order to induce them to send their children to his school, than would suffice, if legitimately employed, to gain him an honorable livelihood. He often took me with him to the houses of those persons, and it was the invariable rule to treat him and me to an interior sort of liquor. I very soon became so accustomed to drinking that I could dip into the cup deeper than Kamul, without feeling that I had done wrong. While amongst persons with whom he was well acquainted, Kamul seemed to abandon himself to his appetites, and took delight in the performance of the very thing he would most strenuously oppose in the company of strangers. He would sometimes appear so kind, that I almost suspected his pretensions were not real, and while, to his wife and family he exhibited the most penurious disposition, to me he was liberal to a fault. If I wanted to indulge in any extravagance whatever, he would even borrow the money in order to procure it, rather than I should remain without it. Although his own family were in rags, and they could with difficulty induce him to procure the commonest necessaries, I was well clothed and all my wants supplied. When he advanced me money, he would make me sign my name to a scrap of paper which I never took the trouble to read, and as that was but a trifle for the sums advanced, I did not bother myself any more about the matter. As may be expected, I indulged in a good deal of extravagance, and I thought Kamul one of the kindest of men. He would also occasionally make me small presents when we happened to be out late, on the condition that I would not tell any person of it. But while to me he was as urbane as possible, he treated his wife and family with the greatest contempt.
               To his wife he was particularly severe I never recollect having seen him bestow upon her even a smile, but took every occasion to impose upon, and insult her. When at home he was most austere, morose, and haughty, and seemed to consider his family only fit to serve as his menials. Abroad in the presence of those whom he considered his superiors, he was as cringing as he was bombastic at home, and with persons whom he considered his equals, he was as jovial, as to his wife he was morose. In the company of some, he was to all intents a man of the world, while with the most hypocritical demeanor, he was to professors of religion the most sanctimonious. In the morning he would offer up prayers with the reverence of the ancient fathers of the Church, and spend his evenings in carousals with the most inveterate modern backsliders. His great study appeared to be to find out the weakness of whomsoever conversed, with and turn it to his own advantage. Hence, he was generally considered a man of good standing, whose misfortune it was to be poor, but who struggled in honesty to better his condition, But it unfortunately happened that he got at one time, a point too far.
               While out one night, he happened to indulge too freely, and in staggering through the streets he was arrested by a policeman who took him in charge until morning. When brought before a magistrate, it was in vain that Kamul pleaded an attack of sickness, the functionaries of the law were too much accustomed to such ailments to be imposed upon; and it was not until near mid-day, when he had paid the usual fine imposed upon drunkards, that he was permitted to pursue his way homeward. But as evils do not come singly, his mishaps came to the ears of the leaders of the Church to which he belonged, and Kamul was summoned to appear before them. What transpired I never found out, farther than that he was all at once strictly temperate, and a most active member of a temperance society.
               For a while he studiously avoided his old haunts, and appeared to be a changed man, but while he exercised rigid watch over his own conduct he allowed me all the latitude he formerly did.
               Kamul did not now go to Binbrook to preach, and I had but few opportunities of hearing from Joe Staples; when I did the message was accompanied with a handsome present and good advice, the substance of which was that I was to do as Kamul bid me; an advice that I unfortunately followed. As Joe was himself one of the most upright of mortals, he suspected no evil in others.
               Two years had now elapsed from the time I left Binbrook, a child in experience and knowledge of the world, until the period of which I write. In my intercourse with society I had learned a 
                     gread
                     great
                   deal, and although the company I kept was not the most aristocratic, it was, notwithstanding, just the sort in which a boy is taught the tricks of life, and those who avoid it in their youth must learn it when they grow older. Although in that time I ran into many excesses, my own judgment pointed to a degree which it was dangerous to go beyond; and while I learned the intricacies of the shrewdness of my companions, I generally kept aloof from practising them. I learned, among other things, the difference between men, and I began to suspect that Kamul was not so good a man as I at first gave him credit for, or the world took him to be.
               One Sunday morning, Kamul said to me:
               "Walter, you may take a ride with me into the country to-day."
               "What part?"
               "I think of going as far as Stony Creek."
               "What are you going there, for?" said I, inquisitively.
               "You will see, when we get there."
               He went there to preach, and while in the pulpit I was surprised at his eloquence.
               He poured forth a volley of big words and clerical technicalities sufficiently 
                     abtruse
                     abstruse
                   to bewilder his hearers, and raise his eloquence in their estimation to a great height. And as he thundered forth upon the exceeding sinfulness of sin, and the necessity of a new birth, his audience were affected even into tears.
               After the meeting was over, Kamul and myself were invited to the house of a wealthy farmer, who, after we had eaten our dinners, made Kamul a present of a good deal of provisions, and scarcely had he stored these away in his wagon, which, by the way, seemed to have been calculated for such purposes, when several of his late hearers came and tendered him their various offerings. One brought a ham, another a large roll of butter, some, a basket of eggs, and the various other things necessary to house-keeping.
               Kamul felt very much elated by the attention paid him, and repeatedly asked my opinion of the sermon. Whether it was from the effects of the praise he had received, or the more substantial marks of the people's favor that made him so happy, I know not, but by the time we got fairly upon the road he was the impersonation of supreme felicity. Having experienced so much benevolence, he began to feel the liveliest sympathy for everything himself, so much so, that he would not drive the horse faster than a walk, lest, as he expressed it, the poor beast should suffer by sweating under such a heavy load; but my private opinion to this day is, that the eggs he had in the wagon, and not the horse, were the real cause of his solicitude.
               "I think we will stop here and water the poor horse," said Kamul, as he drove up to the door of a way-side Inn, and while the horse was being attended to, we entered the house. Once inside the door, all that remained of the minister was the white handkerchief in which his neck was encased. From the knowledge I had of Kamul's disposition, I supposed that in his great desire to make every one happy on that day, he would not forget himself, and I was right in my conjecture. We had not been many minutes in the house when he went into another room and from the bustle in that direction immediately afterward, I knew that in the excitement of the occasion, total abstinence was not thought of. He at first tried to act as though he had not drunk any, but my perception was too keen to be imposed upon, and when I saw such unmistakable marks of the grape juice in his countenance, I felt determined to satisfy myself whether he had broken the pledge or not. So, as be was about to depart, I stepped boldly up to the bar and called for a glass of brandy.
               "Come Walter you ought to know better than to drink liquor on Sunday" said Kamul, as the bottle was laid upon the counter.
               "I cannot see why it is worse for me to drink than others."
               "You should not shape your conduct after the pattern of the worldly minded people you see here, Remember to keep holy the Sabbath day."
               "I take example by persons whose minds are above things of this world, and in the hope of elevating my mind to a companionship with theirs, I am determined to drink."
               "What do you mean by that."
               "That when it is right for ministers to drink on Sunday, it is also right for me."
               "When did you see a minister drink on Sunday?"
               "I saw one in that room, only a few minutes since."
               "I wanted something to reinvigorate me after the exhaustion of preaching such a long and laborious sermon," said Kamul, as his face crimsoned at the thought of having been found out—
               "And I want something to recompense me for the labor of listening to such a long sermon," said I, as I drained the glass.
               "You appear to be witty," said Kamul dryly.
               "And my wit is so dry that it has almost choked me."
               "Come let us start."
               "Not until we have taken a glass together," said I, determined to test his principles.
               "You know Walter if it was found out that I drink, it would ruin me," said Kamul as he hesitated to commit himself openly.
               "I hope that you have sufficient confidence in me to trust me in this matter, besides if I felt inclined, have I not already sufficient cause?" said I, as I pointed to the room in which he had privately indulged.
               "As you are determined in the matter, I will take a glass with you," and he poured out an amount that convinced me that he did not drink entirely for my convenience,
               "Carriage ready," shouted a man outside, and we made ready to pursue our journey.
               "I suppose these things are all right," said Kumul as he examined each separate package of provision.
               "Yes sir, all right sir, I stood by the waggon, sir, all the time, sir, and watched them myself, sir," said the hostler, as he sidled up to Kamul with his hand extended in a manner peculiar to gentlemen of his profession.
               "Thank you, I will remember you the next time I come this way," said Kamul as he sprang into the waggon, and drove off.
               "Walter," said Kamul as we drove along, "one half the world are fools—"
               "And the other half knaves."
               "Wait a minute, let me finish. If a man only has the assurance he can make people believe anything. If I felt disposed to take advantage of these people to day. I really believe they would have given me whatever I asked. In fact I refused a good many that they offered."
               "If you had accepted them, how would you have brought them home? The waggon is now about as full as it can hold."
               "They did not think of that, and I intend calling there again very soon."
               "Suppose you do not get orders to go there again."
               "Who knows whether I receive orders or not, people do not stop to inquire about that, and I can preach just as good without orders as with."
               "How can you preach, unless you are sent?"
               "Because I do preach, people take it for granted that I am sent. But I have been thinking lately of a plan by which I can make a great deal of money, and as I require your assistance, if you join me in it, I will give you a share of the profits."
               "What is it?"
               "There is at this time a great excitement upon the Temperance question, and what I purpose to do, is, to travel through the country and lecture upon it, and as I should charge an admission fee, and can depend upon your honesty, I will pay you well, if you consent to act as door keeper.
               "What would persons say if they knew you drank?"
               "That would be all the better, for the most popular lecturers of the day are reformed drunkards."
               "And the most popular preachers the greatest sinners," said I, slyly.
               "As there is more joy in heaven for one sinner than for ninety-nine just, so on earth there is more interest manifested for one lecture upon morality by a reformed black-guard, than if delivered by a person who had never erred."
               "According to that, if a man were to make a beast of himself for a year or two, he could make a fortune afterwards by telling of his faults."
               "I have known several instances of that, and it just proves what I said before that one half the world are fools."
               "Where would you begin to lecture?"
               "I would go to some of the larger towns of the west."
               "Why not begin in Hamilton."
               "That would not do. I must commence where I am not known, and by that means I can indulge in a good deal of bragadocia in my posters, I can put a Dr. or an M. A., or an L.L.D. to my name, these things help a person amazingly, for nonsense with such titles is dignified by the name of profound.
               "But suppose any one who really knew you, should happen to hear you, and expose the humbug?"
               "People would not believe them. They would say 'all great men have calumniators,' and think more of me than before."
               I had never heard Kamul speak so openly, and I was really surprised to think that all his piety was assumed. Perhaps what he drank, had the effect of throwing him off his guard, or it might have been, that he supposed as I know his real character, it was useless an longer to dissemble; but whether that was the case or no, he now seemed to open his inmost heart to me, with all the artlessness, and confidence of a companion. While I was in doubt as to his real character, I entertained a certain respect for him, but now that I had discovered his hollow-heartedness, I began to despise him, and very soon made up my mind that his teachings were no longer good for me. After he had unburdened himself to me we both fell into a thoughtful mood, which was not broken until we arrived at home.
               What Kamul said, made a deep impression upon my mind. I could not let the thoughts of it escape me a moment. That there was a great deal of truth in what he said was evident, as he spoke only what his experience taught him. Because one half of the world were so unsuspicious as to be imposed upon, they were stigmatized as fools by the imposter. There is virtue in conscientiously advocating error, but to teach the divinest truths, with no higher motive than the amount of shillings and pence gained by it, is superlatively vile. I felt so uneasy at what I heard, that I could not sleep, and having arisen and sat awhile by the window—which was near the stairs—I fancied I heard Kamul speaking. Wondering what could have detained him so much later than usual from retiring, I listened, and shortly heard my own name mentioned. My curiosity was raised to a high pitch, and laying myself down upon the floor, with my ear upon the edge of the stairway, I heard the following colloquy between Kamul and his wife.
               "I do not think you need fret about my absence. I will leave you all you want to support you while I am away."
               "How long will you be away?"
               "Probably three months."
               "Three months! That is always the way, when you go away, you never care about coming back."
               "But it is a matter of necessity. Your little shop does not pay for the trouble of selling the things, and now during the summer there will not be scholars enough in the school to pay for my time. While I could make the Stinson's believe that boy was sick, I could manage to get from them what would support us; but that would, of course, not last forever. It is a pity the brat did not break an arm or a leg, or cripple himself in some way for life; nor has he even been sick, by which we could exact something from that fellow in Binbrook."
               "I heard you say that he owed you a considerable sum."
               "So he does; and before I leave, I will make him pay it. I think of going to Binbrook to-morrow, and if the money is not coming forthwith, I will place the notes in the hands of an attorney, and have them collected with all the dispatch the law will allow."
               "But law is a precarious thing, and it may be so long before it is settled, that it cannot possibly do me any good."
               "That is always the way with you. If you do not have always on hand, as much as will serve your purpose for twelve-months, you make as many complaints, as though starvation was staring you in the face."
               "But I have hardly anything in the house, now."
               "You need not fret about that, there are a good many small bills due me shout the town, which you may collect, and as I intend remitting to you all the money I make as soon as I make it, I think you need not complain. And besides, as I am going to take Watler with me, you will not need so much."
               "Why will you take him with you?"
               "I have two good reasons. In the first place, I cannot do without some one to attend the door, post bills and such like; in the second, I can make Joe Staples believe that I am about to take him with me for the good of his health, and that he may see the world. By that means, I intend to make him advance as much money as will defray the expenses of my outfit.
               I did not want to hear any more. I retired again to my bed, but the thoughts that rushed through my excited and indignant brain would not permit me to slumber. I would occasionally start up in affright as though something very serious was about to befal me, and again drop off into a doze and fancy I was falling into an abyss, but fortunately always awoke in time to save myself.
               Morning at length came. At the first dawn I arose and walked into a small garden den at the rear of the house. The cool, clear air refreshed and soothed my feverish brows, and I began to feel once more capable of arranging my thoughts, so that I could concentrate them upon the question of how I should act in the nefarious design Kamul intended to put into execution against myself, and my best friend—Joe Staples.
               My first thoughts prompted me to start immediately to Binbrook and inform him of Kamul's intent, but the shame of having been the means of thus running him into debt held me back. Again I was half tempted to wait and as soon as I could get enough money into my hands from the proceeds of the lectures, run away, with it and give it to Joe, so that he could pay my debts without loss to himself. I soon became convinced however that I would only ensure myself by such a course.
               
                  After weighing carefully the pros and cons of the case, I came to the conclusion to leave his protection, as I felt too much ashamed to return to Binbrook, I made up my mind to go to some place where neither Kamul or Joe would again hear of me.
               The family were now all up. Kamul was all smiles, and while we were sitting at breakfast said to me:
               "I am going out to Binbrook to-day."
               "I am glad of that, for I have been waiting for a good opportunity to go myself," said I in a tone which made Kamul suppose I was anxious to see Joe Staple's family.
               "I think it is not necessary for you to go now."
               "Why not?"
               "Because I can tell them you are well, and that is, perhaps, all they care about."
               "But I would like to see them."
               "Just now there is no very great necessity for it."
               "There is as great a necessity for it now as there ever will be."
               "Well, I should be happy to have you come with me, but there will not be room for you, in the vehicle which I intend to ride in. Some other time we will go out together."
               I saw it was useless for me to talk longer on this question. I knew his reasons for refusing, and resolved to frustrate his plans. And as fortune would have it, before I had fully made up my mind how to act in the matter, or Kamul started on his journey. Joe Staples entered the door.
               Conscious of the manner I had acted I felt a very great embarrassment when I first saw him, but his open frank manner, and his evident solicitude for me soon made me feel fully at my ease.
               As Joe had business to transact in the town, I took advantage of it to walk out with him, and at the earliest opportunity. I told him of Kamul's designs, what I thought of him, and how he had acted towards me.
               Joe had some difficulty to understand how a person who had made so many pretentions to religion could use such duplicity. In fact, so favorable had he been impressed towards Kamul that he would not fully credit what I said, but attributed it in part to some ill will I bore him. It could not be long however I thought, before this illusion was dispelled.
               As soon as Kamul got an opportunity he took Joe aside, but what transpired I could not arrive at in any other way than was suggested by Joe's remarks to me.
               "Walter," said Joe as he came and sat beside me, with a countenance in which sorrow and anger was strangely apparent. "Walter I am sorry to hear that you have indulged in a great many vices, and that Mr. Kamul, whom you misrepresented to me, has had great trouble in keeping you from spending all the money you were worth."
               "I never spent any money without his consent," said I, as I felt the blood rush to my face, and my nostrils dilate with the indignation that was raising within me.
               "And what grieves me more than all, is, I hear that you have not been very choice in your companions."
               "The worst company I have kept was Kamul himself."
               "That is not the way to speak of one who deserves your respect."
               I found that Kamul had instilled into him some of the subtile poison by which he always effected his purpose—hypocracy—and that it was useless to say any more.
               "You owe him," continued he pulling a roll of paper out of his pocket," you owe him three hundred dollars of borrowed money, which with your schooling and board amounts to over five hundred. This is a much larger sum than I have used since you were at my house, in supporting my family and working my farm. Kamul wants the money immediately, and as I am not able to pay him I must dispose of some of the property intrusted to my charge for you.
               "Do what you please, I make you a present of the whole of it," said I carelessly.
               "That just proves what Kamul said in regard to your recklessness. But I cannot leave you here any longer you must come with me to Binbrook to-morrow morning So, now, as I have some business to do, I will leave you. While I am gone, pack up your things and have all ready for an early start.
               I had before thought of leaving the place entirely, and was now determined to do so. I could not endure the thoughts of remaining any longer at Kamul's. To be aware of the plans he laid for imposing upon the public, without the means at my command to prevent him. To go back to Binbrook, and pass my time away in the laborious task of clearing off a farm, without company or incident to vary the 
                     monotomy
                     monotony
                   of a backwoods life, seemed like suffering death, and what added to my discomfort was the thought of having lost the confidence of Joe Staples, and lost it too by the very means that should have ensured it to me. I felt assured that he would some day find out I was right. And by ridding him of my presence he would probably investigate the matter more closely and he the sooner convinced.
               As soon as I was alone, I began to prepare for a departure. I could not take with me all the little things I had from time accumulated, and resolved, therefore, to leave all that was not positively useful.
               While searching through the old clothes, I had long before cast off, some little remembrance would arise, that added double value to what was before considered useless. There were the clothes that Delilah Staples had had given me on the morning of my departure; beside them, the torn and muddy habiliments I wore the day I rescued Fanny Stinson. It seemed like abandoning old friends to cast them away, and with a feeling of sorrow, I began to lay them carefully one side, but like friends generally, when they were no longer of any service, they were abandoned.
               Tying all I wanted to take with me, into a bundle, I sat gloomily down upon my bedside to consider on my next step. All at once an 
                     obsticle
                     obstacle
                   presented itself, which appeared almost insurmountable, and threw all my plans into confusion. I had no money. Here was a fix indeed. This discovery sank my spirits down to their lowest ebb. Ah! said I to myself. Walter Warren what a fool you have been, to have squandered so much money for nothing, and now when you are really in need of a trifle, you must like a Spaniel, crawl to the feet of those who spurn you, and lick the hand that smites you.
               To have thus sold my independence and the power of acting for myself, for the most senseless gratifications, to have lost my independence for the mere lack of fore thought, and thus left myself at the mercy of whosoever choose to take 
                     advaetage
                     advantage
                   of me, made me so vexed with myself that I scarcely knew what I was about. Drawing a long sigh, I slowly commenced arranging my things, so that no one would suspect what I had been about.
               
               In returning an old vest to my trunk, I saw something glitter in one of my pockets, and pulling it forth to the light, it proved to be the chain and portrait that Miss Stinson had placed about my neck on the day of my arrival in Hamilton. Strange that I should have forgotten it.
               In a moment I felt as happy as though I had discovered a treasure. I could sell it for more than my present wants, and yet the thought of disposing of it grieved me.
               What need I care. The fair donor was not now, probably, aware of my existence. I began to doubt whether she had ever bestowed a thought of me after the excitement consequent upon the incident was over. Then there was the torturing thought, of the manner Kamul had kept me in their remembrance. To be forgotten would have been bliss, to the thought of being remembered only as the poor, cringing mercenary souled fellow, who would sell his best principles for a paltry sum of money. Of course they considered me a bore, who, because I had done them a service would consider them under eternal obligations, and while they exhibited their own charity towards me, would despise my meanness.
               Fully resolved to dispose of what suggested only unpleasant thoughts. I was about to thrust it into my pocket, but first I thought I would open the locket and look at the portrait. There was the same calm expression, the same depth of soul. And as I gazed upon it, the features assumed a roundness, that gave to her the appearance of rising into life. My eyes became rivited to it. As the thoughts of selling it flitted across my brain, I fancied I could see a melancholy smile for a moment brighten up the countenance as if supplicating for a continuance in my possession. And placing the chain carelessly about my neck I caught myself saying.
               "No, Fannie, I will not sell you, if I can possibly avoid it."
               Finding this much in the pockets of my old clothes, I was prompted to search more carefully, and although I had no hopes of finding anything that would be of value I prosecuted the search with as much care as if 
                     expecteing
                     expecting
                   to find a fortune. My search however was in vain and, gathering up the last remains of the old clothes I discovered in the corner of one pocket, a small roll of something, which I was about throwing away, but a sight of a figure in a corner of a piece of paper, induced me to examine it more attentively, and to my unspeakable surprise, I saw it was a small roll of bank notes. How did it get there. How could I have had so much money without knowing it, surely it must have been placed there by some miraculous power. I carefully counted them over, and over again. there were exactly twenty-five dollars. I was for a time completely at a loss to account for the way I had became in possession of them. I had not even worn the clothes in a long time. I carefully ran over the principal events that could possibly place me in the 
                     possesion
                     possession
                   of such a sum; without arriving at any satisfactory conclusion, all at once a thought struck me. It was the identical roll of bills Joe Staple had given me when I was departing from the door of his house; and the remembrance of the kindness, with the manner in which I was about to repay him, so affected me, that I burst into tears.
               Again I selected the things I thought would be most useful to me, and tying them into a small bundle, and patiently waited for the night until all the family were in bed, I stept out unobserved, and had now took the first step into the broad world upon my own responsibility.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               I FIND MYSELF ON A NEW ELEMENT.
               Before daylight the next morning I was in the street with a bundle under my arm, running nearly as fast as I could. I did not know where, nor did I care as long as I was satisfied that the distance between Kamul's and myself was increasing.
               As soon as I got out of the sight of the house I moderated my pace, and finally settled into a steady walk; but as my bodily exercise ceased my mind became more active, and the thoughts of my peculiar and lonesome position became powerfully apparent to me. It did seem to me a though the whole world had conspired against me. There were none to speak a kind word, none to lend me the light of their 
                     experienee
                     experience
                  , nor none to point out to me the road that might lead to almost inevitable destruction, or direct me to the path that might lead to success in life.
               All about me was a chilling stillness; not a soul was to be seen in the streets; a feeling of loneliness came over me, and in the centre of a large town I felt more forlorn than I probably would have felt in the centre of a desert. To have known one person to whom I might bid good bye, I fancied would have made me happy, there is such a pleasure in the thought, that there is one, at least, not indifferent to one's fate. Under the impression that I was uncared for by the rest of mankind, I considered that I should be doubly careful of myself, and in the fullness of my compassion for my own sufferings I began to cry. It was only for a moment. I felt ashamed for exhibiting, even to myself, such weakness, and drying my tears I pursued my way.
               Not paying much heed to where I was going, I found myself before long within a short distance of Burlington Bay—at the harbor. In this part of the town were long ranges of warehouses, and craft of various description were fastened to the wooden piers in order to facilitate the loading or unloading them.
               There were as yet very few people astir, and the silence was broken only by the breaking of the gentle swell of the waters as they struck against the wharves. There was such a cool and refreshing breeze coming off the water, that in a short time I felt revived, and my spirits that were before drooping became as buoyant as the barges that floated before me.
               As I was slowly descending to the water's edge, I was overtaken by a man, who, as he passed me, cried out:
               "Well, my lad, you're on tramp early this morning."
               "Rather early."
               "Which way are you going?"
               "I do not know."
               "Have you ever been a-board a boat?"
               "Yes, sometimes."
               "Are you looking for a job?"
               "Yes sir."
               "Well, blow me if I haint been looking for just such a fellow these three days. The boys all up this way faint away at the sight of a ship."
               "I am not afraid of one."
               "Does your folks live here?"
               "I have no folks."
               "No folks, eh! nor never had any I suppose pose?"
               "I have had, once."
               "Well, you look like a lad that might have had a mother; but what d'ye say to take a trip along with me?"
               "Where to?"
               "Away up the lakes."
               "How long will you be away?"
               "A month, or perhaps more."
               "Do you intend to return to Hamilton?"
               "Aye, that I do, and if you come with me I will bring you back safe and sound. See, here she lies—the Crazy Jane—just as trim a craft as ever went before the wind. What d'ye say, will you ship with us?"
               "Yes, I think I will.',
               "That's a lad. When I first saw you I knew by your eye, you were just the thing for a sailor, so heave ahead there, and go into the cabin, I want to wake up those sleepy lubbers, and I will be with you in a minute."
               I descended into the cabin of the Crazy Jane with feelings I can with difficulty describe. It seemed as if fate had reserved for me the very thing I would have chosen in preference to all others. But a few moments before I had given myself up as being forsaken of mankind, and supposed that I, of all others, was the most unlucky, but from what the man had just told me it appeared now as if Providence had especially reserved for me this situation, and as under these circumstances it must be a fortunate one for me, I felt happy.
               The arrangement of the cabin of the Crazy Jane was simple. Four berths, two each side, a couple of trunks, and a common falling leaf table was all I saw in it. There was no appearance of luxury or ease about it, and I thought to myself that it was not for the sake of idling away their time, persons lived on the Crazy Jane.
               The captain, such was the man to whom I had been speaking, was with me in a very short time, and sitting down beside me, said:
               "Now my lad what can you do?"
               "I do not know."
               "You were never on board a ship of this size before?"
               "No sir."
               "Can you write and cipher?"
               "Yes, very well."
               "If you can, you may have a good time with us. I ain't much at figures myself, and I have as many accounts to reckon up as would keep a school-master going a twelvemonth. But I'll speak to you again about this. So now to break you in; you had better take off your coat and lend a hand in clearing away from the dock When we get out I can have time to chat with you on the subject of wages."
               I went on deck; there were already six men engaged in hauling in ropes, and as I found I was only in their way, and impeded instead of advanced their work, I did little else than look on. In, what appeared to me an incredible short time, the vast amount of ropes were neatly coiled upon deck, and the Crazy Jane was bounding away over the 
                     mooth
                     smooth
                   water before a brisk breeze.
               I stood upon the deck with my heart ready to burst with delight upon the pleasant prospect that was opening out before me. The tall spires of the churches were no longer visible, and all that remained in sight of the town, were the mansions that beautified the side of the hill.
               In a couple of hours we had passed through the canal that connects the beautiful Bay with the waters of Lake Ontario. I could not help looking back upon the scene, and wonder at the 
                     beautful
                     beautiful
                   view it presented to my new position. Out of the high table lands that surrounded the lake, nature appeared to have scooped, with peculiar care, a valley in which all the beauties that could be arranged without interfering with each other were placed. The wavelets of the bay as they chased each other to the shore, seemed in their sport, trying to envelope each other with feathery spray, and like the snow-white gulls that breasted their tops, would occasionally disappear as if for amusement. The woods, the fields, the mountains, valleys, plains and waters, were so distributed, that to add, would confuse, or to detract the least would mar the beauty of the whole. On the low ridge of sand, known as Burlington Beach—thrown up by the meeting of the currents of the Bay, and Lake—were, as far as I could see, machinery for catching the white fish, for which that locality is somewhat famous. The white nets as they bleached in the sun, and the jolly, swaggering air of the fishermen as they moved from place to place, heightened the interest with which I looked upon the scene. All these gradually fades from my sight, and Ontario stretches out before me and meets the sky. Land again, and the long piers of Port Dalhousie extend themselves far out into the lake to receive us.
               Two days were spent in passing that dread of sailors, the Welland Canal. Dreadful to them, because they are obliged to leave their favorite element, and travel, to use their own expression, like land lubbers, opening locks, snubbing the boat, and a thousand other things that they considered beneath the dignity of the "man before the mast."
               However it appeared to others, it was to me a magnificent sight, to see in the short space of about four miles, vessels of various tonnage wending their way up a steep hill. In this short distance, the ships are, by means of the locks in this stupendous artificial river, raised to an elevation of more than three hundred feet, and as the canal takes a serpentine course around the brow of the hill, they have, at a short distance, the appearance of moving upon the dry land.
               Between St. Catharines, a flourishing town, and Thorold, a village on the top of a hill, is a distance of only about four miles, are thirty-three locks, with an average fall of ten feet, several of which are close together, and as the vessels, with their variously painted hulls and spars, rise one above the other, until they gradually disappear behind the elevated ridge, the sight is agreeable and grand. As in the season of navigation, the traffic between the upper lakes and Ontario is very great, there is a continual line of ships ascending and descending, it pained my fancy as I watched them pass each other on the side of the hill, to guess how they could possibly get down to the level, or escape the danger of falling over the side, and smash to pieces on the plain beneath.
               Two days in the "ditch" and we were scudding merrily away upon the waters of Erie. This lake, owing to its shallowness, do not possess the blue color or clearness of Ontario. It is said that so much agitated does it become in a great storm, that the sand is raised from the bottom, and for several days a muddy tinge is perceptible through it. It was not so, however, at the time the Crazy Jane walked its waters. There was a stillness about it then not often enjoyed. For a whole week we slowly moved along, scarcely getting wind enough to fill the sails.
               The coast on either side is low, and from a distance out, the water appears nearly on a level with the land; upon the southern shore is a range of hills some distance inland, like the range that almost surrounds Lake Ontario, which may have at one time formed its southern bank. On account of the lowness of the banks, and having no other protection, it is subject to sudden and violent, gusts of wind which often cause great damage to the craft upon its waters; and the suddenness of the squalls often leaves it out of the power of the mariner to take any measures against it before he is either damaged, or entirely disabled.
               Instances have happened, when a high wind has raged for any considerable length of time in one direction, that the waters have been forced several miles over the low land surrounding it, and vessels, when the storm had subsided, found themselves, instead of floating proudly on the lake, either sunk into some marsh, or lying high and dry a good distance from their natural element.
               So calm was Erie that it took us nearly a week to get to the straits, and the Captain tain was beginning to fear that we could not get through the Detroit river, which connects it with the lakes farther up, but it fortunately happened that a slight breeze sprang up as we gained their entrance, and in company of nearly fifty other vessels which had been delayed for several days, we passed through into lake Huron.
               As the Crazy Jane had been chartered by a Mining Company in one of the lake Superior Copper Mines, who also had some connection with the Fur Trade, she parted company with the fleet and shaped her course eastward, for the Georgian Bay. For several days we cruised about the various Islands with which this beautiful Bay is studded, and although the unusual calm called forth many, not very pleasant, ejaculations from the sailors, the splendor of the scenery almost reconciled them to the delay. Some of the Islands rose abruptly to a considerable height from the water's edge, and the large pines which waved their graceful branches on their summits, and the knotty hemlocks and fir trees that clung to their rocky sides, sent such a balmy odor through the soft, still air, that my spirit reveled in gladness at the beauty of the scene, and the solemn depth of the grandeur of this primeval scene.
               There seemed to me to be a purity, and loveliness in these untrodden forests that civilization always destroys, and art cannot restore. It imparts an elasticity to the spirits, and a sweet charm that sets the fancy roaming through its depths with the freedom of its own startled deer.
               After much trouble, and search, we arrived at the trading station. The captain deputed me to go on shore with an inventory of some goods that were to be delivered at this point, and as soon as the Crazy Jane touched at a rude wooden wharf, which formed the landing place, I started to execute my commission. After following a narrow and winding track, scarcely wide enough for a waggon, for about a mile and a half I came to a small clearance in which were three low coarse log houses, and one larger one that was evidently constructed with more care. From its appearance a person would suppose it had been built for the double purpose of a magazine and fort, as the picquets by which it was surrounded and the loop-holes near the top lent to it a military air.
               The settlement seemed entirely deserted; not a living thing was to be seen; but the smoke proceeding from one of the shanties gave evidence of occupation, and I was shortly at the door of the house from which this evidence of the presence of man proceeded. My loud knock was answered by a loud hallos, and as I entered, a fierce looking old negro, who was engaged in an operation in comparative anatomy upon the carcass of a deer, cast upon me such a wild look, that for a moment, I was taken aback, and shrank from his gaze. The sight of a white stranger, particularly one so young, seemed to make the old man feel easy, and in a manner which he evidently meant to indicate kindness, he bade me come in and take a chair. As soon as I was seated I asked him:
               "Are you Mr. De Laneau?"
               "Well I isn't," said the old fellow with a hearty chuckle.
               "Where is he?"
               "He ain't to home."
               "When will he be at home?"
               "I am 'specting him to day. You see I am fixing up some things for him and the rest. They have been away almost a week, and should have been back before this time."
               "Are they off hunting?"
               "This ain't the season of the year for that. They have been away to another station doing some business, and I think they will be home to day, sure. They had better come, else they will have to eat their venison cold, for I'm going to cook this to-day whether they come or not. I've waited two days already, and can't wait any longer."
               "If you think he will be here this afternoon I will wait to see him."
               "How did you get here?"
               "I came in a ship to the wharf about two miles from this, and walked from that here."
               "Mr. De Laneau has been expecting you then, and he will be right glad to see you."
               The old fellow had scarcely done speaking when the barking of a couple of dogs made him start to the door, and in a minute he turned towards me with a satisfactory grin, and announced:
               "Here they come."
               And presently six stalwart rough looking men entered the door. After the old negro had professed his joy at seeing them, and congratulated them upon their return, and the prospect of the good dinner that was about to fall to their lot, the one to whom the chief cook had been addressing himself more particularly, turned round and noticing me said with some surprise:
               "Why Pete, I see you have been receiving some company since I left."
               "Oh I forgot him, yes, and he wants to see you."
               "Mr. De Laneau, I presume," said I, as I addressed him.
               "That is my name, sir."
               "I came with those papers from the Captain of the Crazy Jane, and he would like to receive your instructions to-day."
               "Well sir, he shall, I will send a messenger down to him immediately, and as you may be tired, you will remain where you are to night."
               "It would afford me pleasure to accept of your invitation, but the captain expects me back."
               "I will make your excuse with him. As we do not often receive visitors in this place, we claim, when they do come, the privilege of enjoying their company; so, say no more about it. Here Louis, go down to where the boat is lying and invite the Captain and his men up here, as they cannot get away for a couple of days, tell them I would be glad of their company."
               Finding I could not very well avoid staying until the captain came, I accepted the invitation, and while Mr. De Laneau busied himself in looking over some old books and papers, I took a stroll in the neighboring woods. Four of the men who entered the house with him were already making some repairs upon the neighboring houses, and I presume claimed them as their private residences when not obliged to roam abroad. So strong is the love of home in man, that even when it presents no other attractions than the mere name, he instinctively as it were, seeks one.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX
               A PEEP INTO THE FUTURE.
               THE Captain and crew soon made their appearance, and were warmly welcomed by De Laneau, who possessed more refined manners than any of us expected to see in such a solitary region. Old Pete was not slow in placing before us the choicest of his store. As venison and such delicacies do not always fall to the lot of sailors, we gave our entertainers gratifying evidence that we were determined to make ourselves at home. The meats having been dispatched, Old Pete was ordered to place upon the board something as a "wash-down," as himself expressed it, and in a short time all cares, all ails in life, all thoughts were buried, or rather drowned in liberal potations. Anecdotes, yarns, adventures, and incidents were interchanged and in the hilarity of the present, the past was forgotten, the future not thought of.
               De Laneau was a fluent and graceful speaker, and a slight foreign accent made his voice more musical; while by his gestures and the animation of his countenance his hearers could almost see the actions of which he related. The Captain having remarked upon the loneliness and unsociability of the life of a Fur Trader, and the little real pleasure that could be enjoyed in such uncivilized regions; De Laneau, who seemed charmed with the wild roving life in which he was now engaged, replied:
               "Before you come to the conclusion that we enjoy no real pleasure, first tell us what it is. It does not, surely, reside in crowded cities, where the poor and honest are beset by sharks, who turn the noblest attributes of our nature—our honesty and confidence—into ridicule, and our higher characteristics into a curse. Real pleasure cannot, surely, be enjoyed where every man's hand is raised against his fellow, and where instead of brotherly love and a desire to assist each other, as we do here, the principal study appears to be, how to more successfully throw obstacles in each other's paths. Real pleasure cannot be found in those, so called, enjoyments, where a 
                     repeition
                     repetition
                   is followed by satiety or remorse, or where future health and repose are sacrificed to the gratifications of the hour. How can real pleasure, whose effects are to give us buoyancy of spirits, cheerfulness of mind, strength of body and physical, as well as intellectual beauty, exist in the pent up cities, or the hearts of the pale, careworn, fretted looking visage, contracted forms, and partially developed bodies of those who crowd together so closely that they have not room to expand. No sir, real pleasure is not confined to any locality, least of all those you would intimate Does not the Arab, as he courses over the sands of his native desert, on his favorite steed, enjoy more real pleasure in his wild unrestrainable liberty, than your fashionable traveller, who having exhausted the pleasures of his native land, roams from place to place to keep himself from sinking under ennui. Does not the humble tiller of the soil, enjoy more real pleasure, in thinking over the certainty of the return, seven or a hundred fold, of his seed, while he leisurely follows the plow, than the princely merchant whose boards are groaning under the choicest viands, but whose thoughts of failures, dishonored notes and ruined credit, gnaw at his heart-strings and cut the chords of his contentment. No sir, real pleasure consists in the enjoyment of what makes all persons equally happy, and in which the repetition may be followed by no other consequence than a desire for its return. Of course the pleasure may differ as the tastes or peculiarities of people do. Now for myself. I sometimes derive more real pleasure from the simple nonsense of old Pete, than thousands do, who pay money for it at public exhibitions, and places of amusements."
               "Those black fellows have all a pleasant streak running through them," said the Captain.
               "In my desire for a long speech, I forgot that I was depriving you of an excellent fund of amusement the old fellow possesses."
               "I assure you, what you said afforded me a great deal of real pleasure," said the Captain, as he cast a sly look at De Laneau.
               "No matter about that. Here, will one of you go and tell Pete to come here, we want him," said De Laneau, as he continued:
               "Before he comes in I must tell you where I first fell in with the old genius. It is now about four years ago while on the coast of Labrador, fitting out a company to travel north under the Hudson Bay Company, that this old fellow, with three others were picked up in an open boat by some fishermen some miles out at sea, in a very helpless condition. So low had they been reduced by want and sufferings that they could hardly speak, and could with difficulty move a limb.
               The little boat in which they had been tossed for several days, had not a rudder, or anything by which to steer, and another day would undoubtedly put them past all suffering, as they had neither provisions or water left. When they were brought on shore, as mine happened to be the largest, and the most comfortable house in the station, I allowed them to be brought to it, and ordered the doctor, who was in the company's employment, to render them all the services in his power; but his skill proved unavailing, for two of them died the following morning, and in a couple of days after, the third followed. Pete who possessed a very strong constitution. struggled on, and although he was for a long time deprived of reason, by careful treatment he recovered. As soon as he was capable of expressing himself, he poured forth a flood of thanks, and in gratitude for saving his life, he says he will devote himself entirely to me. But I never can fully understand the old fellow. There appears to be some mystery hanging about him through which I cannot penetrate. The conclusion I have come to is that he has either never fully recovered his senses, or that he, at some time, committed some crime, the memory of which haunts, and disturbs him, is a shrewd fellow, however and knows much more than he is willing to disclose. He has often said, that he used in his own country, consult the fates, and read destiny, but I could never prevail upon him to exert his skill upon me. To-night I am determined be shall tell all our fortunes. I do not know of anything that will amuse us more for an hour or two. "Here he comes."
               "Pete, we have been waiting for you a long time."
               "Sorry to keep the gentlemen waiting."
               "Come, take a glass of this, none has a better right to drink hearty of it than yourself."
               "Why so."
               "Because, if it were not for your great care, it would all have been drunk long since."
               "I knew you would want it some time like this, and that's why I kept it."
               "Yes, Pete, were it not for your power of telling what is to happen, I do not know what we would sometimes do."
               "You would do the same as the rest of the world do I suppose."
               "How is that."
               "Do without me."
               
               "I should be very sorry to be obliged to do that; but come, I have been telling our guests here that you could tell fortunes, and as they are anxious to know their fate, I feel assured, that you will satisfy them."
               "I cannot do it to-night."
               "Why not."
               "I have just been looking at the stars, and as they appear to bode trouble, I would rather not invoke them."
               "That is all nonsense. If they indicate trouble, it may happen whether you consult them or not. Much of the evil may be warded off by a timely warning. As you say yourself sometimes, "to be forewarned, is to be forearmed." So let us have no more such excuses as that."
               "As you insist upon it, I will reveal a part, but the consequences be upon those who drive me to it under such unfavorable circumstances."
               De Laneau laughed at the serious face old Pete put on, as from his manner it appeared that he was really in earnest in what he said; but willing to concilliate the old fellow, he answered.
               "I do not ask you through any irreverance, but as the strokes of fate cannot be arrested, it is better to be prepared for the blows it deals."
               "I see that there are some here," said Pete, after mumbling some sentences to himself, "who are destined never to return to their homes. There are some whose lives will shortly be offered up for sins which themselves have never committed. There are some whose lives will be spent in hard toil and misery, and some who toil hard to make their lives miserable. There will shortly be more orphans and widows, than this company would like to hear of, for the hand of destiny is stretched forth, and its fingers are about to clasp its victims. Oh, the sight is too painful, I would rather not reveal more."
               "Are there none of us to whom a bright future opens."
               "The future is brightest to those who care least about it."
               "You must be more definite, I want you to tell us all our particular fortunes."
               "I would willingly hide the visions which rise up before me, but what is written cannot be blotted out. Before the moon has completed her circle, there will many changes take place, and he that is least amongst ye, shall be greatest. I can see the storms arise, and the crippled ship, tossed about by the merciless waves, as it strikes upon a rook, and sink. I can see two come together who never before expected to meet, and fate grants the justice the man tried to prevent. Many lives are lost, but the lost is found."
               "The man is raving," said De Laneau. "Come Pete, you must not try to frighten us with such visions, can you not tell us by the usual method—the lines in our hands."
               "If you prefer it."
               And Pete held the hand of De Laneau. As soon as he looked upon it, raising his eyes and muttering something as if to avert them from some impending danger, he said.
               "These lines give indication of short life and sudden death."
               "Now examine some of the others," said De Laneau, and the Captain's hand was held forth.
               "You are a man who has seen nearly all your troubles."
               "I hope so."
               "The young ones shall cry for their parents, but shall not be heard."
               "What do you mean by that?"
               "I mean that you will never see your home again."
               "What is to happen."
               "I do not know, but something will certainly occur."
               "You speak like a person who knows. I would be sworn myself that something would happen."
               "Why so."
               "Because it is so natural."
               "Come Walter, don't you want your fortune told," said the captain to me, come along lad, let us see what is in store for thee."
               Being somewhat curious to hear what could be said of me, I gave Pete my hand to look at. The old fellow's eyes brightened for a moment as he said."
               "Long life is indicated, but young man you will see a good many troubles before you arrive at the termination of your journey."
               "Pete, I do not believe that you have made much progress in the science you profess. I could have told all that myself," said De Laneau.
               "Before the end of a month you will know all about it, but I can't tell any more."
               "I want to ask you one more question; who among us will die first?"
               "That man," said Pete, as he pointed to one who set in the corner, and who appeared to take but little interest in what had been passing.
               "Well," said the man, who happened to be one of the crew of the Crazy Jane, "it is very strange I have just been thinking of some such thing myself, and death is a thing I have seldom thought of before."
               "If you have no better authority for it than what Pete says, I think you are safe enough for the present," said De Laneau laughing, who seemed to somewhat annoyed at the serious manner old Pete had gone through his part of the evening's performance, instead of the fun he had expected.
               It had now grown rather late, and De Laneau ordered Pete to prepare beds for us, but the Captain politely declined, and expressed his determination to go on board his boat. As De Laneau could not overcome his scruples, he and two of his men kindly consented to act as our guides, and in a short time we were picking our uncertain way through the trees, towards the boat.
               The Captain, De Laneau and myself were together, the others followed close behind.
               "I am not much used to navigating through woods," said the Captain; "and I certainly think it is dangerous in a place where wild animals must be so very plentiful."
               "Not so dangerous as persons at first suppose."
               "I do not see how people can reconcile themselves to living in such a place."
               "And yet those who are used to it, would not change it for another."
               The conversation was suddenly interrupted by a wild about from those behind us, and in another moment the name of De Laneau was called several times with such urgency, that he lost no time in reaching the spot. The Captain and myself followed. As we could not distinguish objects clearly, we were for some time at a lose to comprehend what was the matter; but the groans and heavy breathings of the men as they closed upon each other, or suddenly separated, convinced us that something serious had occurred. A cry of a panther! a panther! gave us the shocking intelligence that one of those ferocious creatures had attacked our party. One was already lying senseless, and from the moaning of others, we inferred that one or two more were dreadfully wounded. As soon as we arrived, I could distinguish the voice of De Laneau in the combat. He had grappled with the animal, and was engaged with it alone. The party, not expecting such a reconnoitre, were unarmed, and almost entirely unprepared for such an attack; and were it not for a large knife De Laneau always wore, there is no telling who would have escaped. The Captain, who had a brave heart, as soon as he got an opportunity, grasped the animal by the legs, which De Laneau now held by the threat, but in so doing, it unfortunately got its head turned, and seized in his mouth the right hand of De Laneau, which was about to be raised to deal to him his death wound. With great coolness and presence of mind, he called on some one to come to his assistance, and I was first by his side. The teeth of the panther had met in his arm; but, without seeming to mind that, he quietly told me to take the knife out of his now powerless hand and cut the throat of his adversary. The words were scarcely uttered when the weapon was buried in its heart. and the deed executed. A convulsive contortion, a deep growl, a gnash of his teeth, and the struggle was over. His life flowed out in the sanguine current, and the penalty of his temerity was paid. But so firmly were its teeth imbedded in. De Laneau's arm, that it was necessary to pry its mouth open, in order to extricate it. The Captain still kept his hold, and it was not until he was sure it was dead, that he could be persuaded to relinquish it.
               While the Captain and myself were assisting De Laneau to tie up his arm, so as to stop, as well as we could, the blood, the rest of the party were preparing to carry the man who was first attacked, back to the house.
               "Captain, there is no use now of thinking to remain on board the boat to-night, everything will be as safe in the morning as though you had been there, and we may require your services, as I understand it is one of your crew who is wounded."
               "I am sorry now that I did not accept your kind invitation when first offered; but of course, I could not anticipate an event of this kind."
               "I trust it may not prove fatal to the poor fellow. Perhaps, after all he may be more frightened than hurt."
               "I hope it may prove so; but as you may need care yourself, we had better return with as much dispatch as possible."
               The men who remained unharmed, had made a rude little for their wounded companion, and bore him slowly back to the scene of our late mirth.
               When we got back, Pete, who seemed to be aware of what happened, had all things prepared for tying up the wounds, and in a few moments De Laneau's were dressed. What astonished us all was, that the man whom the old negro told us would be the first to die, was the person who was attacked, and upon an examination it was found that he could not survive. The animal, it appeared, had sprung from a tree with such force as to break his spine. His extremities were paralyzed, and the blood flowed profusely from wounds inflicted by the claws and teeth, about the neck and shoulders.
               "It is no use," said Pete; "better let him die easy; he can't live longer than about three hours."
               And the prediction proved true. The poor fellow breathed his last before sunrise. His comrades dug a grave upon a dry knoll, and in the best coffin they could make deposited his remains. When the grave was completed, a square post was stuck up at its head, upon which the name of the man, and the time of his death, were rudely cut, for those honest fellows could not leave their poor companion without leaving some mark by which it might be ascertained a christian lay buried in the spot.
               The principal object of running the Crazy Jane to this place, was to transport some of the stores and men still farther, and at the end of the third day after our arrival, all the inhabitants, except old Pete, who was left in charge of the place until De Laneau's return, embarked with us for the port of our destination.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE WRECK.
               ON the second day of our voyage I was surprised at the unusual bustle I saw on deck when I came out of the cabin for fresh air, after a fatiguing morning of casting up old accounts. The sailors were busy taking in the sails—the men who accompanied De Laneau, were employed in coiling ropes and cleaning the deck. De Laneau himself paced the deck in a quick, anxious looking manner, that plainly indicated trouble ahead. The only persons on board who appeared perfectly composed, were the captain and myself. The captain, from his thorough reliance on his own powers, and his habitual disregard for threatened danger. Myself, because I could not see anything to dread, and was therefore unconscious of danger.
               The sun was enveloped in a red haze. Not a breath of air stirred, and a dead, exhausting heat, made the perspiration stand upon the brows of whomsoever exerted himself in the least, like large rain-drops upon the tree-leaves after a shower. The waters of Huron were so clear and glasslike that its finny inhabitants might be seen pursuing their various methods of working out their existence, to a very great depth. As I gazed into the world beneath me. I saw, or fancied I saw, the counterpart of the one of which myself was a member. There was the same eager look in one business-like inhabitant, as with steady eye he pursued his course regardless of everything, save his private ends. Here a thoughtless youngster in search of amusement, sported about for awhile, turning now and then and complacently examining his form, desport himself for a while, and before he was aware of his fate, be gulphed down the throat of some wily old fellow that had been eyeing him for some time. Now a chase for life and death between a plump trout and some ravenous pike, and anon, regardless of the activity around him, some idle coxcomb would rise leisurely to the surface and exhibit his glittering charms to the sun. And such is life, thought I, in the waters, or on land. Naught disturbed the surface, save a slight undulating swell, and the Crazy Jane made such little progress through it, that she scarcely formed a ripple upon its smooth face.
               The 
                     redish
                     reddish
                   haze began gradually to change to a blueish hue, and a small cloud made its appearance in the horizon. The sun seemed to change from his ruddy flush to a sickly green, and a slight chill was perceptible in the place of the sultriness of a couple of hours previous. The little cloud rose higher, and rapidly enlarged; more clouds followed in its train. It seemed but the advanced guard of a whole, army of clouds, for in a short while the sky was becoming black with these sable banners of the storm king. In a short time an opposing force advanced from opposite sides to the zenith. The whole sky was suddenly black. The waters seemed changed to ink and without any apparent cause became troubled and rose into uneven ridges. As the clouds neared each other, deep rumblings, like the dinning roar of distant artillery, are heard far up in the air, and the water fowls, like arrows, dart past us screaming in their flight. Like a mourner in sackcloth, the Crazy Jane silently waited ed for some expected blow of fate, not a sound was heard upon her decks, not a word from one shipmate to another, all were gazing in wonder at the sudden transformation in the face of nature, and with awe struck reverence contemplated the solemn grandeur of the scene.
               To a sailor an 
                     anticipeted
                     anticipated
                   storm is, perhaps, the only thing that prompts him to that true and spontaneous reverence for which he is sometimes remarkable. It is then that his humanity becomes touched in its tenderest spot. Then, wife and children, and home crowd into his thoughts, and in the anxiety for the fate of those he has left behind him, his own is forgotten. Unlike the landsman, he cannot sit at a curtained window and securely contemplate the ravages of the storm, or recline upon an ottoman, and read of its terrible disasters. It is to him a trial, and a fearful one indeed. Upon the frail timbers on which he has launched, his only safety depends; and in this hour only does he become aware, that the hand which guides the tempest is alone able to save him.
               The clouds became blacker, and blacker until a darkness resembling night enshrouded us, and the most experienced mariners on board were at a loss to account for the result of such great threatenings. A bright column of greenish light is perceptible to the eastward, it increases in height, and the clouds 
                     seperate
                     separate
                   until it assumes the appearance of a passageway between their dark and ragged forms, to the outer worlds. It is reflected in pale lines of light upon the surface of the lake. A white mist bursts from out of it, and sweeps over the waters with such violence as to toss the spray, like dust, about for sport. The circling eddies of the wind forms the foam into spiral columns, which now advance with the rapidity of the steeds of the storm. A cool blast, wet and heavy with water, fans our temple, and in an instant afterwards little can be seen through the dense clouds of water by which the atmosphere is surcharged.
               "Steady there, steady. Now we're in for it; I thought we would have it out of that opening," said the captain as he carefully looked again at the rigging, and then cast a keen glance along the decks. Seeing that everything was done, that could be done to secure the safety of the lives of those on board, and the vessel in his charge, he turned again to De Laneau, who was standing by his side with eyes flashing with excitement, and the thoughts of contending against the threatened tempest, said:
               "I expected after such a long calm, we would have to pay for it in the way you see."
               "I hope there is nothing dangerous in it," said De Laneau.
               "Not much danger at present, but the unusual length of the calm may be followed by a storm of an equal duration. The danger is not in the wind or waves; as long as we have sea room, the Crazy Jane will stand it."
               "That being the case, I cannot see anything to dread."
               "The great danger lies in the little knowledge we have of the coast, and the almost total want of beacons to warn us off the dangerous places."
               "I have often thought of that myself."
               "The upper lakes are little navigated, and therefore not well known."
               "Were you ever up here before?"
               "I made one trip last season."
               "Then you are not an entire stranger to the lake?"
               "No, but I know so much about it that I am satisfied, our only danger is in out liability of being driven on shore or against one of the many Islands in the lake; and there is no danger even of that, in daylight."
               The squall struck the Crazy Jane at first, with such force as to throw her entirely upon her beam end, and although she soon righted a little, it was some time before we could walk, or rather creep on the deck. There was no more canvass on than was necessary to keep her steady, yet, little as it was, it seemed to strain her very much. The mist and spray of the breaking waves blew with such violence upon us as to drench us in a few moments, and the roaring of the wind as it rushed through the shivering rigging, completely drowned the voices of all on board, so that, if the men were not well acquainted with their duty, very little could have been done. The storm had now lasted about three hours, and instead of abating in the least, continued to increase, if that were possible.
               In addition to what I considered all our miseries, when night came the darkness was so intense that the lights at one end of the ship could not be seen at the other, and that at the mast-head seemed such a distance off, as to resemble a star. The waves now rose so high as to break over the deck occasionally, and about ten o'clock it commenced to rain so hard, that every drop seemed a bucket full, and these were driven with such force by the wind as to cause a sensible pain wherever they struck. The vivid flashes of lightning which now began to disport themselves in the air like fiery serpents darting their forked tongues at each other, showed with fitful brilliancy the apalling dangers by which we were surrounded. The sharp 
                     chrashes
                     crashes
                   of the thunder, as pea after peal it roared over our head, and died in hoarse muttering in the distance, added an awe-inspiring and wild sublimity to the scene.
               To those who were prepared for such a life, this was, after all, not so terrible; but I possessed very little by which I could fortify myself against it. The oiled-clothes of the sailors warded off the rain, and their sou'westers conducted it away from their face and eyes. Not being possessed of these necessaries, I was in a few moments as wet as though I had been thrown into the lake, and continued so all night. As all hands were, by the captain's orders, compelled to remain on deck in case their services might be needed, the only shelter I had was the windward of the mast, where, with chattering teeth and body shrunk up with the cold, I remained until morning.
               Never was a streak of light hailed with such pleasure, as the first cold grey line that was perceived by those on board the Crazy Jane, and although the most forbidding and cheerless of the kind I had ever seen, I nevertheless hailed it as a sign of deliverence, for it did not enter into my head that the tempest could last longer than the night it began. In this, however, I was sadly disappointed. But it brought relief to me. I was now permitted to enter the cabin; worn and exhausted, I threw myself into a birth.
               When I awoke it was broad daylight, and in the hope that the rain might have abated, I put on dry clothes and went on deck. Things remained much the same as when I left them. It still poured in torrents. The wind had increased to a fearful gale, and some stripes of canvass which fluttered where the flying jib had been told that it had been doing mischief. The men showed signs of great fatigue, and the ship of having suffered much distress. If the storm should abate before night, the captain assured us that the Crazy Jane would weather it, but another night like the last would be too much for any combination of iron and wood.
               About dark there came a temporary lull. The men were in excellent spirits at the prospects of an entire abatement of the storm; but it shortly reappeared. It had only taken a momentary rest, that it might rage again with increased fury. And although they had repeatedly said, that they had never experienced anything like a weather for the last thirty hours, the furious wind which now assailed them, made what they had previous 
                     experiened
                     experienced
                  , seem as nothing.
               In one of those terrible gusts, the rudder became so disabled, that the vessel was almost entirely at the mercy of the wind and waves. Until now, the captain did all he could to keep us in spirits, but without the rudder all hope was gone, and with sad countenance he bade us all be prepared for the worst. As soon as the intelligence was communicated to De Laneau, he came to me, and with great tenderness told me to stay by him.
               We had been drifting before the wind at a fearful rate. The night was so dark that we could not distinguish objects a few yards from us. The guidance of the vessel had been surrendered to the spirit of the storm, and with palpitating hearts each man clung to what he considered most likely, in the case of a disaster to take him safe to shore. Having been advised by De Laneau to keep myself as free as possible from any encumberence, I patiently waited by his side, amidships, ready to act to the best advantage when the time for action came Nor was that long. A vivid flash of lightning, for an instant, illumined the scene, and to our unspeakable dismay a huge dark mass of rocks became revealed to us, within a couple of cable's lengths. In a moment more we struck, so violently, that many of us were thrown to the deck. Before we could regain our feet, we could feel the vessel sinking, and her bow was immediately under water.
               Without waiting to think, or probably supposing that we were going to the bottom, several of the men threw themselves from the ship, and were, as might be expected, immediately dashed to pieces against the rock.
               None but the captain, De Laneau, and myself, now remained on board, and we unanimously resolved, that, it was much safer to remain on board, as long as we could, than risk ourselves upon the merciless waves. We hoped that a portion of the wreck would keep afloat until daylight, but even this slight hope we were not fated to realize. Every wave seemed to raise the remaining portion of the vessel higher upon the sunken rock upon which we struck; and finally having been apparently poised for a moment, the next wave threw her off the balance, and with a heavy splash she fell upon her side into the water. As we were falling over the captain cried out, "Cling to the mast." With these words rung in my ears, I was precipitated into the lake.
               I must have sunk to a great depth. I was so long underneath, as to almost 
                     dispair
                     despair
                   of ever coming to the surface again; and when I did, I was so exhausted as to be almost powerless. Without any very definite idea of safety as soon as I got my breath again, I began to buffet the waves with the little strength I had remaining but were it not that a piece of a broken plank providentially floated within my grasp, I must soon have sunk to rise no more.
               The waves continued to run so high that I could with difficulty remain upon the piece of timber, which occasionally rolled completely over burying me beneath it, but I never for a moment allowed it to escape my grasp. So firmly did I hold it that the skin upon my fingers was in many places cut, but this I considered a trifle, to the risk I ran in letting go. In one of those immersions I fell against some person who seemed to be in a great state of exhaustion yet struggled with all his strength, but with no apparent object. Two or three times I told him to cling to the plank upon which I was, but he, either not hearing me, or unable to comprehend what I said, 
                     wat
                     was
                   making efforts, as I thought, to get farther away. Surprised at this, and seeing nothing that could save him in the direction he was going, with considerable effort I paddled the plank with my hands within reach of him, and as he ceased to struggle against the raging element, and was gradually disappearing, I stretched forth my hand, seized him by the hair, and raised his head again above water.
               The morning had dawned upon us. All around were pieces of the wreck, and all that remained in sight of the Crazy Jane, was the pieces of broken timbers floating around us. My companion, whom I could with difficulty keep on the plank exhibited the most fearful marks of the struggle he bad endured. His lips were as pallid as death, and his face was dreadfully cut, one arm was completely powerless, and the other so mangled as to be almost beyond use. He could not speak, and I was afraid every moment that he would fall off. If he did, I could not save him, as I was so chilled myself, as to be unable to use my limbs, except with the greatest difficulty.
               As the heavy mist gradually cleared up before the rising sun, to my great joy I discovered that I was within a few yards of land, and in a few moments, as we sank behind a receding wave, my feet touched bottom. Another wave drove me beyond danger, and I slowly dragged my companion out of the water.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               A DISCOVERY.
               I could with difficulty drag the form of the man so far upon the beach as to be out of the reach of the waves. He exhibited scarcely any signs of life, and I sometimes doubted whether he was not altogether dead. I did what little I could, under the circumstances, to restore him, and in a few hours I had the satisfaction of seeing life and reason return to him; and now to my great delight I found I had rescued De Laneau.
               As soon as he was able we both started, weak and exhausted as we were, to look for something to eat. We wandered along the beach to search for some of the provisions which formed a large part of the cargo, and found not only plenty of meat, but several barrels of biscuit, whose buoyancy caused them to float on shore with little damage.
               When we had partaken of such cheerless fare as that washed on shore from the wreck afforded, we felt considerably refreshed. Even biscuits soaked in the water of Huron were now considered blessings, and combined in themselves the luxury of food and raiment; for even cold as they were, when eaten they infused into us a comfortable warmth, and a renewed vigor. As it was no part of our plans to imitate the Esquamaux when they find the carcass of a whale, by sitting down idly by it until they have eaten it, we would not remain by the biscuits until we had consumed them. But a very great trouble arose when we had made up our minds to depart. We had neither chart nor compass to guide us in our travels. And as we had not the slightest idea of where we were, or how far from any habitation, we were at a loss to contrive how we could carry with us enough of provisions to supply our wants until we came to where we might obtain assistance. We had neither arms nor amunition, nor aught for attack or defence, except what nature had bestowed upon us—our hands—and these were not in a condition to be of much service. De Laneau's were so disabled as to be rendered entirely powerless. The arm which was wounded in the encounter with the panther, was, since his long struggle in the water, very painful. It had become much swollen, and might, if not treated carefully, prove fatal. His other arm had sustained such injuries in taking leave of the Crazy Jane, that he could with difficulty raise anything with it to his mouth. And although his heart was a brave one, and his courage was of the true stamp, unassisted by the power of enforcing their dictates he was but as a child.
               A few hours rest were all that was necessary to make me feel as well as ever. Fortunately for myself I had received no injury in the late mishap.
               Under the circumstances, we concluded to remain where we were that night, and make ready for a departure early the next morning. So, collecting a few brambles which we made to serve as a couch, it was agreed that while one slept the other would keep watch, lest we should be again attacked unawares by wild beasts. But so great was the anxiety of our minds, that neither of us could sleep.
               While I was busy thinking upon my almost miraculous escape, without injury, De Laneau, whose thoughts appeared to be running in the same direction, broke the silence by saying:
               "It is extraordinary that you should have escaped with such little injury."
               "That is what myself was thinking of this moment."
               "To what lucky circumstance are you indebted for it?"
               I here briefly related all I could remember, after the captain told us both to cling to the mast.
               "The poor fellow, he neglected the advice himself."
               "How did it happen with him?"
               "All I know of it is, that when we were all thrown into the water together, the captain and I were side by side for sometime. But neither of us could come within the reach of anything upon which to cling, and the captain, contrary to my advise, swam back to the hull of the vessel, which was yet considerably above water, with, as I supposed the intention of going on to it again, but no sooner did he get within reach of it than it gave a lurch and fell with a great force into the water, burying him beneath. In the hope that I might be able to render him assistance I went as near the place as I could get, and while intent in watching for him, a cask, or log of wood poised upon the top of a wave, struck me on the head a stunning blow, and I sank. Not expecting this, I almost lost my breath, and when I again reached the surface I was very much exhausted. As I had but one arm, which I could use. I could now with difficulty keep afloat, and was almost in despair of ever setting my foot on any land again, when I discovered a short distance from me what I thought was a piece of the mast. By a great effort I reached it, but scarcely had I put my hand upon it, when another heavy piece of timber, driven by the force of a wave, struck against it and braised me in the manner you see. All I remember after that is, that I fancied I was sinking gradually into a quiet, pleasant sort of sleep, when some person seized me roughly and tried to prevent me."
               "That must have been the time that I took hold of you."
               "I dare say it was, and were it not for you, I would have been fast enough asleep by this time."
               Thus we talked of our sufferings, and laid our plans for the morrow, until the night was far advanced. Our worn out natures could hold out no longer, and instead of alternate watching, we both fell into a sound refreshing slumber.
               When we awoke, the sun was shining in the glorious splendor of his noon-day majesty, and mirrored in a thousand fashions by the easy rolling swell of the silvery surfaced lake. A gentle breeze fanned the trembling boughs that waved their graceful branches over our heads. Variously plumaged birds warbled forth sweet songs as they fluttered in gladness from tree to tree, and from the earth arose a warm and sweet smelling vapor like incense, to the clouds, a grateful offering for the copiousness of blessings showered upon it. It was such a spot, and scene, as poets sing of, and lovers sigh for, calm, quiet and beautiful. But, like a purse of gold to a man's starving hunger, the possession of which only adds to the poignancy of his sufferings. So we felt that a snug corner by the side of a cheerful fire in the most humble dwelling was worth the whole of the landscape which made up the beautiful scene.
               "Now," said De Laneau after we had taken our cheerless breakfast of wet biscuit, "Now, Mr. Warren, the sooner we leave this place, the better for ourselves."
               "That is precisely my opinion, and you will find me ready any moment."
               "First, it is necessary to try and make some kind of a bag, or basket, in which we can store some provisions to take with us."
               "I think it would be our best plan to make a search on the beach once more. Perhaps by this time some things we might find useful, will have come on shore."
               "As far as I can see, it is our only chance."
               
               And after a diligent search of about half an hour, a few yards of coarse canvass—probably a piece of one of the sails—was all we could find, which we were not already in possession of. Under the circumstances it is doubtful whether we could have found anything more useful. By cutting it in the middle, we were able to make two good sized bags, both of which we filled with the dryest biscuit we could find, and fastening them with straps across our shoulders, we started, I knew not whither. All I was certain of, was, that we had lost sight of the lake, and were struggling through a dense forest.
               We slowly pursued our journey in this manner for three days, with no other guide than the sun, and so bewildered had I become in the mazes of this interminable wood, that I fancied the sun himself was completely turned around, rising in the west and pursuing its daily course eastward. Even De Laneau, with all his experience in a forest life, was sometimes at fault and exclaimed:
               "If I only knew the point from which I started, I could safely find my way to some settlement."
               Our journey was marked by no particular incident. When we were tired we rested on some moss-grown log, and eat of our biscuit, as our appetites prompted. At night, when we could no longer see to walk we sought the shelter of some large tree, and watched alternately for each other; our couch the bare earth; our pillow a bag of biscuit; our lullaby the screeching of the night owl, and a long day's march. Yet we slept as soundly as if stretched upon the feathers of the Cygnet, and our great exercise kept up a continually cheerfulness in any minds.
               "How far do you suppose we have travelled these three days," said I to De La-Laneau, as we unstrapped our burdens, to rest awhile.
               "It cannot be less than sixty miles."
               "How much farther is it to the settlement?"
               "Perhaps sixty miles more. It may be a hundred."
               "Then in three or four days we may hope to be out of the forest."
               "It may be as many weeks."
               "Our biscuits will not last that length of time, and when that fails what are we to do?"
               "There is no danger of us suffering from want of food, for by my practice at insnaring animals, I can probably secure as much game as many would with a rifle."
               Thus assured, we resumed our journey, walking at a moderate pace. De Laneau, whose arm pained him considerably, was afraid of much exertion, he thought it most prudent to take plenty of rest, lest it might become inflamed, we therefore halted in our march earlier than usual that night, and while he was dressing his wounds, beneath a hugh oak, I took a short ramble through the woods.
               As, by my knowledge of bush life I felt confident of being again able to find the spot from which I started, I extended my walk to a much greater distance than I at first intended. The shades of night were lowering upon the trees, and I began to retrace my steps when my attention was arrested by a bright light, which shone at a distance among the trees. Curious to know what it could mean, I cautiously approached it, until I could see the shadowy forms of men crossing between me and it. My first impulse was to run and tell them of my condition, supposing them to be some of the class of trappers to which De Laneau belonged, who had encamped for the night, but as it might turn out otherwise, I considered it more prudent to return and acquaint my companion of my discovery, whose experience and superior judgement in such matters, would be my safest guide.
               When I returned, DeLaneau was much annoyed at my long absence. He supposed that I had strayed away so far as to have lost myself, and was about to start in search of me. When I told him of all I had seen, he stopped for a moment as if revolving within himself how to act and as if suddenly concluding the matter in his own mind, remarked:
               "We cannot be much worse off than we are, let us go to them."
               "But, if instead of civilized persons they should prove to be savages who would scalp us—,"
               "Well then let them scalp. But I do not anticipate much danger in that way. What troubles me most is, that they should happen to be as you say, and instead of letting us depart in peace, oblige us to go with them as prisoners."
               "I do not see what advantage that would be to them in our present condition."
               "Nor I, but that is their custom, and whether advantageous or otherwise, they almost invariably do so."
               "Suppose they should attempt violence, we are not prepared in any manner for defence."
               "And in that our safety lies. If we had arms in our hands we might get shot down at first sight, but unless an acknowledged foe, the Indian scorns to lift his arm against the defenceless who throw themselves upon his hospitality."
               "How can we make them understand our wants?"
               "Unless it is some strange and very distant tribe, I can speak with them."
               And with this remark we strapped our pillows once more upon our backs, and proceeded cautiously to reconnoitre, and with the noiselessness of the cat as it steals upon its prey, we moved carefully on.
               Around a large fire, from which the smell of roasting meat arose to our grateful nostrils, sat a company of six. In various and graceful attitudes they silently reclined upon the ground. The yellow light of the fire shining upon their darkened countenances gave to them such an unfavorable expression as prompted me to whisper to De Laneau, that:
               "We had better not make them aware of our presence."
               "It is too late now to retract, and if discovered returning, it would be as much as our lives were worth."
               Having said this, De Laneau stepped from behind the tree which had concealed us, and before he had advanced many paces, with offensive weapons in their hands, the party leaped to their feet.
               De Laneau, not seeming to pay any attention to their hostile demonstrations, walked boldly towards them. When we were within a short distance he stopped, and making a peculiar bow, advanced a few paces farther, stopped again and bowed, then stretching forth his hand he advanced straight to where the chief of the party stood, who, seeing that he came with peaceful intent, dropped his Tomahawk, and placing his head upon his breast made a slight inclination forward, then beckoning us both to advance, we stepped forward to the fire.
               Upon a signal from the person to whom DeLaneau addressed himself, the other five formed in a circle around us, in order, as I thought, to prevent us from escaping. Much to his disappointment, DeLaneau was obliged to converse in signs only, as the Indians did not understand any of the dialects of their language which he spoke. After a few words with another of the party, the leader again gave orders in an under tone, and we were despoiled of our load of provisions, which we had carried so long.
               It was quite evident from this, that they intended to detain us, and I could notice in the restless eye of DeLaneau, that he did not fully approve of their proceedings. I felt my own blood begin to boil, when with an imperious air, the Indian motioned us to be seated, and when we pretended not to fully understand the order, an Indian came and pushed me in such a manner, as to leave no doubt that they would make us feel the position in which we had placed ourselves.
               The most valliant cannot conquer the laws of existance. It was now nearly a week since I had sat by a fire. The few clothes I had were but an indifferent protection against the chills of night, and as I considered anything preferable to wandering ing as I had been, with starvation staring me in the face at every step. I came to the philosophical conclusion that it was best to make the most of matters as they were, and settling snugly down by the fire I fell into a dose.
               In the middle of the night I was awakened by a wild screaming, and upon opening my eyes was astonished to see five of the party dancing in the wildest manner, and cutting the most extraordinary figures, while one beat time upon a drum about the size of a large cocoa-nut, to no better music that a plaintive kind of drone in which the dancers joined. Having become tired of the more boisterous kind of enjoyment with which they began the ceremonies, they settled down into a steady tramp, resembling the tread of soldiers marking time. In this more orderly kind of dance the musicians joined, and forming in two lines as in a contra dance, they advanced and retreated about eight paces several times, then forming in a grand circle they commenced running around at a most furious rate, and seemed to vie with each other, as to who could keep up the longest. One by one they dropped off, until two only remained. After pulling and tugging at each other for a long time, they finally began to wrestle in good earnest, but one of them at length was thrown, and a wild shout, and loud laugh ended the sport. In a short time, all but two, who acted as sentinels, were stretched by the fire, and in this condition we all remained until morning.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               I MEET AN OLD ACQUAINTANCE.
               There is, in the lives of men, a time, when after having struggled in vain to stem the tide that is pressing against them, they fold their arms listlessly by their side, and quietly glide down with the power they cannot resist. And perhaps even take pleasure in the easy manner in which they move along, and even begin to be gratified in what they before tried to shun. Had I the opportunity of safely making my escape at the time the Indians forced me to take a seat by the fire I would undoubtedly have done so, but now I was in their power, I tried to persuade myself that there was nothing so bad, after all, in being a captive among the Indians, and rather liked the idea of the adventures which opened out before me in perspective. So with a more lightsome heart than I had felt since I first embarked in the Crazy Jane, and an appetite better satisfied than since I left her, I strapped a light bundle of blankets upon my back the next morning, and commenced my march. I had no opportunity to speak to De Laneau, but saw by his countenance that he was not pleased in being thus obliged to travel he knew not whether. And, although when they saw that he was wounded, they did what they could, in their rough way, to ease him, his spirit chaffed against their constraint. I could occasionally see in his compressed lips and the sullen hauteur with which he regarded his captors, that he only wanted an opportunity to part company with them, but, as though they read in him the same thoughts which I did, so closely did they watch him that in this desire, if he had any such, he was disappointed.
               We had been travelling for about a fortnight through the woods, encamping in the same manner as the Indians had done upon the first night we saw them. But instead of coming to any settlement, or sign of civilization, we appeared to be going further away from them every day; and yet we continued in the same direction that De Laneau and myself had taken. I knew we were travelling west, because the sun always set before our faces, and I also knew that the more I walked in the same direction, the less was my chance of ever seeing home again, unless it so happened that I walked on until I had completed the circuit of the earth.
               Stealing an opportunity one day when all the Indians had left us, in order to capture, or kill something for our dinners—for they never thought of taking with them from one place to another, anything in the way of food. I asked De Laneau to explain to me what thus puzzled me. After thinking a moment he said:
               "Instead of being cast on shore upon the Canada side of the lake as I supposed, we were driven away to the eastward in the Merrimack, and" he continued, "I was so completely bewildered the morning we started that I did not stop to think that the wind had been blowing from the eastward, and that we must have been, of course, driven far to the west."
               "Have you any idea of our where-abouts?"
               "I confess I am completely lost."
               
               Before he could convey more of the cheerless intelligence, we were separated by our guards, and the hunters soon after, returning with food, precluded the possibility of again holding intercourse.
               De Laneau's wounds were at length entirely healed, and in consequence, our daily marches were lengthened considerably.—The character of the country through which we now travelled seemed entirely different from that we had already passed, and I noticed we changed the direction of our route to northward. There was also a change in our manner of marching, for, instead of going along at random, without paying particular regard to regularity, we now kept close together in single file, the chief,—or the person who acted as chief—taking the lead, and the person next in command walking in the extreme rear. The less experienced, with De Laneau and myself were in the centre of the line. I observed that they now practised the utmost caution, and moved along upon the dried leaves and brambles as noiselessly as snakes. The boots which I wore I was obliged to take off, and wear moccasins in their stead. This precaution was considered necessary as the heels make such an impression in the ground as was found very difficult to obviate, and would enable an adverse party to keep upon our trail; and when an opportunity offered for attack, to either murder us outright, or make us prisoners. The adroitness with which they conceal their tracks is marvellous to a person who has seen it practised for the first time. The moccasin being soft and pliable does not displace the leaves, and the slight impression caused by the weight of the individuals, who almost invariably step in the same foot-marks, are so carefully reajusted as to almost defy discovery. It was evident we were in the country of some hostile tribe, through whose territory it was necessary for our captors to pass before they could reach their homes. They now took especial care not to kindle any fires after dark, nor if possible, discharge firearms during the day. They would, rather than risk a discovery, sometimes go two days without food,—a thing that did not seem to distress either them or De Laneau, but was not particularly pleasing to me.
               From the cautious manner in which we travelled, we could not make such progress as formerly. The hostile nation was large, although the inhabitants appeared to be few in number. I learned at the end of the sixth day from the time we entered it, we had got but about its centre, and now more than usual caution was necessary. That night, instead of encamping as usual at sun down, we continued to steal cautiously along, and it was not until a slight mist, which settled amongst the trees, made the night so dark as to render it very difficult to see objects within a few yards of us, that we halted until we could get light enough to see our course, when we again pursued our way.
               Having waited a few moments to listen with his ear to the ground, the chief suddenly sprang to his feet, and with flashing eyes, said a few energetic words to his companions. Suddenly, each man unstrapped their rifles, looked at the condition of their locks, adjusted their tomahawks, and unsheathed their knives, to examine their edges. Then forming in a group at some distance from De Laneau and I, engaged in very earnest conversation for a few moments. From the frequency of their looks at us, and in the manner in which they pointed towards us, I felt assured we were the subjects of their talk, Fancying that they considered us burdensome to them, I came to the conclusion that it was their intention to murder us on the spot, the better to get along without us, and whispering to De Laneau—
               "I should think from their gestures they are about to finish us."
               He replied—
               "Don't be the least alarmed; they have no such intention."
               "What can they mean else."
               "We will see presently."
               "Perhaps when we do see, it will be, to us, no pleasant sight."
               "I do not think they mean us any ill."
               "I am convinced however, that we are at this moment of considerable interest to them. See how the chief points to you.—You had better be on your guard."
               "They know that I am used to their customs, and will, therefore, if they mean violence, act very cautiously. But I have not the least dread on that account. Here comes the chief himself."
               The chief advanced towards us, and with as great an air of gentleness as he could assume, began a pantominic conversation with De Laneau, which consisted in laying his hands upon his breast, catching De Laneau to his bosom, and giving him a gentle hug, then, pointing to some distance and putting his hand behind his ear, stamped several times upon the ground. This being done, he went through the same performance with me, and immediately gave each of us a large knife and tomahawk, a mark of confidence we acknowledged by a most reverent how. De Laneau then interpreted the inarticulate conversation to me as follows—
               "The chief is now willing to consider us as his brothers, and as such takes us to his bosom. We are now in the land of their enemies, who are very savage, and will murder us if they can. In order therefore, to enable us to defend ourselves like brave men, they place in our hands these weapons, and, if we use them as we ought, they will henceforth consider us as of themselves."
               "And how shall we use them."
               "That depends entirely upon whom our enemies are. If they are traders, or belong in any way to the company, and are civilized men of any sort, we must assist them, and regain our liberty. But if they happen to be another tribe of Indians, and as these would seem to intimate—savages, then we must fight against them. Death or victory will alone save us from a life of perpetual misery."
               "These are rather hard alternatives," said I, not that I was afraid of joining in any fray, or fighting for either victory or deliverance; but because I thought the alternatives hard. It was hard to be obliged to fight for victory, because it promised no better results than the captivity we were already enduring. Whereas, if quietly submitting to—not to our enemies—but the enemies of our captors, we might get the privilege of going where we pleased; so that fighting on either side would result in our bondage. And yet we must fight, if any body of men presented themselves to fight against.
               All things being arranged, we resumed our march with increased caution. Every few yards we went, the leader stopped, laid his ear on the ground, and listened, and again glided noiselessly forward. It was now about mid-day, and coming to the margin of a small river, we continued our course along its banks, a mile or two. The white foam, as we ascended its bed, gave evidence that its descent was a rapid one. In the stillness, I could hear the roar of falling waters, and presently we came to a high ledge of dark rocks, over whose summit the stream leaped into a deep, and dark abyss. The rocks as far as we could see, rose perpendicularly to the height of from eighty, to one hundred feet, and as the spray of the falling water made the air in the neighborhood cool, and their roaring would so drown our voices, as to preclude the possibility of being heard by persons at any distance, it was resolved that we would stop there awhile to rest, and refresh ourselves, before we undertook to climb the steep ascent.
               Not having eaten much the last twenty-four hours, the short repast had a wonderful effect in raising our spirits, and lending to us fresh vigor. The action of the spray had so rotted, or worn the rocks in the vicinity of the fall, as to make it impossible for us to climb them, we were, therefore, obliged to make a short detour, and at length, found a Place, where by clinging to the trees, and climbing by the root of those above us, which hung like ropes from out of the decaying rocks, we were by the dint of great exertion enabled to reach the top.
               
               Tired, and almost choked by thirst caused by the perspiration in toiling up the rooks, we slowly returned to the bed of the river, a few rods above where it took its precipitous leap, and cooled our heated temples while we quenched our thirst in its clear waters.
               While we were sitting there, we were startled by a noise behind us, and before we could move from the spot, a noble looking stag, with head erect, and antlers bending backwards in a graceful curve until they reached the middle of his back, bounded past us, and in one moment more was quivering in death at the foot of the waterfall. It required but little reflection to convince such experienced hunters, that the deer was driven to take the desperate leap; and hiding ourselves behind a massive rock which was detached from the banks of the stream, we waited for the pursuer; nor did we wait long. In a few minutes, with his eyes intently cast upon the ground as if guided by the animal's footmarks, the stalwart form of an Indian approached, advancing at an extraordinary pace, and, running heedlessly on, did not appear to discover the dangerous spot to which he was hurrying, until he was almost on its very edge. Then coming to a full stop he seemed to be considering the best method of following the game. I thought at the time I had never before seen so fine a type of manly beauty. Tall, straight and angular, full breasted, and broad shoulders, tapering into a waist so slender, and supple, as to give to the upper part of his body the appearance of resting on a swivel. His limbs were cast in nature's finest mould, and when he turned around in order to find a spot by which he could descend, the air of animation apparent in his countenance, and simple dignity of his manner, made me involuntary exclaim—what a noble representative of the natural man, undeteriorated by what is called civilization!
               Slowly reajusting a strap which girded his loins he quietly walked along the edge of the precipice to discover a spot where it was practicable to effect a descent, and whether he was not so cautious as others of his race, or that he considered caution in such an unfrequented place unnecessary, strange to say he passed within a very short distance of us without either seeing us or discovering our tracks. It was well for himself he did not, for judging from the appearance of my companions, had he seen us, it is probable his eyes would have never again rested on the form of a fellow creature. They would have shot him that instant.
               As soon as he was gone, we prepared to leave the spot as secretly as possible, but had not got many yards when the quick report of discharged firearms met our ears and brought us to a stand still. From the concussion it was evident that more than one shot had been fired, but so simultaneously as to leave us in doubt as to the number. Whoever they were, it was clearly out of our power to escape them if they were in pursuit of us, and if they were not, by showing ourselves it would not alter their plans. And here again the practised craft of the Indian was manifested. Instead of marching boldly in a body, we separated and made a kind of semi-circle with the convex to the enemy, and De Laneau and I were put in the most advanced position. We were thus left entirely to the mercy of whomsoever the approaching party might be, but as an offset against that, we were white men, and that would probably prove a sufficient protection.
               As we had no firearms it was useless 
                     to to
                     to
                   try concealment, so we marched boldly forward until the Indians had become sufficiently detached as to be unable to command our actions, then drawing close to me De Laneau said:
               "Keep as close as you can behind me, I must try and get a look at these fellows before they see us."
               And falling in his rear, we pursued our noiseless course a short distance farther, when De Laneau suddenly stopped and stepping behind a large tree, exclaimed:
               "There they are."
               And there they were sure enough, a  numbering nearly double our own, standing in a circle over the dead body of the noble looking child of nature, who had but a few moments before passed us in the quiet pursuit of his lawful prize, dreaming neither of ill to himself, or any other man.
               "Who are they," said I, as I looked cautiously from under De Laneau's arm.
               "As savage a looking set of fellows as I ever recollect seeing."
               "Do you think they belong to the same tribe these do?"
               "I think they do not."
               And, as if to confirm what he said, the words were scarcely uttered by him, when the sudden discharge of all the rifles belonging to our party startled us, and told with fatal precision upon the group we were watching. A leap into the air, a momentary stagger, and six of them were stretched beside the victim of their own cruelty. Before the report of the guns ceased ringing in our ears, the war whoop of our party was heard, and with the bright blades of their tomahawks glittering in the sunlight, with the impetuosity of hungry lions they rushed upon their foes, who, surprised and bewildered had no time to prepare themselves for defence.
               As the chief rushed by us to the attack, with the fury of a demon marked upon his countenance, he beckoned De Laneau and myself to follow, and before any of his party could come up with us, we were by his side. A few bounds brought us upon our opponents, and now a scene of confusion and blood was enacted, which even at this distant day makes my mind recoil in horror at the thought.
               With the first blow of his powerful arm, Abekons, the chief, brought a man to the ground, to rise no more and turning an angle as sharp and as sudden as the forked lightning, he pursued his zigzag course through the enemy, dealing fearful wounds to all in his path.
               De Laneau almost equally powerful, but not so skilled in the use of the weapons, grappled with the first he came to. The remainder of the party now came up and the fight was general. I fought side by side with De Laneau for some time, until torn from him by the grasp of a powerful Indian, whose axe was about to descend upon my head with such force as would certainly have cleft it to the neck. But some one from behind, with a tremendous blow, severed the arm from his trunk, and it fell by my feet with the weapon still in its grasp. Stunned by the effects of such a blow, he relaxed his hold, and turning suddenly upon him I plunged my knife into his heart.
               As nearly as I could see, we were now about equally matched, man to man, face to face. It was now either kill or be killed. Not a word was interchanged not a sound escaped us, save the deep breathings of our excited breasts. Every man was too intent upon his own safety, and triumph, to heed the action of his neighbor, and the clear ringing of the well-tempered instruments were the only signals we had of each others presence. Although in the middle of the dreadful carnage, I escaped without injury, but my blood was boiling with excitement, and I could feel a spirit rise within me the like of which I had never before felt. It seemed, as if by some mysterious agency, the savage spirit of my companions was infused into me, and like the young tiger whose first taste of blood raises all his propensity for slaughter, I pushed my way forward, cutting indiscriminately where an opportunity offered, until my course was arrested by one, the very sight of whom, as it were by instinct, raised such a swell of hatred in my bosom as almost burst it. When I got within a few paces of him I hurled my tomahawk at his head with all the force with which I could throw it, and before he had time to recover from the blow I closed upon him, knife in hand, and used all my strength in trying to drive it into his heart. With an agility that surprised me, he eluded my blow, and as I passed, him his axe flew so close to the side of my head, that I fancied I could feel it touch me. When I again turned around upon him, in the momentary pause which, as if by mutual agreement we both took before joining in our fatal grapple, I was enraged almost to madness by the sight of a large scar on his left cheek, which extended from the outward corner of his eyebrow, to near the middle of his upper lip. Unable to restrain my rage, I sprang upon him, and with all the strength of my phrenzied muscles I attempted to plunge my knife into him, up to the handle, but by a dexterous movement he again evaded the main force of my blow, and received but a slight flesh wound. Now breast to breast we stood, thrusting our knives into each other, and although equally anxious, neither could touch a vital spot. He was the stronger, I the more active, and his experience in this sort of warfare was about balanced by my superior hate and desire to kill. In our desperate encounter we were separated from the rest, and I perceived that we were close upon the edge of the precipice. My knife had now become either bent or broken, I did not know which, and as a desperate recourse, I quickly determined to force him over it, so, collecting all my strength into one effort, I pushed him forward to the brink. Before he was aware of his position I gave him a sudden trip, and threw him headlong. As he was going over I caught one glimpse of his features, and my heart sickened at the horrid sight. With the most intense and deadly hate marked upon them, he turned a look upon me, and a horrid grin upon his face, in which the most demoniac hate, and utter despair were blended, he disappeared from my sight to get dashed to pieces upon the rocks beneath. A reaction came over my soul. Without paying any attention to what might be going on about me, I sat down upon a stone which happened to be near, and gave vent to my pent up feelings in a copious flood of tears. The work in which I had just participated was more than my nature could bear, and in atonement for what I had done, I felt as though I would offer myself up a willing sacrifice to the first who would demand it.
               I do not remember how long I remained thus passive, but becoming, at length, startled by the dreadful stillness, I sprang to my feet to look for my companions, and now for the first time I discovered that I had received several wounds, which, although not dangerous, were so painful as to render it difficult for me to move. On the ground, on logs, on stones, lying, and setting in all postures, were the 
                     mutulated
                     mutilated
                   forms of the men who, but a few moments before stood firm and erect, in the full flush of manly beauty and strength. Moving slowly along to one of the dead bodies, I carefully stripped it of as much cloth as enabled me to bind up my wounds. By the aid of a stick, rendered necessary merely by over exertion, and temporary exhaustion—I slowly walked about to take a view of the sanguinary field. I no longer dreaded the weapon of a foe, for I knew full well I was either completely in their power, or that they could not now injure me. I knew full well, that every member of one party must have perished, and it mattered little to me who survived. If those I fought against, my death was certain; if those I assisted, the very uncertainty of my end, and inevitable amount of hardship I must undergo with them, made life appear at this moment, scarcely worth struggling for.
               At a short distance from where I stood I saw the form of a man, whom, from his costume, I knew belonged to our party. I approached him and was pleased to discover that it was Abekona. As soon as he saw me he motioned me towards him, and pressing me to his bosom, gave the most gratifying signs that I had risen greatly in his estimation. Pointing to a small hollow a short distance from where I stood, he directed me to go thither. I went, and to my great joy found De Laneau, considerably cut up to be sure, but living. As soon as he saw me he arose on his feet and grasped me in his arms. Our meeting was too tender for words to express, and without speaking, we remained so for some time.—Our joy was at length reduced, so as to be expressible by words, and De Laneau having ing first found tongue to express his, exclaimed:
               "My dear fellow I feared that you had met your fate from the hands of these savages."
               "I can hardly imagine how I escaped. But, if you are able to walk, come with me to the chief; he may know how to dress your wounds, and it is only a few yards."
               Abekona still sat in moody silence, in the same spot I had left him. He appeared in a deep study, and did not hear us until we got up close to him, then turning suddenly around with the same fire in his eye he cast upon us a wild glance, but seeing who it was, he arose, and bade us sit down beside him. Pointing to the bodies of two of the enemy that lay near us, he turned upon us a look of proud triumph which said as plain as words, we are the victors.
               The chief arose to look for some of the Indians who belonged to his party. As soon as he was gone, I said to De Laneau:
               "What is our best course to pursue. Is it better to remain any longer with these fellows, or in their present weak state, rebel against them and return."
               "It would be almost impossible for us to return in safety. Our best course is, therefore, to remain with them until they have occasion to take their furs to market. We can then return with such a force as will ensure us a safe journey."
               "That point being settled," said I "tell me how you escaped with your life."
               "I know but very little about it. All I can remember is, that I kept by the side of the chief until we found none to oppose us, then suddenly remembering you, I turned to seek you, when I reached you, an Indian had a hold of you by the neck, and would no doubt have severed your head from your body had I not cut his arm off before he could give the blow—"
               "I remember that distinctly" said I, and it was some time before I could persuade myself that my head was not off.
               De Laneau laughed at my conceit, and continued:
               "The chief again stood by my side, when we were suddenly opposed by two of the most powerful of the opposite party. I cannot say more than, after some time I found myself very near the spot where you found me, and my adversary laying dead a short distance from me."
               "You must have had rather warm work of it."
               "I fancy I had, and if I mistake not, you were not idle the while."
               "I had more to do than I would choose to begin at again, but near the close of the engagement I found myself opposing the man, or rather the fiend, to whom I am indebted for my present position, and probably all the sufferings I have yet undergone.
               "You certainly surprise me. By what strange circumstance could one of those distant, uncivilized Indians have influenced your fate, or previous actions? You must surely labor under some wrong impression."
               "I may, but the spontaneous hate with which my breast was filled when I saw him and a large scar on his left cheek, which extended from the outward corner of his eyebrow to near the middle of his upper lip, convinces me that he was the man who murdered my father."
               "In the heat of your excited imagination you may have been mistaken."
               "So deep was the impression made upon my mind when I saw his face by the light of our burning house, that if I had not again seen that Indian until age had so dimmed my sight that I could not distinguish any other object I would recognise him."
               "It is truly wonderful that you should have thus come together."
               "It was no doubt the hand of providence which led me to this spot, that I might take full vengeance for the death of my father er, and the suffering of my poor moth er."
               "Yours must have been an eventful life, I have a great curiosity to hear the story of it."
               "At some more convenient time I will relate it to you."
               The chief now made his appearance, at some distance, with one of his companions. And as it was probable we would leave the spot in a few moments, I asked De Laneau,
               "Do you know the name of the tribe with which we fought?"
               'I am not certain, as there are many tribes around the region of Lake Superior, in whose vicinity we must be; but if I were to hazard a guess, I would say they belong to the Dahotonies."
               "Were they in pursuit of us, or do you think this meeting was an accident?"
               "It may have been accidental, but they may have been on our trail for a week. In the manner we marched it was impossible for them to tell the number of our party, for when we all stepped in each others footmarks it made it doubtful whether we were five or fifty. It is quite probable, that when they first saw the Indian who was in pursuit of the deer, they mistook him in the moment for the party in whose pursuit they had been, and in their sudden excitement and love of death they all discharged their rifles at him, at the same time. Before they could reload we were upon them, and the suddenness of our attack threw them into such confusion that they were unable to make much defence until it was too late."
               In the brief survey we took of the field, we found that every one of our opponents had received his quietus, and four of our own party were slain. Two only out of six Indians now lived. Choosing the best arms and all the ammunition we could find amongst the killed, the party, now dwindled down to four, slowly pursued its way.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE SACRIFICE.
               THE sun was sinking behind the golden tinted clouds. The soft balmy breezes of autumn, were heavy with the honeyed fragrance of ripening nature. The glow of sunset shed a rich mellow lustre upon the luxuriant foliage of the stately oaks and pines, whose leaves danced in gladness to the sweet warblings of the birds that played amongst their branches. A thin haze below us so softened the appearance of the wigwams of the Onebekas, as to give them the appearance of houses whose ethereal structure overcame the laws of gravitation and caused them to float in the air. Viewing the village from the heights upon which we stood, with its low tent-like dwellings, its irregular streets, and the quiet in which it was enwrapped, a person would be led to think of a little corner of Eden, which had been exempt from the curse, and forgotten in the fall of our first parents, so still and peaceful did it rest in the lovely vale. In the few moments we rested, in order to arrange our dress so as to make as respectable an appearance as possible upon our entry into the place in which our travelling ended, I felt an indescribable sensation of pleasure, when gazing upon it. I could scarcely convince myself that I was not about reaching home after a long absence, and would have entirely neglected my toilette, had not the voice of De Laneau brought me again to my recollection.
               "Come Walter, as Abekona desires it, you had better do what you can to improve your appearance. Upon the first impression we make a great deal of our future comforts in our new home, depend."
               "I would be willing to endure more suffering than I have lately met with for the sake of such another draught of pleasure as this sight gives into my soul."
               "Well, well, you will no doubt have plenty of time to contemplate it. As we have not much leisure now, it may be as well to defer your admiration for the present."
               The little brook that trickled at our feet, made all the changes in me I could then effect, and taking a look at my reflection in its crystal waters, I could not help thinking that would I compare favorably with any of my companions.
               "There," said Abekona—after two month's companionship we could now understand his language—as he took us to an elevated position where we could get a good view of the town, "There, like the blue flower of the valley lies one of the towns of the Onebekas. The spirit of peace has rested upon it. His children will welcome their brothers. The palefaces will be made merry by the smiles of our maids."
               De Laneau and I acknowledged the kind words of Abekona, and said—
               "We shall try to deserve their love."
               Our arrangements completed, we began to descend into the valley by a pathway cut in some places out of the side of the rook, and so narrow that two could not walk abreast. On each side were fruit-trees of various kinds laden with their ripe productions. Wild plums holding their luscious fruit within our reach, and stooping towards us as we walked along, seemed like asking us to partake of the cheer they presented. Blackberry bushes of unusual size bearing their rich sable-colored fruit, were growing so close to where we travelled, that as I walked along, I could gather all I wanted of their rich berries. And farther down the valley the black currants were so large as to be mistaken for grapes, were it not for the difference in the appearance of the bushes upon which they grew. The black walnuts, butternuts, and nuts of other kinds which lay strewn in such plentiful profusion, gave the most cheerful evidence of the bountifulness of nature to these, her isolated children. The immense quantities upon the trees when we had reached the level, made me ask the chief, as I held one up in my hand,
               "Do you ever eat any of these?"
               "The Indian only takes his share. To take all would offend the Great Spirit, who is angry for having even the squirrel deprived of food,"
               Here was a better practical illustration of Christianity, by this unsophisticated creature, than could be found in a myriad of those who profess the doctrines which teaches us to do unto others as we would that others would do unto ourselves.
               After walking about a half an hour we go into the plain, which now began to bear greater marks of enlightenment than we ever thought of seeing in this place. Whole fields were planted with a kind of grain resembling wheat and the roads were in so much better state than I had ever seen roads, that I began to imagine I had got back again to the domain in which I was wont to confine civilization.
               As we approached the village, the male inhabitants, who had been warned of our approach came in a body to meet us, and their joy at seeing Abekona and his companion, was great. In their satisfaction at meeting them, their lost fellow travellers were for a moment forgotten. The braves, after they had so warmly greeted their companions, turned upon us looks of the greatest surprise. When we entered the village the women and children gathered around as, and we could with difficulty push our way after our chief. We had now got as far as the centre of the village. In front of the largest building in it, Abekona left us for a short time, and as there was no one to keep the women and children away from us, and their curiosity was raised to such a height, I began to fear in their anxiety to see us, that they would crush one another badly. Some again were very timid, and contented themselves by looking at us from a distance. The little boys were peculiarly annoying. They would not for some time come near us, but after a while one had the temerity to get close enough to touch us with his finger, and presently all the younger persons in the place began to vie with each other as to who would perform the daring act; but before all of them could have time to thus test their courage, a messenger came to us from Abekona, and we entered the house.
               The interior of the building was circular, with walls raised perpendicularly to the height of about eight feet. In the centre was a large post, or trunk of a tree, which had been cut to answer the purpose, on which poles reclined, at an angle of about sixty degrees, from the wall. On these the roof was laid. Upon this plan all the houses in the village were built. The floor was of earth hardened in some manner. The smoke ascended through a chimney which came down no farther than the top of the wall. It consisted merely of a hole in the roof, and from three to four feet of a square chimney built over it. A portion of the interior was divided into small apartments, which answered as bedrooms. Bows, arrows, and war clubs hung plentifully upon the walls. In fact, everything about the place was much the same as might be seen amongst the poorer people of our cities, except the utensils of cookery and husbandry were of the purest quality of copper. The implements of war were made principally of iron. Some of the commonest wares in the house were of fine copper, and as if to reverse the order of the value of things, iron seemed to be considered the more valuable metal. Whatever ornaments they used were made of it.
               When we entered, Abekona introduced us to his people. He told them we were good and brave men, and deserving of their friendship. That, as we were as faithful as dogs, as swift as deers, and as brave as Indians, we should have the respect shown to us those qualities deserved. When he had done speaking, meats were set before us and such hospitality extended to us, as satisfied as that we had nothing to fear from the Onebekas. When we had completed our repast, we were conducted with a great show of respect to couches in one of the rooms, by an attendant, and with the assurance of his love, and that we would be permitted to see the Iman, or the wise man of the village, in the morning, he left us. As soon as we were alone, I could not help remarking to De Laneau,
               "What extraordinary people these are."
               "I had no idea," said De Laneau, "that we should find such evidences of civilization in this distant part of the world."
               "Perhaps after all it is not so distant as we imagine. Is it not possible we might have been travelling towards home without being aware of it."
               "No. I do not think we could do so unless the sun should also change his course."
               "But have you never heard of these people?"
               "I have no recollection of it."
               "It is strange that you should have been so long trading amongst the Indians, without having at some time, transacted business with them, or heard of them in some way."
               "I know the names of all the tribes with the company ever traded; but I never be fore heard of the Onebekas."
               It is very evident that whoever they are, they possess more refinement than is to be found among Indians generally."
               "The profusion of copper, and the beauty of some of the things manufactured out of it, would indicate that they are in close connection with some civilized and enlightened nation."
               "If that is the case, our stay among them may not be so long as we at first expected."
               The sun was looking over the tops of the hills which surrounded the valley of Notewanda. The birds carrolled their morning songs to the first appearance of the glorious god of day, who diffused a cheerful warmth over the land, as he lifted the misty curtains that settled with night upon the wigwams of the Onebekas. The air of morning was so clear and healthful, that with every breath we seemed to inhale a vigor which sent the blood bounding with health through our veins. This, with the refreshing sleep I had enjoyed, made me feel as though I had now begun life anew. It was therefore with a joysome heart I stepped forth to meet Abekona.
               After I had reached his house and partaken of his hospitality, he invited De Laneau and me to accompany him to the Imau, under whose especial charge he intended to place us, until the pleasure of Onebeka was known—the chief always took the name of the tribe, and his people were considered his children.
               Before we sat out, all the people in the village had collected in front of the door, and forming in a procession, with us at their head, marched to the house of the wise man. His dwelling was but little different from the others in the place. At one end of it was a black rock, which rose in a cone-like form to the height of some thirty feet. At the foot of this rock, when we first saw him, he was busily engaged in arranging dry faggots as if to burn them. When he was made aware of our arrival he lifted up his hands and exclaimed:
               "Like water by the thirsty tree, is the pale faces welcomed by the Indians."
               And continued in the performance of that in which he had been engaged, as if of too much importance to be neglected under any consideration.
               The manner in which he received us, was considered by our followers sufficiently propitious to allow them the pleasure of testifying their joy at our arrival, and accordingly, before we were aware of their intentions tions, they had formed in a circle about us, and gave vent to their feelings in the wildest shoutings and boisterous hilarity.
               An event of greater importance being now about to take place, the sport was suspended, and where, but a moment before a broad grin distorted their countenances, every face was drawn into the most serious expression. As this may have the effect of showing the manners and customs of these people, I may as well explain it at length.
               The Onebeka tribe believed in a great spirit, the ruler of the whole world, and that by him alone they were supplied with every good they enjoyed. That this earth was a nursery in which he raised his children, and fitted them for the hunting grounds of the future world, where they supposed were to be found all the different kinds of animals with which this earth is stocked, and they were to be as much improved in strength and beauty in the spirit land, as the souls of the men that went there. That the most successful hunter in the great annual hunt was to be chosen as one of the chiefs, and sit in the councils of the great spirit himself. As their heaven was to resemble this earth in every thing except evil, they supposed that every warrior slain would want at least one dog, to assist him in the chase there; they, accordingly, not only paid great attention to the raising of dogs, but spent a great portion of their leisure time in training one or two for the especial purpose of availing themselves of their services hereafter. When one of their number died, it was one of the first duties of his surviving friends to sacrifice his favorite dog—the one himself had trained for the purpose—and send it after him. The Indian who had during life broken the laws of his tribe, or incurred the displeasure of Onebeka, was considered to be very severely punished, if it was forbidden to send him his dog; for without the dog, it was supposed he could not compete with the spirits that were supplied with these faithful animals, who would bear away the prize, and the unsuccessful spirit hunter would be at length obliged, after his repeated failures, to wander alone without companionship, into a region where the game was scarce and the sun seldom shone.
               The people had now collected to send to their masters the dogs belonging to the four men who had fallen in our battle with the party of the Dahotonies. As it was some time since their deaths, and they might have suffered inconvenience from the long delay, the Imau thought it advisable to send them two. If they did not want them both, they could give one to some friend who was so unfortunate as not to have any of his own.
               Upon an examination of the rock, I saw there were many characters cut upon it that resembled hierogliphics, which, when read by the Imau, I found, recorded some of the actions of their great chiefs and wise men, with an occasional pithy moral sentence. Before the faggots were lighted, the wise man turned to the assemblage, and in the name of the Great Spirit, called upon them to join him in invoking a blessing upon Onebeka, who was beloved by all the tribe, and supplicate for a favorable acceptance of the offering they were about to make to the manes of the departed braves, who having died in a foreign territory, were considered doubly deserving of their prayers: and as an inducement to the faithful performance thus imposed, the Imau with great earnestness promised them, if they used the proper decorum in the solemn ceremony of to-day, in honor of the dead, they might on tomorrow indulge to their utmost, in the feast celebrated as a thanksgiving for the safe arrival of the others.
               The pleasure thus shown them in perspective, had a powerful effect upon the Onebekas, and from the serious expression of their faces, a person would suppose, their very hearts were full of religion.
               The crowd separated and arranged themselves into two long lines, which extended to a considerable distance. At the farther end appeared eight youths, naked from their waists upwards, their bodies curiously painted with brilliant colors, around each arm was the double representation of serpents. The faces of seven were colored variously, pale but the eighth, in compliment to the faces, was whitened with a substance resembling chalk. As they advanced to where the Imau was standing, the people set up a loud discordant sort of cry, and striking themselves upon their breasts, bent their bodies so as to nearly touch the ground. Before they had arrived at the rock, which was used as a kind of altar, another procession advanced from an opposite direction, and from the splendor of the costume, at well as the pomp with which they came forward, I presumed they were persons of distinction. Upon their near approach, I distinguished Abekona at their bead, dressed in a most magnificent attire. On his head were long flowing feathers, whose brilliant colors reflected the sunlight in a thousand pleasing shades. Around his neck—which was bare, to the shoulders—were several strings of differently colored beads. A coat, made out of the shining plumage of the breasts of wild pigeons, reached nearly down to his knees, and the softly blending colors, as he changed his position in respect to the sun, gave to his body the appearance of being envelloped in a fragment of a rainbow. His feet were encased in finely ornamented moccasins.—With a glittering battle axe in his hand, he marched toward the rock, where the Imau was still engaged in reading the characters and delivering his exhortation to the worshiping Onebekas.
               The two processions having met at the altar, the Imau proceeded to take from a small leathern bag, a handful of dark powder, and casting it upon the fire, a thick, fragrant smoke ascended the side of the rock and for a moment almost hid it from our sight.
               When the smoke had cleared away, Abekona advanced a few paces, and upon a signal, one of the youths held the head of the dog he had in charge, upon a block, and with one stroke of the weapon in the hands of the powerful warrior, it was completely severed from its body. Before a drop of blood stained the block, the victim was thrown upon the fire, and the smoke of another handful of the powder, curled in incense around the altar.
               I learned afterwards that the great expedition used in getting the body of the dog in the fire before it had lost blood was considered of the greatest importance, as it was supposed, that the blood lost would make him weaker, and unfit for the chase when he reached his master.
               The other dogs were dispatched with like ceremony. As they were thrown upon the fire, the Imau continued to cast the incense upon them, and with each handful repeated a few words of prayer, in which the Great Spirit was requested to take pity upon his children, and accept this offering for the sake of their departed braves. And that nothing might be wanting to induce him to look with favor upon the spirits to whose memory this ceremony was dedicated, all their good qualities were enumerated, their bravery in war, their humility in peace, their agility in the chase, the fondness with which they were regarded by friends, and above all, their submission to the commands of their fathers, and their loyalty to their great chief Onebeka.
               When the catalogue of their virtues was exhausted, the assembly suddenly dismissed and many of them returning immediately with dried wood, or other inflamable material, threw it upon the pile and soon made such a large fire as completely consumed the bodies of the victims. The Imau continued to cast into the fire an occasional handful of the black powder, whose smoke ascended straight into the air, and which was supposed would waft the sacrifice much sooner into heaven.
               Abekona, after the ceremonies were over returned to his wigwam, taking De Laneau and myself with him. The remainder of the day was spent in a solemn fast, that nothing might be wanting to secure the favor of the Great Spirit, to their departed braves.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE HUNT.
               I WAS astir before daylight the next 
                     mornieg
                     morning
                  . The events of the 
                     preceeding
                     preceding
                   day made such an impression upon me that I could not sleep. It was very evident that the Onebekas were a tribe of indians unknown to the inhabitants on the borders of the Atlantic. Their features, manners and religion were of an Asiatic cast; and they gave such signs of superiority in civilization and arts, that I began to doubt, whether they really were Indians, or some oriental tribe that had settled here, for the sake of the vast mineral wealth of the place. And yet I had never heard of any eastern country in which such a belief as I had yesterday witnessed, was prevalent. It was evident therefore, that if they were any more intimately connected with Asia than any other tribe, that connection was trifling, and they must have been, at least, long enough on this continent to have adopted the superstitions and religion of the Indians.
               My reflections were interrupted by a messenger from Abekona, who, upon entering my apartment, and performing the usual salutation, said
               "The pale face is to come with me, to the wigwam of the wise-man."
               "Who sent for me?"
               "The Imau."
               "What does he want of me so early?"
               "To-day, the Indians make glad for the return of the chief of their village, and those who came with him. When the Indians are merry, the pale faces are not to be forgotten."
               When I reached the house of the Imau, several had already collected in front of the 
                     dooor
                     door
                  , and I had scarcely taken my seat, when De Laneau, escorted by another Indian entered, and sat by my side.
               We were now under no restraint, but could converse with each other without hindrance—a privilege I enjoyed very much as I had not yet attained such a proficiency in their language as to be able to express myself with ease.
               As De Laueau did not appear as cheerful as usual. I ventured to enquire—
               "What makes you look so gloomy?"
               "I begin to wish myself back again to the shanty where we left old Pete."
               "It may not be long before you have an opportunity to return."
               "I fear it will be longer than you have at present, any idea of."
               "Why do you think so?"
               "Last evening, after you had left us, I made some inquiries about it, of Abekona, and I learned from him, it is their intention to detain us here to teach them something of that which makes our nation, or as he expressed it, our tribes so great."
               "What can they know of us as a people?"
               "I have not been able yet to ascertain."
               "Well, suppose we do remain with them, what worse off can we be, than at where we call home. Suppose we do get back to our now country, of what great advantage can it to us. Will we not have to work and struggle for a bare sustenance, and scarcely get it even them. Or, if we should desire wealth, is there not enough of it here to satisfy the most avaricious."
               "My dear boy, when you have lived as long in the world as I have, you will learn that the mere accumulation of riches is desirable, only, when it can afford the means of doing good to your fellow creatures, and buys the opportunities of a social intercourse with the intelligent, the wise, and good. Look around you at the profusion of wealth in the valuable minerals that lie here buried from the world, where every stone is of copper or iron—those two great agents in civilization, and advancement in knowledge—and yet here are people, possessing as much wealth as would make nations happy, by the means thus afforded to augment the value of labor, and the impetus given to its trade by such amount of valuable material, and yet, with all these advantages I say, the owners are suffering all the evils that ignorance can inflict, from their want of knowledge to put the material at their disposal to good account."
               "That is so much the greater reason why we ought to stay and teach them what we know."
               "I am afraid that would do them but little good."
               "The key that will unlock one first principle may open the door of the chamber of all the sciences. For my own part I find these people so different from what I expected, that I think it would not be difficult to induce me to spend all my days with them, and impart to them all the little knowledge I happen to possess."
               'Before you fully make up your mind to do that, it would be as well first to learn more about them."
               "I cannot conceive how you could spend all your time in the solitary 
                     menner
                     manner
                   in which the crew of the Crazy Jane found you, with no better companionship than the old madman—Pete—to the society of those who appear, at least, much more sensible than he was."
               "Duty sir. I had agreed to perform a duty, and I felt happy in its performance. By being thus snatched away I am debarred, perhaps forever, from reaping its reward."
               "That reward must be great indeed when you regret its loss so much."
               "That reward was the prospect of once more seeing home, family, and friends, and the opportunity in my old age of making atonement for grievous errors committed in my youth."
               There was something so sorrowful in the appearance of De Laneau as he uttered the last sentence, that I could not help feeling very anxious to know the cause; but before I could entreat him to satisfy my curiosity Abekona—in full hunting uniform—entered. He informed us that as the day's festivities were in honor of us, it would be necessary that we should take the lead, as by our example the remainder of the party would be guided. De Laneau regretted that we were not acquainted with the customs of the people—but was interrupted by the chief, who said—
               "The arrows of Abekona will point  the game."
               As by this we understood that we were to remain by his side, we were satisfied, and waited anxiously for the start. The men of the village began to assemble at the door, and before the sun had arisen all had collected.
               The agile youth were testing their muscular powers in various ways, wrestling, leaping, and mimic combats with their knives and axes. The experienced hunters stood in groups, conversing in low voices of the chances of the day, who was likely to bear off the prize, and the probability of the weather proving propituous. In the front of their wigwams sat the women. Mothers gazing with pride upon their sons, who, probably for the first time, appeared in the arena to contend with men. The wife looked with pride upon her husband, and in the proud triumph on her lips would seem to consider the honors his before the sport began. Maidens casting encouraging glances at their lovers, who returned their looks of affection with such hopeful looks, as told plainly they would put forth their might for the sake of placing the test of their prowess at their fair feet.
               The fantastical figures painted upon the faces and arms of the men, with their waving ing plumes, and the uniform beauty of outline in their figures made this assemblage the most picturesque I ever beheld. And as they stepped forth, their attitudes and bearing were such as to lead to the opposition, that each man considered himself a hero.
               The day could not be more propitious. A slight fog which had rested upon the earth, cleared away before the rising sun, whose rays drank up the dews, and as the day advanced, clouds cast their shadows ever us sufficient to protect us from his too oppressive mid-day rays.
               In this season of the year bears are very fat, as this is but a short time before they retire to their dens for the winter. The flesh of this animal is a great favorite with the Onebekas, and as it was not intended to nave the sport lengthened over the day in which it began, it was determined upon to make havoc upon the bear meat so plentiful in the caverns of the surrounding bills. But a day or two before a party traced several of those animals to a certain spot, and as, from their habits, they felt certain they would still be found near that place, we directed our course thither.
               Our march was of the most tumultuous kind. The younger of our party, with running and the careless way in which they wasted their strength, were tired before we got near where we were to have started the game. The more experienced, however, spared themselves for a later effort, so that those who made the greatest pretensions at the start accomplished least during the day. It surprised me to see many, who, appeared at the outset stiff with age, when we came near the scene of action throw their years off their shoulders, and become the most agile of the party.
               After walking about ten miles we came, at length, to where it was supposed the bears had chosen their residences. But in the numerous caverns it was difficult to discover the right one. We had now broken up into small divisions, and were ordered to start as many as we could. He who first discovered one to have the first trial of his skill. As I did not expect to take a very active part in the proceedings of the day, intending merely to be a spectator, I wandered carelessly away from my companions, and paid more attention to looking at the beautiful scenery, the majestic trees, and 
                     pieturesque
                     picturesque
                   shrubs with which the side of the mountain was clothed, than in searching after bears. The stones and rocks were of a color and grit such as I had never seen before, at least I knew they were very different from what I had seen in the quarries at Hamilton, and in my curiosity to understand the difference, I discovered they were nearly all copper. I was greatly astonished to find this valuable ore in such abundance, and still more so when upon trying to break off a fragment, to find it in such purity as to e malleable.
               I became so interested in what I thought a great discovery, that I forgot all about the purpose for which I had come there, and went on satisfying myself of the abundance of this metal. Having found a specimen which I thought purer than any I had yet seen, I was anxious to secure a piece of it, and sitting down upon a rock near by, I began to strike it with the back of my tomahawk in order to break off a fragment that I could conveniently carry, but my labors were brought to a sudden termination by a low deep growl and a sharp snarl behind me, and springing to my feet, I discovered to my great surprise, in a small recess between a couple of rocks, a huge bear, with his head raised a few inches from the ground, and his eyes intently fixed upon me. I instinctively leaped back, and retiring to a convenient distance upon him. I prepared to discharge the contents of my rifle between his eyes, keeping my eyes on his head; but while I was taking aim he changed his position, and I was obliged to change mine to a great disadvantage. As the nook into which he had crept was quite dark, and the bear itself was black, I could aim only at his eyes with any confidence. My rifle was again levelled at him, and I was about as I thought to settle him forever, but at this instant, as if he was aware of my purpose, he took another turn, and hiding his head between his forepaws, I was again baulked in my design.
               Anxious now to be the first to kill one of those creatures, I stole cautiously forward until I was within about four times the length of my rifle of him, and taking a steady aim, I lodged a ball into him. A deep terrifying growl answered the report of my discharge, and the monster I supposed I had killed, rushed upon me, his eyes glaring with rage, and mouth foaming from the effect of maddening pain. The moment I saw him I dropped my gun and sprang behind a large tree that stood but a short distance from me. As he approached he saw the rifle, and catching it in his mouth broke in pieces between his powerful jaws, with as much apparent ease as if it were a stem of a common clay pipe, and then made directly for where I stood. I could not help thinking that I was placed in a very awkward predicament, to be the only antagonist of such a savage, but maintaining my position, I unsheathed the excellent knife Abekona gave me before setting out, and coolly waited his onslaught.
               I could see that the shot had taken effect between his right foreshoulder and neck, and so completely disabled one foreleg as to make it entirely powerless. When he came near the tree he raised upon his hind legs and made a spring at me, which I avoided by getting to the opposite side. The tree was so large that he could not reach around it, nor strike me with his paw from the side on which he stood. Foaming from his mouth, and gnashing his teeth with rage, he chased me around. Sometimes I allowed him to come close up to me, and when an opportunity presented, would strike him such a blow upon his nose as would stun him for an instant, but before I could repeat the stroke he would recover himself and make such efforts to seize me, that I was obliged, for the moment, to look to my own safety.
               I was thus pursued for several minutes, without doing him any material damage, and as every moment increased the fury of the animal and served to exhaust my strength, I looked anxiously for a chance to deal him a death blow, without placing myself within his powerful grasp. But the bear was as cunning as I, and more used to fighting, for whenever I made a blow at him, with the most extraordinary dexterity he eluded it. At one time he arose and struck me with such force as to almost lose his balance. Before he could recover himself I plunged my knife, up to the handle, in one of his eyes. The creature now shook his head in agony, and the blood gushed forth with such impetuosity, that I was soon drenched in his gore. As he could see only with one eye he raised himself again upon his hinder quarters, and leaping around the tree with as much ease as if he had been created a biped, made strokes at me with the uninjured forepaw, which, missing me, made indentures upon the bark of the tree.
               I hoped that in time the loss of the blood, which flowed profusely, would so weaken him that I could soon dispatch him at my leisure, but the creature had such immense strength as to render the period when he would give up very doubtful. Taking my tomahawk in my hand, I was resolved as soon as an opportunity occurred to act upon the offensive, and taking advantage of his partial discomfiture after he had made one of his powerful strokes at me with his paw, while he still clung to the tree to restore his balance, by one well directed blow I cut it off just above the first joint. Springing from the tree, I now supposed I could dispatch him with ease, but I must acknowledge so artfully did he dodge my blows, that I could not for some time even hit him, and when I did at length give him a slight blow, the only effect it had was to make him turn upon me, and before I was aware of it, I was prostrated and seized by the shoulder. Fortunately he only held my clothes, and with considerable effort I was able to regain my feet. In my last mishap I dropped my tomahawk. Pulling my knife again from its sheath, I inflicted a deep wound upon the side of my adversary, which so maddened him that he made a tremendous leap upwards, and fell to the ground dragging me with him. Fortunately for me he fell under, and giving him another thrust I touched a vital spot. But he was strong even in death, and held on to my collar so firmly that I could not extricate myself from his grip. In his agony, while he was lying upon the ground he seized me with the force of a vice in his hind legs, and springing from where we were over the edge of a projecting slab. Locked in his savage embrace, we rolled together down the hill. The weight of the bear as he rolled over me, and the sharp angles of the stones in our course cut and bruised me a good deal. As we moved along we set the stones and loose boulders in motion, many of them weighing several hundred pounds, and these again setting others in motion, our descent soon increased to an avalanche, which, if we went much farther would certainly bury us both. The huge boulders moving slowly at first, soon increased their velocity as to threaten every instant to be upon us. I was whirled around at such a rate that I could not distinguish the objects around me, but fancied that the whole mountain was turning a rapid summer set, and was about to abandon all hope of ever escaping from the wreck which would ensue, when my course was brought to a sudden termination by the crushing weight of a great rock upon me, The force of its descent had separated me and my enemy, and held us firmly to the earth, me by my feet, the bear by his hind legs.
               When my vision was so restored that I could see, I found the bear's head within a few inches of my own. The upper part of his body was entirely disengaged, but as his upper limbs were powerless. I had no danger to apprehend except from his teeth. These he snapped and gnashed so close to my face that I was obliged to bend back as far as I could, to avoid the disagreeable froth that was streaming from his mouth. While rolling down the hill I lost my knife. If the monster should now by any chance get loose he could devour me without resistance. And from the desperate efforts he made I was almost certain he would free himself, even at the expense of his nether extremities.
               I had remained in this position for several hours—I thought it an age—when the thought struck me that I might be compelled to stop there until doomsday. The stone was so heavy that I could not remove it, and if I did, I would also liberate the bear, who, now I had no weapon by which to defend myself, would certainly dispatch me the instant I was free.
               Although I could not remove the weight, nor get from under it in any way, it did not press sufficiently hard to cause much pain, but I had the satisfaction to see that a great portion of its weight rested on the bear. As I continued to watch him I could see that his efforts to reach me were becoming weaker, and that after each trial he was obliged to discontinue to gather more strength. The wounds I had given him, and the great loss of blood with the crushings he sustained by the weight of the large stone, finally did their work. His eyes began to glare, his frame underwent a few convulsive struggles, and falling forward within a few inches of where I was trying, he expired.
               I felt sate. Being thus suddenly relieved from the prospect of watching my savage antagonist until we both starved to death, I began to look about for some means by which I could deliver myself, but there was nothing within my reach that could be of any service to me. I tried with all my might to pull my feet out of their confinement, but found I was as firmly fastened as if I were, as in fact I was, in the stocks.
               To despair in time of difficulty was not a part of my nature. To give up now would have been to terminate my inglorious career unthought of in this unknown region. Although there was nothing within my grasp that I could use, there was that within me which could not fail of effecting my deliverance—resolution—that lever with which great souls move the world, and lesser ones aspire to great deeds. The grand motive power of human action. The twin sister of hope; the index to the completion of events, and triumphs over difficulties. What would mankind be without that godlike faculty—resolution? A non-progressive, inert mass, without destiny or aspirations; the same from the beginning to the end. Resolution is the main-spring of our action, which, when set in motion, keeps them running to the end of our lives.
               Determined not to perish thus ignobly, I set myself to work in good earnest to scrape away the earth and stones under me. In a very short space of time, I could see that my feet were caught between two stones, and that by clearing away from under them they would settle a little, by which means I could pull myself out. It was not a great while before this was accomplished, 
                     aud
                     and
                   I had, once more, the use of my limbs.
               To put myself beyond the possibility of danger, my first act was to take as large a stone as I could conveniently lift, and throw it with all my strength upon the head of the bear, but this was an unnecessary precaution. He was already dead.
               Having found my tomahawk, I soon made a lever and rolled the stone off my fellow prisoner. His proportions were truly monstrous, nor do I to this day ever recollect having seen a larger one. Seating myself at a short distance I leisurely contemplated his huge proportions, nor did I think of leaving the spot until I was suddenly aroused by the report of two rifles in rapid succession, and springing upon a rock near me, I saw two hunters running with great speed down the hill. When they got within a short distance of where I stood, both stopped suddenly as if examining some object. Knowing they belonged to our party I gave a loud woo-hoo-hoop, which was as loudly answered. A minute more and I was in their company. It was Abekona and De Laneau.
               When De Laneau saw me he began to laugh at the picture I presented, and asked:
               "What have you been at here, I thought you were of our party?"
               The relation, and the ultimate success of my adventure increased their merriment, and marking the spot, we proceeded to the place we had agreed to meet. The most of the hunters were awaiting our arrival, and in a few minutes all were assembled.
               When all the bears were collected, mine proving to be the largest, and as I had slain it unassisted, Abekona declared me entitled to the first honor, and placing the beautiful plume himself wore, on my head, conferred upon me on the spot, the title of Pa-ne-wa-ska, or the bear killer.
               By this new distinction as a reward for my bravery, I was entitled to sit at their councils, and was fairly installed as a member of he Onebeka tribe.
               Abekona having selected a guard from the party, with De Laneau and myself, marched in triumph to the village, the remainder followed after us with the products of the day's slaughter.
               That night the Indians spent in the most riotous hilarity and general enjoyment.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XV.
               THUNDER ROCK.
               A RESIDENCE of five years with the Onebekas taught me their manners and customs. I could speak their language as well as themselves. Exposure to the weather had darkened my complexion. I was, to all appearances, an Indian. My uniform good conduct had so won upon Abekona, that he raised me to authority, and I was next to himself in command in the village.
               De Laneau had been removed about three years to another village at some distance. We did not often meet, but were always in communication with each other. Our time was spent principally in teaching the Indians what we knew of civilized life, and we were encouraged by valuable presents, and otherwise, by the great Chief Onebeka, to persevere in the efforts we were making. Neither of us had yet been at the principal village of the tribe, but we had the most gratifying evidence that our labors were both understood and appreciated there. The rough and savage nature had been removed from the minds of the tribe before we arrived amongst them. Ours was the task of smoothing them down, and prepare them for a polishing.
               Abekona had often tried to persuade me to marry some of the damsels of the village, but without effect. He even went so far as to bring to me the most beautiful woman he could find, hoping that I would be smitten by her charms, but it was of no avail. A portrait which I had worn through all my adventures, turned my affections from the copper colored beauties to a fair one of my own race, who did not, in all probability, bestow even a single thought upon me, but it was the stone which touched the needle of my heart, and made it turn to that polar star of my existence.
               About this time an event happened, which, to the Onebekas, was one of the greatest importance. Their Chief after having extended to them, for more than half a century, the blessings of a wise ruler, the benefits of a superior mind, and the care of a father, died. His loss was universally deplored, and for one moon nothing was heard throughout the land but lamentation and mourning. At the end of this time, all the petty Chiefs had orders to attend at the national council rooms, to pay their respects to him who now assumed the responsible trust of the care of the whole tribe.
               The messenger who brought the summons to Abekona, said it was the wish of the newly installed Onebeka that the pale face should accompany him, and I was allowed four days to prepare myself for the journey, and the interview. On the second day I received a message from De Laneau, who informed me that he had also been ordered to attend at the Great Wigwam, and expressed his desire to see me there.
               The vague reports I had heard, and the unability of any one to inform me correctly of the great mysteries at the head of the nation, made me very anxious to see, and examine into them myself. I had heard of the good qualities of the young chief. His bravery; his generosity and learning; his wisdom in the council, and extraordinary powers of endurance in the chase. It was universally acknowledged that no other Indian dian was so swift on foot, and none so strong, none so eloquent. His smile was sweet as the wind that kissed the bursting buds of spring. His anger as dark as the clouds that blackened the day until it becomes night, and terrible as the lightning that bursts forth to shatter the mighty oak or pine.
               It was said that he had travelled, and brought home with him customs which were gradually changing the Onebekas from hunters, to tillers of the soil, and even their religion was not now what it formerly was. This was attributed in part to some mysterious being, whom, he was said to have brought home with him, whose influence was everywhere felt, whose superiority was everywhere acknowledged, but whom few had ever seen.
               But what prompted my curiosity more than anything else was the accounts I had heard of the great temple, and the rock upon whose summit the fires of the Great Spirit were always burning, and where his voice was heard every day. The awe inspired by the Imau, when telling his devoted listeners of the sublime rights of their religion, and the love manifested by the Great Spirit by thus conversing with the Onebekas daily, had a most powerful and subduing effect upon their minds, and convinced them that they, above all others, were the favorites of the ruler of the universe.
               The eventful day came in all the beauty of a June morning, when I was to leave with Abekona to pay my respects, with the great men of the tribe, to the great Onebeka. As I felt that it was going to be, to me, a thing of the greatest importance through which I might yet regain my liberty, and the home of my childhood, I paid all the attention that was in my power, to my personal appearance, and took with me such ornaments and apparel as I thought could in any way add to my figure. A point upon which all Indians are vain, and which is considered next to wisdom, the most to be admired in a man.
               From the village of which Abekona was chief, to the chief town, was considered four day's journey. On our way we passed through other villages, and fell into company with other chiefs who were going to perform the same duty as ourselves.
               The incidents of our journey were not of sufficient interest to chronicle. At the end of the fourth day we encamped in the environs of the chief village of the Onebekas.
               The full moon, in resplendent majesty, shed her pale light upon the beautiful town. The tents of the chieftains who were to assemble on the morrow, scattered about irregularly, were by her softening rays transformed, in appearance, to diminutive castles in which the midnight fairies might disport themselves. Not the slightest breeze sighed through the trees, and the deep grandeur of the diamond studded vault of heaven was so impressive, that the leaves ceased their dancing, lest they might disturb the solemnity of the scene. While the god of sleep had set his seal upon all things around, with capricious humor he kept aloof from me. My mind wandered back to the scenes of my childhood, and the happiness I then enjoyed. To the times when a fond father took me upon his knee, and a devoted mother guided in their excursions, the flights of my youthful mind. What changes had taken place in our destinies. How little she supposed, when she related to me some marvellous adventure, that I should realise some still more marvellous, and enliven by my experience the dreariness of an Indian wigwam. Thoughts like these made my spirits heavy, and I walked forth, in the hope that the refreshing air and surrounding objects would fill my mind with something more pleasing.
               Bending my steps to an elevated spot, at a short distance, I took a seat upon a fallen tree, but had not time to compose myself to thought when a slight rustling in the leaves behind me attracted my attention. I turned and beheld a figure approach. Knowing that whoever he was, his intent could not be otherwise than friendly, I awaited until he came near to where I sat. As his head was partially concealed under a sort of cloak, peculiar to the tribe, I could not distinguish his features. Without noticing me, he walked past. Curious to know who else could be as restless as myself, I called after him. He turned suddenly about, and came to where I was seated. It was De Laneau.
               A messenger from heaven could not be welcomed with more warmth than De Laneau did me, and of all things else, I desired most to see him. What a strange coincidence, that the same thought which kept me awake, disturbed him. The same spirit moved us, the same hand guided us to the spot.
               Having related to each other the principal events that transpired in our respective neighborhoods since we last met, we arranged our plans for the ceremonies of the approaching day, and chatted away the time, until night began to redden at the approach of daylight, and nature whispered that some sleep would be necessary before the fatigues of another day.
               "And now, Walter, as soon as I have eaten, I will be with you. Do not leave until I have seen you."
               "You will find me at the third tent from a large moss-grown rock, near by a hemlock tree. As it is the only tree of that kind in the vicinity, you cannot fall in finding it."
               "Until then good night, and God bless you."
               The earnestness with which he uttered this benediction so struck me that I could not help saying to myself—
               "If there is any efficacy in a prayer which proceedeth from the lowest depths of the heart, this will be answered."
               The morning was clear and bright, and although the sun shone with dazzling brilliancy, there was a coolness in the air that made it exceedingly pleasant. De Laneau came to me at the appointed time, and with Abekous and myself, entered the town.
               The houses here appeared to be of a better order than any I had seen in the other villages, and what was surprising, many of them appeared to have been recently erected in the style of architecture in vogue in Hamilton. The roofs were supported by rafters, and appertures were in the sides resembling windows, but, of course, without glass. But if the buildings caused surprise, the plan of the town itself astonished us for its regularity, convenience and design.
               Before we had gone far, on attaining the top of some rising ground, all eyes were intent upon an object, which in me, excited a great deal of wonder, and in my companions, veneration. It was an immense pile of black ragged rocks, which might be about the eighth of a mile in circumference at their base, and tapering off to an immense height, until it terminated in a point. From the bottom, to about four times the height of the highest house in the village, it presented a very rough irregular appearance. At this height was a sort of terrace which appeared to have been formed by the sudden breaking off of several smaller rocks which surrounded the high one in the centre. From the place on which I stood this remarkable 
                     groop
                     group
                   looked like one large loaf of sugar surrounded by other loaves broken off in the middle, only that the centre one was relatively, a great deal higher. As we stood gazing upon it, a deep rumbling sound was heard far up in the air, and a silvery colored stream of light darted down its side. The noises above became louder and deeper, a vivid flash of lightning almost deprived us of sight, and a crash equal to the report of a thousand cannons shook the earth beneath us. The Indians bowed in reverence, and my eyes were instinctively cast upon the ground at this sudden and unexpected phenomena. When I again looked upon the rock, its summit was enveloped in a blaze of golden fire, which gradually became paler, until it disappeared in the daylight and its black, stern point was again visible.
               What was most singular in this, was, that there was not even a cloud to be seen, nor any of the usual signs attendant upon thunder and lightning. What wonder that the untaught children of the forest should regard the rock with reverence, and listen with awe and trembling to what they considered the resting-place of the Great Spirit. I confess that my own curiosity was raised to a very high pitch, 
                     amd
                     and
                   I determined at the first opportunity to try and fathom the mystery of the THUNDER ROCK.
               Our party arrived at the centre of the village, and as it may be of interest for my readers to know something of the capital of the Onebekas, I will give them a short description of it.
               About the centre of the village stood the thunder rock surrounded by a space about three quarters of a mile in circumference. In this space all public meetings were held, and sacrifices were offered. This was enclosed in a picquet wall, in which were eight gates, each gate opening into a street which ran in a straight line to the outer part of the village. Outside of the picquets was a street which ran completely around the enclosure, and at convenient distances from this were other streets which also completed a circle. A bird's-eye-view would show the streets and squares in a shape somewhat resembling the web of a field spider.
               The sun had passed the merridian before all the necessary arrangements were made by which the Indians could tender their submission to their chief. The ceremony consisted in delivering to him a weapon of war, usually a tomahawk, with the particular mark of the chieftain who delivered it, or part of the tribe over which he exercised control.
               Seated on the opposite side of the great temple, on a slightly elevated platform, which was covered with costly furs, was the great chief, whom we came to acknowledge as our master. On his right, were three aged men, whose air bespoke authority and wisdom: they were the wise men of the great temple. On his left three armed warriors stood ready to execute the will of their master. When we entered he arose. Majesty was stamped upon his brow. The broad high forehead—unusual among Indians—the finely chiseled features, the commanding stature, the easy roundness of his limbs, and the soft delicacy of his skin, gave him such an air of superiority that men instructively acknowledged his command.
               Abekona, in whom the diseased Onebeka placed sufficient confidence to give him the charge of a village on the outposts of his nation, and whose good qualities had made him somewhat famous, was permitted to be the first to lay his tribute at the feet of the head of his tribe.
               Advancing within a few paces, laying his battle-axe upon the ground, and placing his right hand upon his breast, he thus delivered himself:
               "The father of this nation tried Abekona; he found him true. A good son loves his father, and is faithful to him. Abekona loved the Onebeka. His love was rewarded by the care of a village. Abekona has seen other nations, and learned wisdom.—Wisdom should be used to make others more wise. Abekona lays his axe and heart at the feet of Onebeka."
               To which the chief replied—
               "The breast of Onebeka is warm with the love of his brothers. It kindles at the name of Abekona, A true brave uses his weapon only in the right. Take this and use it as a true brave. Abekona is the father of the village of Natewanda."
               Receiving the axe in the most respectful manner, Abekona withdrew. De Laneau and I, advanced together, declared our respect for the chief, and our entire devotion to his service. To which he, in a dignified manner, in a few words replied. Assuring us that we would receive the best treatment and high rewards for our services.
               I noticed that his style of addressing us was different to that in which he delivered himself to Abekona; and as I passed by him, on my way out, I fancied there was an expression in his countenance that I had before noticed somewhere.
               The other chiefs now came forward and much the same manner paid their respects to Onebeka. Before the ceremony ended it was nearly dark.
               During the afternoon I wandered through the village with De Laneau. All we saw surprised us. If the village of Natewanda was remarkable for its copper, it was still more so for the profusion of iron. Every rock and stone made us sensible of its presence. From the great furnace of nature many of the immense rocks which appeared above the surface, had been cast forth, as pure as the metal itself. In fact, the land in the vicinity seemed to be one vast deposite of pure iron.
               At night the Indians were enjoying themselves over a feast the Onebeka gave. Not having any disposition to join them in their uncultivated carousal, De Laneau and I. took a stroll on the outskirts of the village. Between the going down of the sun, and rising of the moon, an hour of darkness intervened. Seating ourselves upon an eminence beyond the sounds of the voices of the merry-making Indians, our attention was attracted by a sudden light above us, we turned, the summit of the rock was again on fire.
               In the darkness it had assumed an intense brilliancy, the like of which, I had never before seen. Sometimes, pale flashes of light, shaping themselves into a thousand fantastic shapes would play about its summit. An occasional stream of fire would pour down its side, in a flood of light, resembling melted iron. At other times it would form a spiral and wind like a serpent around the dark column. While we were wondering at the impressive sight, of this natural display of fireworks, we were almost rivited with amazement by the splendor of a column of crimson red, which added nearly one half to the already immense height of the rock. Upon its extreme summit was a circle of intense brightness which gradually widened until it had a breadth of some yards. A low murmuring sound ran through the upper air. The bright circle gradually descended, and appeared to consume the column on its way down. By the time it had reached its centre, the rumbling sound had increased to very distinct thunder. Suddenly the column of light 
                     seperated
                     separated
                   into an innumerable number of smaller ones, which twisting themselves into many curious shapes assumed at length, the form of a crown.—The light it emitted enabled us to see objects around us as clearly as we could in daylight. A tremulous concussion now took place in the atmosphere, which almost stunned us. The reverbrations became less and less until they died away in the distance.
               Our minds were too full for utterance.—Nature displayed herself in these Northern Wilds in all her beauty and grandeur. An exhibition like this, where the minds of the people are bedimmed with sophistical dogmas, instead of 
                     elevattng
                     elevating
                  , would have a tendency to a blind worship of the works, instead of the Great Unseen Worker. But the simple minds of the Onebekas attributed this to the pleasure the Great Spirit took in their sports and on that 
                     accout
                     account
                   enjoyed it the more.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               STRANGE TALES ARE TOLD.
               The moon was slowly rising over the wigwams, as De Laneau and I, too full of thought for conversation, 
                     begon
                     began
                   to retrace our steps to the village. We had not got very far, when we were met by a messenger, who told us that the Onebeka had sent for us, and awaited our arrival in the temple, which it appeared was also his wigwam on state occasions.
               When we were ushered into his presence, he had laid aside the stiff dignity with which it was necessary to receive the Indian Braves, and welcomed us with a warmth we did not expect; and to our astonishment, asked us, in good English, whether we understood that language. Upon being answered in the affirmative, he said:
               "Do you like the Onebeka nation?"
               "I have no reason to complain, I have been treated with kindness since I cam amongst them," said I. "And I believe my companion is equally satisfied with the treatment he has received."
               "I meant to say, how do you like the country?"
               "It is certainly a very extraordinary one, and very rich in metals."
               "It is on that account I wanted to speak to you. This country abounds in what is called in your nation, the useful metals; but it is of little use to the Indians, who do not understand as much about the manufacture of it as the white man. I want to open a trade with your nation, that they may come here and teach us the use they make of iron and copper. I will give them in return, all they want of the ore."
               "There are many men in our nation who would be very willing to teach your people on these terms."
               "I know that, and would like to make you my agent in the transaction. I want you to return to your own country and explain the peculiarity of our nation to your government. Tell them the inducements I offer, and I doubt not they will avail themselves of them."
               "There is nothing that would add to my happiness more than to be the means of benefitting the tribe of the Onebekas."
               Onebeka having told us that in a couple of days he would make such arrangements as were necessary to ensure a speedy and safe journey, changed the subject, and asked me—
               "Have you enjoyed yourselves to your satisfaction at the feast to-night."
               "I have enjoyed such a feast as I think will not fall again to my lot, in witnessing a most extraordinary phenomena on the top of that high rock."
               "To these who first see it, it must be a grand sight, for even the Indians who have been brought up at its base, regard it with awe. But you can explain it."
               "I confess I cannot."
               "I thought that all the white people understood the laws of electricity."
               "Many of them do, I have some little knowledge of it myself, but I am at a loss to account for the extraordinary display I have seen to-night"
               "For a long time, I, in common with all the rest of my tribe, supposed it was the Great Spirit making himself visible on the top of the rock, and on that account regarded it with veneration, but one from the nation of the white men has since told me that it is occasioned by the great amount of electricity generated where there is such an immense quantity of iron. And this rock, which is of pure iron, and, by some cause, thrust forth from the earth to such an extraordinary height, attracts to its top the great quantities with which the air is surcharged."
               "Is it thus in all seasons of the year?" I asked.
               "When the snow falls the fire on the rock is not so bright as in the summer. In cloudy weather it is brightest and most frequent."
               "You said one of our nation taught you to understand this natural law, I was under the impression that my companion and myself were the only whites that had visited the Onebekas."
               "There is one more, but one that has not been seen by many of the tribe," said he, smiling.
               "Is, did you say, then that person is here now."
               "Yes. But you have not yet eaten. I will return in a few moments," said the chief as he arose and left us.
               When he had gone, I said to De Laneau, who appeared lost in thought—
               "I cannot account for the strange idea, but I am under the impression that I have seen that man before."
               Before De Laneau had time to reply Onebeka reappeared.
               "If you will come with me," said the chief, "I will take you to where you may eat after your own manner, and see the person to whom I referred."
               He led the way, we followed him through the door we had seen him enter but a few minutes before, along a narrow passage which wound around a part of the circular building, turning a sharp angle to the right we came to a door that opened into a well lighted room.
               "This is the place," said the chief, as we entered.
               The room was furnished with all the necessaries of a modern household, and a few articles gave evidence of a taste for luxuries. A handsome table stood in the centre of the floor, furnished with dishes in shape like of those in common use in this country, but the material was wood. Iron knives and forks were also upon the table. Some curiously cut chairs were placed around the walls. A handsome sofa, covered with the skin of the black bear, filled one corner. A cheerful fire burned upon the hearth, and instead of the usual opening in the roof for the smoke to pass out, it was conveyed away with a very well made chimney.
               The comfortable "at home" like appearance of the apartment, brought forth the remark from De Laneau, that—
               "The originator of all these improvements must surely be a woman."
               An attendant now placed some smoking meats upon the table, arranged the seats, and invited us to partake. A door from the opposite side opened, and Onebeka, leading a dignified looking woman, advanced to where we were.
               The moment I saw her a sort of paralysic came over me; my heart ceased to perform its functions; my features became rigid; I could not move. Good heavens, it is my mother. I tried to speak to her, but could not, the words died within me before I could give them utterance.
               She came near the table, I tried to move, or give some sign of recognition, but my muscles ceased to act, I sat as motionless as a statue.
               I was aroused from my waking trance by a wild exclamation of—
               "Oh Emily!" muttered by De Laneau, and springing forward he clasped her in his arms. Then, as if his joy was too great to be borne alone, he turned to me and cried—
               "Walter, Walter, this is indeed a happy meeting."
               "Walter," screamed my mother. She had recognized her son. Her feelings overcame her nature, and she fell fainting into my arms.
               Abekona stood utterly 
                     counfounded
                     confounded
                  . He was at a loss to account for this strange exhibition and waited anxiously for some of us to so far collect ourselves as to explain it to him.
               When my mother recovered, she clasped me tightly in her arms, as though afraid of again losing me, and before she could speak burst into a flood of tears. The sun-burned features of De Laneau also relaxed, and I saw a tear or two roll down his manly cheek; nor could I restrain my feelings, my tears mingled with my mother's as they fell to the ground.
               Tell me not henceforth that mirth is an indication of gladness; the heart that is full of joy can exhibit it only through tears.
               The chief could bear it no longer, and anxious to relieve us all, broke the silence by saying—
               "I thought when I brought the white people together they would be glad, but they cry as though it gave them great pain."
               Like a light struggling through a cloud, De Laneau smiled through his tears and said—
               "We are melted through excess of happiness."
               "This is my boy, my Walter, that I was afraid I should never see. Walter, do you not know Henry?"
               Recollection now flashed through my brain. Abekona was indeed the Indian who had taken me on the dreadful night my father lost his life, from the Hurricane, to the house of Joe Staples.
               It 
                     it
                     is
                   unnecessary to say that our recognition afforded mutual pleasure, and our warm embrace was from the spontaneous promptings of a long cherished desire to see each other.
               Our anxious enquiries to hear each others story, were cut short by Abekona, who remarked—
               "While we eat, we can talk, and listen."
               So anxious were all of us to hear the other's history, that the viands before us were scarcely touched, but the keen appetites of our minds fed with a hearty relish upon the recital of my mother's sufferings who, turning to me, said—
               "After we were separated by the inhuman monsters, on that dreadful night, I was forced, bleeding and nearly naked, to keep pace with them, until I became so exhausted that I sank, almost lifeless, in the snow. I was in hopes that I would die, and although I tried to do so, I could not. How long I remained insensible I know not, but upon my recovery it was daylight. The snow had ceased to fall, and I found myself wrapped in some coarse cloths, of which the Indians had deprived themselves. This little act of kindness kindled a hope within me that they would relent, and take me to some house in one of the settlements, but alas, I soon became convinced that they had no such intention. It was in vain that I entreated for some act of clemency. They either did not, or pretended they did not, understand what I said.
               "We travelled on for several weeks, until the melting snow and the swollen state of the streams, made it impossible for us to proceed. Coming to an Indian village, I was allowed to rest for some days. The kindness of an Indian woman, in the place, did a great deal to restore me. She seemed to understand my situation. She was a mother, and supposed that I might have had children, from which I had been torn. With the same delicate regard with which one woman in—even savage life—administer to the wants of another in distress, did this good angel attend to me.
               "When I had regained enough of my former strength to enable me to travel. I was again ordered to make ready for a start. The good Indian woman, when she heard of it, shed tears from the very thoughts of what I had to suffer, and I felt as though I was committing a crime by living any longer subject to such monsters. This good Indian woman went to the chief of the village in the hope that he would afford me protection and detain me by force, but unfortunately it is considered, by the Indians, effeminate to be ruled by a woman, and she was dismissed from his presence with a sharp rebuke, and an admonition not to trouble him again,
               "For two weeks we continued to make our way through the forest. Sometimes I was obliged to walk through streams, when the water would reach up to my arms, and often I attempted to drown myself, but I was dragged through the stream by some one of the wretches before I could accomplish it.
               "One evening I was much surprised at the agitation of my masters, (as I now considered them) who did all they could to make me increase my speed, which, under any circumstance I would be unwilling to do, but now, weak as I was, I was unable, Finding that I would not keep pace with them, they took hold of me by the arms, and thus forced me with them, as fast as they could run. I now became aware that they were trying to make their escape from some threatened danger, and looking behind me, I discovered four men in pursuit of us. Finding that if they continued with me, they must inevitably be overtaken, one of them suddenly turned upon me, and seizing his knife made an attempt to plunge it into my heart. Fortunately this he did not do. I fell. They supposed me dead, nor was I sure that the blow would not prove mortal. Before many minutes the pursuing party came to where I lay. When within a few steps of me, I closed my eyes, in the expectation that they would complete what the others began, by taking my life, but found instead, that they showed a disposition to befriend me. When I opened my eyes the first person I saw was Henry, who was anxiously watching for some sign of animation.
               "That night we remained where we were. My wound was not dangerous and the next morning I was well enough to travel slowly. Probably the knowledge that I was now in the charge of some one, in whose hands my life was safe, sided a good deal in my easy recovery.
               "As I am anxious to hear how you came here, I will not now say mere than that as we were much nearer here than Binbrook. Henry thought it most advisable to come, than to return. Knowing that you were safe, and being assured that I would be allowed to go back in the Spring, I consented When the late Onebeka became aware of how much I could teach the women of his tribe, he was unwilling that I should depart, and on various pretexts kept me here until now. But Henry has told me that he will this season fulfil the promise he made me at the first. A promise I feel assured he will keep inviolate, now Providence has sent me such guides."
               "Yes," said Henry. "I regret, for the sake of our village and people, to lose you; but I have promised, and you may leave in a few days with your son."
               "And now, Walter, let me hear how you have got along since we parted," said my mother, as we left the table and drew around the fire.
               I recounted the principal events of my life, in as short a time as I could. Sometimes the tears would start to my mother's eyes, as I told of my sufferings. Again, when I passed over some stroke of adversity with a bit of natural philosophy, she would laugh, and exclaim—
               "How like his father."
               When I related my fight with the Indian with the scar upon his face, Henry's eyes rolled wildly with excitement, and the account of his death seemed to please him much.
               "But," said I, as I concluded, "I will not wear your patience any longer, for I am very anxious to hear what De Laneau has to say for himself."
               "De Laneau!" exclaimed my mother in surprise.
               "Yes," said he, "that is the name by which Walter knows me. Nor did I know until to-night that his name was Warren. But have patience and I will tell you the whole."
               "You know," said he, addressing himself to my mother, "after the night in which my father turned George (my father) out of the house, that the old man was never completely himself afterwards. From that night forward he became so morose that it was impossible to live with him in quiet. He regretted, from his soul he regretted, what he had done. But he was too proud to retract. In the conflict between affection and pride his mind was injured, and the death of my mother, which happened shortly afterwards, instead of softening his temper by the solemnity of such an event, added a tartaric acidity to his former peevishness.
               "I was now the only person upon whom he could expend his wrath. It is needless for me to relate the many indignities I had heaped upon me, or what I suffered from his temper. Home became unbearable. I fled to France. I remained there about eighteen months, but could hardly keep soul and body together. I had sufficient money to pay my passage back to England, and pennyless, I landed again upon her shores.
               "To return to my father's house in such a condition, would have been madness. I was therefore obliged to look about me for some means of earning a livelihood. The fear of meeting with any of my old acquaintances, while serving in a menial capacity, and as I supposed I could manage to pass (in England) for a Frenchman, I altered it from John Warren to Louis De Laneau.
               "Travelling along the docks I happened to get into conversation with a sailor, who had just shipped on board a vessel in the service of the Hudson Bay Company. By his means I also got employment in the same ship. We made a successful voyage to a trading station and depot on St. James' Bay, where, as I was an expert book-keeper, I was promoted in the service, and shortly afterwards removed eastward to Labrador.
               "While here, I wrote to my father telling him my position. I received an answer from his attorney, which informed me that he was dead, and that he had left me all his property, with an urgent request that I should return immediately to England. I had made an engagement to serve the company for several years, and they refused to release me from the agreement. It was therefore impossible for me to return, as there were no ships trading to the territory where I was, except those in their employ-As they considered my services valuable and in order to prevent me from quitting them, they gave me the command of a party, and dispatched me far off to the north-west, with the promise, that, if I was successful, they would at the end of two years cancel the agreement. I was even more successful than they hoped, and the two years had about expired. I was preparing to return, but unluckily went on board the Crazy Jane to settle my business at another station, when the unfortunate wreck occurred. I say unfortunate, but I cannot help thinking it was all for the best, as I thus gain a nephew, and recover a long-lost and dear relation."
               Here was a discovery. De Laneau, it appeared, was my uncle, and heir to the estate to which my father, by right of primogeniture, was entitled.
               "And now," said I to Abekona "it remains for you to fill one or two unconnected places in the curious chain of circumstances by which we have been drawn hither."
               "To make you clearly understand it, it is necessary for me to go back to a time previous to my appearance at the Hurricane.
               "While engaged one time in a hunt, carried away by the excitement, I wandered into the territory of another tribe, that looked with envious feelings upon the content and happiness of the Onebekas. Before I was aware of my indiscretion, I was surrounded by a party, and taken as a prisoner before their chief. Instead of the worst treatment I expected to receive, the old man asked me questions concerning our nation, and in gratitude for services he had at one time received from some of the Onebekas, I was set at liberty in the morning.
               "This old chief told me, in a conversation we had during the night, that he had been, when he was a young man, among the pale-faces, and related so many strange things of them and their nation, that I was determined at all hazzards to pay them a visit. When I returned to my father's wigwam, I told my secret resolve to one of the wise men and he encouraged me in my design. It was necessary, before I started, to get some persons to accompany me; unfortunately none but the greatest desperadoes of our tribe would venture. All things being ready, we began our journey, and travelled on for several weeks. We passed through the territories of several tribes, some of whom gave us information that was of much service to us. But I had great difficulty in restraining the evil propensities of my companions.
               "As we approached the regions of the white man, the Indians whom we met were more civil to us, and we were at length, through their assistance, conducted as far is Binbrook. As the Hurricane was the wildest region in it, and being at first some what afraid of mixing freely with the white men, I chose that as my hunting ground. The first season I did little else than observe their homes, and their manner of working; and retiring to the village of a friendly tribe that lived about one day's journey westward, on the banks of a large river, I remained until the next hunting season began.
               "I had now become somewhat familiar with the white men, and the next season happening to meet one of them while hunting, I went home with him. We became friends. This man, when he had leisure, taught me the use of figures and letters. In a short time I could read. I loved this white man. It was Mr. Warren."
               Here my mother let fall a few tears to his memory, and Henry continued—
               "After four years, I returned to my tribe, and began to teach them what I had learned in my travels."
               "But you have omitted the incident of the burning of the Hurricane Lodge," said I. "What did you do with the body of the Indian from whom you rescued me, and how did you succeed in your pursuit of the others?"
               Henry looked at my mother. He evidently did not wish to revive the recollections. But as I asked, he answered—
               "When I left you at the house in the settlement I returned. The Indian had cut the bark with which I tied him to the tree, and made his escape. He only feigned death to save his life. I followed him, and after he had told me the rout the others took, and their intentions, I made him promise he would never return to the Onebekas, and continued in pursuit of the fugitives. I came to the village of the chief who had first befriended me. He gave me information of their whereabouts, and sent with me a party of men. We overtook them. The rest you know."
               It was evident, by thus cutting the matter short, that Henry did not like to speak much of himself; but my curiosity prompted me to ask—
               "By what circumstance were you elevated to be the chief of the Onebekas?"
               "The late Onebeka loved his tribe. He had no children. I was his brother's son. He thought I was wise and brave, and at his death made me his successor."
               It was growing late. My mother retired. Abekona arose to have a talk with his people, and my uncle and myself began to lay plans for our departure.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               CONCLUSION.
               FULLY equipped as the embassador of the Onebegas, in the company of my mother, and my uncle, with an escort of twelve chosen braves, I began my journey homeward. In parting, Henry loaded us with valuable presents, even the stoical firmness of the Indian gave way, and I could see that he turned to hide a tear when he took my hand for the last time. My mother was very much affected. It was, to her, like leaving home again. Not so with De Laneau—I still call him by that name—his unusual flow of spirits soon put us all in good humor.
               It would be tedious to recount the particulars of our journey homewards. We once more reached the waters of Huron, and chartered a small vessel, in which we embarked for Detroit. It so happened that the captain had some business to the Georgian Bay, and while there, De Laneau induced him to steer for the Station in which he had left Old Pete. The place was deserted, and the houses very much out of repair. Some valuable treasures he had received from Indians where still he deposited them. They were placed on board; and, after a pleasant voyage we arrived at our destination.
               From Detroit, we crossed over to London, in Canada, and here rested a couple of days, in order to provide ourselves with some articles which were indespensible for a reappearance in society.
               Our arrival having been chronicled by the papers, the inhabitants came in great numbers to see the curiously dressed Onebekas, and the "woman who had spent such a long time among the Indians." A the representative of such a great people, the authorities tendered me the freedom of the town, and provided me with a public dinner.
               On the morning of our departure, while waiting for the stages, which were to convey us to Hamilton, I took a short walk. Passing up a narrow street, my attention was arrested by a 
                     desplay
                     display
                   of penmanship in a show case, in a window. I stopped to look at it. A man stood at my door, as if waiting for some person.
               "Won't you step inside, sir," said he.
               I stepped inside. A long pine table, and a few old worm-eaten seats comprised the whole of the scanty furniture.
               "I'm a writing master. Here are two Diplomas I received at the last Provincial Fair, as the best in the country. My terms are quite reasonable. Wouldn't you like to try a lesson or two."
               Without speaking, I turned and walked out. It was Kamul. He did not recognise me. Having found lecturing on temperance improfitable, he was obliged as a last resource to make a living in this manner. He must have improved greatly since he taught me, to be able to do much at it.
               Wherever we went, our fame now proceeded us. In every newspaper I took in my hands, was something of the great explorer and adventurer of the northern wilds, to whom the country was indebted for the discovery of such a wonderful country, so rich in valuable metals, and all that tended to make a nation wealthy. In passing through the towns of Woodstock and Brantford triumphal arches were raised to my honor, and I was welcomed by a public reception. When I entered 
                     Hamiltion
                     Hamilton
                  , the members of the Corporation came out in a body to receive me, and I was escorted to the City Hotel, where, with my suit, I was provided at the public expense.
               How different was my departure, but a few short years before. The poor boy to whom they would disdain to notice, and who, in his need, had not one to even speak a kind word for him, was now, when he was above want, feasted at the public expense, and thousand were thought but trifling to lavish upon him.
               As soon as it could be conveniently prepared, a public dinner was given me, to which the principal persons of the place were invited. The usual amount of toasts speeches, and sentiments having been got through with at an early hour, the night was spent in a great ball. Of course, I was the Lion of the evening. Near midnight, while the dancers were engaged, I was invited by a portly, old gentleman, to step into the next room, to take a glass of wine. After half an hour's pleasant conversation, he suddenly looked at his watch, 
                     ann
                     and
                   exclaimed.
               "Pray, excuse me, sir, I had almost forgotten that I promised my daughter to be with her before this."
               "Allow me, sir, to accompany you, that I may bear witness the fault is not yours."
               "If you will do me the honor, with pleasure, sir."
               Reclining gracefully upon a lounge at the farther end of the room, was a beautiful looking woman. A veil so concealed her face, that I could not see it distinctly She did not appear to notice our approach until her father stood by her side, she then quietly withdrew the veil and revealed to my astonished eyes the classic features of Fannie Stenson.
               I need not enter into the detail of our conversion, however interesting to ourselves, I fear it would prove irksome to my readers. Suffice it to say that she did not retire as soon as her father was led to expect. The portrait which I still wore, gave more convincing proofs of the depth of my affections, than the most eloquent words, and before I left her, we were pledged to each other.
               As my mother was anxious to visit Binbrook, and the Prime Minister of Canada, to whom I was accredited, was in England, and not expected to return in less than a month we went there. I employed my time in examining and improving the condition of my farm, which was now through the indefatigable industry of Joe Staples, changed from a stern wilderness into smiling fields.
               On our way to Binbrook, we were obliged to turn out of the way to permit a very large funeral to pass. Supposing that they were conveying to their final resting place the remains of some person of distinction. I enquired of a man who came and stood by our carriage.
               "Whose funeral is this?"
               "It is the funeral of the first man that ever ever felled a tree in Binbrook. Poor, old fellow, he had heard of the railroad and telegraph, but would never believe that a person could either travel at the rate of forty miles an hour, or talk through the wires with a person in 
                     Pensylvania
                     Pennsylvania
                  . A few days ago he went all the way to Hamilton to satisfy himself, and what he saw had such an effect upon him that he died in less than a week. His last words were: 'The world is getting too wise for me to live in it any longer. His name was Hans Van Vranken.'"
               After my unceremonious departure, Joe enquired more closely into the character of Kamaul, and believing that he had done me an injustice in doubting my statements, he tried to make amends, by improving my lands, for which he now refuses all compensation.
               Delilah, his wife, is the same good natured, happy person, and blessed with a fine family, is the personification of health and contentment.
               The same morning we started for Binbrook, my uncle left for England, promising as soon as he settled his affairs there to return and live with us.
               I now applied myself diligently to work, and in the space of six months completed my arrangements with the government, who, in order to fully avail themselves of the great advantages thus opened to them, resolved to construct a ship canal around the Sault St. Marie, by which a large trade with the upper lakes, and particularly with the Onebekas, could be carried on.
               I now received a letter from my uncle, informing me that every thing was settled to his satisfaction. That he had made me his heir, and had registered the deeds of his estates in my name, merely reserving to himself what would support him. For, said he in his letter:
               "Of what use can all this wealth be to me. The best portion of my life having been spent away from society, my greatest desire now is to be beside you and your mother, that I may live the remainder of my life in quiet."
               The same letter stated that he would meet me in New York about the middle of the next month.
               One week before the time, my uncle was expected to arrive, Fannie and I were married. We arrived in New York and took rooms in the St. Nicholas Hotel, where my uncle was already waiting for us.
               As the Indians who accompanied me, called me their Chief, it was rumored that I was the head of a powerful nation. The directors of the Crystal Palace courteously invited me to attend the inauguration, and opening of that temple of industry, where accompanied by my wife, I was introduced to President Pierce, who kindly invited me to visit him at Washington.
               Previous to starting to the Capitol, to gratify Fannie, I remained some time longer in New York, that she might have time to examine, at her leisure, the curiosities of nature and art collected at great gathering of all nations. During this short period, having little else to do I amused myself by writing this simple narrative of WALTER WARREN, THE ADVENTURER OF THE NORTHERN WILDS.
            
            THE END
         
      
      
         
     
            
               
               RICH, RACY AND RARE!!!
               THE SELECT WORKS OF TOBIAS SMOLLETT.
               New Illustrated Cheap Edition, with numerous Engravings from Designs by CRUIKSHANK and KENNY MEADOWS; Printed on Superior paper; containing
               
                  THE ADVENTURES OF RODERICK RANDOM, Price 50 cents.
                  THE ADVENTURES OF PEREGRINE PICKLE, 50 cts.
                  THE ADVENTURES OF FERDINAND COUNT FATHOM. 38 cts.
                  THE EXPEDITION OF HUMPHREY CLINKER, 38 cts.
                  THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCELOT GREAVES, &C. Price 38 Cents.
               
            
            
               THE SELECT WORKS OF THOMAS FIELDING.
               New Illustrated Cheap Edition. With numerous Engravings from Designs by CRUIKSHANK and KENNY MEADOWS—Printed on Superior Paper, containing
               
                  TOM JONES, OR, THE HISTORY OF A FOUNDLING. Price 50 cts.
                  THE ADVENTURES OF JOSEPH ANDREWS AND HIS FRIEND MR.
                  ABRAHAM ADAMS. 38 cts.
                  AMELIA, 50 cts.
                  THE LIFE OF JONATHAN WILD, WITH THE LIFE OF FIELDING, Price 25 Cents.
               
            
            
               AINSWORTH'S BEST SELECT NOVELS.
               
                  THE LANCASHIRE WITCHES. Price 50 cents.
                  ST. JAMES: Or, THE COURT OF QUEEN ANNE. 25 cts.
                  MISER'S DAUGHTER. 50 cts.
               
            
            
               DOUGLAS JERROLD'S MOST APPROVED WORKS.
               
                  ST. GILES AND ST. JAMES. Illustrated, Price 38 cents.
                  THE DREAMER AND WORKER. 25 cents.
                  MARY MATURIN: A STORY OF SOCIAL DISTINCTIONS. 25 cts
               
            
            
               DICKENS' STORIES FROM "HOUSEHOLD WORDS."
               
                  LIZZIE LEIGH, 12 ½ cents.
                  STORY OF A COAL FIRE, 12 ½ cents.
                  THE MINER'S DAUGHTERS, 12 ½ cents.
                  THE LOADED DICE, 12 ½ cents.
               
            
            
            
               
               JAMES'S NEW CHARMING NOVEL.
               A STORY WITHOUT A NAME.
               By G. P. R. JAMES.
               AUTHOR OF "THE GIPSEY," "DARNLEY," "ARABELLA STUART," ETC., ETC.
               Price 38 Cents.
               THIS latest production of one of the most, if not the most strictly dramatic novelist of the present day, already commands the attention of the reading public to an extent almost without a parallel. Rich in information of the period, the scenes, characters, and portraitures are delineated with that skilful and truthful force which long experience in the art of public writing, added to an unmeasured fund of the world's history, can alone impart. If "Darnley" and "Richelieu," and the many other historic novels falling from his pen, have fascinated and instructed, it is no less than due to say that the present book, albeit "Without a Name," must draw down equal admiration.
               
                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.
                  From the Home Journal.
                  "It is decidedly one of the most finished of the numerous works of this popular and, ile novelist. James has drawn few characters of more surpassing loveliness than the heroine, Emily Hastings; nor has he ever portrayed the converse of all we admire in woman, with a bolder hand than the portrait he exhibits in Mrs. Hazelton. The male characters, too, stand out in his pictorial group, individualized and charactered. The story is, as is usual with this writer, one of absorbing and never-flagging interest. In this peculiar form of a novelist's power, James is certainly a master in his art, and this last effort of his genius shows an undiminished and an apparently inexhaustible capability of inventive power."
                  From the Commercial Advertiser.
                  "One of James's best stories, which, by the enterprise of the publishers, was secured for the columns of the International Magazine, from which popular miscellany it is now reprinted in very handsome pamphlet form. The tragic interest of the story is well sustained, and the characters are delineated with great power."
                  From the Newport Mercury.
                  "James has written nothing more spirited than the work before us.—It is teeming with excitement, and the scenes are often varied, though on every page one finds the unmistakable stamp of its author. The denoument is certainly novel for this class of fictions—the hero and heroine do not marry—the old folks do not withhold their consent to the last moment and then yield, but first encourage the suit and then forbid the banns—the mother is poisoned by an amiable friend—the father strangles the heroine, the supposed murderess—the hero leaves for parts unknown—the mischief maker is discovered in course of time, and meets an untimely end, and the father on finding that he had killed his innocent daughter, goes stark mad, as a matter of course. The work must become a great favorite with the popular author's numerous readers."
                  Published by STRINGER & TOWNSEND, 222 BROADWAY.
               
            
            
               EUGENE SUE'S MOST ATTRACTIVE WORKS.
               No one can read any of Sue's pictures of life without acknowledging that he has perused a boo which leaves vivid recollections behind. This favorite of the reading world possesses an insight into human, nature and conduct that few writers are endowed with, and when we consider that he is an independent thinker, a friend to every class, and an enemy alone to oppression and unjust social distinction, we must give him our sympathies, and credit for his efforts in the cause of humanity in such works as the "Capital Sins" and "The Mysteries of Paris." The most pleasing of this favorite writer's productions are the following, which will be found well printed on good paper, suitable for binding in two or three splendid volumes.
               
                  MARY LAWSON, HIS LAST, JUST PUBLISHED. Price 50 Cents.
                  CAPITAL SINS: PRIDE, ENVY, ANGER. MADELINE. Price—each 25 Cents.
                  MATILDA: or, Memoirs of a Young Woman. Price 50 Cents.
                  MYSTERIES OF PARIS. Price 50 Cents.
                  THE SALAMANDER. Price 25 Cents.
                  MYSTERIES OF LONDON. 2 VOLS. ILLUSTRATED. Price One Dollar.
                  FEMALE BLUEBEARD. Price 25 Cents.
                  THERESE DUNOYER. Price 25 Cents.
                  MYSTERIES OF THE HEATH. Price 25 Cents.
                  TEMPTATION. Price 25 Cents.
                  COLONEL DE SURVILLE. Price 12½ Cents.
               
            
            
            
               
               MISCELLANEOUS BOOKS,
               
                  FURNISHING THE BEST KIND OF READING.
                  MARMADUKE WYVIL. By H. W. Herbert, 38 cts
                  COURTSHIP AND WEDLOCK, 25 cts
                  THE PEER'S DAUGHTERS. By Lady Bulwer, 38 cts
                  THE GOLDEN CALF, 25 cts
                  KATE IN SEARCH OF A HUSBAND, 25 cts
                  GEORGE BARNWELL, 25 cts
                  ROSE SO MERVILLE, 25 cts
                  THE OLD CONVENTS OF PARIS, 25 cts
                  MYSTERIES OF THE CRIMINAL RECORDS, 25 cts
                  THE FIRST FALSE STEP, 25 cts
                  THE BOTTLE; or, the First Step to Crime, 25 cts
                  THE PLEDGE; or, the First Step to Fortune, 25 cts
                  CLEVELAND; a Tale of the Church, 25 cts
                  LAUNCELOT WIDGE, 25 cts
                  THE MONK. By Lewis, 25 cts
                  CLEMENT LORIMER; or, the Book with the Iron Clasps, 25 cts
                  CHARITY SISTERS AND THE DEFORMED, 25 cts
                  MANUSCRIPTS FROM THE DIARY OF A PHYSICIAN, 25 cts
                  RODY THE ROVER. By Carleton, 25 cts
                  THE TWO LOVES: a Story of New York, 25 cts
                  THREE NIGHTS IN A LIFETIME, 25 cts
                  SHIP WRECKED GOLD-SEEKERS: a Tale, 25 cts
                  THREE CUTTERS. By Captain Marryatt, 25 cts
                  THE DARK LADY OF DOONA, 25 cts
                  HISTORY OF ALL CHRISTIAN SECTS, 38 cts
                  CALIFORNIA AND ITS GOLD REGIONS, 25 cts
                  MRS. ELLIS'S HOUSEKEEPING MADE EASY, 13 cts
                  LIGHT AND DARKNESS. By Mrs. Crowe, 50 cts
                  WILFRED MONTRESSOR, a romance of New York, 50 plates 50 cts
                  EVA; or, the Isles of Life and Death. By Maturin, 50 cts
                  OLD LONDON BRIDGE; or, the Days of Henry VIII, 50 cts
                  RICHARD OF YORK: or, the White Rose of England, 50 cts
                  ADVENTURES OF A MEDICAL STUDENT, 50 cts
                  THE LOVES OF PARIS. Illustrated, 50 cts
                  MIRANDA. By the Author of The Trapper's Bride, 50 cts
                  ANN GREY. By the Author of Granby, 50 cts
                  ARCHIBALD WERNER, 50 cts
                  THE ORPHANS OF UNWALDEN, 50 cts
                  DERMOT O'BRIAN. By H. W. Herbert, 50 cts
                  THE BLACK PROPHET. By Carleton, 50 cts
                  WAT TYLER, the Bondman, 50 cts
                  LODORE. By Mrs. Shelley, 50 cts
                  MY PENINSULAR MEDAL. By an Old Peninsular, 25 cts
                  CHARITY, AND ITS REWARD. By Mrs. Snelling, 25 cts
                  MARY BUCHANAN, 25 cts
                  ADMIRAL'S DAUGHTER. By Mrs. Marsh, 25 cts
                  MR. DALTON'S LEGATEE, a very Nice Woman, 25 cts
                  MATERNAL LOVE: a Novel, 25 cts
                  THE OCEAN CHILD, 25 cts
                  CRUISE IN A WHALEBOAT, 25 cts
               
            
            
               CHOICE WORKS BY THE BEST AUTHORS,
               
                  LANDOR.— 
                        THE YOUTH OF SHAKSPERE.
                        SHAKSPERE AND HIS FRIENDS.
                        THE SECRET PASSION.
                        Each of these works may be had separate, done up in illustrated paper covers, price 50 cents each; or the whole together in one handsome volume, bound in red cloth, $2.
                     
                  
                  RELLSTAB.—EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND TWELVE; or, Napoleon's Invasion of Russia, with a Frontispiece, 50 cents.
                  WILLIS G. CLARKE.—THE OLLAPODIANA and other Papers. 1 vol. cloth, $1 50.
                  DITSON.—CIRCASSIA; or, A Tour to the Caucasus. Beautiful Engraved Frontispiece. 1 vol cloth, $1 25.
                  POWELL.—THE LIVING AUTHORS OF AMERICA. 1 vol. cloth, $1. Containing Critical Sketches of COOPER, EMERSON, WILLIS, POE, LONGFELLOW, PRESCOTT, BRYANT HALLECK, DANA, FRANCES S. OSGOOD, MARGARET FULLER, MRS. KIRKLAND JARED SPARKS, &c.
                  MRS. ELLIS.—SELF-DECEPTION; or, The History of a Human Heart. In Parts, 37½ cts. each
                  CHAMIER.— 
                        THE CRUISE OF THE MIDGE.
                        TOM CRINGLE'S LOG.
                        These two books are fast anchored in the public esteem. Their parentage was never confessed but to the gallant Chamier, there is little doubt, belongs the laurel.
                     
                  
                  WEMYSS.—TWENTY-SIX YEARS OF THE LIFE OF AN ACTOR. Furnishing a complete History of the American Stage. 2 vols. price 75 cents.
                  LIPPARD.— 
                        THE EMPIRE CITY; or, New York by Night and Day. 50 cents.
                        WASHINGTON AND HIS MEN. 50 cents.
                     
                  
               
            
            
               STIRRING HISTORICAL ROMANCES.
               
                  RICHARD OF YORK;
                  OR, THE WHITE ROSE OF ENGLAND.
                  Price 50 Cents.
                  This nervous and eloquent book carries us back to the times in which men were as well trained and ready to fight as to sit down to breakfast. The civil commotion which raged so long and fiercely throughout England is described with an energy seldom equalled; indeed, many passages are as brilliant as the most powerful book we have read. It stirs the blood to read of such deeds of prowess.
               
               
                  ANNE GREY.
                  BY THE AUTHOR OF "GRANBY," "JANE SHORE," &c.
                  Price 50 Cents.
                  "This is probably one of the most popular Novels that has ever been published in this country. N. Y. Commercial Advertiser.
                  
               
            
            
            
               
               REYNOLDS'S WORLD-WIDE POPULAR WORKS.
               
                  THE GIPSY CHIEF.
                  Price 50 Cents.
                  This romance is the latest splendid effort from Reynolds' pen. This author has been much decries by some Puritanic English writers for he has unwrung the withers and made wince the conduct and practices of certain personages and classes of English society which these screeners of vice would have approved being let alone. The dramatic power throughout the whole of this author's works is strong and vivid. There is no straining after undue effect; his positions are nearly always striking, and when he relates scenes and incidents with the seriousness of the biographer or historian, they may be relied upon as faithful and true. "The Gipsy Chief" is not a book of revealments as are most of his others, but it is a book of extraordinary genius and ability.
               
               
                  POPE JOAN; OR, THE FEMALE PONTIFF.
                  Price 50 Cents.
                  Of thrilling interest, and abounding in curious historic revelations. From the first line to the last a chain of wonderful developments enwraps soul and thought.
               
               
                  FAUST,
                  A ROMANCE OF THE SECRET TRIBUNALS.
                  As the title denotes, this is a book of mystery and magic. We are certain it will be reading with deep interest and pleasure; wild though in parts, it is both powerful and grand.
               
               
                  VIRGINIA MORDAUNT, THE SEAMSTRESS.
                  No man ever wrote stronger or more sincerely in the cause of humanity than Reynolds has done in this truthful work. The book is instinct with kindly feeling, and as a story the production blends fact and fiction in a degree charming to dwell upon and inducing that softened state of repose which follows the doing of a benevolent action.
               
               
                  WALLACE! THE HERO OF SCOTLAND.
                  The finest history of this great warrior that has ever been written. Jane Porter's renowned work must allow this rival life of one of her "Scottish Chiefs" to share the merit of public distinction. In the disguise of romance the book is no less than a life-history, and every thinking mind will see that the scenes and events in which Scotia's stalwart champion took part, are but another verification of the adage that truth is stranger than fiction, and that the prodigies performed in the stirring times of our forefathers are not to be gainsaid because the hero Wallace wielded a claymore which it takes a strong effort of a modern arm to raise from the floor of Dumbarton Castle, where it now lies. The book is profusely and attractively illustrated.
               
               
                  THE FOUR BOOKS
                  UPON WHICH REYNOLDS'S FAME WAS FIRST ESTABLISHED:
                  
                     LIFE IN LONDON 2 Vols. Price $1.
                     ELLEN MUNROE: a sequel to do. 2 Vols. " 1.
                     ESTHER DE MEDINA. 2 Vols. " 1.
                     THE REFORMED HIGHWAYMAN. 2 Vols. 1.
                  
               
            
         
      
   
