
    ----CITATION----
        Furber, George C.. Ike McCandliss, and Other Stories, or, Incidents in the Life of a Soldier .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6498
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Ike McCandliss, and other stories, or, Incidents in the life of a soldier
             
                IKE MCCANDLISS,   AND OTHER STORIES;    OR,   INCIDENTS IN THE LIFE OF A SOLDIER.   BY GEORGE C. FURBER, AUTIOR OF THE TWELVE MONTHS VOLUNTEER, ETOC   CINCINNATI: PUBLISHED BY U. P. JAMES No. 167 WALNuT STREET:     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year Eighteen Hundred and Flfty-two, by J. A. &U. P. JAMES, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the District of Ohio.   PREFACE. READER, it is not at all probable that you would read a lengthy preface, should 'the author write one, and therefore, he is under many obligations to you for saving him this labor; and he invites you to pass on and sketch the tales; and if they are interesting, or amusing., so express it to others, if you please, and it will prove far more advantageous than any prefatory remarks that could be made by                    TH ATO THE AUTHOR     CONTE N TS. The Countersign, "Roasting Ears,"     -  -  -   -    * 9 Schemes of Soldiers to obtain Liquor,  -   -  -        13 Do.    Do.      Do. No. II,    -  -  -      18 Our'Private, "The Colonel," in the Military Hospital, - -     23 The Patriotic Congressman,          -            26 The Camp at Night,    -  -               .    29 Tricks of Soldiers upon each other, -  -        -      36 Schemes of Soldiers to obtain Liquor, No. III, -          45 The Camp at Night, No. II, - .-' 56 Daily Scenes of a Soldier's Life,     "      -   .   67 Fighting on one's own hook,   -  -  -   -    -      93 EMBELLISHMENTS. Bombardment of Vera Cmrz,  -  -     *  "  "  FRONTISPIECE. Gate of Mercy, at the City of Vera Crus, -  -    -  - -   19 View of the City of Tampico,  -    -  -  *  -       59 View of the River Panuco, -  -.                  65     -:CKMP STO:RiEIS,;:s:   ;C UT  i. .-; A t 5' TfI-E:.iOOUNTERE-('cR;OAttIR jS." i t, - s  , ' ,  }r  1l   i, RxWo .l  the autior to iatroduce to, you a aoedierg. a he stands before yboU, n j he ranks n p,arade,p." ,Colonel Whit:er," as: imnyerlsally alled .n t1e, rg' enet -to which hee beqngei, (thie T4nessee, Cavalry )' and. I wqs  Colonel at home, in Tnnessee, before, the .Mexican war broke out, and was niace ,;Bnrgldier-Gelerai onhiq return; bui  lherehp, was but a private, fad eyM. a .orp oral, ehad comm aani ,ver hiim,;thogh soetimnses  it 1appined ,that a conel in comnnand would not .eep him, straight, a wh bp nofice an the, s8uee/ding tales, in sveral Pof hicc he. was a prominentactor, for wherever fn or. iquor, was .to 1b procured, . the "Obnel: . always had a full shaeine the proceedings necessary to ohtai eiter. T'e Colonel was about six feet in hight square bpilt, portly; ,with,a fu}, rqiind, re, fac, dearbge yis, ,n .the comrusw of w' ch, abt aoglaqne,; dithnli4 b, ser or sngat o ie time, a e mtc!;, aron.,4.Irgr  and, ,byet  whicah t eq j; and, the .saebre were 4 handleA play- things. B  mot   and chin were coai   SL b heavy, ustahwj s ,an4l whrgnig ,  h6e appw edq pretty ,say to a ol    ,frp m f . -,a little distance; bui th eq wa s. no :rudeness. aboit. himf , NXop rs^ hiad, more. kiudness alheart thinjhiet,; twiardst nq one o bua fqp, ha4ije, tthe ilightest. Wds]ike, dp4 Yi cfa? no personjsaoqre despised i, thb eyes o- a soldier ^ aanu a ifop, especially so when a peronsqge of that desrpjtiQi copanyreeh attimt t-or baie andrs  company, regiment, or brigade, and   passes witl silent pn4enpt by; tAw pri  v  ote sodiers. theseperspns,nyjecap Iany return of feeling that mijght ^ by, regiars, whose habits o# di9i1}n, aind .sub;ordinatiou ' rill prpvent3the frppi eixibying their'!d jl te^ toi t t6t4eiractions; bt thqe e is deji^t whene inl tiisw .t hey Icqe ,in cqntact witveolxnte pers; m,a ny wIf a^ i ranks, b gtof#e,4, staxsitg44,ijgitAlA^f officers at home,. cannot ch^ok ylighoqr1 -coitmptl *is thruown o t h0m pd comnwpcly, dj-pi^ of ;aU. m4iy Jpe. trtictiopitanegg to'a payaff ucl, eus,-t tomerj ttheir I satisfaction, an4 an4 d4Ongo   I.9cPSo4 o snaJl.? 8i q merriment among tyemselves, ii / ' mgf thl? Tennessee regimex4 i a- by I anta  pcQ, iBefore itn^hbr 4k b RtK .littl exrc qpf compaint, ,^i4bL alleged b y the oJnfabi^tgpff,lt e o 4 of cpuntryshrq4gh which, Jt pw sec4r Ar, ausas, 'Texasz, and teacJo, gi depOretions pfw inor eopsequewr*e ,{ occasieonally committeds, ibu ^estEhre few^ save with ansuch. men ., thfepb ment0oned; 1ey always S. ,fa .; It ,ippn,;the yisit-f the rleginiwxSe^rf menspf liBera'iwt tihha*d ^; an4 forage for the tig$t!ftfiqart g stra,^4;an,w , ahvad;, shi4Tge n jpa n'i of the priqe a c ived y* themsiisl? t  4e O s;itatjionofA4he 1ldie*a,i t ,i: thesjaitter bteiafe tt, o w-e-it t1iArwonr ears foth ui r9 ey r n4oit ,$ r. ^ rowo0e. crtt iAcJ4^oh c4 e, r^44io i raoter of that man in tat prticul (9     would he spread through the whole regiment, even before the tents were pitched; and he would be favorably considered, and his offer but partially made use of. "He is a clever man, let him alone," was the expression, and nothing of his would be harmed. But. on the contrary, let him treat the sol- fliers with contempt, regard them as thieves and scoundrels, apply to the officers for a guard for his corn-field, his clhicken-coops, potatoe patch, &c.; and it would be as quickly known through: the regiment; ,and from, te treatment4 that he would receive, he would not probably thereafter hold any better opinion of them than before.. It was. so with the Kentucky, Tenneessee, and Arkansas regiments of cavalry, as they passed along that route, and was so; in fact with every regiment of vo- lunteers that marched to the late war; and would .and will be so with every regiment of volunteers that may here- aftei'be raised in the Western States, while the people there retain their pre- sehnt independent manner of thought, viewsi'and actions; ' ' . .. Many circumstances illustrating this, occurred in those regiments during this lonrig iach, one of 'Which, in the Ten- ressee regiment, will show the reader the inward' feelings and actions of the soldiers in these cases. -At'iton,; on a hot sultry day, the adiancel of the regiment 'halted' at a pihttatidonin one of'th6 western counties of Arkansas, dismounted' at the desig- nated place of encampment for that night, and stood holding their tired horses, while company after company advanced, followed by the long train. The proprietor of the plantation walked out to the advance as thus halted. He wais difesed in his best; with a ruffled shirt ]bsom in front,'of the appearance of, whichi he appeared to be quite satis- fied. Not turning his head toward any of the dusty soldiers as she passed tip in fimitof 'the line; he very obsequiously addressed' the Officer 'in command, in- fotting,ith i that ,he had provided an atpple dinner in anticipation of-the ar-; rivatl tofthoirgiment; thathe had good liqubrs, Gand his fare was very low, &c.,   and with a bow and whisk of his cane, and an additional display of his ruffles, he turned and walked to the officers of the first company arrived, with the same consequential appearance; thence to another, &c., 'and finally brought up at the Colinel's-head quarters, when the Colonel and the field officers were dismounting, tired and exceedingly hun- gry.. Here, the gentleman put on his most obsequious bows, introducing him- self, and exhibiting his ruffles to the greatest advantage. "The d---.d fool;" muttered some men in -the ranks of the rear guard, just filing in by the Colonel's marquee: but . he heard it not, and whisking his cane again, he moved off. The, officers, after encampment, passed up to the house, and hundreds of soldiers went up also, but not much attention'did they receive from the pompous landlord; who invited the officers into his rooms, and put his liquors before them. Some of the soldiers found a harmless deranged man walking round in the yard, 'and they talked, to him a; little. The landlord seeing this; bistled through them, ordered'the unfortunate man into the stable, from there up into its loft, and, despite his entreaties, then tied him tightly with .a rope. 'This-gave him a worse repute than before. Somer privates wished to; eat, but' these ,were informed that they could not "do sto util after the, officers 'had all dined.  One otf the privates was  " the 'Colonel.;" without a Word' he sat with his comrades patiently in the passage, and waited until three tables had suc- cessively been cleared; they, were then told gruffly by the landlord that their dinner was ready, and in they, walked, as the officers were giving their half ' dollar each to the host, whoibStowed these' away in his pocket, with iA great air of satisfaction. "The' Colonel" and -his companions sat down'; the 'dirty platses were unchanged; the bones of the beef remained alone in the dishes; ; the potatoes :were almost gone sfcmps 5 of, bread lay round on ,the cloth, &c. L They Waited, after 'glancing at th;e side' board, to see if the liquor bottles were   them, but these had already been placed: under lock and key. Still they waited,. and the host came in, with his jingling silver,' and was passing by them silently. '"Hallo, landlord; give us some clean plates, and something to eat here," said ",the Colonel." (' Got no more plates; plenty to eat there; help yourselves,'? was the short reply. "By G-d! no- tging'here to help to; if this is all, we'll go, boys," said "t the Colonel," as he pushed his chair back. lOf course," he continued, " you charge us nothing, as we eat:nothing?" Half a dollar apiece; you sat down to dinner; you. can help yourselves, there's' plenty for you; it's nothing to me whether y'ou eat or not: you can't come the 'gum game over me, any how." "You're a --.'- began one of the men. "Stop, John, stop; we will help ourselves, as he says, but not here; give him his money. Pay him now for us; and we will pay- you when we, go down 'to camp."  "The' Colonel," handing the .chap three dollars' for the six, told him that it was urigentlemanly so to act; 'to which he replied with a. sneer, that the U,. S. Government gave them plenty of provisions in camp, and  that they had no business, to go to a house .to eat, 'if tthey did i oti expect to pay .ori it. As the party passed ouit; the'Lieutenant-Colonel of the regiment, who. had overheard the conversation, accosted our 'private; " the Colonel;, and being informed of thecircumstance, a  .aa muli incensed at it:; stating .that the landlord at dinner had been very' particdar' in asking 'for 'guards to be statiioed to protect his property that night. ' Our private '" the Colonel," saying in reply, that this was right, begged'tpermission, however, to. assist the; Lieutenant-Colonel in the choice of a countersign to be used by these guards durinog the night; 'suggesting the words Roasting ears;" :which he was promised should- be adopted, and adopted it was, and in complete (contra- diCtion to all military rules with regard to- ountorsigns, was known throughout the regiment long before-the sun had set; and scouts preferred to leave the camp at night. After dark, the line of   sentinels was posted around the whole encampment, and closely stationed along: the line of corn-field, with strict orders, as usual, to let no one pass iithout the pountersign. ' At ten o'clock "the, Co0l" onel" sent his messmate out, and then starting several other messes, each with bags andi blankets 'went to 5'help hii-9 self;" and shortly, ad so many came in the darkness to the different sentinels,. (themselves in the secret) they were constantly challenged. "Who comes there?" "Friend." : "Advance,. friend, and give the countersign.!', Coming up, "Roasting ears "'was whis, pered, and the reply made. ".The countersign is right; pass on " then in a-lower tone was added, f Bring me some." The same was' repeated all along the line, so. fast, that the sentiloa had as. much as they could do to chal. lenge and receive the countersign from the numbers going out empty-handed,: and returning loaded with roasting ears;' the whole field was crashing and snap. ping in every direction: every company and every mess had' plenty broughtto them, while the green husks wre stripped off, and given to the harses.. The sentinels were relieved with. the usual caution, 'and the field was still for the time, until' after the officers of-'the guard had passed orders; and the count. tersign being yet the same, busineW- was resumed with all activity; some of the sentinels declaring next day, 'tat they were hoarse with continually bha-, lengirig and demanding the countersign, which was given them in every instanic. " The Colonel "was in his glory. :"WorF on, boys," he said, as he met them in the darkness, we are " helpingourselves' as that:chap said to-day; I'll soon 'have imy. half-dollar's worth"?' And wort they did; "Who comes there?" "Who copes' there?" might be heard freo a' dozen points at once. But the Colonel's retribution was nar being topped. A man who was not in 'the 'secret, but who had been out often, re-t gularly obtaining the countersigns and iad procured a bottle of liquor, on vS turning, met with the corn gatheers. t What does this mean? Stealing eor by the rood!' '.' Colonel W ----' .;     the head of it. I'll stop that fun;" and he ,immediately went to his captain's tent, waked him  up, and accused ",Colonel W". with having half the regiment stealing corn. "'Impossible," said ,the captain, half awake. "It's so ' :get up, ,captain, and see." "I will, for it must be stopped. ' Colonel W--!' it's impossible, Mr. Kelly." But "the Colonel" having been in- formed of Kelly's intended accusation, had sent two men quietly after him, to accuse. him of drunkenness and dis- turbhnce. These came up as the captain was hurrying on his clothes. "Captain," said;one mildly, as he put his head within the tent, "we don't like to disturb you, but the drunkenness of Mr. Kelly is be- yond all endurance; he will not let us sleep, and for an hour has been cursing and swearing at "Colonel W." in our tent." "It's a lie! I am not drunk, Captain.". "He is, Captain; he has a bottle, of liquor. now in his pocket, and he disturbs us all." A glance at his pocket. showed the bottle, sure enough. The Captain was very angry, and not, withstanding all of his rapid remon- strances, ordered the other two to take Kelly under arrest down to their tent, and to tell "Colonel W." to have him guarded strictly there until morning, then to bring him before him. Away by them Kelly was instantly pulled, astonished and confounded, while the Captain again lay down to sleep, threat- ening 'vengeance against him in the morning for his drunkenness; "The Colonel" in 'the mean time, had gone for another blanket-full of roasting ears, 'and Kelly thus detained, after solilo- quising some time on his situation, took a strong pull at his bottle in reality, which he had not touched before ; and followed that by another equally strong sousoon, that before " the Colonel" got back with his load, Kelly was " high " surely.' Soon afterward ", the Colonel" was heard in the darkness coming puffing under his burden,. and as he threw down the load from his back to the ground at the door of his tent, saying to himself, "Help yourself, hey! it's the same whether you do or not;' leavings good inough for a private. Well! I reckon   I have,got neai fifty cents' worth, but"[t swill bring another load, any how: help; yourself, hey!" .  "There!" says Kelly to his guards inside, " did not I tell the truth when I' said. 'the Colonel' was stealing roasting ears?"No answer being given to this he looked earnestly at the entrance, and, as Whitaker entered, said, "I'm in. a pretty situation. Here are you stealing roasting ears, and half the regiment with you; and I. went to report you, like a good soldier, and here I am ar- rested for drunkenness, and you set to guard me! Yes, we are a nice set I you a colonel of a regiment at home, and I a major, in good standing there, too! you here stealing roasting ears, and I under guard. The Captain would not believe me, though I spoke the truth." "Well, ' Major,' it is a hard case, as you say," seriously said "the Colonel;" "we are honorable men at 'home, but here we are, only privates, and we must obey orders." "Certainly," said " the Major." i"As you are arrested, why, I must guard you faithfully; but as I know you to be an honorable man, I shall not kpep you close, for you won't try to get away." "No, 'Colonel,' I am honorable, I. will stay contented; but here, I have' g6t some good liquor here, and it was' hard to get; won't you take some with, me?"  "That I will," said "the. Colonel ;"' and Kelly took a strong pull at it, and handed it to "the Colonel," who took a hearty draw, and returning the stopper, said, "Well, ' Major,', as I have got to take care of you, and you have drunk enough now, I will take care of the bottle for you, and IA will leave you to yourself. Boys," he con- tinued, "Major Kelly is an honorable. man, and although in a state of arrest,. he will not try to escape, so we will take a little of his liquor;" (with a low bow to the Major, who was getting quite, sleepy,) " and then we will get another load." They did so; Kelly, went to sleep, and the others brought the roasting ears. The morning showed an awful de-; struction in the corn-field. The landlord   'tcame down with a complaint. No one knew anything of the matter, save " the Colonel" and another man, who said that they had taken some, in order that -they might have a chance to speak to the ruffled gentleman.' To these the pompous landlord ap- proached. "How many ears did you take last night?" said he. The man,  who was one of those who had paid his fity cents the day before at the dinner- table, and who had brought several burdens, thought some time, and then replied that he had got as many as ten. "Well, sir, you owe me ten cents." He was paid a dime, and then turning to "the Colonel," who had at least brought five bushels, he demanded, "Well, sir, how many ears did you take?"He studied on it, and replied that he had got at least fifteen. "Well,. sir, you owe me fifteen cents." It was   paid. "Now, sir," said "the Colonel," "Iet me enquire? -  "Yes, sir!" "Well, sir, look at me, and you will remember me at your table' yesterday; and there you told me, and repeated it, to help myself; and as you would give neither me nor my comrades anything at your dinner-table, we did help our- selves out of your corn-field, to the full extent of our fifty cents each: and now, sir, if you are not out of this camp in short order, we will help you to a sound thrashing. Hallo, 'boys ; get your switches, and brush up this ruffled shirt." But he did not wait for that operation to be performed, but moved off in a rapid and straight course, never looking behind him. He saved his hide, but probably has no better opinion of private soldiers than he had before. The injury he received was but the result of his own action. t             . . .   SCHEMES OF SOLDIERS TO OBTAIN LIQUOR.   THE temperance societies of the day have accomplished a vast deal of benefit to the community at large, and are yet preventing a great amount of suffering in society, by discouraging the use of ardent spirits; and the order of Sons of Temperance has by itself exerted a beneficial influence for good, which indeed' cannot be sufficiently known or valued. God speed them in their bene- volent exertions; the blessings of thou- sands upon thousands rest upon them! But many of their most active members in the cause, have learned by their own experience, the evil effects of the se- ducing influence of alcoholic drinks. Especially has this been the case with those who have served in our 'armies raised from time to time, in Jackson's Indian campaigns, in the last war with England, in the Black Hawk war, in the Florida, war ;'those now remaining who-took part in these, well remember   the influence strongly running for mirth, for sport of every description, but more especially for the use, and free use too, of spirituous liquors, whenever, by any means, fair or otherwise, they could be procured. Nor is the experience of those who have borne a part in the Mexican war a whit behind the others in this respect. Some few never drank during any of these campaigns; with nine-tenths, perhaps ninety-nine hun- dredths, liquor, in whatever name it came, in brandy, whisky; gin, meseal, aguardiente, or pulque," always was ac- ceptable; and not only s6o, but was sought after and obtained by every means that ingenuity could devise, or industry execute. \ Liquor the soldiers would have ;- the thousand schemes used to obtain it, the dangers and riskh run to procure it, would, in accobnt 'i detail, be more voluminous than 'any actor in the same Would undertake 'to     4rite, or any temperance lecturer to 'deseribe. .-  Tee readers of the ' Twelve Months' Volunteer,'" are familiar with .the ao- oount of the. "Rainy Day" 'in Texas, as tiere given, in the courseof the journal of the march of the Tennessee -Cavalry to the seat of war. To those whol have not read it, it will be sufficient to sey, that the whole regiment, almost without exception, spent the night in the .eavy rain, without tents, fires, or food; and procuring plenty. of liquor, were universally intoxicated; and such a whooping, yelling scene of confusion has. not been witnessed in many a day. The Colonel, for some time afte r this event, made vigorous endeavors to prevent the sale of liquors to the sol- diers, but not with much success; three dayS, however, on the line of march, there was none to be procured, and the men were as sober as the most rigid advocate of temperance could wish. Cn the fourth day, it was learned among the soldiers, that there was a grocery with plenty of the article, not far from the camping-ground at which the regiment would stop for the night. This iformationl went along the lines secetly; news communicated from one to abother, and there was much counting of nimes, .&c., of which, by the way, the soldiers were getting scarce, not being paid in Arkansas, as they ex- pected. Many a quarter. of a dollar was borrowed, and stowed away to lay out at evening for the creetur. The day  was exceedingly hot, and the dustflew up from the horses' feet, in such num- bers and close columns advancing, so that one could see but a few files in front or, behind him, and never from the center of the line to the front or rear, during the day. The water in the holes of the brooks along, now dry save in these, was warm, filled with frogs and tadpoles, Even the most sober of the men, after this news was circuated, began tospeak of feeling badly and sick, from the effects ,of the water, 4heat, and dust. One thought he would, obtain some whisky when he got to camp, and make a warm stew with some red pepper that evening,   a dosm his good old mother had:admia- istered, to him, with much sueoe s,. in removing ,his cdmplaints- of 'siokess, when hewas; a boy.   '    .  , Another felt decidedly bilious ; wished to put some dogwood and poplar bark in his canteen, and fill it with whisky, taking moderate doses thereof for its tonic effect. It had often done him much good at home, and had been recommended to him  by a good- old preacher or class-leader, who used to be often at his father's house., Another. one agreed with him  on this;--thought he too, would do the same, and a long and serious conver- sation would strike up, on the necessity of keeping the health unimpaired; of the duty one owed to himself, his friends, his, parents, ,&c., to do this; and he expatiated largely on the un- pleasantness of being lett sick at the houses behind the regiment;-'of'those who thus had been left, and who had died behind, amid strangers; and of the -fact of these having neglected the first symptoms of sickness that they had felt, and that a little simple medi- cine, like whisky and poplar bark, might have saved their lives. Othiers troubled themselves with no excuses about the matter, but promised themselves a good draw in the afternoon, t to compensate them for the fatigues of the march of the day. One woid buy a quart, another two, another but a pint, while another had but a, dime, r and that should go as far as it would. So on for an hour or two, till on arriving - within three miles, the Colonel senit the D Major, bearing a strict order: to the  grocery keeper to close his doors, and i on no account to sell a drop of liquor r to any of the soldiers. daring *te after- noon, or the stay. of Xt regiment there. s  The grocery keeper, who ihad antici- , pated a ready sale for his liquors, on i receiving this order*, and seeing no' use s for remonstrance, with a heavy heart stepped out, fastened, and bolted his S wwindows, locked .his door, and the e, Major, with the guard, returned to' the r advancing regiment. a, The columns filed by, and all eyes , .were eagerly turned to find the expected,   grocery ;-but all countenances fell when they saw .the house shut up, and the keeper sitting in the sunshine, on an old goods' box wlittling, and looking as melancholy as if the most serious loss had befallen him. He did not even look' up at. the colonel and field officers as they clattered along, but then glancing up at the numerous inquiring eyes that met his gaze from the ranks as all' passed, he shook his head negatively. "Can't get any, boys," says one. " hat s too bad," said another; and exclamations of disappointment were general throughout the columns which passed on; the companies took their regular lines on. the encampment, the horses .were, unsaddled, . the. wagons rolled in, the' tents were procured and set up, and the busy ground teemed with life and bustle. It was yet early in the afternoon, and while nmany went to gather wood. and to bring water; and already little curling volumes of smoke began to rise over the bushes in all. directions, some of the most disappointed of the boys met together, and after appointing one of their, number who liked the creetur as well as any of them, " the Colonel,"pro tem., 'they proceeded up to the grocery, and begged hard of the grocery keeper to sell them a little, assuring himt that the Colonel did not care, &c.  He, however, steadily refused to open his door, for he was fearful of the conse- quences. In the mean time, many more joined the crowd, among them were' several sergeants, and two or three lieutenants, all thirsty. To all these the former whispered their yro tem. election of "Colonel," and informed them  that Whitaker, the ;poitly' man thus elected, would soon be up there, and' that the whole was his scheme how to get -the liquor.;-that all must call' him ." Colo- Ael," 'and all, lieutenants as; well as others,' must beg him earnestly to let them have the needful beverage.. The :grocery keeper still refusing to sell Without the Colonel's permission, all'were delighted' to hear the excla- mation, "Here comes 'the Colonel:' now!"  Anti sure enough. here was   Whitaker .on his horse, without' arhi, riding in the 'most: dignified manner, which his personal appearanee'^('he weighin 'near 200 pounds) very much assisted. A: bland smile was on his countenance, as he touched his cap po- litely to the crowd, now between one and two hundred men; and rode oWi as if he would pass. But one of the meni calling "Colonel," he reined' in;,'his horse, while the man respectfullywent up to him, and many of, the others followed, to join in the petition ;'while the grocery keeper looked at him with a kind of awe.      .  "Colonel," said the first spokesman, "will you not allow us to get a little refreshment here, after the hard, hot march?"  'Gentlemen," said he, with his blandest smile, 'as he' made a slight effort as if' to start his- horse on, -"I have been obliged to 'shut up this grocery, for you all know how mudh insubordination and disgraceful conduct has been the result of 'this 'liquor in camp. I am very sorry, gentletmenl, he continued, "'but if: I let you' have any, I must let the others, and' I shall be obliged to refuse you." . : "But, Colonel," said one, "we' are all orderly men, and will not abuse it if you will allow the store keeper to sell us but a little ."  "The Colonel ".shook-his head, while the crowd on foot pressed round, 'all addressing him; and the grocery keeper on his box waited with eager solicitdtid "the Colonel's" decision.  One of the lieutenants' remarked- to "the Colonel," that he thought he could be responsible for the good con- duct of those men of his company who. were there, extending his hand: round to about half the crowd; while ahother. said the same, with the same motion toward the other half; thus imeaning between the two to' include all, 'who were: indiscriminately collected -from, every company in the regiment. ' "The Colonel" ;wavered, faltered, and at last, taking the lieutenants? vouchers for this, agreed that they might be supplied'; and away went the mostof the crowd to the grocery keper     with the information. He quickly un- barred his windows, and threw the doors open. In the first place, the whole crowd insisted upon being treated by their "Colonel," of whom they thought so much. He dismounted with much ap- parent reluctance, and protested against standing the treat, after having given them permission to obtain the liquor; but they insisted upon it, with many protestations of their good opinion of him, &c., and finally he requested the grocery keeper to set out a gallon of whisky for them; asked. the price,- was told two dollars, and with much politeness he then informed the keeper that he had not the money with him, but if he would come down to his marquee the following morning about sunrise, that he should be paid;-that he had much writing to do that evening, and could not attend to it before that time. "No matter, 'Colonel;' no matter, Colonel,'" said the man, not waiting for,the former to finish his speech; "I will come -down after breakfast. A gallon, did you say?" The reply in. the affirmative brought the liquor, and "thee Colonel," officers, and priyates, all took hold; others were buying more, and shortly all got " high enough;" and the very ones who had saidithe most with regard to their so- briety, in their solicitations to " the Colonel," now were the noisiest. That perspoage himself became quite lively, and proposed a dance in the yard, which was soon in full course of ope- ration, aided by two fiddles from camp; and at the same time another large group had one of the men up on a hogshead, singing in a loud voice that pathetic ballad, "The blue-tailed fly;." while another was giving a political speech, and his audience cheering him heartily. In less than an hour after the arrival of the regiment, all up there were thus merry, and many others continually arriving at the scene, joined in. The whisky was sold and drunk ra- pidly,: there being no time to lose; for the real Colonel might find this out at    any time, and stop the sport. Nor were they wrong in this, for Colonel Thomas did hear of it, and in an angry mood mounted his horse, and alone rode out toward the grocery, determined to inflict the severest punishment upon all the partakers therein, and upon the grocery keeper in particular. He rode fast; the singer was in the last verse of his ballad,- "The pony he did rear and pitch; He throw ole massa in de ditch; Dere ole massa lay and die, All on account ob de blue-tailed , "By G-d, there comes the Colonel," and down he jumped; his audience scattered; the political speaker ran; the dance instantaneously broke up; and all collected round their so-called "Colonel Whitaker." "What shall we do, 'Colonel,' what shall 'we do? Here comes Colonel Thomas now, riding as though the old boy was after him." Whitaker, pretty well gone under the influence of the liquor, peeped round the corner of. the house, and seeing the Colonel, he called out to all to go and meet Colonel Thomas in a body, to hurrah loudly for Aim, to shake hands fast with him, to tell him they voted for him, that they were going to crown him. with laurels when ,they got to Mexico, &c., and not to give him any chance to talk; and forty or more started at once to meet the Colonel, now near. "Hurrah for Colonel Thomas! 'Hur- rah for Colonel Thomas'!" shouted. the whole. "I voted for you, Colonel Thomas," cried but one.  'cfYes, and so did I, and I would do it again," shouted another. "And I." ." And I."   "And I," cried out more.  This was striking the Colonel in a tender point, but he had not given up any anger yet,-  "Yes, boys, but you have been drink--" "Hurrah for the Tennessee Cavalry,. and it's Colonel," shouted another . l drowning the Colonel's voice,   "The best regiment and the best Colonel in the service of Uncle Sam," said another. "But, boys, I forbid any liq---" Three cheers for our Colonel, boys," shouted a stentorian voice. "We'll cover him with laurels when we -get to Mexico;" and at the same time advancing with a broad smile, and grasping the Colonel's hand with a strong grip, while the rest were making the air resound with shouts for Colonel Thomas. The Colonel's anger began to give way; he smiled. "Yes, boys, I know that you are the ones that can do it ;.- but this drink--" "Hurrah for our Colonel!" "Colonel, take one drink with us, for we are the boys that will stick to you, and never run." "Yes, boys, but I can't drink, and you must quit -- " "By Jas--s! Colonel Thomas is not the man to refuse to drink with his soldiers, by the Holy Virgin! He loves his soldiers, and his soldiers love him too," shouted a big Irishman; while with not a chance to refuse, the Colonel found himself reluctantly getting off his horse, and not being able to get out a sentence, so drowned was his voice by the hurrahs for him, and promises heaped upon him from every part of the crowd. "Success to Colonel Thomas, and honor to his regiment," was the toast; and the Colonel went with- them to the door, and drank a bumper, and then the tumult instantly subsided. He had drank with them then, and there was no chance to express his disapprobation. All proceeded to their sports again, while he mounted his horse, and went back to camp, quite serious. The grocery keeper had not seen him, being within the noisy house; nor did he have the least suspicion that Whitaker was anything else but the true Colonel; and indeed he had lost sight of him in the dense crowd that increased every moment. Very few such grand frolics occurred during the long march, as took place that night; the liquor was all sold out, s   and nearly every canteen in the regi- ment was filled. It was late at night when the noise and frolic ceased, and the camp was still. Before daylight, the advanced guard again took the road. This morning this was the company to which Whitaker belonged, and he had been gone an. hour, and the remaining companies were moving, save the train and rear guard, when the grocery keeper came down to present his bill. Inquiring for, the Colonel, and being shown Colonel Tho- mas just about to mount his horse, he presented the bill, "For one gallon best whisky, $2." The Colonel looked at it. "I did not get any whisky of you, my good man," said he. "Yes, I did," he continued; "I drank with you, but no more." "Why, sir," said the man, "I cannot recollect among so many strange faces; but you ordered me to-shut up my shop, sending an officer to me; and then, you, or the Colonel, or somebody they called the Colonel, countermanded the orders, and allowed me to sell; and tile same Colonel bought a gallon of liquor to treat his men, and drank himself. I don't recollect the faces; he seemed to me to be larger than you are; but you say you drank thererand it was by the Colonel's orders that I opened my grocery to drink," continued the man, in a tone and manner, though polite, yet conveying the impression, that while he thought he might be mis- taken in the man, yet from the Colonel's own confession, he rather supposed the remembrance of the latter to be affected by the quantity of liquor that he had taken. It was evident, too, that such was the impression with the field officers who were mounted near, by their nods and winks to each other. Colonel Thomas saw how the matter stood at a glance, and putting his hand in his pocket, drew out the two dollars, ,and handed them to the man, saying that although he knew that he never had ordered the liquor, yet he would pay it rathei than leave an unfavorable impression behind him; and he rode     on, in not a very good humor, leaving the man fully convinced that the Co- ,onel had been so "tight" as to have forgotten the circumstances; and the        \   other officers attending not far from the same opinion, for his confession that he had  drank there, puzzled them.    SCHEMES OF SOLDIERS TO OBTAIN LIQUOR. No. II.   THE opposite engraving, taken by permission from the "Twelve Months' Volunteer," shows an accurate repre- sentation of the southern gate of the walled city of Vera Cruz, called the Gate of Mercy. There is another gate on the western side of the city, the Gate of Mexico. As the Gate of Mercy was toward the American camp, the Mexican army, in its surrender, marched out of this to stack their arms, and all communication -between the city and the camp, after the occupation of the former by the American army, was through this gate, which was strictly kept by a guard of -U. S. Regulars, and while all officers were permitted to pass in and out freely, ,no soldier could pass, save by actual pres. *ence of his commanding officer, or a written permit, signed by his captain and countersigned by the colonel of his regiment. Vera'Cruz is one of the most'compact and closely built cities of the American continent. Nothing save a bare sand plain and adjoining hills of the same is to be seen without the walls, save a few ruined buildings, a fort of the former city, while, within the gates, busy life is crowded together and every available foot of ground is occupied, not leaving rodn for any space, even the smallest, which is not covered with stone and mortar. Not even a tree can be seen within the bounds of the city, and a garden, of however humble size, is en- tirely out of the question. Of course, in this dense and contracted hive of ihuman beings is the only place, near,   where any article can be bought or sold. Without the gate is nothing,-within is everything that can, elsewhere, be pur- chased. The terrific scenes of the bombard- ment had passed; the effects, in shatter- ed houses, loose cannon balls, pieces of shells thickly scattered, the holes in the walls, and deep beds in the streets, re- minded one, at every turn, of the ter- rific exercise of so many engines of destruction as here had been brought to bear. The American flag waved above the captured forts, and a garrison held possession of the city, while the fleet of transport ships were landing busily the vast material to be used 'in the further prosecution of the war. The numbers of soldiers from the American camp were found to be in the way with- in the crowded city, and some disorders having occurred, great strictness was exercised in allowing them to come in ; and moving from the camp, which was L about a half mile from the Gate of Mer- cy. From each company four men only were allowed permission each day, and these could not bring out to the remain- der the articles, especially in the liquor line, that were so much wanted by them. Off of duty the soldiers could wander only over the sand hills and beach in every direction; but within the walls. they wanted to go, especially, and this was the very place to which they were not allowed to come, but were strictly repulsed by the bayonets of the regular guard, to whom no entreaties were of ft any avail. A shot hole, torn out by one of the     tity-eight pound shot, through the side of the large building (Mexican military barracks), a corner of which is seen in the left of the picture, served the pur- pose of an outlet as well as place of admission to numbers who had not the necessary "documents" to pass the gate. Any one could obtain access, for two or three days after the surrender, through this hole, upon standing "a treat" to the regulars who occupied the barracks within, or, indeed' to any one or two of them within; but the officers finding this out, the passage was stopped on the morning of the fourth day, before any of those who had made use of the same had arrived. The reader will see in the engraving, in the fore-ground, the rail-road, which, some time before the war, had been commenced by English capitalists to run to the city of Mexico; but the work had been stopped. At a little distance to the left of the picture, and not far from the closed hole in the barracks, stood the two large buildings intended for the depot of the road. These were extensive and lofty, had slated roofs, open lattice-work sides, .and with seats within, affording a fine retreat from the rays of the tropical sun, that every morning, before -the sea breeze rose, poured down with intense heat upon the sand hills and plain about Vera Cruz. As one after another of the cav- alry soldiers arrived at the aforesaid hole, and to their disappointment found it stopped, they turned off to these buildings, and the number there all the time increasing, they discussed many schemes to attain the desired end of all. Now and then came one with a permit, which he showed sometimes to these disappointed gentlemen,' and with the significant gesture of his thumb on his nose, with a twist of his finger, as much as to say can't come it," he would go on, show his paper to the guard, and  pass in; or, occasionally, an officer would pass in " a number of men. All these proceedings were eagerly noticed by the thirsty disappointed sol- diers. As the sun became hotter, their wish for the ardent 'correspondingly in- reased. Many suggestions, of climbing   the wall, &c., were proposed, but wert not adopted, only on account of there being inside a guard with sharp bay- 'onets to encounter, and the result would have been to the climbers to have been immediately ordered off to the guard house or prison, to remain there for an indefinite time, without much regard paid to their being supplied with food, &c. This scheme, with many others,: was abandoned. The meeting, though unceremoniously called together, had assumed a business' like appearance, in which every man showed a deep interest in every propo- sition made to produce the desired end. In this they certainly far excelled, in praiseworthy attention, the conduct of some of our collective legislative or other bodies, in which many of the members seem to be thinking of any- thing else save the important subject under consideration. In this meeting perfect order and decorum prevailed The grand object was to get inside the walls, to obtain the liquor, and every suggestion to this end was discussed with an exhibition of patience and atten- tion which would set a most favorable example to the other bodies referred to.' Finally, our old private, "the Col- onel," got up and addressed the meet- ing, somewhat to this effect:- "Fellow soldiers; here are indeed times to try men's souls. For days and weeks have we toiled and fought to place our proud flag upon the turrets of these ancient forts; by night and by day have we been exposed to the shot of the en- emy's cannon, and the bursting bombs, pieces of which now so thickly are scat. tered around us. We have been suc- cessful, and our flag now flies over city and castle before us. But what good has it done us? was it not one grand motive' to our exertions that in the city, wheri captured, we could find abundance of Igood old brandy, to clear the sand from' our throats and the yellow fever from our systems? Not, fellow soldiers, that we wished to take even the brandy from these yellow-skinned Mexicans withoutt paying them for it; we intended to pay them, byt we intended to have it, any way. Bhind us is the battery of heav     guns at which we labored so faithfully, and from which we looked so earnestly, in the heat of the fire, and witnessed the crashing shot, tearing yonder before us through the massive buildings of this old city, so stubbornly held out against us. And you are aware, fellow soldiers, that, we only wished then that every barrel and every hogshead of liquor, therein, might escape unharmed. I re- gret to say, fellow soldiers, that in the general destruction, however, that many of these were smashed, broken in, and their contents, of which we stood so much in need, run out into the gutters. But, still, there is enough left; yes, enough for all, within Those massive walls. Fellow soldiers, I never wished before this day for an office in the Amer- ican army. It has been glory enough for me to bear my part as a private, but a proud American soldier, I glory in it yet The city of Vera Cruz has fallen- and before whom? The American ar- my-officers and private soldiers. Tile fficers did the planning, but the soldiers did the work; and did it well, too. Ought the officers, then, to drink up all the liquor found within? If I was an officer, now, I would not drink a drop until all my gallant soldiers took hold with me. Ah, fellow soldiers, I wish I was your commander now. Once, I remember well, in the hard march in Texas, I assumed command as Colonel, and I got you a full supply of the need- ful immediately." "Yes, you did," said one, "and you can do it again." "That is the point, fellow soldiers, and fellow sufferers, that I'm coming at., I will be your Colonel, and get you through yon- der gate, but no further; once through, and I am one of you again; once in, and we must direct our course according, to prudence, and I will fix a plan for our actions. I propose to be your Colonel, and to be strictly obeyed by every one. Now, if I am detected at it, they will keep me in the guard house a month, with no liquor, which will surely kill me. It will be necessary. for me to refuse some one of you-to him I will bring a full canteen of liquor myself." i The proposition was carried by a Uianimous vote.   Whitaker went to the camp, arrayed himself in his suit of citizen's clothing, and, with his cane in his hand, walked up to the gate, where thefothers had already: assembled before the guard, telling the latter that they were waiting for their Colonel, who had sent them on in ad- vance. Shortly came " the Colonel," in all the dignity of office, but with an ap- pearance of deep thought. Coming up into the crowd before the guard, he was. addressed by all most respectfully as '.' Colonel." He looked round among them impatiently-said there were more of them (being about seventy or eighty) than he had thought-glanced at all, and spoke to one with authority. "Here, sir, I did not send you here; I refused you permission to go in to-day; you were intoxicated a day or two since; go back to camp immediately." The man started off with an appearance of great reluctance, but without a word. After this exercise of authority had thus established his command in despite of his dress, in the minds of the'guard, he advanced toward them with an air a la militaire, he touched his cap 'and they presented arms instantaneously 1 "Pass these boys in," said he; and he moved on as they filed in by him, strict- ly scrutinising every countenance, as if. to see that no one entered but those to whom he had given permission; this done, with a bow to the guard, he brought up the rear. Once out of the sight of the guard, he spoke to the men, telling them, that now they would inevitably meet some of the true officers, and for this case they must rapidly form in twos, and as rapidly march to the Plaza, under color as though news had been received in camp that Colonel Thomas, Lieutenant Colonel Allison, and Major Waterhouse had' entered a house of suspicious char-' acter, in the city, and that the doors thereof had been forcibly closed upon' them, and hearing this, this body of men had instantaneously marched into the city, determined to release them with their lives, &c. This plan was adopted as soon as mentioned, and at' double quick time the whole company, in twos, marched for the Plaza,. with   'the Colonel," then as one of them again, at their head. All in the streets, supposing them a largel patrol on parti- cular business, officers, privates, regu- lars, volunteers, Americans and Mexi- cans, cleared the way, and gazed upon them in their rapid course. Arriving there, they were in sight of Colonel Thomas, who was in conversa- tion with some officers in front of the National Palace. He, seeing so many of his men, thinking something was wrong in the camp, hurried toward them. At this same moment came the Lieutenant Colonel and the Major, who were in sight upon the opposite side of the Plaza. At the sight of them the column halted, and many exclamations at once greeted them. "Why, here's Colonel Thomas, now." "Here's Colonel Allison, too!" "And Major Waterhouse, too!" "Why, we are so glad to see you." "Why, Colonel, how did you get out?" "Why, we are so happy to find you safe!" How did you all get out?" "What do you mean, boys," said all in a breath. "Why, there came news to camp that you had all stepped into one of those bad houses, and they had locked you   all three in, and we come in as fast as; we could to relieve you, if it cost us ou' lives! The Lieutenant Colonel, concealing a laugh, turned away. The Colonel and Major turned it off with  "Nonsense, boys." "Well, Col6nel, that's the report," said a dozen at once. "Well, it's no such thing, boys; don't mention such a thing. Come up here, all of you, and take something to drink. We'll settle the bill." And a heavy score it was to settle; while all drank, continual exclamations of gratification were heard in the crowd at finding the whole a false report. "But, Colonel, if it had been so, we would have stood up to you, to a man.' "By Jas-s, we would," said one of the Irish boys.  "Pooh, nonsense, boys, nonsense; but say no more about it. Walk about the town, now, and all go out to camp by sunset." "Yes, sir! yes, sir! yes, sir! and many a quart of liquor was destroyed that day, and one by one they got out that night: each with a full load in their heads; no obstruction ever being offered by the guard, at the Gate of Mercy, to any returning to camp.   OUR PRIVATE "THE COLONEL"IN THE MLITARY HOSPITAL.   AT Matamoras there were many of the soldiers sick; the change of water, the change of climate, and exposure of a camp life, produced much illness in the different regiments, From the Tennessee cavalry, on its arrival from across the desert, many of the men were placed in the hospital im- mediately. Among the rest who made application to get there,' was our pri-   vate, "the Colonel," whose " inards" were seriously threatened with damage from the various descriptions of alcoholic drinks that had there found a place of deposit, greatly to the gratification of "the Colonel,", but much to the detri- ment of his corporeal system. "qThe Colonel's" application did not produce the desired effect; in fact, en- tirely failing 'to procure him a place on     Sbe sick list: but as he knew that he was ill, and that a few days' attention in hospital would entirely relieve him; he went to work on his own responsi- ility, and soon succeeded in obtaining a situation in the hospital as an atten- dant. While here, by his assiduity and attention to the sick, general politeness and gentlemanly deportment, he gained the respect and confidence not only of the surgeon in charge of the hospital, tut of the Surgeon-general of this di- vision of the Army, Dr. Wright; a man austere and peremptory in his commands gnd requisitions of those under him, but as fine a specimen of the perfect gentle- man in office as could be found in the army. N6t only did these officers be- come attached to "the Colonel," but the sergeants and soldiers on duty. at the hospital were equally so. If a sick soldier there wished any little article of comfort that could be possibly procured, in town or in the Camps, to "Colonel Whitaker " he made his requests, and they were promptly attended to. He wrote all letters to the friends of the sick, and in fact, was an universal favorite. "The Colonel" atopped all supplies of liquor from nding any entrance into his system Ebr the time being, and took medicine from the assistant surgeon, which, while it cured him, at the same time, to his great comfort, was quite stimulating. When "the Colonel's" health was restored, in speaking to the assistant. surgeon he praised the medicine for this, and asked if then a little French brandy would hurt him. Upon being answered in the negative, he remarked, that as diseased of that kind were likely to take the physician as well as the patient, that a little might be advan- tageous to the surgeon himself i-that if he pleased, he ("the Colonel ") would consider himself highly honored if he would take a social glass with him. To this the surgeon assented readily, and the couple went to a bar-room,- drank the liquor pretty heavily,--re- tired to receive the forenoon visit of the Surgeon-general, and after that. was Over, went again to the bar, and con- 'iured their applications 'there' th the   decanter with so much vigor, that whei, four o'clock was approaching, the time at which Dr. Wright was again expected, neither of the two could navigate very correctly. The surgeon rather was the worse off of the two, and walked up toward the hospital, taking a wide track' on the sidewalk as he passed. The Mexicans, accustomed to give way to an American officer, were in this in- stance forced to give the whole walk to the two. No ways anxious to meet Dr. Wright in his present situation, "the Colonel" framed an excuse to go toward the market house, while the surgeon rolled along to the hospital, where he soon encountered the Surgeon-general, who,. as has been said, was very strict in his regulations. The first question by the latter brought an answer which drew his attention to his assistant. The second brought such'a confirmation of his sus- picion, that he instantly accused him of being drunk. This the other flatly de- nied; and losing all regard for the rank and authority of his questioner, he as- sailed the latter in strong and abusive ! language, Dr. Wright was quite lenient toward him in his situation, which, by the way, was not to be expected from him; but finding that Whitaker the attendant had been out with his surgeon, and was pro- bably in the same situation, he inquired for him, but he was not to be found. Determined to have him, the Doctor then getting "his Irish" raised consi- derably, called upon the sergeant of the hospital guard, and sharply ordered him to take a file of men, and go out into the town, and find and bring Whitaker there before him immediately. The sergeant quickly took five of his regulars, who with shouldered arms, steady as automatons, following one ano- ther in every motion, rapidly commenced the search for the delinquent Whitaker, upon whom Dr. Wright shrewdly throw all the blame of the drunkenness of th assistant surgeon. The Doctor walked back and forth in angry impatience, while the assistant surz geon, thoroughly under the potent infim ence of the liquor, went soundly toasley   r In the mean while, the sergeant and 'his file of men, turning one or two corners and passing a square, came in night of Wheeler's grocery at the mar- ket house; and seeing his friend Whit- aker in there, in company with many volunteers, the kind-hearted Irishman did not wish to arrest him so publicly; but halting his squad at the door, he came in carelessly by himself, and ap- proaching Whitaker, said in a whisper, "By Jas-s! we have come for you. Dr. Wright is as mad as the divil;- will play h-ll with you!" "Sergeant," whispered Whitaker, "you have come for me, but you have not found me yet: bring your boys in, and all of you take a good horn at my expense, you have not had any to-day; then march down to the Plaza and back again, and then let us take another, and I will go with you." "Good, by Jas-s!" said the ser- geant, who, bringing in his guard, every one of whom "smelt the rat" but kept still, they took a bouncing horn; and then, with the commands-Attention--. yquad! Shoulder-arms! Rigfht-face! Forward-march! Left-conterrmarch! --out they went in eager search again. In a short time, after a rapid march to the Plaza, they returned, came in, or- dered arms, and at a wink from Whit- Aker, the brandy was again set betore them, and they filled their glasses boun- tifully; for a good dram to a regular is indeed a treat. "The Colonel" in another moment insisted upon treating the whole crowd in the grocery, and would not hear of a refusal from any; and the soldiers of the guard being included, and the ex- ample set by the sergeant, all took hold of the liquor again. -  While the sergeant was tossing this last glass off with peculiar gusto, "the Colonel" whispered to him, "Go back now; you have found me." "No," returned he, "by Jas--a I We hav'nt seen you at all." This time, at the word attetion! one bumped up against another; at shoulder  asrm! the muskets of the two struck;  with a loud clatter above their heads;, l and half out of step they moved rapidly i   I off, the bayonets above bobbing about like those at a militia muster; for' a drunken guard was moving by, in the notice and to the surprise of every one. Dr. Wright had waited impatiently for the arrival of the delinquent Whit- aker in custody, and was then about to mount his horse. Seeing the guard coming thus, he called to their ser- geant, "Where is Whitaker?" "Halt!" shouted the sergeant, and at this the foremost man ran against him.  Halt! D-n your souls, halt! Order arms!-We could not find any thing of him, sir!" and turning again to his men, "Present arns!" "You are all drunk," said the doc- tor, "every mother's son of you, and Whitaker has made you so.": "Have not seen him, sir ;--have not drunk a dhrop, sir," said the sergeant. "Off with you," stormed the doctor, and they cleared themselves. Musing awhile, the doctor went him- self, and shortly after, Whitaker, finding the coast clear, went down; found the sergeant of the guard, and both going out in the evening, finished their spree; after which, "the Colonel" packing up his duds, was off for the camp, four miles from the town, by daylight. No report being necessary, for he had not been entered on the sick list, and not being required strictly to drill, in fact, from his experience being more often requested by the officers to drill the company to which he belonged himself; his absence was not noticed, or his presence particularly remarked. He took care to keep out of the way of Dr. Wright during the stay of the re- giment at Matamoras. Some two months after that, when General Patterson's division was on its march from Victoria toward Tampico, an accident having occurred to the Gen- eral, rendering it necessary for him to be conveyed, Dr. Wright gave up his buggy, in which he always rode, to the General, while he took a horse, and thus was again in view of the army. Riding slowly along the columns, ad. vancing, he was passing, Colonel Whiti, aker, unnoticed     , "Good day, Dr. Wright," said the latter. The Doctor, not accustomed to such salutations from the ranks, reined in his horse, and sternly surveyed the other; and a half smile began to appear about the corners of his mouth. "Is not your name Whitaker?" he demanded. "Yes, sir," said the Colonel; making a bow. "Are you not the d--d scamp that made my assistant surgeon drunk at Matamoras, and when I sent a guard after you, perfectly sober, sent them all back' in fifteen minutes, with a lie in   their mouths, and as- drunk as they could stand?". s "No, sir; not me; I have never fud- dled a man, sir, since I have been out here; I reckon they did it themselves, sir"' "Yes, sir! you are the man, and if I had got you that day I would have played the d--1 with you; but," con- tinued he, "I was fearful of coming after you myself, as I determined to do at first, with the guard, lest you should make me drunk also. Yes, sir, you are the one, and the d-m-d-st chap I ever laid eyes upon." And, with a bow to" the Colonel," the Surgeon General passed on.   THE PATRIOTIC CONGRESSMAN.   BEFORE the Mexican war broke out, while the probability of such an event was discussed by many of our political speakers, the patriotism of some of these seemed to boil over, perfectly uncontrol- lable. As some of the soldiers after- wards, in Mexico, remarked, that if any Mexicans had actually been present at any of these ardent speeches, they be- lieved that the speakers-would really have leaped from the stands upon them, and given them sound thrashings at any rate. These speakers were about to make the probable war with Mexico a perfect frolic. One- valiant Congress- man, from Indiana, was ready to whip the whole Mexican army with a half- dozen old women; and-another, equally valiant, at that time the Governor of one of the Southern states, was going to raise a battalion of old women, declaring that Mexico could be conquered by them and a thimble would hold all the blood that should be spilled. "He could hear it in the breeze." But when the martial notes of actual warfare rung through the land; and vol- unteers: called for,: when it was found that men, not women, were wanted,   then these valiant statesmen answered not to their names in the general roll. War- in distant prospect, and war in reality, with all its privations, hardships, exposures and dangers, was found by them to be, upon comparison, two sepa- rate and distinct propositions.  But the predictions and speeches of these leaders of parties and known pol- itical men, whose opinions had been so Ilong received by the people as safe standards for their own belief, were not forgotten by the soldiers when after- wards in the field; and many persons who thus figured before the war, would be surprised to know how many times their names were jocularly called in the rolls of the troops in whose ranks they had severally promised to go. Where- ever these names were thus called, many wags were found, who always had the most amusing answers and ex- cuses to make for them; many of which were not, however, very complimentary either to their bravery, judgment, or patriotism. The troops from every state had some such name to look back upon.- One, only, is introduced here as a specie men.   The full names in this are inserted, for the speeches of a public man are public property, given to be received at that time; and if, afterwards, they will not bear scrutiny, it is only the loss u. their authors. The Hon. Barkley Martin, afterwards Member of Congress from Tennessee, in the presidential campaign of '44 was a wheel horse in the cause of Democ- racy, Annexation of Texas, &c.; a real thunderbolt, in course of preparation, to be hurled upon the devoted heads -of the Mexican nation, should they presume to: resist the annexation of Texas by the force of the sword and gunpowder. Previous to the presidential election, at that time, in a speech, at Ashland, near Columbia, Tennessee, at a large political meeting, Mr. Martin was in a 'perfect rage in speaking of this subject, and, for greater conspicuity, jumping up on the board before the stand, he spoke somewhat as follows: "It issaid by the opposite party, that if Texas is annexed to the United States that war with Mexico is inevitable. I say, my fellow countrymen, let it come, "ET IT COME. If it does come, your humble speaker, who addresses you this day, Barkley Martin, will march out at the head of six hundred Tennesseeans, with the chapeau of the immortal Jack- 'son on his head, and his epaulettes on his shoulders, and he will proceed to the center of the Mexican Republic, and shake it to its very foundations." And, moreover, pointing to the stars and stripes upon the flag flying above the' assemblage, while he was still drawn up on his commanding position, he in- sinuated very strongly that nothing would suit him better, than the privilege of dying under its folds, in its defence. All this sounded well; and, coming from Mr. Martin, was received with enthusi- asm, and the speaker was shortly after- wards elected to Congress from that district, When the war broke out, alas.! for the stability of human intentions, the -Hon.' Barkley Martin's patriotism had either leaked out or completely used it- -self up in ebullition., At any rate, no- ,thing was heard of it, and, while many   of his audience, at Ashland, had inter- ed the lists of volunteers, to start at  the call of the country, Barkley Martin's name was not found on the rolls, neither. was anything known relative to his pro- curing Gen. Jackson's chapeau and ep-. aulettes. The corps of six hundred Tennesseeans, who were, under him, to shake the Mexican Republic to its foun- dations, he had made no efforts to raise. His neighbors and constituents, of both political parties, were marshalled, some in the infantry, some in the cavalry, and many of them saw and did good service for their country, on the battle fields of Mexico; and many went, but returned no more. Under the folds of that flag, in vindication of the honor of their country, they fought and died. Where then was Barkley? Very com- fortable at home. It was not time, yet, to do that extensive shaking; or, per- haps, that uniform, so necessary to pro- duce the effect, either upon its intended wearer, or upon the Mexican world, needed repair, and, while this was going on, the Hon. Member, in Congress, when a bill was introduced to increase the pay of the private soldiers, then. in ser- vice, concluded that their pay then re- ceived, 7$ per month for infantry, was enough. It is to be presumed that die anticipated difficulty in raising his six hundred at that; but enough of, this. Many months after that, on the 20th March, 1847, two large and noble ships, the Essex and the Desdemona, were entering the outer harbor of Vera Cruz, crowdedwith the two battalions of the regiment of Tennessee cavalry, hurry- ing to Vera Cruz from Tampico. The two ships had been beat about by the severe weather at sea for fourteen days, and the troops they contained had, thus been prevented from landing with the main body; who were then encamped on the shore, though jthe weather had stopped the landing of the artillery necessary forthem to return the terrific fire of the castle and city that was open- ed upon them. As the ships. anchored amid the crowded fleet at Sacrificios, the scenes presented to those on board, were of the grandest and most imposing kind. 'The     cannonade from the city and castle upon the American camp was incessant; the air over the environs of the latter was dotted above with the white clouds of smoke from the bursting bombs; the sharp, hissing, singing sounds of the massive, ragged pieces of iron, as they flew, was heard, as it were, completely filling up the short intervals that elapsed between the heavy reports of the burst- ing shells and of the destroying mortars that sent them. The continued roar was deafening. The sand on the hills, here and there, among the camp, was tossed up in clouds by the shot and shells as they struck, while the volumes of deep smoke gracefully rolled above the heavy artillery of the castles in the distance, occasionally opening, as it were, to reveal the bright and waving folds of the Mexican banner, of red, green, and yellow, that proudly waved above; (see Frontispiece) then closing, and rolling in huge volumes, joined those rising from the city, and over the water, between the two, rose up in a huge pyramid of brilliant white, in the rays of the sun above and darkness beneath, half illumined by the brilliant flashes darting therefrom. The beach near the fleet of American ships was covered in every foot by a dense crowd of Americans,-soldiers, sailors; heaps of shot, piles of shell, artillery, provision tents; every material of warfare in the utmost profusion; while the waves between the vessels and the shore were covered with the passing boats, landing more of the same. It was such an active, stirring scene of energy collected for destruction, as may, in the lives of those who witnessed it, never again be observed. All the soldiers on the two ships just arrived, were struck with astonishment at the scenes before them. Long,-long bad they marched and toiled to take part in these scenes, and all were a ittle disappointed that they had been kept out by the weather, so as not to land when the others had. They wanted to have a hand in everything done in this magnificent drama thus acting be- fore them,   One stood musing at the stern of one of the ships; he grasped his arms with impatience as he eagerly gazed at the busy crowd engaged on the beach; his face looked solemn, with an expression of stern disappointment. He was from Columbia, Tennessee, and has been in- troduced to the reader as our private "the Colonel." Colonel Thomas, of the regiment, also enlisted a private in that company; seeing at this moment his old neighbor, former officer, and present private thus sternly musing, he approached him, laid his hand on his shoulder as he gazed intently at the troops on shore, and asked him what he thus looked so earnestly at. "Colonel," replied he, "it is too bad; here we are headed at last I Don't you see Barkley Martin there before us?" "No!" said the Colonel: "Barkley Martin! he is not there." "Yes," replied the soldier, "there he is; I saw him pass behind that pile of stores, talking with some officers, and pointing, giving commands to the boats about those cannon." The Colonel was nonplussed ; he looked, and looked; turned his head this way and that; then addressing the soldier by his former title, said, "' Colonel Whitaker,' you are mis- taken; Barkley Martin is in congress." "Yes, Colonel, he is there; I saw him giving orders: has not Colonel Baker been in congress too, and is not he here? Yes, Colonel, he is there; you will see him with his officers step out there presently." Colonel Thomas again looked into the confused crowd. "Martin is not there,-he can't be there; there has been no requisition on Tennessee for b more troops." "Colonel Thomas," replied the sol- r dier, "Barkley Martin is there before us. He is a man of his word. He is there at the head of six hundred Tean nesseeans, with General Jaclson's cha- peau on his head, and the epaulettes of [ the old hero on his shoulders, and he is k going to shake the Mexican republic to its foundations. Did he not say so at ,Ashland, near Columbia, in '44? Yes   sir; he is there; it is at his force that all these shells and shot are fired, and he will take that city and castle quickly. Hurry, Colonel; let us be ashore, and have something to do: we have marched through Tennessee, Arkansas, Texas, and Mexico,-have endured all sorts of hardships, have been with old "Rough and Ready, "-have occupied Mata- moras, Victoria, Tampico,-have lost many of our men in eight months' hard service; and now Barkley Martin, with his six hundred Tennesseeans is ahead of us, and will take this city and castle before us. Hurry, Colonel; let us be ashore; we can never show our faces in Tennessee again, before Barkley Martin or any of his six hundred. Hurry, Co- lonel; hurry! let us have a part in the taking of those ancient fortresses!" Colonel Thomas was completely de- ceived by the earnestness of the soldier. His mind rapidly reviewed for a moment the scenes spoken of at home. The form of the speaker at Ashland, and his appeal to the flag above him; his declaration with regard to the uniform of Jackson, and the present war; all rose clearly before his mind, for he had been at the identical meeting. He raised his head from his attitude of deep thought, and addressed the soldier. "'Colonel Whitaker,' your serious   manner and assertion completely de- ceived me; for the moment I thought that Barkley Martin was there, dressed as you said; but he is not here; his promises were not performed, and he is still at home, or enjoying his seat in congress," The soldier turned away, as a shell loudly burst near by, thrown from the castle, and then flew among the ship- ping; without noticing it, he continued, "Barkley Martin is there. He said he would come, and he will take the city and the castle: it is too bad,-too bad  never again can we show ourselves in old Tennessee. Colonel Barkley Martin would not violate his word so publicly given. Boys," said he to the others, our chance is over, let us go below;" and striking his arms heavily down upon the deck, he descended the hatchway, followed by a crowd of soldiers anxious to know if Barkley Martin was really there. The next morning the troops of the regiment landed in gallant order, were' immediately set to labor in the trenches constructing the naval battery ;-and then, upon the most diligent inquiry in- stituted among the thousands there assembled, no such name was found as that of the Hon. Barkley Martin.   THE CAMP AT NIGHT.   To the soldier, sleep is sweet and sound, for no care lies on his mind; indifferent to the fate of the morrow,-- having no plans to lay, no arrangements to carry out, and commonly much fa- tigued,-he lies down at night in his little tent, and sweetly sleeps. Let us glance rapidly over the events of a day in a large encampment, to pass on and observe the same after the sha- dows of night have rested upon it: commencing at early dawn, when the ..,   drums, fifes, and bugles, joining in re-, veille, arouse the soundest sleepers, and destroy instantaneously vast numbers of the pleasing dreams that have been flitting over the minds of the wearied soldiers,-dreams of home, of families, friends; of peace and harmony, con- tentment and plenty. We will glance, too, at the forming; lines in every part of a vast encamp- ment, the numerous rolls called by the sergeants, and the early drills that     follow, the marching and counter- marching done by those who all the time, from their parade ground, are paying more attention to the curling volumes of smoke rising from the camp in suchk numbers, than they are to the words of command given, in no very pleasant tones of voice, by the captains and lieutenants, themselves minus, as yet, their breakfasts; for the' former seem to tell the soldier of a tin cup of hot coffee, a large slice of meat, &c., in immediate prospective, and in fact, the vapor rolled off from above the camp, comes along the forming and marching -ranks, loaded with a strong savor of these substantials; thus causing the hungry men to hold'their heads a little higher than what is required by the soldiers' position," in order to inhale large draughts of the freighted atmo- sphere, which to them really seems to have some solidity in it. We notice also with what alacrity eve- ry one hurries to hids tent, gun in hand, as soon as the officer in command of his company pronounces the welcome word "dismissed," which, by the way, has been as eagerly and impatiently watched for, for some time by the men in ranks, as ever the extension of the hand by the oldest friend,-the signal for the close of a quakers' meeting,-has been closely watched for by the youth of the same, who have been, much against their inclinations, cooped up in perfect silence for two hours, in a congregation as silent; and who, in their impatience, lbad nearly broken loose two or three times, on seeing a movement of the elder's hand, which, to their disap- pointment, proved to be, only toward his face for meditation, or toward his pocket for tobacco; the aforesaid sol- diers, in their hurry to put away their guns, each turning an anxious glance to their little fire, at which their messmate is taking off the pot of coffee, laying the meat, already fried, out in a little pile on the ground, so as to half cook a thin solution of flour and water into "grease cakes." The hastily dispatched and really enjoyed breakfast, the succeeding drills and guard, if at encampment, or the   quick striking and rolling up the tents, &c., if on the march, and in fact, the whole routine of the day, we will pass over quickly, and catch a view of them at night again, w-hen all the march, drill, and duty of the day is over; the supper, of the same materials, prepared in the same way as the breakfast, fin- ished; and those lucky enough to escape standing guard for the night, have crowded into the tents; each one of 'the latter within brilliantly lighted by a candle tied against the front tent pole, the light, of which, streaming through the canvas, appears very com- fortable inside. Then is the time when the most of fun and frolic takes place, so let us in imagination go from tent to tent, as they are thickly pitched in their long lines,-peep into them, see the groups within, hear their conversation, &c. At a little distance from the camp are several tents by themselves-; they are those of the guard. A large bright fire burns without, with several smaller ones near it. Around all these are the groups of soldiers, lying each in his blanket, his gun in his hand, and his feet to the fire. The officer of the guard is seated on an empty bread barrel, near to the fire, his face covered with his hands; he is in deep thought; the sergeant stands near, occasionally looking at his watch by the fire light. He borrowed this for the night, for it is one of the few that can be mustered in the camp. The corporal throws more wood on the fires, which glare up, throwing a brighter light over the sleepers; from whom come in chorus a confused noise of hard breathing in sound sleep. I The first relief is out on guard; the second and the third are thus sleeping. Not a word is spoken here. Half of these sleepers are soon to "be aroused, and the others shortly after midnight. They wish now to rest. The lieutenant in command has no- thing to say; occasionally he whistles low, as he thus remains on the barrel, his head still down, his elbows on his ; knees; he is half asleep, half awake; I .--is sensible of every object around   him, while at the same time memory and imagination are busy in pre- senting bright scenes of home,-hope points so confidently to the future, that his thoughts have merged into a bril- liant dream. The sergeant and the corporal, as they stand with their backs to the fire, and look out into the darkness, have nothing to say. They watch the figure of the first sentinel as he comes up in the light, with his gun at a support, and then turning, recedes, till lost to their view, only io appear and recede at the same intervals. A low conversation of half a dozen sentences has taken place between the two, but it has ceased. All here' is dull and listless; let us pass on. This collection of wagons, marquees, and soldiers' tents on our right, some distance within the lines, is the hospital department. The horses are feeding at the wagons; lights are in every tent; from the small tents are heard the groans of the sick ;-look into one! The sick soldiers lie on the ground; an at- tendant is sitting down asleep; a bucket of water, a cup, a. cendle, and some papers of mc'licine,. are by him; some of the sick are muttering in delirium, -tossed with burning fever.  Some will die; some will recover. Here, in the next tent, by himself alone, lies one already dead;. his feet are straightened out, his hands crossed on his breast, and his eyes closed; but his clothing has not, nor will it be moved. Neither shroud nor coffin is there for him. Wrapped in his blanket he will be buried in the mornink. In the tents of the surgeon and as- sistants is more noise. One 4f the latter is down before the medicine chest, pre-. paring medicine. The surgeon has just entered the death, name, and disease of the dead man, and quite a discussion on the best mode of treating this disease is going on, interspersed with many anec- dotes, and not a little laughter. The disease is spoken of, but the man is forgotten already; nor could any of them an hour hence tell you his name or company, but by referring to the list. Queer chaps, these doctors!   Their conversation on this is stopped, and all recollection of the medicines preparing for the others is forgotten, if one comes in with political news from congress; and, all take a part in the conversation that ensues, with an eager- ness that shows the interest they feel in other subjects than suffering humanity before them. That large marquee to the left, with others in its rear, we cannot approach; several candles are burning within, and the light shines strongly on the sentinels in front; by this, however, we can see a table in there, and chairs or camp stools; a bottle and glasses glisten in the center. Keep away; it is' the ge- neral's marquee. But here, now, is row after row of tents, all in regular order; each line headed by the marquee of the com- pany's captain, and followed by those of the lieutenants. A busy noise of mirth, singing, laughter, and mingled voices rises from the)whole; every tent is lit up; you can hear several violins, flutes, and clarionettes. Stand still, and observe, if you can, the different sounds that thus continually mingle, striking on your ear at the same in- stant. You can hear the words and sen- tences spoken in all the tents, but you can make nothing of them. Congress has passed a law --" Give us the old north state " "Oh, say, don't you see in the dawn's early light -- -" " Hurrah! I've won the pot!"  "When I was in old Virginia, about Lynch  -" "Here are three aces, and a pair of kings!" "I tell you, boys, Susan was pretty, and she said, then,  " Your horse, ha! ha-!" , Got any liquor, boys?" "I tell you it's not my turn; I got supper last night, and breakfast this  -'  "Captain, will those that are killed in this war get any pensions?" "The guard has nabbed Tim, boys." And a thousand such sentences min- gled with songs and roars of laughtei,     all come at once. But go into any tent, and then you notice not the sounds rising from the others; you become in- terested in the tales telling there, the games that are playing, or the songs that are sung. One after another of the soldiers- stretches himself out to sleep, and the others make room for hinn; as the hours pass by, the lights of the different tents go out, and the noise of the camp is less; till finally, the last tale is told, the last game fin- ished, the lights are all gone, and the vast assemblage of men are buried in sound slumbers. The lieutenant at the guard fire, the sergeant and corporal, are then the only officers awake; and 'the sentinels on post the only soldiers. Look into one Pof the tents now ;-thickly stowed one to another in each, are from six to eight men, their heads all in a line on their knapsacks, their guns and cartridge boxes at the back of the tent, their feet nearly at the entrance,- their water bucket, coffee pot and mess bag are at their feet; 'tis all the furniture or im- plements of house-keeping that they have. Each one is wrapped in his own  ingle blanket; or sometimes they are divided into couples, lying on one blan- ket, and covering themselves - with the other;, and each couple who thus go in partnership will do the same for months. If the night is cold, the single blanket must answer; they have no more. If it is warm, well and good. The two outside men in the tent can turn over during the night; the others can hardly do so, but must remain as they take their position. These two have to pay for this privilege, however, in rainy and wiindy nights; for the wet canvas flaps against their faces continually. They 'must each retain their own situation every night; no- one takes the other's place. Thus so thickly stowed, they sleep soundly; but anything that alarms or awakens one, from his motion will as quickly awaken the whole. Many amusing things sometimes hap- pen, by one or all getting startled in their sleep; and when all jump at once, so crowded together, the tent is almost sure to be torn up from the pits, and   tumble on their heads, bagging thend in their endeavors to get out, like so many birds in a net. One or two such instances we will relate as examples of this, and then leave the whole camp to their slumbers. At Tampico, where' we, in imagina- tion, are at present in view of the camp at night, there were, over the plain, partly occupied as a camping ground by the Tennessee brigade, great nium- bers of holes of the land crab. These crabs were in body commonly as large as a hen's egg, some much larger; their claws resembled those of the sea crab, but were longer and more slender; the bodies were thicker. Like the sea crab, they, too, moved sideways, but doubled up under them the large claw on one side with the smaller one; they darted off with an agility and swiftness perfect- ly surprising to one at first sight; it was hard to come up with one. Their color in shell was blue, their eyes set oil two shell prominences, which turned on joints, extending them half an inch from the head or throwing them back into a corresponding groove, made by nature for their security: they were "odd fish.' Like those of the craw fish, their holes Were carried down to the water, which, on this plain, was at the depth of a foot or two. When the camp was pitched, the tents being in regular rows, were placed over hundreds of these holes, and egress to their inmates was, of course, denied by the blankets on the, bottom of the tents. Occasionally, in the night, a sleeper over such a hole, could feel the inhabit- ant thereof pecking away at the blank- et, endeavoring to make an observation. but the slightest movement alarmed him, and down he would go "chuck" into the water, in the bottom of his domicile, so unceremoniously closed. A long fast r these fellows had; but those whose holes were about the entrances of the tents, the backs, or on the outside, fared bet- ter. One large one, in the author's tent, whose hole came up just out of reach i of the feet of the men, as they lay asleep, fared sumptuously; every night, t paying his attentions most earnestly, ; but quietly, to the large piece of raw,   tat poik that was there. If a sleeper mored, down went his crabship; but he soon returned.  One of these, thus within another tent, in the same way became pretty well acquainted with everything about the room. In the middle of a dark night, when iv all were asleep, as before mentioned, lafter satisfying his hunger, this one came round to the heads of the sleepers, and there became very much taken with the luxuriant, locks of one young man, who had, in reality, a beautiful head of hair, and who prided himself much upon it. His crabship was excessively delighted with the rich curls, and run- ning his long, cold, crooked claws through them, he lifted and tossed them about greatly to his satisfaction, but to the alarm of the sleeper, who, half- awaked, lifted his hand over his head, and, to his greater alarm, touched the cold back of the crab, which jumped back from the salutation. ," Tarantula" struck the mind of the aroused sleeper, and " tarantula! tarantula!" * he called out loudly, as he sprung up, and every one became, with him, terrified and buY half awakened. They cleared in an in- stant, leaving but the bare blankets stretched out within. Seizing a brand from the smoldering camp fire, in front of the tent, and blow- ing it to a flame, one of them poked it into the tent, and there, in the very cen- ter of the deserted blankets, was the' gentleman, in full possession, looking, itr all the world, as if highly enjoying the clamor and rout he had made; but not relishing the bright light of the brand, he turiid up his eyes on their long prominences at it, tucked his long claw, on one side, under him, and scud- "-efl tilt," sideways, out, under the flap of the tent, through into the next one, and brought up, with the sharp joint of the claw full against the Tarantulas had been common, on the route through Texas. They are of the spider species, nearly as large as one of these crabs, most horribly gly, and venomous in the extreme. Most serious consequences follow their bite, which to give'they will leap toward their object two or three feet. For a morefull description of them, see "Twelve Months' Volunteer," page 143.  3   bare breast of an elderly soldier, who thera was soundly sleeping, with his facd turned toward the outside of the tent, and, as the night was warm, with his coat, vest and shirt bosonm nbuttoned and wide open. Under all' these, and in next the skin, the crab pushed his cold but active carcase, as the old man,- with a yell of "J-s-s, what's that!'" jumped up, and stepping on the other sleepers, who also sprang, and, in the same instant, the man with the brand, tlius seeing the crab dart away, called out "he's gone out at the side! kill him! kill him!"  "Kill that tarantula!" shouted an- other. All this was in the same instant, and struplthe old man's ear; he exclaimed "help! boys, help! as he leaped out of the tent; the others got -caught to- gether, the tent poles suddenly gave way, the pins came up, the tent fell and bagged them all in under it, each with the impression that a tarantula was among them; and such tearing to get loose, in the darkness, rent the tent all to tatters; while the old man, on the outside, was dancing with terror at having a, dreaded tarantula cutting up such " extras" in his pantaloons. The crab's claws had scratched him in a hundred places, as, finding 'himself, so suddenly, in such warm quarters, he was "digging it" round and round the old man's body at a rapid rate; to the latter's excited imagination, all these were so many distinct bites of the poi-' sonous tarantula. He was a hale, liearty, active man, and had probably many times undressed himself rapidly, but the way in which roundabout, vest and' breeches flew then, put all previous per- formances, in that line,. completely in the shade.: Out went the crab from above his boot, and casting another squint with' his elevated eyes at the dreaded brand of fire then waving up, away he scud, before any one could inflict the- eagerly desired vengeance upon him. In the' mean time, all the others, near by, had been roused. After a while, all lay down again, but there was one mess, with a ruined tent. The crab never came back, but sought a new loation     Reader, will you have another instance of these sound sleepers, being aroused? Near Goliad, in the western part of Texas, the regiment of cavalry, then ad- vancing to join Gen. Taylor, had made a hard march for the day, and were all asleep, as before mentioned. During the night, so many frogs were found throughout the grass, galloping over the sleeping men, that many amus- ing alarms took place. In one tent, after midnight, when all was still, a frog made his appearance from under the lower fringe or flap of the canvas. The sleepers' faces were directed the same way. If the frog had been endowed with reason, to con- sider the best method by which he could alarm them, and such a consideration had been put into effect, he could not have done the job in"a better way than that in which it was accomplished by his course. In fact, the boys afterward declared that he must have studied out his plan. He jumped on the face of the first; cold, clammy; then on the face of the next, his fore paws hanging on one side of that sleeper's nose, and his hind feet scratching sharply away at the under cheek, as he endeavored to get up, while his cold belly was stretched across the proboscis of the sleeper, who instantly sprung, lifting the frog a foot or two; but an active jump on his part brought him full upon the right closed eye of the next one, with his claws feel- ing about the eyelid, but tumbling, or rather sliding, down this chap's face, he was at the ear of the next, over whose face he was crawling, as that sleeper, hitting him with his open hand, brushed him off on to the chin and throat of the next. Every one's face did that rascal go over; it was done in a minute; the last one wakened by him found the first expression in the mouths of the others. The effect was! electrical. Some cried out "rattlesnake" in their alarm, and all rising at this word came up with a bound,- for to their minds the snake was still in the tent. The tent was full, as before, the pins gave way in ani instant, down came the poles, and every one got out as fast as ite bagging canvas would relieve him; ,     I   each one breathless with alarm, each thinking himself bit, especially the one whom the frog had taken on both. icheeks, who was sure that the snake's jaws had enclosed the most of his vis- age. In all the tents near, the inmates were roused by such alarm prevailing, with the cry of "rattlesnake " and this very name of "rattlesnake" caused hundreds all around to awake, and be uneasy lest the crawling snake in the high grass might wind his way along to them. For an hour the murmur con- tinued through the camp, before all were again asleep. So much for an alarm by a frogo as well as a crab; now for one by a larger animal. One night in Texas, while the same regiment was on its march, the whole encampment were, thus soundly asleep. The moon was shining brightly down over the wide extensive prairie, appa- rently in the center of which was an encampment, with its white rows of tents. The horses, thickly picketed, were quietly dozing, save a few, which had got loose from their halters, and were wandering round, endeavoring to pick up lmore corn than  had that night fallen to their share. Some men there were in the regiment, who would always thus turn their horses loose, to get through the night all they could in addition to their own forage; and these horses became quite expert in extracting the forage, bags of corn, &c., from under the flaps of the tents, filled inside with. the sleepers. Reaching their noses under, and biting at a bag, they would gently pull it out, and once out, would walk into it heartily. Of course, that sleeper, whose bag was thus taken, had no forage for his own horse in the morning; and many bitter curses on the thief were vented by him. Sometimes these horses were soundly thrashed, had a hatchet thrown at them, or some severe retribution in- flicted on them; and such was the effect of this, that it was surprising to observe the stealthiness with which these cunning four-footed rascals would go on their thieving expeditions around the camp at night. Not content with getting the bag out, they would pull it;   off a few steps from the canvas, appa- rentlyr fully under the knowledge that the grinding of their jaws, masticating the grain close to the tent, would betray  them, by argusing the sleepers; so wide awake for this, they always kept an eye on the mouth of the tent, and if any one emerged therefrom, they were off with the fleetness of the wind; so that it was hard to see enough 'of one of them, in the crowd of horses through which he ran, to be able afterward to recognize him. One soldier, by name of W. H. Dew- berry, (the author begs his pardon, should this ever. meet his eye,) was somewhat' advanced in years. He was hearty, active, and capable of standing any fatigue; though time had robbed' him of every hair from the former line of his brow to the extreme back of his head, a little scattering patch was still above and behind each ear; but over the most Of his caput the smooth glis- tening skin was tightly drawn, exposing with distinctness every phrenological development that he possessed, in a manner that would have been highly satisfactory to Spurzheim, Cobb, or Fowler. Dewherry was a good soldier, but he did love dearly a little of the ardent when it could conveniently be procured. One of his messmates, universally called in the camp by the simple appellation "Isaac" or "Ike," loved that as well as Dewherry, and the two had the good fortune to obtain a little of the " cree- tur " that evening, which had warmed them up, and made them feel quite comfortable and happy ; and in this mood they -had: laid down, and were soon soundly asleep.     , Dewherry had the outside position in his tent, which was then at the lower extremity of the company's line. In the night came one of those thieving fiorses, which, on smelling round, found Dewherry's forage bag, which lay at his'head.            f Gently pulling this out, he threw it i few steps, and turning his head round to it, was into its contents heartily, and ground the cona between his teeth with truh noise as. aroused Dewherry, who   hated much to. get up from his comfort-e. able position, and go out at the front; of the tent; so turning over, without a  word to awaken the others, he popped' his head out under the flap, and the; moon-shine struck fair upon his bald pate, which, however, was so behiad- the horse, that the latter did not see' him. A little switch that lay there, Dew- berry seized, and struck the horse on the hind legs, with the expression, "At. it, you d-d thief; clear-1-" But he did not have time to finish his sentence, for at the blow the horse threw his head round, and alarmed at the switch, but more sh at the bald' pate so queerly glistening in the moon- light, from the low grass, with a pair of as queer looking eyes peeping: out' below it, gave a loud snort, a highb pitch of his head, and a violent kick: at the, pate, all in the same instant, and oft he went at the top of his speed, throwing his head higher, with conti- nued louder snorts, fully convinced, no doubt, that he had seen the d--v--. But poor Dewherry fared badly; the: shoe on the horse's hoof hit his' bald pate fairly, and in went Dewherry, with a backward motion that certainly could' not be excelled by any of those craw- fishing' crabs that have been before' mentioned; rolling 'over the sleepers,: with a loud yell and desperate kicks 'into the stomachs of the boys, with his hands on his head, he rolled over and over. "J-s-s Ch-st! hell and damn- ation! my brains are out I 'Whoo-o -o-o!  I'm a dead man I .That d- -d horse has knocked my brains out! Whoooo--o!" Evefy one was out of the tent, long before these exclamations were fully out of Dewherry's lips; 'his violent actions arousing them from their slum- bers, together with such loud yells alarming them excessively. His com- rade seized hold of him, as he continued his rapid kicks and exclamations, 'and putting his hand on :the bald head, in despite of the contortions of the sufferer; he ranthen to the coals of the smoldering fire, and looking at his hand, sunig- 6it     as ,he saw it covered with blood, (for every' nail's head in the shoe had bro- ken the skin,) "By G-d, Dewherry, ybu: are a dead man, sure; say your. prayers, and that d--d fast, for your bgains are out!" and he ran back into the tent, while his loud words aroused many tents of sleepers all around, who came rushing out. "O Lord-! have mercy on a poor sin---" screamed Dewherry, still in contortions, as "Ike " ran in and seized him again, while some were hurrying about, trying to get a light. "Ike," pressing his hand on his head, finding it, firm, (for the distance from the horse had been sufficient to destroy the force of the blow, so that it had been only a severe knock, and entering of the nail-heads,) "By G-d, Dewherry, your skull is sound," says he. "No, it is n't; it's broke; my brains are out; I'm a dead man! Lord! have mercy ;-show pity! Lord I O Lord!" With a few more licks, "Ike" per- sisted, still hold of the pate, "Dew- berry, you are not dead yet."    " yes, I am a dead man! 0 Jesus!" "But, Dewherry," said "Ike," as he gave his head a right hard "dig" to see if it was sound, for he was get-   ting a little anpgy, as an universal. hubbub was rising all round, and every, one crowding round the tent, fresh from'n their sleep. "What's the matter?" "What ' the matter?" "I tell you, Dewherry," your head is sound; you are not dead!" "You are a G-d' d--  d fool" re- torted the, other; " you do n't know when a- man is dead. O Lord I have mercy on a poor sinner!-that d--d horse!-O Lord! show pity, Lord I O Lord! forgive!" for this seemed to be all in the religious line that the suf-' ferer could remember then. ." That d--d rascal M'Pherson turned that horse out on purpose. O Lord!" By this time a large portion of the camp was aroused. "Ike" damned him for a fool; Dewherry cursed him for a jackass, and prayed-together. A light having been procured, all- crowded in and around,'the tent; the bald but bloody pate was examined by one of' the, surgeons, who had been aroused, and pronounced safe. The. crowd dispersed to their tents again, and the head being covered with stick. ing plaster, Dewherry laid down again, cursing the horse,. and threatening M'Pherson, .his owner, with the d-- d--st thrashing that he ever got, ii the Lord let them live till morning.   TRICKS OF SOLDIERS UPON EACH OTHER. /   THS man "Ike," referred to in the preceding tale, like hundreds of others ilways to be found in a camp, was for- ever making amusement for himself in leisure hours, by playing pranks and tricks of all sorts, on his messmates and other soldiers.-The hours of camp life pass often in a monotonous manner, which to relieve, seemed to be the grand object with him. Isaac M'Candliss, as his name run on the rolls, was a favorite,   with! all, notwithstanding but very few in his company escaped from the inflic- tion 'of some of his little tricks during, the campaign; and on the whole, "Ike". was in himself an advantage, for he always kept some fun and sport going among the weary soldiers. , At Tampico, before pay day,.Ike ran out of dimes, and as he loved liquor amazingly, it distressed him, for he was ,not able to get a supply; he kept .tl   'to himself, however, with the exception of the knowledge of his particular friend '"Zed," who loved it as well as Ike, and who now was in the same predica- ment; the two would meet and sit on the bank of the river, at, the edge of camp, and look as melancholy as two peacocks in moulting time. One morning the two were thus sit- ting there, each one complaining of the hard times, and scheming out some way to raise some liquor, when another sol- dier came up, and taking Ike off a little, asked him if he would assist him to sell some brandy? that he did not drink any himself, but as long ,s it was so scarce, and he could get al dime a drink, he would like to sell a gallon he had bought, if he could do it secretly, so as not to'be found out, that it might not go home, and be known there that he had been selling liquor; (for he was well off there, and of penurious disposition, and now wanted to sell the liquor and obtain the profits, without the name, and moreover was somewhat fearful of the guard house, for the sale of liquor in camp was strictly forbidden.) This was a fortunate circumstance for Ake, and he entered into all the views of the other with eagerness, and agreed to assist him, saying that he might follow him and his friend Zed into other com- panies, and theywould introduce him, and he could sell all his liquor without his own company knowing any thing about it. This suiting the other, he Heft -Ike, to get his canteens of liquor, while Ike hastened to Zed, and a plan was quickly laid, and put in execution by the two topers, as the chap who would not be known as liquor vender made his appearance, with his three quarts of brandy ;out of the four, swung in two canteens, and. a gourd' from his shoul- ders. "Nowt" says Ike, "'we will buy con. siderable of you ourselves, but you must stick to us till night, mind." "I will that," said the other. "And what we buy we will pay for at night," continued Ike.  "Exactly," said tlhevender, delighted at the success of his scheme.!' I'll make :thfadires. off the' boys iu a sly way,"   land he rubbed his hands, and calcu- lated, "three quarts is six pints, and that is twenty-four gills, and that is forty- eight half gills and between you and me, he said, this little measure does not hold a half gill, it lacks a quarter of it, so that it will be fifty-five drinks at least, and at a dime apiece, will come to five dollars and a-half-good; come, won't you go now.?" he said in great glee- "after this is gone I will get some more." "I reckon, General Ike, we had bet- ter take a little to commence with," said Zed. "By all means," replied Ike, and they both took hold. They started, and went over to the In- fantry, got into a company like them- selves,-conversation went on and liquor was proposed; but it was some distance to go after it. Zed said this friend of his' bad it to sell privately,-good fel- low-but these were all his friends, he must stand treat; some of. them ob- jected, but Zed insisted, :and a treat all round was the consequence; and seven drinks were taken and charged to Zed, with a look by the vender at Ike, who nodded "all right," and on tl'ey went. This was a good beginning, he thought. They went down to the edge of the river, where some of the men were catching crabs; here they-each ,drank, then bet that Ike could not catch five crabs in five minutes; the bet was a drink for themselves, and the three crab catchers that were on that little pile of rocks. Ike lost, catching but two;' he paid, and five drinks more were charged to Ike./ The two now were through with their troubles for the present; they sung, caught crabs, and drank again; , ' For two hours afters the liquor seller patiently followed themi through several companies. Ike told stories; Zed made speeches:; both treated liberally, and the score of drinks was heavy against both, for they would allow no one to buy for himself. "This is new business for you," said an'acquaintance from his own company, to the liquor seller, just as Zed, pretty high, was calling out loudly 'for rbis     "traveling grocery,' as he named the seller, to come up, for he wanted to treat the crowd. "Gentlemen," says he, "the time has been when my friend and myself had to go to the grocery, to get our liquor, and then I sung- "On wings of love I fly, From groceree to groceri." "But now, gentlemen, fellow soldiers, we have got up in the world, and we have a traveling grocery to follow us, (pointing to B--m, come up here, old fellow)-gentlemen take hold, nothing pleases me better than to treat my friends." '"This is a pretty business for you," said his comrade to the " grocery," "fol- lowing up and carrying liquor for two such topers as Ike and Zed. What would your old mother say, should she hear of this?". "Oh John, do n't say any thing about it-they owe so much now, I must keep with them, to get my money." "Hallo, my traveling grocery, come up here," shouted Ike. He came up, looked very serious- eight drinks more, went down to Zed; ,and then the seller begged them pri- vately not to call him the "traveling grocery ;" and they promised not to do it, but then they were as happy as lords, and two more comrades passing by, they hailed them to come up and take some, and these went down to Ike. "What do you think B--m is about," said one of his mess-mates? "he is carrying the liquor about for Ike and Zed, and they are as tight as ever; and treating every one, and make him walk up to them, calling him their ' traveling grocery.' " "Hurrah for B--m,let us go and sea him;" and away went the half dozen to see B-- m carrying the li- quor about. As they came up, they caught Ike's notice, who at that time was telling a great tale to some around him, while B--m, looking very sheepish, was standing off behind; his canteens and gourd with him. Ike as he saw them come smiling, thought they came for a dram, and be-   ing then just right to treat any and every one, he called out loudly for them to come up and take something; and looked round and beckoned to B--m, "come up here my traveling grocery-- by G-d, my old fellow, you shall go with me all the time-I 'll make your fortune." "How long since you took this busi- ness up?" said one to B--m.  "You say your grocery, Ike; he is my grocery," said Zed. With a wink at Zed, Ike replied aloud, "I said so, but he is both of our gro- cery's." "Yes, by G--d," says Zed, "he is a partnership grocery-I own him down to 54-40, and Ike owns the balance, which is very small-walk up,' gentle- men, enough for all." The feelings of the liquor seller, as his mess-mates drank, were not very pleasant; but again Ike and Zed prom- ised not to call him such a name, though they were now endeavoring to induce him to leave them, having got as much as they wished, and the trio went on. going by Lieutenant T's tent, whom they knew well liked it. "Come out here, John," said Ike; "' won't you have a-dram?" {"Yes, boys; but where can you get it?" "Well now, if you do n't think that we have a grocery here, we can win of you there. Look here," said he loudly, as he went up to B--m, who by that time had ldrawn a blanket over his shoulders, to conceal his canteens, lifting the blanket and shaking the gourd, "see here!" "By G--d, boys," said B--  m, now frightened at the officers knowing it, " you will get me in the guard house."  "No! no!" said both, at the top of their voices; ,' our traveling grocery shall not go in the guard house; if it does, we will go in with it. Come up, John." The lieutenant walked up, took a dram, and as he was not on duty, simply told the boys to be careful, and went back..  B-  m declared he could not go   rny further, and said his liquor was out; but Ike found that the gourd and one canteen only were out; that the other was partly full. Having accomplished their end, they went on, telling him of the trade that he was to follow them, and that it was no trade on their part if he did not go with them until night. But he was completely alarmed, and casting his eyes toward the lieutenant's tent, and seeing him within, still looking at him, the guard house came up before his mind so strong, and the fact of his messmates knowing it, that he put back, minus his liquor; and the two soakers went on, with as much in their heads as they could bear. He never called for pay, for he knew they would hold him to his contract. So much for the private gentlemanly way of selling li- quor by the aid of "Zed" and "Ike." B--m was cured of all desire to sell more, never attempting it again. There was another character in the same company with Ike, who had been a preacher before starting to the war; but under the influence of the camp, he lost the distinctive character of the preacher, but did not acquire readily. that peculiar manner of the professional soldier. He remained a sort of non- descript; occasionally as serious as though he was at a religious meeting, and then again as mirthful as if at a dance; but these moods always seemed to come at the wrong time: he was very serious when all others were gay, and mirthful when all were serious; selecting the oddest times for his jokes. On the last day of February, and previous to the embarcation of the troops at Tampico for Vera Cruz, the regiment of cavalry was mustered to make out the pay roll. The condition of the horses, as well as of the men, was looked into; as this was a matter of interest to every man, each one rubbed up his horse to pass muster, for should he fail to do this, a deduction was made from the soldier's pay.. The preacher, for a joke, hid his horse out, and reported to the orderly sergeant that he had sold him.  It troubled the sergeant and captain much,   for the officers of each company wished to keep up the strength of each as much as possible; when the time for mustering, however, arrived, the preach- I er brought up his horse, and the entry. on the roll was obliged to be altered correspondingly. This transaction did not imeet the views of "Ike," who thought it ill- timed, and called the preacher a fool; but determining to pay him a trick in turn, he belted on his sword, and taking his caibine, went to the preacher, and told him that he was sent for him by General Pillow. The preacher alarmed, inquired for what, and was told for selling his horse. He said it was a joke; but was informed that it was no joke to the brigadier-general, who knew nothing of that, and who consi- dered it a serious offense for a cavalry soldier to sell his horse at a time when the force of cavalry was so limited, and so much needed. The preacher was still more alarmed. He had never been before the general, nor had he spoken to him; and his alarm was still further increased by "Ike," who asked him whether he had not been speaking against the general? to -nhich he hesitatingly replied, that he had some fortnight before said some- thing that might be construed against him, but that he did not mean it; for no one would be further than he from saying anything against his superior officer of such rank ;-that he respected and would obey General Pillow to the utmost. Ike" shook his head. "You had better tell him so, old fellow, and make your peace with him; for I'm thinking that you are going into strict confine- ment, to be tried for mutiny in the camp. Some one has informed upon you. By G-d, old fellow, this trifling with a general in actual war is not such pretty business. But be quick; come on!" The preacher was pale with appre- hension. "Stop," said he, "let me shave and dress to go before him." "Well, be quick!" and at it tlt preacher went, while "Ike " sat down with his carbine before his tent, not  I allowing him to come out.     The poor fellow trembled, cut his lip with his razor, and kept talking. "Ike"  was very sorry  for him, very ;-wished that he had not the job of taking him  so publicly a pri- soner, and finally told him, that if he would go down; himself and report to General Pillow,l that he would allow him to do so undisturbed; that it whuld be far more agreeable to his feelings for him to do so.  The preacher ac- cepted the offer with many thanks, and "Ike" left. When shaved and dressed, down, with many tremblings, went the preacher to the general's quarters; he went in with much trepidation. Pillow was writing; he looked sternly at the new comer, who advanced with a polite bow. -- "Francis E. Smith * is my name, sir," said he. "How do you do, Mr. Smith?" said the general, rising with much affability, and extending his hand, to the former's great astonishment, and somewhat to his relief. He took the hand extended. "I am come to report myself to you; what do you want with me, general?" "What do I want of you, sir?  No- thing, sir, nothing; why are'you here,  sir?"  "I was directed by Mr. M'Candliss to come to you, sir," said the preacher; a "' he informed me that vou were much 1 displeased with me."  '"With you, sir? I never knew you, a sir. What regiment and company    do  you belong to, sir?" Company G of the cavalry," said I the other.               j "Sergeant," called the general to his orderly, "go to dompany G of the ca- a valry regiment, and direct .the captain 1 from me to send down here Mr. AlM'and- o liss immediately. Now there were two brothers of the s To Preacher Smith, afterward Lieutenant of Dragoons, in the army at the city of Mexico, tha n author presents his respects, regrets that he was Jr obliged to use his name: but as he afterward be-  came the full soldier, and wielded the sabre with as much effect as he had before the sword of the Spirit, the writer hopes to be pardoned for re- lating this anecdote of what happened to him  during the change that he was then undergoing.   p I same name in the company, the elder of whom was "Ike," but -he was out , of the way. Directed by the captain, e the orderly arrested the younger, An- - drew, and marched him  off to the e general's quarters'; he half frightened, o and anxious to know why General Pil- v low had had him  arrested; all the i terrors of the military law were before s his mind, and by the time he reached - there, he was as alarmed as the preacher I had been. "Here is Mr. M'Candliss," said the orderly. "Why did you send that man here?" demanded the general, pointing to the preacher, whose alarm had all returned upon him, and who stood in the corner of the marquee. "I have never sent him, general," replied the other one, lookingo wildly at Smith. "It was Ike' M'Candliss, general,' said Smith. General Pillow had well known both the young M'Can4liss' in Tennessee.' "Go back," he said in his sternest tone to the sergeant, "and bring Isaac M'Candliss before me immediately;" and in the mean time waving his hand to Smith and Andrew, "you may go," said he ; and they went quickly. The sergeant found "Ike" busy with another in taking heavy pulls at a junk bottle which had been brought, from town, and he was quite lively. He was arrested and marched off to the ge- neral's head quarters. "Isaac," said the general to his for- mer playmate when a boy, "why did you send that man Smith down here?" "Why, general, he is a simple man, and has fits sometimes, and he said that he wanted to see you and speak to his general once; so I told him that you were like any other man, and if he should see you, that you would treat him with great politeness." "Ah, Ike,' there is some of your mischief at the bottom of this! You may go; but don't send any more men here on such tom-fool errands." "Ike" with a low bow retired, and goingnup to camp soon after met Smith, who had heard from   the general'i   orderly his excuse, and was perfectly raving. . Forgetting himself and his former profession, he called out, "Yes, d-n your soul! you told the general that I had fits, did you?" as he advanced. "Yes, I did," hiccuped "Ike;" "but I did not tell him what kind of fits you had!" "What kind?" shouted the other. "What kind?" repeated Ike, as he brought himself to a halt; "why, fits of the d--d-st foolishness that ever man was troubled with; and a d- d sight of them, too; and now, if you are not content with that, I can beat some of them out of you." Smith was furious and about to fight, but the rising difficulty was quelled by order of the captain, and each went his way; "Ike " met his brother, and ano- ther trouble came on; but they were watched and parted by the captain, and "Ike" got into his tent and finished his potations at the bottle, while he related to all the scheme by which in so short a time, he had alarmed Smith and his brother Andrew, annoyed the general, set the orderly to running over the camp, been arrested himself, and finally came off clear from the general, from Smith and from his brother. But nei- ther of the latter two would speak to "Ike" for several days afterward. At Victoria, when all the northern  army were concentrated there, "Ike" found abundant scope in the city and  camp for his pranks, and well did he  improve, it; hardly a soldier in his company escaped him., On one cold night/ when a violent i northern wind was sweeping down from t the mountains, the lieutenant-colonel of I the regiment finding it impossible to  resist the force of the wind in its ex- c posed situation, had it removed into the a musquit thicket on the bank of the a creek for shelter. The position he se- lected was near to, the company to s which Ike belonged.  After'he had laid down within, Ike  being qp by a fire, was accosted by one tl of the corporals, who had been elected t] from the ranks a few days before, and a who had been out on duty; he inquired c e  , nqui e4 ei   Y of him to kno w which was the tent of  the orderly sergeant, a particular friend r of the corporal. Ike instantly ppinted n out to him the marquee of the lieutenatt- colonel, and without a word, the corporal ran in quickly to get out of the keejn blast. It was dark in there: touching the colonel sharply with .his, foot, he called out to, him, I Lay over, and give an officer a chance!" and continue4, ' Where in the d-v-- did you raise this marquee? Lay over i if you do n't, I 'll give you a kick under the fifth rib. Do n't you 'know the respect due to an officer better than that? lay over, ; say " . The colonel now awakened, knowing the voice of the corporal, and under,- standing that he referred to his late election, and seeing his mistake, laid over without a word, and in bounced the corporal, saying as he inserted him- self into the warm place of the colonel, "It's a great thing to be an officer, is n't it?" drawing the blankets over him. "It is that!" said the colonel; and as he said so, the corporal bounced up, for he too knew the voice, and stam- mering all sorts of apologies in his confusion, he sloped quickly out, and immediately hunted Ike; but he had, as usual when the conclusion of any of his schemes was worked out, cleared himself. The following trick of Ike, however, came near producing serious, cnse- quences. 'After the capture of Vera Cruz, Ike got plenty of liquor, (and, by the way, it is as well to state here, that this same toper and regular soaker is now, like many otlers that were so there,: a .com- pletely reformed man, who is, an exr cellent citizen, and who never touches a drop of ardent spirits in any form); and he poured it into his system freely. His brother, who was a friend of long standing, as well as Ike himself, with the colonl .of the regiment at home wished to do the colonel some honor there, after the surrender. In this all the mesnmates joined. Colonel TthomaS and Adjutant Porer, the lieutenant- colonel, major, and several of the     captains were invited to dinner at the mess. The invitation was accepted, and Andrew and the others turned to vigorous exertion to have a fine dinner prepared. No expense was spared by the boys, who then had plenty of cash. A fine arbor was cut in the thick chapparel, through which the sun could not penetrate; a table and Mexican chairs were bought. Wines of different kinds were procured in the city, and some ice was obtained at a high price from a northern vessel just arrived with the article so refreshing. Meats and vegetables of all kinds were bought in the market the evening before. In all these preparations the services 'of many of the other men were pro- cured and paid for; but Ike stubbornly refused to have anything to do with the matter. "D--n 'em!" said he, " our'common fare is good enough; add a little brandy to it, and it will be first rate: and let 'them eat on the ground; we all have to do so." This refusal made the others angry, and they cursed Ike for a drunken sot. - This epithet aroused his anger also. Andrew was busy making pies; and nice ones they were, attracting universal attention; as often as they were baked, one by one, they were placed out con- 'spicuously; for a pie had not been seen for a long time in camp. Seizing a moment when Andrew had stepped out, and the att'ention of the others was withdrawn, Ike fastened up a paper he had prepared, with the word "R ESTAURAT" in large capitals, over the entrance to the arbor; on the high bench in front were two pies; over these he hung the vinegar bottle, a large black one, which looked like the sign of whisky. These preparations being unperceived by those he intended to annoy, hel hurried off to the nearest company of regulars, between whom and volunteers it was the easiest matter imaginable to kick up a row at a mo- ment's notice.  "Boys," said Ike to a half dozen of them, "that chap down there in the cavalry has sore of the best pies to sell that you ever saw, and only a   picayune each; none of your half made things: but jam up, first rate!" "Which chap?" said they. "A tall stout fellow," he replied, "with whiskers; you'll see him making more pies;" and in a low tone he added, "he has got liquor to sell too, only a picayune a dram, and ice there to go with it; his'pies he sells only for a blind. Buy a-pie; but if any body is around that he do n't want to know it, he will curse you, if you ask him for liquor. You curse him too, and he will give you the wink as soon as the coast is clear. Tell your men about it, for he is a clever fellow, and we all want him to do well; but be sly." The group of regulars addressed went- down immediately to the restau- rat, where they were to get a fine, pie for a picayune, and a glass of ice-cooled brandy for the same. Ike saw them thus start, and knew the inevitable row that would imme- diately take place on their application for the pies and liquor; for the boys of this mess were all as proud of their standing, &c., even although they were in camp, as any of the officers could be; indeed, it was their only fault, they were too much. so: but however, to sell a glass of liquor or to cook for the money received, not one in the mess would any more have done it than he would at home, where each was pos- sessed of ample means and standing of character. So while the group of regulars were thus passing over the plain between, Ike hurried to the Colonel, and waiting a few 'moments, informed him that Andrew was retailing liquor to the regulars. The Colonel would not hear of it. Ike declared it was true, and that a row was going on down there then between his messmates and some drunken regulars, because Andrew would not sell them any more liquor, and he was afraid that some of them would be, killed in the end; that there- fore he had thus to make the complaint. The Colonel was astonished; but the row down at the restaurat had already commenced: so dispatching the pro- vost marshal, who was near by, with a   file of men, he ordered him to bring Andrew under arrest before him. Ike then quickly sloped; for so soon had the fight commenced, that he had but little time, The' commencement of the row had been by the three regulars approaching the "RESTAURAT," as 'they saw on the paper above, in a confident swaggering' way; and the foremost one, a real six-footer, taking' hold of one of the pies and punching his thumb into it, and from thence into his capacious mouth, with a smack of his lips;- "D- --d nice, boys; ain't they?" said he to the other two, as he stuck his thumb down again into it, and brought a large piece up from the center of the pie, accompanied in the action by one of the others, while the third was stepping round with his hand extended, anxious too to " have a finger in the pie." / "Hallo, old boss! we will take this pie," said the first to Andrew, who had been with his back to them in the further extremity of the arbor, with his sleeves rolled up, and busy making up more pie crust, while the others were out back, busy cooking the pies. "The hell you will!" shouted the latter, struck with astonishment at the sight of this pie, which was already out of its pan, and in the hands of the regulars, one of whom threw down a picayune as he took a mouthful; and not only astonishment struck Andrew, but he became for an instant pale with rage.  "Yes, old fellow; we '1 take 'em both," said the six-footer, as he grabbed his fist into the second, " and we want something to drink too," said he, as he struck the bottle which Andrew for the first time perceived. i' What will you take, boys?" he continued to the others. i' You G-d 'd-  d thieving son of a b-ch, be off from here!" shouted Andrew, as he seized a frying-pan, and threw it violently at the heads of the 'tfree, who by dodging quickly averted the blow, and then rushing up toward them; caught his rolling-pin from the table, and striking 'quickly a heavy   I blow on the head of one, sent him staggering to the ground on the outside of the arbor. "By G-d! if that's your game," yelled out the six-footer, as he threw away his remnant of pie; "here 's into you!" as he grabbed Andrew, and with a most violent jerk threw him on the table backward, and with one hand hold of his throat, planted several se- vere blows on his breast and face, at each one of which on the latter the blood flew; while Andrew, getting the fellow's hand from his throat between his teetl, bit the flesh between the thumb and forefinger, on the ball of the former, completely through, and his messmates, coming up at the same mo- ment from the fires, one of them was knocked down by the other regular, who in an instant was keeled over and severely beaten by the other messmate with a chair; while the table was broken, the stand kicked over, and scores of men ran rapidly to the spot, followed as rapidly by the provost-marshal with his guard; he coming at a run, shouting, as he pushed the outside of the crowd apart, while the fighting was yet going on inside, "iMake way for the guard! make way for the guard!" which sound of '1guard " stopped the whole. The six footer with his hand streaming blood over Andrew's face and breast, jerked it loose, and re- leased the latter, who as he rose, hit him such a rousing blow, under the ear, as sent him head and stomach against the provost, knocking the latter down over a prostrate chair. "G--d d-m you," shouted the pro- vost as he rose, "I've come for you, seise him, men!" pointing to Andrew. "No, no, not that one," he continued, as the guard were nabbing the big reg- ular, "not that one, let him go-thats' the fellow," pointing to Andrew. "' By G-d," he continued shaking his fist, "you shall pay for this dearly, you shall,"' he gasped, for all his "Irish " had been roused by being knocked over in the exercise of his duty. "Take himn off to the Colonel, boys; not a word!-a d--d pretty piece of business." .     A bloody group were they at this in- atant, their clothes were torn, and An- drew's face was beaten shockingly, while the blood from the regular's head still streamed over every thing. The other's head, was severely cut by the chair, and the blood with. dirt, run in streams from his clotted hair; while the third regular who had been struck} with the rolling pin, although, bloody, was not so much so; he had not recovered his senses in time to take any further part in the performance, but was, now on the outside of the crowd, jumping up and throwing his clenched lists round with a complete storm of curses. To him the prvost. called as the crowd opened and the guard came out, leading Andrew, sullen, stern, and completely disfigured. i' "Damlnl you, clear out, all of you, or I'll, have you too." This quieted. him on the. instant, and joining his other two companions, they separated from ,She. crowd and passed over the plain 'again, talking loud, but thinking un- doubtedly, that their pies had cost more than they come to,. But right fortunate were they to get off as well as they had, avoiding arrest, by the sudden direction of the anger of the provost at Andrew. All the way, as 'the guard with their prisoner proceeded towards the Colo- nel's marquee, the provost grumbled, threatened and cursed; brushed his clothes upon which he had fallen in the dirt as the six footer pitched into him, 'with a quick angry motion, and press- ing. through a crowd, again collected round the marquee, he pushed on to the entrance, touched his cap, and reported to theColonel that he had brought An- drw 'M'Candliss, who had been. ma- king the row. - .' Bring him up here," said the Col- onel, and in Andrew was marched with -his- torn clothing, dirty and bloody, swollen face, black eyes, and with marks of blood freely sprinkled all: over -him, from the' regular's hands, 'as well as from his. own wounds; mad as a ,bull, and sulky as he could be. , "Leave him,"' said the Colonel to 'the. provost, who had commenced an ac- 'cusation against him in' a rapid manner.   "Leave him," repeated the Colonrl peremptorily, and the provost sullenly left with his guard. "Andrew," said the Colonel,." why have you commenced such a business in the camp, selling liquor to the regu- lars?" "'Tis a d-u-d lie," growled the other. "What?" said the Colonel. No answer was returned. The Col- onel was angry for an instant, but re- covering his serenity, after looking for a moment at the other, said- "Andrew, I am hurt to think that you will forget your duty as a soldier, so much as to act in this way. This sellingliquor you know is forbidden." "I did not have a drop of liquor there, those d-d regulars came and stole mny pies," returned the other, shortly; 'and, then ceased again, appa, rently wholly indifferent as to what pun- ishment might be put upon him. "Call Isaac M'Candliss here," said the Colonel in a loud voice, to the pro- vost, who Was still, lingering near the marquee, growling to himself, and anx- ious to hear Andrew sentenced to the guard-house. With,asullen look, he started off in search of Ike, but that personage had taken himself off into the city, by the aid of a permit he had obtained previ- ous to the row. The truth flashed on Andrew's mind. "Colonel," said he in a few moments, to that officer, who had resumed his writing, awaiting Ike's arrival; "did Ike say that I was selling liquor?" "He did, and told me that :there would be d disturbance quickly, and you see he was right. Andrew, I shall be sorry to have your old father and mother, hear of your having engaged in such a, business." "'  This was touching the young man in a tender point. The tension of anger gave way-nature was exhausted by his, efforts, and the thlought of. home, parents and sisters, came with power upon his mind. "Colonel," said he, "It is a story of Ike's, I have no liquor; he would not help us to get ready for our dinner to-morrow, and some of the boys cursed   him, and he has done this to pay us.- He sent those regulars to us, to get the pies-I know' he did; he told them that they could get liquor there, and then came to you and complained, for he knew a row would be kicked up. That's the way of it Colonel: I had no liquor," and brightening up, speaking more en- ergetically, "Colonel Thomas," he con- tinued, " do you think that I would sell liquor? you know I would not, here, a bit sooner than I would at home; I can make money other ways beside, selling liquor." "I hope so, Andrew,'? said the Col- onel. The provost. now: returned with the information that Ike had gone into the city, and Andrew was discharged, much to his relief; but not to the liking of the provost, who looked after him, as he went tow ard his. own line of com-   pany tents; muttering 'to himself, as Andrew disappeared behind the tents; "d-n you, I would like to give you a turn myself." The dinner was completely knocked in the head ;, no more preparations were made. Andrew washed himself, aid appeared on. parade at the usual hour, looking earnestly round -for Ike; but he, though tight, as he had got in town, had too much recollection about him, to come yet in Andrew's way; but under a plea of. sickness, he went to'the hos- pital tents; and from there to another company ; keeping out of the way, un- til the anger of his brother had subsided, when he returned; was quite sober for- a day or two, but soon got at his tricks again; more accounts of which might he interesting, but we pass onto, ano- ther subject   SCHEMES OF SOLDIERS TO GET LIQUOR. No. III.   Two tales of schemes to obtain liquor, have been related; they were both suc- cessful, and by the' means employed, the actors' escaped any retribution of punishment. This was often the case, but by no means universally so, for sometimes one of these soldiers, who had exercised so much ingenuity, to this end, and with so much success, mana- ging by good fortune to escape punish- ment of any kind for weeks, or, months,: would then suddenly be , detected, by the vigilant officers,. under such circumin stances as. admitted .no chance of escape, and. had too his previous performances in that line come up like so many accu- sing witnesses to aggravate his case.- The punishment then came upon him heavily, for in courts martial on private soldiers, the previous good conduct of the accused, if proven, goes very far in   I amelioration of his sentence, and often , clears him entirely. Much more weight does this possess in military than in civil courtse:iV We will now relate one esew of such, continued success in obtiniag' liquor, and avoiding punishmentsfor. a; long ,period ; then, the final retribution, falling heavily on the unlucky. wight, who thus tempted fortune too far. ., We introduce Mr,. Singleton to the reader. Mr. Singleton 'was,: an' Irish- man, as his physiognomy showed, con- ,firmed by his broad accent.' lHe was stout and well made, with:a clear blue eye, ani open countenance, a! full, etx pressiye forehead, behind-which rested as good a set of brains as were pos-" sessed by any man. Nor was Mr. Sin;,i gleton behind any of his. comrades m  mental culture ;.the beneficial results-of  a sound and finished education,:givtn     to him in youth, at Dublin College, of which he had been a graduate, with high scholastic honors. By nature and by education, had he been fitted to act in respectable, and indeed important situations in life. But alcohol had been his ruin; the seducing influences of that enemy, creeping on imperceptibly, had fairly destroyed his aspirations, ruined his standing, and bound him in the low- est ranks of life. Still, when sober, his mind seemed to arouse from its lethar- gy, and by the brilliancy of its concep- tions and expressions, to attract the respect and attention of those, who an hour or two before, perhaps, had passed him as he lay in a state of complete in- toxication, with as little attention as they would pass a brute. But these energies, while he was in the camp, were only brought to bear immediately, upon laying new plans and schemes to obtain liquor, and avoid the punishment, so connected with its use by military discipline. On the return of the twelve months' volunteers, he had joined the cavalry company that remained, formed by men from the Tennessee cavalry, and from the Illinois infantry, still, called "the Tennessee cavalry," or the "Independ- ent company of Captain Wheat." Sin: gleton's Captain, he immediately found to be very strict. The first Lieuten- ant, McDonald, equally so; but 'the second Lieutenant, Smith, before men- tioned, on the contrary, was mild and easy.. So Singleton .attached himself particularly to the latter.' For several days, while the different regiments of ".twelve months' volunteers " were leav- ing, and this independent company not being completely organized, he was in his glory; particularly under the com- mand of Lieutenant Smith, he easily obtained every morning, full liberty of absence for the day. The city of Vera Cruz was then crowded with the return- ing regiments coming from Jalapa.- The sickly season had commenced; the yellow fever having broken out, all was hurry and bustle in the quick embarka- tion of so many soldiers. Singleton on condition of re-enlisting, founds no diffi- culty in getting money in advance, and   j round the city he passed, drinking and exchanging farewells with every one de- parting; and at the drinking houses; * giving advice to groups about to embark, on the best method of avoiding sea- sickness, and in becoming prepared-to meet the change of climate that awaited them, on their return to the United States. His specific for these cases, was liquor, to be used moderately, as he was then using it, to keep off yellow fever. Moderately, indeed! every night on his return'to his barracks, he was as "'tight" as liquor could make him; for he well knew that in the bustle and' ap- parent confusion of business, there was temporary relaxation of military disci- pline, and he was fully aware that it would be the same, until the returning troops should be all embarked. This was his time, therefore, and well did he' improve it. But like every thing else, these " golden days" to him, had an end. The volunteers returning had all gone, and this independent company of cavalry was regularly mustered into service again for the remainder of the war. New armor, sabers, holsters, car- bines, and equipments, were issued to them-the company was formed, the officers were in command, the rolls were called, and all were immediately under stricter discipline than ever they had been before. The return march to Jalapa was commenced, and during. it the officers became acquainted with their new men, and the latter with one another. The company under Captain Wheat having left Vera Cruz, however, minus the first lieutenant, McDonald, and a few men, among whom was Singleton, who were all detained for many hours, to escoit Colonel Sowers up, who had just arrived from Washington, bearing dispatches to General Scott. The Col-I onel, a civilian, just ushered so suddenly into the scenes of warfare, acted with strange, but confident imprudence; de- taining his little escort so long that the company under the captain were so far advanced that it was impossible to overtake them. Not much concern, how- ever, did this delay give Singleton, who improved the opportunity thus offered,   to take in another supply of liquor, and provide himself with a canteen of the same, to use on the road.' When finally, as Colonel Sowers had completed his arrangements, and joined his escort, and the little troop emerged from the heavy gates of Vera Cruz, to proceed on their route, as the sun was already far beyond the meridian, the old regu- lars who guarded the gate, shook their heads, as they surveyed the group, in- timating,that the chances for them to get through the guerrilla bands, were slender. They rode on rapidly, over the extent of the sea beach, along the water's edge, till they gained the sand hills, and passing over these, and the succeeding rolling country, after a rapid march of eighteen miles, they arrived after dark, at the Rio San Juan, near to Santa Anna's hacienda, Manga de Clavo. Here they were obliged to halt for the night. Their situation was perilous in the extreme; their strength was not sufficient to resist an attack of the hun- dreds of cut-throat rascals that surroun- ded them; at the very place too, where already, many Americans had been kill- ed. Nothing but stratagem would an- swer here, and this was made by order of the lieutenant, in kindling up about thirty fires, immediately about, tle lights of which could be seen from the hills far and near. This display, the lieutenant calculated, would not only prevent a night attack, but would clear the road infront, the following morning. On this night, Singleton was straight to all appearance, but he. had many glori- ous pulls at his canteen, which unable to hold out at that rate, was found wholly exhausted, by its owner, when the little detachment roused up to start. This grieved him excessively, and while the minds of the others were upon the ex- treme dangers foreshadowed in the com- ing day, he thought only of his empty canteen. For so many days had lie kept his "coppers hot," that on this morning, thus aroused, without break- fast, and off before daylight, he felt se- verely the loss of a little of the ardent. lie and Colonel Sowers were the only eies in the party who seemed to be   ' wholly absent minded, with regard to the caution now necessary to be exer- cised. And while the latter wished things done with the same speed and in the same manner, as though he had been making a rapid journey on busi- ness, from Washington to New York; the former thought that if he only had his canteen filled, all the guerrillas might go to the d-1 for him, or any in- terference on his part, against such a journey on theirs. The lieutenant's scheme of the fires had cleared the road for some miles, and in the morning the party rode ra- pidly on. After a few hours they arrived at the National Bridge, and now, between this and Cerro Gordo, Lieutenant M'Donald was sure of an attack, and so he told the colonel; continually reminding the latter of the necessity of caution, as he spurred on his horse impatiently, seem- ing to think all the lieutenant's remon- strances to proceed from other motives.- In the village at the bridge, Singleton endeavored to halt a moment to have the canteen filled; but he was sternly ordered on. The party now rode up a long ascent of the mountainous land; on the top of this ascent was a long level, thickly grown over with musquit trees; much of the brush of which hadl been cut and done up in bundles, and lay by the road side for a mile or two. It had thus been cut a short time pre- vious to the battle of Cerro Gordo, to fortify the heights of the National Bridge, but had thus been left, as General Santa Anna had ordered the heights of Cerro Gordo to be fortified instead. This brush having thus been cut down, made the road appear wider; and it beiig straight for some distance ahead, the colonel in the most foolish manner spurred on his horse, with his two attendants, 'not noticing the lieu- tenant's caution, who again loudly called to him, that this level, above all others,. was the very place in which the enemy might be lying in ambush, and to look out ahead; but away he went from the escort, and was lost to view.  At the next turn of the road- he     galloped-directly into the middle of an ambush of guerrillas, ..who had just been engaged in the agreeable task of robbing the "diligencia" or stage. The colonel and his attendants were shot from their horses by the volley poured upon them, were stabbed in many places, stripped and horribly mutilated in a moment; while the little guard dashing up, delivered their fire at the knemy, dropped their carbines to their slings, and spurred into the fight, with their holster pistols and their sabers. In the melee,-the dust, the noise,- the guerrillas losing several of their number under the hot fire and rapid cuts of the Americans, retreated, un- doubtedly thinking the party to be larger than it really was, and fell back up the- road, near to their main body. No others of the party were touched by the balls or lances; the lieutenant's horse only was shot, but the fine animal of Colonel Sowers had made a circuit, at a wild pace through the bushes, and recognising his comrades, he dashed up among them, and one of the men seizing his bridle, the lieutenant mounted him, and then perceived the full body of the uerrilla force, which opened a rapid fre. Advance for these few was now im- possible, and a retreat was ordered; and. slowly retiring out of the line of fire, they rapidly retreated toward the National Bridge, where, at the stone hacienda of Santa Anna, the few could make a strong stand against numbers. As they came in view of the village, and neared the hacienda, they checked their horses, and descended the hill at a walk, lest they should excite against them the inhabitants also; for these, like all Mexicans, were very brave against a retreating foe. Entering the yard, dismounting and securing the horses in the rear of the house, the lieutenant quickly made his arrangements of defense, and advanta- geously posted his few men. Singleton in the excitement had forgotten his wish for liquor, and was as attentive as' the perilous situation demanded.. For two hours they'awaited the attack, but no enemy was seen advancing.   Singleton -was stationed at the anglv of the wall next 'the village. .'After anxiously. awaiting this length of time, tihe lieutenant remarked in the hearing, of the soldier, that he did not believe that those d  d rascals would come ; either they would think they had gained a great victory in obtaining the dis-. patches that were on the person of Colonel Sowers, or else they had taken the little squad as the advanced guard of a heavier force, and had retired. This remark was probably true, either. in one sense or the other, for the force of guerrillas did not approach the vil- lage. But as Singleton heard this, bis. anxiety for the 'moment subsided; and, then he immediately thought of the: empty canteen again; "Jas-s! how; he wanted a dram!" and soon after-. ward, as the lieutenant entered the house and looked out from one of the, windows, who should he see but this soldier by himself, proceeding, at a fast walk directly into the hostile village. Singleton had gone, sure. M'Donald was furious. "' The d --d scamp!" he stormed, "he'll be killed! and we may be attacked while he is gone I D-n him! I'll fix him! If I don't court martial him for this;-deserting, his post at such a time!" Now Singleton was fully aware of the magnitude of the offense he committed, and the great risk he ran, even if they. had no fight; but no ways discouraged,  he went to the. first house, which was, occupied, as he knew, by a Frenchman who had liquor to sell, but who kept his. house closed for security, though a rap on the shutters brought him out quickly,. as he had sold much liqubr to the pass-, ing Americans, and 'in fact had always. been quite friendly to those 'who went there to buy; but of this selling no officer was aware. Singleton had had a sort o01' spree. at this house when 'in company with' the third and fourth Illinois regiments; he had passed down from Jalapa, en- camping here, some two months before this. The Frenchman, as soon as, he saw him knew him, let him in at oncer sold him a quart of liquor, and then a dollar's worth of dried beef in long:stripih   Singleton casting his eyes' around, saw about thirty papers of American cartridges for holster pistolsi;Oq car- bines, that the Frenclimanw-hAb..'ought from a Mexican boy, being, part of the plunder of a captured wagon. Alarming the store keeper, the soldier easily in- duced him to deliver over all these, and filling his pockets and cap with them, shouldering his large bundle'of beef, with his canteen concealed, his carbine ready for use, he emerged from the store, and "made tracks" rapidly for the hacienda. M'Donald had stormed and cursed himself almost blue; but as he saw the soldier returning with such a load of dried beef, he instantly thought how much that might be needed, and was somewhat pacified. "Where have you been, sir?" "' After this beef, lieutenant; I saw a Mexican with it up there, and I ran up to buy it before any of them got it, for I 'm thinking we 'll have to stay here' a day or two, and we have not got enough to eat." "Well, you deserted your post, but I 'm glad you got the beef; and so now go and take your station again." Singleton' hauled out his, bunches of cartridges, to the perfect delight of M'Donald, for they had none save those in'their boxes; changing his mood, he praised She soldier much, who kept the fact of his having the liquor still. They stayed there all night, and were not at- tacked, but Singleton got "' as happy as a lord," cursed the whole Mexican nation, and "cut up shines" enough; and. again the lieutenant was furious. Singleton escaped standing guard that night, he having at last become sleepy, and he slept soundly all the night on the floor of one of the rooms, The party were relieved next day by a guard train coming down; they re- turned with this to Vera Cruz, going up afterward with the command of Colonel M'Intosh. Upon joining the company at Jalapa, M'Donald, as Singleton had calculated, never reported him; that passed off, and he was yet clear. He, while the -company remained at: 4   Jalapa, kept straight. A fit of sobriety i came over him, and for days and weeks, even after the company had proceededi to Puebla, he kept as sober and as or- derly as any officer could wish. His universal knowledge made him useful to all around him. 'He took care of himself, and began to be much thought of and respected by the officers, and Lieutenant Smith' congratulated himself upon having told the other officers that he was a first rate fellow, after all. The atmy passed on from Puebla to tfie city of Mexico; the exciting scenes there rapidly followed. The battles of Contreras and Churubusco were fought. Captain Wheat's company was then stationed at San Augustine, under General Worth. The fighting, and the excitement incident thereto, aroused in Singleton's breast again the wish for liquor, and he "went it strong;" enough being found in the suburbs of the city. During the whole time of the. armi- stice, he knowing that he had a good' chance, while every moment was ren- dered so exciting by the variable scenes as they wavered, apparently balanced,' between peace and war, that his drink- ing would iot be noticed. For several days the company had not been called upon, nor would he often have been fit' for duty, if it had been. After the battle of Churubusco, many of the intrenching tools of the American' army had been left in the captured con-' vent there, in charge of one of the "padres" or priests who took care of the old building. When, on the seventh of September, the final and insulting letteF of-Santa Anna was received by General Scott, and hostilities were to be immediately resumed.; the first order given was for Captain Wheat's company to go down to Churubusco from Tucu- baya, and bring up the intrenehing tools. The company which had been thus re-' posing was suddenly called together by the bugles, and ordered to "saddle 'ip." The roll was called, and Singleton was' missing. "'AWhere is Singleton?"' asked tle captain.  .      "tDrunk, as usual," replied the first lieutenant; while the second lieutenant, stroking down his long beard, said that he thought Mr. Singleton had only stepped off about the camp, and would be in presently. The captain was angry. "Lieute- nant Smith," said he, "you are forever excusing this man Singleton, and his 'drinking is notorious; I won't stand it any longer, by G-d! I 'll court martial him, d-n him! I will not have any man drunk in my ranks!" continued he in a perfect furyr to the company; " if any man gets drunk, or if I hear of any one bringing liquor into camp, I will punish him severely. Corporal M'Donogh," he still continued, "take three men and ride around'for five minutes, and if you see Singleton, arrest him and bring him here. I will make an example of him; he has been allowed to escape punishment too often! he can and, he shall make a good soldier!"  The corporal and his guard went and returned, not seeing anything of the fugitive; and the captain, ordering them to their places in ranks, appeared angry with every one. "Singleton is in a bad box now," said one soldier to his comrade. "Yes, by G-d! I would not be in lis shoes for a trifle " answered the other. Now Singleton had been all this time with a jolly companion who had ob- tained a bottle of liquor, and he was taking it with evident satisfaction, when another came yv, and informed him that his company was gone to Churu- busco. Singleton saw he was in a difficulty, and he instantly commenced the best thing he could have done, which was to saddle up and go after them, taking the captain's anger on the spot; for Captain Wheat was of a most impetuous disposition; his anger was a perfect storm, and he was most vindic- tive; but if the object bore it through without reply, and any extenuating cir- cmmstance could be brought, he listened patiently, and decided accordingly. Singleto'n bad well learned this pecu- liarity in the captain's disposition, and   I by acting in accordance with it, he had escaped punishment several times. He knew, therefore, that it would not do for him to remain in the camp while the others were off; and so saddling, up, he left, but did not overtake them before their arrival at Churubusco; Arriving at the lofty wall which sur- rounded the convent, the company was halted. They called out loudly for the heavy gate to be opened,. but no answer came from within. The echo of their voices, as it returned from the ancient building, seemed to mock them as they thus called aloud. They knocked at the gate, but no voice was heard, neither did any one approach from within. Dismounting the last ten men, the captain ordered them to push the gate in-they endeav- ored so to do, but the heavy bolts and strong wood sheeted with iron resisted their efforts successfully. The whole company was then dismounted, and ev- ery tenth man holding the horses of the others, at the captain's direction, they lifted two heavy timbers lying near, and by slow and heavy blows, with these "battering rams," the started the bolts, and finally, bro khe bars, and open flew the mansion gates, and the company eitered. The horses were also led in to guard against surprise-- When within the extensive yard, which so lately had been the scene of such bloody fighting, they saw nothing of the tools, and- calculated that they must be in the convent itself; and to the door of that, which was lofty, arched, and heavy, they went, and rapping, kicking. and shouting, endeavored to gain ad- mittance for some time, but got no an- swer from within. Captain Wheat di- tected the timbers to be brought up, and the door forced; these being brought and raised slowly by all hands, with a swing, and exclamations of' nowi then!' they struck heavily on the door, with a loud noise, making it quiver on its mas- sive hinges. "Again, boys," shouted the captain, and again came the timbers with thun-' dering force upon the door, and the noise rolled through the old building. The timbers were so heavy that the   men had to lay them down to obtain a '"new hold," and at that moment up came Singleton, through the gate, "as large as life," and drew up his horse directly, near the officers, and in front of the door. "Mr. Singleton," said Lieutenant Smith to him with great mildness, " dis- mount and assist those men." Singleton rolled on his horse, and glancing his eyes from the men at the timbers, to the door and lofty arch above, when the inscription cut in the stone, caught his eyes- "No, sir-ee," said he, as he earnestly gazed up at the words, "I'm not such a damned fool as that-laint." - What's that he says?" shouted the captain, and without waiting for an answer, he continued rapidly, address- ing two of the men, "take that man down off his horse, and tie him-tie his hands behind him-I 'll fix you now, sir." The men started toward Singleton; but he, waving them off with his hand for an instant; said, " captain, I will do any thing that is reasonable, but that knocking is not, and I 'll convince you of it in one minute." Well," said the captain sharply, thinking thatthe soldier had discovered some easier entrance into the fortress- like building. "'Are you trying to get into that gate?" said Singleton. ".Yes," returned the captain. "Well, you can't come it; don't you see that inscription over the door?" AU looked up at it. The letters were deply cut, and broad. s I see it in Latin," said the captain, i"but I don 't know what it means."  "Well; it i s "H -Eq AST PORTA CELI," and it means, "This is the gale of Hea- wen;" and I'll be damned if it isn't foolishness for you to be knocking at that door ; you never will get in there. ft. Peter: has no use for you, ' (still speaking to the captain,) "nor for any one of you, by G-d, and you know it," (with a nod to the crowd.) The captain looked at Singleton with surprise-the lieutenant laughed loud, thd Lie men joined in it. The captain   did not say a word for a moment--his eyes dilated, and then he burst out IP a, roar of laughter, and told the two men to " let Singleton alone ;" and that was the last of it. As for the door, that was forced in, and the tools found in charge of the priest, who had secreted them, and himself too; and strenuously denied, their being there, when he was found, or having any knowledge of them; but they were also found, and carried to Tucubaya, and the next day were used. at the battle of Moling del Rey. The company were not in the bloody battle fought under the attack of Gen- eral Worth, upon Moling del Rey; but the event of the day hung so doubtful, for some time, that strong reinforce- ments were ordered; and Wheat's com- pany and the other disposable cavalry,' were directed to ",saddle up." This time, Singleton was ready, sober, and as the captain glanced at him, he met the glance in the true bearing of the soldier, He was there, and ready to go into action-cool as need be. The reinforcements thus rapidly marched from Tucubaya, did not arrive in time,: however; the battle being won and the enemy in full retreat.' The company: was then engaged with others, in carry-1 ing off the wounded to the hospital, aAnd in burying 'the numerous dead, that lay- thickly in front of the "Casa mata,", or' principal fort of the line that had been: attacked. Singleton did not. drink a, drop from this day, until after the final. attack, and the close of all, resistance. No man was more ready than he was, to act, and act quickly, and to the pur-, pose. His whole conduct, during the exciting hours and days that thus passed, :all the time under the immediate eye of the officers, attracted theattention and: ithe continued approbation of the cap-, 'tain and the first lieutenant, while the. second lieutenant made use of it to re- tort on the captain, for his short words to him about the, soldier, as they wen. to Churubusco.      : But as soon as all these scenes were over, Singleton-took a spree, and a hbay !one too; he ,spent all his remainingu money, cut up swells, and all kinds of, extras,. 'nd , kept. them up 'for near     twenty-four hours ;played tricks on the men, got the captain, in spite of himself, to laughing, then made him angry, and then quieted the storm that he had rais- ed, and again the captain released him; and after a variety of " shines," that no one else dared to do, but which set the whole company in a roar of laughter, was about to make a difficulty with lieu- tenant McDonald, who then arrested him, and he was ordered to be marched immediately to the guard-house; but on the application of lieutenant Smith, and the reference to his previous good conduct, he was again released. Upon awaking the next morning, sober, of his own accord, he proceeded to the captain and lieutenant, and in the most polite manner, he asked the pardon of each one, and hoped that they would think no less of himi for his fault. The manner in whi"ch this was done, the tone, the action, assisted more in effect than the words. The pardon of each was freely granted, and the effect was with each, in despite of all his capers, that Singleton stood as well with them as before, and perhaps a little better.- Again. the conduct of the soldier was unexceptionable for many days-he was neat in his dress, prompt, ready and trusty for any service. The company being quartered in the city, numerous temptations were in the way of his con- tinued sobriety; but his pride helped him out, and whenever that was rather giving way, the fact of his empty pocket gavre it additional strength. He was arways a favorite with the men in any mood, whether in liquor or not; but now, even with the captain and lieuten- ants, who did not refuse him any leave of absence that he asked. But the force of habits so long formed, was too strong for him'; by the solicitation of a crowd, he joined them again, and im- moderately; got the full liking for li- quor, and once more he was in for a frolic; and thus he carried it out: He had-a strong inclination to play the' officer,'and asked Lieutenant Sinithl for the loan of his old uniform, to make an 'impression on a Mexican 'senorita, who pretty and agreeable, had captiva- ted the soldier before,. While jober, by   the bewitching brightness of 1. er eyes;' r and the sweetness of' her smile; but alas for the soldier's heart, the beauti- ful Mexican would receive only the at- tentions of a "tneiente," lieutenant,) or of a " capitan."  Now, as soon as he had thus taken a couple of "horns," his imagination and inventive genius for; frolic, and adventure, came in full play. Lieutenant Smith having a day or two before provided himself with a new uniform, gave the other to his friend, (on this application), and with it, that evening and the succeeding one, Single- ton flourished in the eyes of the. pretty maiden, and much to the mirth of the other men of his company, who as they met him in the streets, addressed hi'nr as "Captain Singleton," and well did' he wear his new honors; not an officer, who thus met him, save his own, had. the slightest suspicion, as he made hia salutation, in true military style, that he was any thing but the officer, and actu- ally a most gallant looking one he ap- peared to be. With the lady he was' as successful as he had hoped. No one, with her, came up in appearance, to her lover; and with her family, too, the' scamp assuming the most easy and dig- nified bearing, was fully introduced, and received. He had the caution to keep still now, during the day, and attend well to his duties, as a soldier; but at night, he assumed his uniform, sash and sword, of which latter, he already had; one of a fallen Mexican colonel, and fortifying himself with brandy, he sal- lied out to meet his beautiful senorita. Then full of love, and stimulated by liquor, he was perfectly at home, and cared not a d-n if the war closed not for years. 'Ie was desperately in want of funds, however. He had borrowed a little to answer his purpose, but that now was out. He had promised his senorita some little trifles, and he had but one dollar left. He was strolling around in the day time in his soldier's garb, and seeing some Americans slip quickly into a door, he suspected some- thing, and in he passed also, and going through into a large court yard, sur- rounded by the building, he saw them ascending a stairway to the inner piaaza,   that ran around the whole interior. Up he followed, ran through a passage into a secluded room, where he found a gambling establishment, where roulette was whirling, and " faro?' "vingt et un," :&c. were playing. The long room was crowded,' but all were still, though the distance to the street and the numerous walls between, would have prevented the report of a  musket fired in the room from being heard in the street. Yet all were thus Cautious, for every gambling establish- ment had been closed by the peremp- tory orders of the American command- er, save four which were licensed and taxed enormously.. Singleton having thus followed this crowd in, was taken by all as one of them, and the games went on with spirit.  He put down his dollar on the red, on the roulette table, and at the first turn lost it, the ball coming into the black. He was flat now, and soon after left; but his plan was .formed, and at evening putting on his uniform, and taling twenty of the boys to a treat, on condition that they would always mind him as an oicer, he marched them as a guard, down to this gambling house; and to the utter astonishment of the gambling crowd he popped in upon them; arrested the keepers, while the gam- blers' all run each'to save himself. Sin- gleton's men' received the roulette table aid all the spare funds that were on it, with the amount of the deal fund at faro ;,and the arrested keeper was pri- vately informed by Singleton, that he could either go to the guard-house or pay a fine, and break up his gambling establishment.  The keeper preferred to do the latter, and paid the fine in gold, two hundred dollars in twenty American eagles; a ,small sum to the keeper, who was ma- king hundreds a day. Motioning then to his men, who were wild with delight, Singleton ordered them in line, and re- lieving the keeper, he directed the rou- lette table to be replaced, and marched them off, and in the: dark stone arch- way below'.telling them that he had 'fined the man twenty-five 'dollars, and -had been paid, he proposed, amid   their laughter, to go to a drinking es- tablishment and have it out inwliquor. This was agreed to, and from its effects many of the boys were,tight; but get- ting back to their barracks, they went to sleep unperceived, and in the morn- ing were all sober, and nothing was known of it by the officers. As for Singleton, he did not drink much, for now in funds, he slipped off from them to the house-'of his lady love, and it was near morning when he returned. He now moved largely, and drank con- stantly, but not to intoxication in any instance. But the trick was already known to the keeper who thus had been fleeced, for one of the gamblers had ventured to return,. and was near being caught by the retiring'guard. In the darkness of the arched passage below he hid himself behind the opened door, and there heard Singleton,make the remark to his boys about the fine imposed, &e., and had after their departure again gone up and informed the 'keeper of the deception. The latter, who had im- mediately commenced putting up his table and cards to "to shut up shop ;" finding that the officers did not know it, and that he had been thus deceived, relinquished his idea, 'and re-arranging his tables, in an hour they were in full course of operation again; and the room was filled. Much conversation and enquiry was made among them as'to whom it could be that thus had routed them; but no one knew. Those who had been gam- bling had cleared themselves so rapidly, that they had not taken time to secure any of their money, much less to look at the guard or its officer so as ever'to be able to recognize them afterwards. In the excitement of winning and losing, the affair passed off the minds of all save the keeper, who hated the loss of his, money, but disliked still more being the victim of such a trick. Some of them indeed endeavored the [ next dayto find out wh' it was that had ; done this, but Singletonn the day time i never put on the uniform, nor would i any one suppose, from the promptness  and attention with whic he perfo raed     liis duties during the whole day, that he was in so niany adventures during the night. His officers did not--had no idea of it. In pursuit of adventure and pleasure themselves, they did not dream that Singleton by his schemes, was pla- cinig them as compared to him in this respect far " in the shade." His guard was nightly formed near the barracks, but in a dark recess, from which when they emerged for a frolic, 'they moved with such military precision and stillness, save the sound of their regular tramp, that they were never in- terrupted or questioned by any officer of whatever rank; every one supposing them on regular business, for no one dreamed of a private soldier thus so boldly acting the officer. But Single- ton showed them a bolder front than even that, on one occasion, and still es- eaped detection. Under the influence of several drams taken, and his men being in a similar condition, he determined to take them all to the theater, as though they had been sent there by the "officer of the day," for on the evening previous there had been too much noise of approbation there, and off they marched. Singleton addressing the door keeper with an air of command, informed him that he was thus sent to keep order; and without a word-the whole guard were marched in, and quietly occupied their seats 'in the boxes, where their presence was rather hailed as agreeable than otherwise by the managers, actors, and audience;- and they certainly were productive of restraint upoh the feelings of the rowdies of the pit, till, between the acts, Sin-. gleton having a supply of good liquor with him, handed it around, and in the next act these, men were more noisy in their expressions of approbation of the play than any others; entering fully into the spirit of it and encoring loudly, and perfectly reckless of the manner in which this was taken by the audience,  among whom were several of the supe- rior officers, who however did not in- terfere. Enquiries were set on foot the next day as to the guard that was thus sent tothe theater, but it was positively denied by the' "officer of. the day" that    any guard had been sent; and thb whole affair wasinvolved in mystery, which Singleton and his men alone could unravel, and they took good care during every day to be still. For several weeks, at intervals, thus by. night, did this sham guard with its sham officer parade the streets of th city of Mexico; the intervening nights. between these excursions being spent by Singleton with his lovely senorita. The scrapes and adventures of this guard alone, in that time, would fill this volume; but we have only to do with its leader. Unluckily for him, he got out of money again, and still moreun- luckily, he determined to pay the gam- bling house another visit, as he found that it was yet going on. Fortune, that fickle jade, who so long had befriended him, now turned against him, and in the worst time, poor fellow 1 Assembling his guard, down they went boldly, and found the gambling room crowded. He was instantly re- cognised; and on a call by the keeper, was seized by the crowd. A general fight took place, and Singleton and his guard, though fighting well, were over- powered and severely beaten; mostL. the guard with difficulty made their escape, but the leader and a few of  men were captured by the crowd; and then the roulette tables were removed, and the money secured: the regular guard was sent for, and to the officer of that Singleton in his uniform and his comrades were passed over; the whole preceding circumstance was related to him, and when he was interrogated by the officer as to his name and company, he boldly told them both. The keeper of the gambling house having only some cards in view, and promising the officer to break up his establishment forthwith, was not further interfered with; but Singleton and his men were marched to the guard house, and closely confined in its gloomy and dirty cells; neither did he ever join his company in ranks again, for while there some of the men proved faithless, and in hope of being released themselves, told of all the actions of this sham guard and its commander for the whole   time that it had existed; and then for  the first, the mystery of the noisy guard at the theater was unravelled to the minds of the officers. . After a rigid confinement of a week in the guard house, they were tried by a court martial. Those who gave tes- timony against Singleton were released; upon the others a light punishment was placed: but poor Singleton fared badly! No mercy was excited in the minds of his judges. Long and successfully had he counterfeited the officer, and now by officers was he judged. Almost any other crime would have been less heinous in their eyes; they looked upon it as implying a slur upon their own rank. All testimony with regard to Singletonls capers before was sideways introduced, and he to the last wearing. his lieutenant's uniform, from which the straps on the shoulders had been rudely cut by the officer of the guard. Sin- gleton was firm and sober. He asked his own questions on trial, and by his ingenuity confounded some of the wit- nesses against him in their answers, and the members of the court martial 4 winced" from his cutting retorts; but enough; was proved, and Singleton was sentenced to be confined in the guard house until the end of the war, and then to be taken from Mexico in irons, and dishonorably discharged.' All-this. in time was inflicted. For six weeks did he taste the sweets ofthe guard house, and he' had no money to ameliorate his condition. From the guard house he was sent to the castle of Chepultepec, and allowed a little more liberty within that fortress, having   a heavy ball and chain secured with a band upon his leg; but his spirit was by no means cowed. Still he wanted liquor, but was now without means and a prisoner, and subject to the utmost strictness and even tyranny. However, his last scheme to obtain it was planned and carried out, by his making a bar- gain with a Mexican who came there with provisions to sell, for which he was to pay him-what, reader? why, nothing else than the ball, and chain, and ring upon his leg! which he had found he could get off; and as iron is valuable there, the bargain was made and ac- complished. The Mexican concealed and brought in the brandy at the close of the day, and Singleton, in a retired nook in, the fortress, divested himself of his appendage, and delivered it to the Mexican; receiving the bottle, and immediately applying himself to it, he got ' lively," but kept still; and drink- ing through the night, was found in the morning, to the astonishment of the officer in command, stretched out in a state of complete intoxication, and as free from iron bonds as nature had made him. When the American army left the city,-the city he had helped ,to con- quer,--Singleton was marched to Vera Cruz, with others in like situation, and from thence transported to New Orleans, and given his liberty. Alas! poor Singleton! he lost his standing, he lost his money, he lost the lands to which soldiers honorably dis- charged were entitled, and he lost his lady love, all for brandy! brandy! I brandy!!     THE CAIMP AT NIGHT. No. II.   ONE more instance yet, not by a crab, a fro*, or a horse, but a jackass. In the second Tennessee Infantry was a singular old genius, whose name was -Plunket. He was crabbed in disposi- tion, very fond of liquor, and most un- pleasant when he was under its influ- ence. Plunket made but few friends. His messmates, while the regiment was encamped at Camargo, becoming out of all patience with the old soldier, one by one left his mess, seeking more agreea- ble companions, until finally he was left quite alone, and so far as the tent was concerned, " was monarch of all he sur- veyed."  This slight on their part he took no further notice of than to ex- press himself freely as being highly pleased with the change, for, said he triumphantly, "I shall not now have to divide any liquor that I get with  them."              t Finely did he enjoy his solitude for a I couple of weeks, cooking for himself, c which was, however, only when none i of the ardent could be procured, for s when he had any of that, it was to him a both meat and drink.        t One evening, after dress parade, a Plunket had been fortunate enough to t obtain a bottle of mescal, a fiery liquor i, made use of in abundance there; and f was not seen afterward at supper time. d In the course of the evening, this was  remarked, and on opening his tent the e old chap was seen on his blankets, 1l soundly asleep, while the tin canteen, ii with the liquor in it, was lying within o his reach, convenient for him when he si he should awake.          id Those, whose curiosity as to his hi where-abouts, had thus been excited, fu left, and it being late, all returned to es their own tents, leaving him  alone in hq his glory. "            f" e One of them, however, after he had I b   , lain down, being full of fun and always 1n delighting in playing pranks on his com- a rades, arose and again paid a visit to s the sleeping soldier. Finding the lat- - ter sufficiently under the influence of - the liquor to answer his purpose, he - left, and proceeding through the camp,  loosened a small Mexican burro, or s jackass, owned by one of the quarter- masters, and by the long ears led the pa- y tient animal back dir6ctly into the tent -with the sleeper. Then firmly fastening down every pin that held the tent, and stying strongly the entrance together, he left the strange couple in joint occupa- tion, while he hastened to his own, and vawaited the moment- when the jack should arouse the sleeper. For this he was obliged to wait for a longtime. For hours, the weary sol- diers through out the camp were all asleep, and for the same time slept- Plunket, wholly unconscious of his companion's presence, sweetly snooz- ing-but after midnight he awakened, stretched out his hand for his canteen, and felt, instead of that, the hoof of the jack. Surprised, he felt cautiously again,' s he thus lay in the darkened tent, upon his back--the fact of its be- inga hoof, was evident to him, from the feeling. He held his breath and en- deavored to convince himself that he was dreaming, but in despite of his endeavors, the perspiration started in- large drops to his forehead; for all the images that he had ever heard pictured out, of the devil;s appearance to unruly sinners, rose before his mind most viv- idly. He trembled in every joint, as he thus in the same instant became fully convinced that his Satannic Maj- esty had at last come for him ; the jack having felt the hand twice upon -his fetlock, reached slowly down his cum- brous head, and from his expanded   -nostrils threw gently the volume of warm breath therefrom full upon the face of the soldier, already so much alarmed. -The darkness was great, but as the large nose and heavy lip, and teeth, thus came so near, the indistinct out- line of them was observed by the sol- dier, and magnified by fear, the effect thereof was instantaneous upon the drunken man, whose head was not yet clear from the fumes of the liquor, but whose ideas wete then in a proper state of confusion to be instantly wrought upon.  Good God, it's the Devil!" shouted he,--( O Christ, help me! Be -off, Satan!"' The words rang sharply and clearly through the silent camp, followed by shrieks and screams, and. -calls upon the Almighty. While Plun- ket and 'the jackass, both alarmed, bounced about in the tent, the former screaming at every jump, and vainly endeavoring to find the open entrance, the poor dumb  beast, thoroughly frightened, was twisting and turning all parts of himself against the soldier, and making also a queer, deep noise from his throat, increasing, if possible, 'the fright of the man, to whose imagina- tion it appeared as large as an elephant. Plunket yet screaming with apprehen- sion, and loud in his interrupted appeals' for mercy, had darted under the nose of the jack, and tried to force himself   out beneath the flap of the tent; but it was firmly pinned, and in his endeavor the jack, during his- rapid movements, stepped on the pantaloons leg of -the man, near down to his foot, and Plun- ket thinking that Satan had him then fast, yelled like an Indian, as a crowd of soldiers; roused from their sleep, ran up, just in time, however,- to see the tent, unable to resist the violent press- ure of the couple, the pins giving way, fall over, and the jackass backing his rump out among them quickly, as he' shook the canvass from his head and shoulders, to their great alarm, aston- ishment and quick retreat, bounded off at a long lope over that and over Plun- ket, who still struggled. and screamed beneath it. -'l They pulled him out, and he ran as well as he was able a few steps, until- stopped by force, as the jack, having gained distance enough, stopped also, and gave a loud and long continued bray, which set the whole agitated crowd in a roar of laughter, - the ground was covered with men --their peals of laughter might have been heard a mpile. Plunket sat down, on the earth exhausted, and all the reply he would make-to the hundreds of ques- tions that were rapidly put to him, from as many sources, was, to" each, ",-Q- d-n that Jackass!"   DAILY 'SCENES OF A SOLDIER'S LIFE.   MOoB especially is it true -ith re- gard to the soldier in the field,. "that he knows not in the morning what the day will tring forth." Knows not-- cares not. The day may be one of inac- tivity, or of toil, of plenty, or of want, of pleasure,. or of danger and death. Hee has no. plats to lay, no schemes to carry out; but is. ready and willing to -take all that comes; nothing is amiss--- nothing surprises him, of whatever na- ture, or however suddenly it bursts up- on hilm. -- In this endless variety of scene and i   action, this ,total exemption 'from thought and care. for the future, con- sists the true charm of, the soldier's life. It is to this, ,that the .eadiness of the discharged soldier to re-enlist, is -owing.: Very few of the regular sol- -diers, whose- terms of service expired while the army was in Mexico, then returned to their homes, or if they did so, remained there butla little time;, the greater portion immediately re-enlisting, either in the regular or volunteer forced. Among -the numerous, collections of circumstances and incidents, (as -hap*.     pen to other oldiers.) that would each 'exemplify the truth of the above -quota- ,tion as applied to this life, none strikes the author's mindI with as much dis- tinctness, in its varied scenes, so closely following each other, as one such; that happened to himself, while the prin- cipal portion of the American army was collected at the city of Tampico, pre- paratory to the descent upon Vera ,Cruz. This tale, comprising a period of only forty-eight hours, but with inci- dent enough to give variety to the space of a month, is chosen, not from the wish to make himself conspicuous; but from the fact, that to him, it seems mnost appropriate to exhibit the shifting scenes of a soldier's life; though this idea on his part, may arise from the fact of this succession of incidents being so strongly impressed on his mind - eventful hours to him, in the short and rapid course of which he found himself a private soldier, a gentleman, a gal- lant, a lover, a prisoner, and a soldier again; a man of pleasure, a man of business, and a man in the guard- louse, -under command, then free in a pleasure party-then made to feel -the bands of authority--then free again - then confined with scoundrels, honest men, drunken and sober soldiers, thieves, and rascals in abundance --re- spected and despised, loved and hated; his opinions asked, and his answers received, dwelt upon with attention, and then again refused permission to speak.    . Every soldier can tell of circum- stances equally varied, of short spaces of time equally chequered with grati- fication and annoyance, pleasure, and danger, ease and hardship, closely following in each other's train- and every such tale fully illustrating that which is the object of this one, viz: the ever changing scenes of a soldier's life in the field and camp. On the opposite page is seen a view of the city of Tampico, taken by the author at that time for the Twelve Monthls' Volunteers. This wan sketched from an old Mexi- can fort, at the extremity of a plain, on   which were at this time encamped the Tennessee brigade. In this view you look down on this plain in front and to the left; to the front and right is seen a thick chapparal of musquit timber; beyond that is a lake, united by a canal unseen, with the river that circles round the extreme left of the view. Beyond this lake is the city, on an eminence, with its flat roofed white stone houses, many of them   upon arches, presenting a fine appearance in the bright rays of the tropical sun. On the right of the city, at the summit of the hill, is a large mas- sive building, the Mexican ".Military Hospital." '  A little further to the right is the burying ground, with its lofty arched portals; a few cocoa nut trees are up there. Nearer to you is observed a new American fort, and a camp of part of the Alabama regiment of Gen- eral Shields' brigade. On the left of the city, are seen the crowded masts of the shipping that there lay at anchor in front of the busy landing. Beyond this forest of masts and spars, in a direct line over the river, and over a cluster of islands, beautiful as ever eye gazed upon-and at the distance of about four miles from this point of view, is the town of Pu- eblo Viejo, or. old Tampico. This is on the shore of a large lake, that com- municates with the river by its channels through these little islands of such beau- tiful enchantment. The lake itself is hid from our view,  but were you in the city by the Mil- itary Hospital, or the burying ground on the hill before you, you would see it stretching far out to the south and west, on the front and right as you would thus stand, till, in the hazy distance, it appears to meet the sky in its horizontal line- broken here and there, however, by the dim blue, but yet distinct and lofty outlines of rugged mountains that here and there arise. The calm surface of the lake, as far as your eye can extend, is dotted with. the same beautiful islands of perpetual green; on these the towering palms, co- coas, and other tropical trees rear their     heads. But the intention of insertingthe picture here, is, simply to' introduce to you the scene on which our account of the uncertainties of a soldier's life coxnmences. You observe part of the tents of the Tennessee brigade in the distance on the left of the picture a14 the river's edge. A small part 'of 'these only can be seen in this view- row iafter row- company after company, the two 'in- fantry regiments and the cavalry, oc- cupied the shore of the river for a- mile down the bank.: Now, understanding the ground; we will commence the shifting tale by SCENE FIRST. GETTING READY FOR- ACTION. WE begin at eight o'clock 'in the evening, on the 26th' of February, 1847, in this camp. The common scenes of evening were taking place. In the lighted tents the men were variously employed, - some -singing-some laughing at related tales and jokes, - some over concealed bot- tles of brandy were forgetting- their troubles,-- some were mending their clothing, &c.; many were playing every known game of cards,-- some few reading, but these were, indeed, few, for there was seldom any thing in camp to read,--some in argument and mimno disputes; but very many were asleep on their blankets. This' last' was the case -with our author, whom, for the sake of ease in this tale; we will' call by A name by which he was better known in'camp than by his own, is Jonas, E;," a sort of second christening given him by somb of the facetious soldiers, after the name of the Colonel, Jonas E. Thomas, a fatherly'sort of a man, (of whom the author now begs pardon for having thus been forced. to adopt and carry a part of his name during that campaign in Mexico, anal which he now returns with his compliments, assuring him, the original otvner, that he has never dohe it any harm while it has been in his possession.) Jonas. E. was soundly asleep;' his head on his saddle-bags; h:is carbine,   sword, pistols, ,addle, bridle,:iiad bag of corn, in a small pile at his:head. These, with his blanket over him, constituted, with ,the neohle"himal that carried themi, the sunmf total of hib worldly possessions over which he had then any control, or'took any care in preserving.'  Jonas E., about that time, was quite comfortable. A -norther, which had: been blowing for a day or :'two pre- vious, had left: the air' col' ehough for once to enjoy the covering of a blanket in camp. One of his mess- mates, called the: "'Philosophdr, " had lain down with him,' and[ after some queer observation bn the domestic com- fort of soldiers, was, Alile':him, asleep. The rest of the mess were. crowded on a green blanket,' playing' poker, at which one of thetm seemed'very for- tunate :at the time, for he :had won several '. pots,'"?--had: held"three aces twice, and a pair of; kings- and " pair of tens again. The', game -Was still going on by the light of the,"'candle stuck into the mouth of an empty bottle, round which the players were squatted like Turks.  '  : Jonas cared 'for nope of their noise, of loud laughter and- exclamation; but' in dreams he was back on fthe bank of the Mississippi. '  'But his dreams were interrupted, and the game of poker broken up by the voice of tee: Orderly Sergeant call-; ing loudly at the'entrance of every' tent for the whole of the 'company, 'tiurn out quic kl and'fall into line /!' N6 sound' of bugle iwas , bheard,;'-however. The sleepers roused .themselves up, and a' thousanid enquiries were made. "What's the matter now? ' : 'What^i to pay?" &c;,  To these, no one could give; any answer; but- with some' grumbling'and much cursing, as every. one seized his carbine, they all came, stumbling out of: their tents, and took their place in :line, down 'along the front of the same..  Jonas was still nearly asleep, and the- Philo sopher yet more so, stumbling over a sack of corn at the door-*ay, he- measured: his length on- the -ground, much to the alarm of the nearest horse,     which jumped, snorting, out of his way. Some laughed, but the others still grum- bled. The roll was called, and information given by the: sergeant, that the company was ordered to march at daylight next morning, together with two companies of infantry, to attack the Mexican gen- oral Cos, then lying about seventy miles to the southward, near Tuspan, with an estimated force of fifteen hun- tred lancers, artillerists and rancheros. The object. of the, attack, was tq relieve four companies of Louisianians, who had been wrecked near Cos's po- sition, .and were threatened with im- mediate attack by him, and having lost their ammunition, were unprepared to meet him.  At this information, exclamations of "good  good!" "Tht's the sort.!" 'We'll, give him the d-v--l!" &c., rose in murmurs along the line. t 'he,sergeant continued by ordering all to draw three days' rations of provis- ions, and three days' forage for their horses, and. to cook all their meat thus drawn, that nightand be ready at day- light at reveillee to'march. The line was then dismissed, Now came - busy scene. Part of the mimh were detailed to bring the sacks of corn and oats from the quartermaster, more t:- bring te' provisions called for by the aptain's- requisition.; one in each mess to .replenish the fires, which in a long,- bright!room, threw a brilliant light aroundl, drawing scores of men from the other companies around, every one of them -full of questions and exclama- tions of disappointment at, their,- com- pan ys Jnot, having been the one selec- ted for aetive service. . .  One such correspondin-g line of fires wa so6Bn seen to brighten, up in the 2d regular infantry, and yet another in the IstK regiment,-showing their com- panies too nm the same course of prepa- rations. One man from each mess was dispatched to the cistern, a half mile off, with buckets for water. This, ia his mess, came to Jonas; who, whatever he might have been be- fore, was this -night as he had often been previously in the campaign, and    was afterwards,. literally " a hewer of 7 wood, and drawer of water;" for Jonas was but a private soldier, and had i learned. before this to. take all such r things in his turn as they came., .He t brought the water, in company with s other different messes, and while, they were thus serving others, in the mean time they were Served themselves, or on their arrival back the othear'rrange; - ments were! attended to for them. The forage and. provisions lay at the Aen trance of every tent:,' the fires' were I brightly burning: the'meat .was fry, ing or boilingi. and the whole company 'were merry as crickets, and busy as ; bees; laughing, joking, whooping, rub- bing andfeeding horses, examining car- bines and pistols, whetting the edges of i their sabers with stones, 61d files, or any thing they could get: putting new flints ,in their pistols, &c.  Ammunition having been brought, at * ten. o'clock the line was again formed, and every man received forty rounds of cartridges, and a corresponding quantity- ;of percussion caps,-and after midnight, the cooking all through, the horses wefl fed, all arms .examined, and refitted, the different messes allwing, their fires. to moulder down again, lay down to sleep for the few hours intervening until day- ilight.       . At the sound, of the reveiliee, all turned out with alacrity, the tents were , down, the .horses saddled, the wagons loaded and the roll .called, the com- pany mounted, yhich. left. the camp before sunrise, and. joined by the two companies of infantry, equally anxious for the fight, at; a :brisk nrareh pro- ceeded. up into .the city, the .bugles sounding their liveliest 'and clearest notes -the drums and "ifes, behind, apparently, endeavoring to excel ,each other in the strength of the chorus which they poured in.  Each com- pany's flag was proudly ,raised, and as the::column gaily passed along, the iMexican inhabitants on' th sidewalks /looked serious, and already saw, in imagnation, the ,deaths' :of. many of :their countrymen from the dreaded carbine and saber, the formidable col- umn of: bright muskets. an; glitterng   bayonets, borne by hankds whom they knew never flinched when trial came. The: steam vessel was lying at the wharf; she was ready to set the col- umn on the other side of the river, below Pueblo Viejo to proceed on the route. The column halted for a moment on. the Plaza de Comercio, the square which opens on the harbor. Another steamer was puffing along up the river at a rapid rate. She sent a boat ashore before 'she came to anchor, and the of- ficers it contained, hurried to General Patterson's quarters, and as the 'head of the column came down to the wharf to embarik, a aid rapidly approached from the general, bearing orders coun- termanding the march, as information had been received that the Louisianians had eluded- Gen. Cos, and were, then within a few hours march of Tampico. The countenances of all the soldiers fell at this, and as they went back to camp, a more grave, sour, surly-look- ing set, both of infantry and cavalry, could not be found in the army. "Got whipped, had to retreat," sung out a fellow of another cavalry com- pany, who, having been disappointed himself, felt relieved to see these come back. "G-d d-n your mouth," gowled one of the men in reply. Shut it up, or I 'll do it for you." Woa - hoa!  - - hoo!!" was the response from 'many. D- -n the trick," muttered the sol- diers, who had expected by that time to have been miles away. The saddles were rudely taken off, the tents 'put up, and a quarrelsome company they were-- sulky and irri- table,--and in, this mood the most lay down to sleep. The infantry companies proceeding to their encampment, were greeted in the same way, and one soldier from among ihem whipped anotherwho thus laughed at them; and' was himself marched off to the guard house instead of to Tuspan. Jonas E., not wishing to sleep, and his comrades being so snappish about their disappointment-cursing General Cos, Gen. ,Paterson, and every .other   general oh both sides, strolled off down along the river's edge; the company having been on duty, so that there was no probability of his being called to drill. The water of the river was gently rip, pling on the shore; the day had been warm: the bright forests covering the steep rocky hills on the opposite side, appeared rmore beautiful than ever;-- ten thousand parrots over there kept up a ceaseless clatter and jabbering; the white gulls flew in graceful 'circles above the waves, here and there sud- denly dashing down into them, and again rising. The porpoises were blow- ing and turning up their large, round heads to view. A Dutchman was passr ing in a beautiful little boat, with a wide sail just filled by the warm breeze, and if glided gently along over the water. Jonas hailed him, and in a few words made a contract with him to sail to the Gulf. Hurrying back, the captain, at his invitation, and two .of his comrades, joined'him; and placing their cooked provisions in the boat, they pushed off, and then with a. sly' wink, having put a bottle of brandy, too, in his hav- ersack, they were afloat immediately, aid with, a fine breeze, were gliding. along, leaving the dotted camp behind The: situation of Jonas and his com- panions: n'ow, ,as- thus so gently -they were borne along by the steady breeze,  was as different from that of an hour or two before as it could well be ; then all with them -as of a soldier's duties,: and strict commands were given and obeyed; but now the captain, a ta, ll, gallantlook ing man, who loved sport and reere* ation as well as any one, was as one of the, privates again, and was especilly delighted at the accidental discovery ,o the brandy bottle in the basket of prof visions.:, asking no'questions as to the manner 'in which the' liquor came there; i, violation of thes rukes of the camp,. but applying his lips t it- with such ardor that;an immediate exhilae a tion of " spirits " was the consequenie 4 and; followed by all the- others in;Ahe same. course, the, captain- forgot :t camp,: -Banisi edall war 'and ;warlike      scenes from his mind, and influenced only by the pleasantness of the day, the soothing sound of the ripples as they played round the bows of the boat and the extreme beauty of the scenery on either bank of the wide river, and the cooling breeze loaded with: fra- grance,l as it wafted them along, yiel- ded to these influences, and ,gave him- self up for the time to merriment and ease.        ;  Songs in chorus rose over the water; the clear notes of a clarionette added to their effect, and the Mexican watermen here and there, over the expanse of the bright river, lifted their paddles to listen to the pleasant strains, while their long canoes gently glided on with the force already gained. The course of the party of soldiers, thus for a time set free, can be seen in the opposite engraving of the mouth of the river Panuco, about five miles up which Tampico is situated. This view is taken from the same spot as the other, the old fort Ando- nega,-though in an engraving it loses most-of its beauty. The clearness of the air, the: brightness of the scene, the freshness of the verdure on the flowery banks and hills, and the course of the lovely river, could only be truly pre- sented by the' pencil of a master. The forenoon was spent by Jonas and the others in the most agreeable manner, Bringing their boat on the sands near the mouth of the river, as seen in the view, they strolled around, enjoying the strong and invigorating sea breeze as it came fresh from off the breaking billows which dashed successively in thunder and foam upon the shore. Then embarking again, the strong wind filling their sails, the boat was urged through the maddened billows, tossing upon the bar, and stood far out to sea, like a speck tipon the waters; to an observer on shore perceptible only in its rising and falling by the white- ness of its sail, as reflected: in the sun- light, like a white speck upon the dark blue waters. When returning, they came in upon a reef, on which' the billows ran and broke, about a mile from shore; on a   little ridge of sand aind coral rock, with great peril, they landed from the lee- ward side, and there, amid the'roar of the tumultuous waters, they partook of their provisions prepared,- the enjoy- ment of which was heightened by the excitement of the wild scenery about them. Covered nearly by a huge breaker that rolled in: foam over the entire reef; and narrowly escaping the. loss of the boat, the party left the dangerous spot, and again hoisted their sail to the-wind, which swept:them over the billo.*s, and through"the breakers on the bow to the smoother water within, and up the river they glided along, leaving old ocean be- hind/ them. The. camp appeared in view,-the city next, and the boat touching the shore, the party stepped out again in the crowd, and the captain immedi- ately resumed all his authority, while Jonas and his comrades, from his com- panion in pleasure, immediately fell back to private soldiers under his com- mand. . 'Not long did Jonas stay in the crowded encampment, - having found his horse doing well, he strolled off up to the city,--not troubling himself to obtain a regular permit in writing, as was the universal: regulation, but simply going to the colonel as was usual with him, who let him' out by a motion to the nearest sentinel. * Jonas intended only to be absent from camp an- hour or two, and said, there- fore, nothing to his captain about it;. further than to reply to a question of the latter who came by the tent as the soldier was pUtting on his best uniformi with the luxury of a change of clothing, "that he was going to Tampico." But the intended stroll of an hour was much further prolonged, and led to views and actions so different from those which had preceded it, that the com- mencement of the walk as he went by the sentinel, was the opening of;,  Jonas was always alloved to go out or in of the camp by the colonel whin no dutyr was to be performed, without the usual, permit in writing; his object being to gain notes and items of inforima tion for the "Twelve Months'.Volunteer",     SCENE THE THRD. Jonas evertook a comrade from his own corpany as he passed along over the plain, and the two crossing the ca- nal on the stone bridge, with light and happy hearts proceeded into the city. The reader upon again turning to the view of Tampico, will see among the masts of the shipping a large flag, or rather a black spot, as the engraver has made it. This flag flew from the lofty staff in the "Plaza de Comercio," over the most busy part of this busy city of Tampico; this Plaza was a large, finely 'paved square, with three sides surroun- ded by lofty buildings, and the fourth opening on the river as a public land- ing, which was unbroken save by one short wharf, near the head of which stood the city prison, then used as a guard house of the American army. To this square, and that flag, Jonas directed his course, as was the case with every soldier who from the camp went into the city. His comrade and himself strolled along, not disturbed, save by 'being ordered off the side walk before the then vacant pay office by the senti- nel-an order that they were obliged to "obey, while'any Mexican who..came on, by the orders of the paymaster, was undisturbed.  This paymaster, who occupied this office,-or rather had done so,-must have thought much of himself to refuse to allow soldiers to. proceed on the side '*walk before his doors, and so Jonas re- marked to the regulars .who guarded the 'walk; a remark which came very near placing him in the guard house. But in the army is no place for one to assert his individual rights, and Jo- nas, on an instant's reflection, became convinced that it was better for him to walk in the gutter before the office of Major B-.--, then and there a pay- master in the United States' army, than it would be for him to be confined as a prisoner. So he and his companion passed on over the gutter, and giving the building a wide space, they came on the side- walk again beyond it. The streets were crowded that afternoon as usual. x   Jonas and his comrade moved,'on, happy and careless, but on arriving at the Plaza, they were soon made to feet again that their position was that only of privates; for, seeing a fine establishl ment open, called "an exchange," for the selling of liquor, they ,walked in. At the' tables around were many offi- cers, who looked, as they smoked their cigars, with contempt and scowling ap- pearance on our two privates, w,ho, hay- ing plenty of cash, thought of nothing but'getting something to drink and pay- ing for it. They walked over the mar- ble floor up to the bar, and made appli- cation for it,-but were there told in a most insolent manner'that that house was only for the accommodation of offi- cers-so out they walked, leaving these young bloods undisturbed; (for the au- thor must do them the justice to say, that all the volunteer officers who. in Mexico thus acted, were scarcely with- out exception, young sprigs who by the influence of friends at home had. ob- tained their commissions, and who also as' yet had rather more beards 'than brains, and not much of either; consid- ering it the greatest object of .their am- bition to ape the manners of the regular officers; and who, since the conclusion of the War has thrown them back into their former neighborhood, would give all they have, so coldly and contemptu- ously are they treated,' had they there acted differently in regard to those whom fortune for the time being had placed under their command.) Our two privates cleared from there, and went to another place, where the owneri a fine looking Mexican, treated them with politeness. Then passing down to the boats at the landing, they became highly interested in the busy scene going on among the Mexican tra- ders in selling their oranges, their ba- nanas, sapotes, pine apples, fish, turtles, and hundreds of other articles; the busy jabbering of the whole mingling together in one confused hum. While here, on the invitation of the interpreterof the regiment, Selby, a man originally from Tennessee,-but who had for years resided' in, Yucatan, and 4an- other comrade, Jonas joined, them ia     hiring a canoe to go over for the after- noon to Pueblo Viejo, about four miles through the islands before mentioned. His former comrade would not go with him, but returned to camp. So Jonas was again on the water, for the period, a free man; but this time he was in a long canoe, hollowed out from a huge mahogany tree. It had good seats, clean mats in the bottom, a fine sail, and two spruce looking Mexi- can boatmen, with their broad rimmed sombreros, or hats,-their wide legged outer breeches, split open according to their fashion, nearly up to their waists, revealing their white under ones, with red sashes round their waists, and with- out, any vests; their linen all clean and nice, Each one had a full supply of little paper cigars, which,- continually puffing themselves, they offered with much politeness to their passengers. In less than an hour the passage was completed, and the canoe was drawn up on a beautiful bank of white shells in front of the old picturesque place. The houses, thickly surrounded with tall palms and cocoas, and various plants for ornament and use, presented a pretty appearance, from this beach,-the high hill of "Maira" in "the view," was towering above all, covered to its top by the same luxuriant forest of tropical trees as has been before mentioned, The lake of Zapote lay spread out in front like 'a mirror for miles, while. the rays of the declining sun were reflected from its bosom, bringing into stronger view the beautiful islands, here and there scattered over its large extent. Most of thedhouses of the town were whitewashed, and from the beach, when landing at this period of the day, the effect was very fine, as they contrasted in the sunlight reflection from the. lake so strongly with the masses of luxuriant green thickly growing around them. Jonas: and his comrades were de- lighted, and although evening was ap- proaching in a strange town, with not an American there, and out of sight or reach from their own army, and among a faithless set of enemies, no thought but ;of pleasure crossed their minds.. They werb well armed, and felt confident of   being able to defend themselves, and so in a laughing, joking mood, they went up into the principal square of ,the an- cient place, that appeared as if it had been founded in the days of Noah. The fishermen were drawing up their seines; the women were along the bor. ders of the clear water stamping with naked feet their corn in baskets, for the everlasting tortillas, an indispensable part of their every meal. The air had become perfectly still, and the parrots were making the thick growth on the hill above resound with their chattering, and in -this chorus ev- ery additional flock coming in from the islands joined as soon as they came within hearing distance on,the water, The burraros, or woodsmen, were bringing in their numbers of patient jackasses, each with a large load piled and tied upon the animal's backs. The market men, each with the same ani- mals loaded with heavy panniers, were coming in to the evening market: for in this town the markets were all held in- the evenings. Here came a mule stag- gering under a load of bloody quarters of beef. Once in the square, Selby, the inter- preter, proposed an immediate applica- tion to a little of the ardent, which could here be procured without difficulty; and the party proceeded to a store well sup- plied with that article, and also a hand- some assortment of English, French, and American goods. The Mexican be- hind, the counter was well dressed, and exceedingly polite: handing out his best brandy with many expressions at the gratification that he was able to furnish the buenos Americanos, (good Ameri- cans,) with such fine liquor,-which he declared he had purchased from ;a French ship seven years before. 'Whether this was true or not, his brandy was excellent, and much en- joyed. Cigars were called for, and as these were handed out, a richly, dressed Mexican, who had been standing uin- noticed, rose by the salutation at first, of "'buenas dies Senor," (good day, sir,) by the party as they entered, ad- vapced, and with a smile and bow, sWid in plain English-,    "Will you take a light, gentlemen?" , The three looked at him with perfect astonishment. His offer was accepted  by them, with expressions of surprise by Jonas that he, was able so perfectly to catch The English pronunciation ; the  storekeeper whispered to Carson that the personage was the first alcalde of Pueblo Viejo. In reply to Jonas, the alcalde remarked, that he had been ed- ucated at Bardstown, Kentucky,--that he had lived for two years in New Or- leans,--that, he had traveled through thirteen of the United States,-that he was perfectly conversant with the po- sition, appearance, and business of Natchez, Vicksburg, Memphis, Louis- ville, St. Louis, Cincinnati, Pittsburg, Detroit, and Chicago;--said his bright- est days were spent in the American Republic, and he at once entered in free English into such a list of inquiries with regard to the improvement and present condition of those cities, and a thousand other particulars, that the Mexican store- keeper looked with surprise, to see the first alcalde thus earnestly engaged in conversation with such a long .bearded, rough, savage looking Ameri an soldier. Jonas answered, and inquired in his turn,. and so interesting did the conver- sation become, that Selby and Carson were tired and left,. and Jonas saw them no; more there; learning that evening that after strolling round they had seen  boat, about to return to Tampico, and lad. taken passage an, hour after on board of it. The conversation beIteen the alcalde' and Jonas, so interesting, continued un- interrupted, both having inquiries. to mnake, the one of Mexico, and the other of the United States, and both in their opinion having found the other fully capable of answering all such; the mo- ment slipped off unperceived, and the having of the others was forgotten. Joras was highly pleased with the Mexican gentleman, and he in turn with ponasi especially- as the alcalde found in conversation the object of the other's visit, The latter proposed another glass, and drank to the speedy conclusion of teace between the two republics of Mexico and the Unite. States; then   offering his house for a home to Jonas while he should remain, they both walk- ed out at this delightful part of the even- ing to stroll around the place. Many re- marks did-the alcalde make on the vari. ous old buildings of stone which' were passed. The family who had occupied such a mansion, that he pointed out, he detailed the -history of, from their emi- gration from old Spain immediately af- ter the time of Cortez, through succes- sive generations, till finally they had been lost in the convulsions of civil wars of later years. He pointed out the house that had been the head quar- ters of General Santa Anna during his celebrated conflict with the Spanish gen- eral Barrados. He also showed the gar- dens and seats ofr ome of the wealthier. owners of haciendas in the interior, who here come to spend the delightful win- ters. To him, as they passed, every one bowed with great respect. . T(o L:i .om- panion Jonas, as mucl was paia, oy rea-. son of his being in company with the al- calde. Jonas again forgot the duties. of camp, the privations of a soldier, the' petty annoyances of the minor officers. Jonas was a gentleman again.  They continued their walk up the hil towards the copious spring which sup- plied the town with water. At this time, being near sunset, the Mexican women. in throngs were. going thither, each with a huge jar on their heads for water. The alcalde inquired if these did not remind his companion of the de-. scription of the ancient Jewish maidens? and certainly they did so. . They now came to the fountain, at which were hundreds of women and. maidens, and not a man. about.. The presence of the alcalde prevented any alarm among them: tlat might 'have been felt, had the rough American, sol- dier made his appearance among them alone.     ' , The fountain was built up with stone, A spout of pure water gushed out into the basin below, which was reached by three massive stone steps. the water. ran off into a succession of stone wash- ing'places, built up about fou' feet highs Along down the descent of these were, many of the women washing, and innu-     niiable articles of clothing were spread out on the rocks, the bushes, vines and trees above. The fountain was in a deep gorge of the hills, which be- cines' narrower and; darker as you ascend,-the lofty tree tops meeting over its center. Always anxious to find out the char- acter; disposition, and domestic qualifi- cations of the females of the country, s determined to improve the oppor- y offered while he should remain Pueblo Viego. So on the moment withi these Mexican girls, by his own Spanish, and by the aid of the alcalde, he immediately struck up a lively and agreeable conversation,-talked to all near, -'but addressed himself to one particularly, of the age of about seven- teen, who had a fine form,-was of me- dium height, with as beautiful ani ex- pressive a pair of eyes as could well be imagined-an open, noble looking fore- head, a beautiful pair of small lips, with pearly teeth, small feet and ancles,;- (the author begs pardon for going into particulars,) delicate hands, and more than' all, an expressive neatness of man- iker. and dress, which shone in every disposition of the same, and to every  movement added such a charm, as  showed that she was gentleness and. affection itself. Jonas was 'delighted with her, and I after" many speeches complimentary,  which were answered by maiden blush- 1 es that-showed the richer through the ( southern olive tinge of her complexion, c he told her that be had determined to ' come to that delightful place to remain, r and wished a wife, and that she met his a idea of beauty and of grace more com- o pletely than any mortal he had ever k seen. She was taken surely by the ear- b nestness of the soldier: enough so to an- a sder with all seriousness "I that he should N have been a month earlier in his appli- M cation,. for she had been married for that a time." Jonas's ' pipe was out."-  a At this answer, which was the close Ii of a long conversation, the alcalde a laughed; the other women laughed at fe Jonas, with a sort of pitying expression, w and glanced their eyes toward two or  tree others equally pretty, who had 'a   d lingered near, and then at him again, d as much as to say, as plainly as eyes a could 'say, "There are some as good,;: - unmarried?  u  Jonas, however, had seen enough-- his heart was broke, and gth thei expression "good evening," he, left the: - fountain with the alcalde, as the setting, - sun, had just thrown his last beams , across the western extent of the beauti- - ful lake below, the bosom of which i then, from reflection, bore many bril- t liant tinges of red, blue and yellow, among the green islands.  The few; boats yet out, seen like specks on the' surface, were hurrying homeward-all' nature was still-not a breath waved the; foliage of the lofty cocoas and palms-- all was calm and pleasant-all, indeed, was of that highly beautiful scenery, that can only be observed near the; tropics. Leaving the brow of the hill below' the fountain, the alcalde and Jonas went through the streets of the town, toward the market place, where now all had collected in the cool of the evening, to transact their business, buy their provi. sions, &c. To the soldier, this scene: was very interesting. Over the square before the market house, were numbers of men and women, squatted down in rows; before each was a small- square' mat, on which was disposed the articles to sell; lemons in piles, oranges in cart. loads, pine-apples-in abundance, lettuce; of size unknown in the United States, cabbage, wild game, ducks, geese, rab- bits, &c.; rich flowers in abundance, red-pepper in piles, corn shelled, barleyi and wheat, onions, garden. vegetable of every description, and fruits of all kinds found in the torrid zone; hates blankets, calicoes and trinkets, jewelry and cutlery, and not least, pul/y,- e Mexican liquor, in abundance. Many women were making and selling tomales/ a hot peppery mixture of mashed corn and pork, done up in plantain leavedi Ii the market house was the fresh beetf all' cut up in strips, from three to' six feet in length, looking as though they were made to twist into a rope of beeft mutton, pork, wild hogsj; or father pese caries, &Ce, &c.        .    , On the 'curbstone of the cemented fnoothiside-walk were rows of nieat lit- dle girls, from twelve to fourteen years of age,-each with her reboso, a kind of shawl,-'drawn over her head, and having is basket of sweet cakes before her. Each one of these received a' mnedio, or picayune, or a real, or bit, for their akes,' with great satisfaction; and one pretty girl among them, looked so sweet at the rough soldier, as he stooped 'and purchased one of her nice cakes, that he bought several large sheets of sweet bread from her, which, however, he -did not then know what to do with,' save to return them to her basket, which he did. She .blushed and smiled, as the others all turned a gratified expres- sion to her, and  many times' ex- pressed 'inuckas 'gra'cias, senor," (many thanks, sir). There were many others also equally pretty. They were not like the black looking set about Matamoras, and the south of Mexico. The alcalde remarked to 'the soldier that that girl was of good family-that her father had been an officer of rank in the Mexi- can army; and died poor, and left her Mother, with several children, depend- et,-ithat this one now' was the stay of- the sick mother and the younger child- reni 'This was remarked after they had left the row, But the soldier on hearing it, purchased a large basket, and' filled it iith various articles from the piles for sale, aindl had it carried to her, the alCalde explaining to her that it was the gift of an American soldier to her sick mother.' Talk about gratitude being wanting nn the Spanish race-there was more gratitude in: that beautiful girl's countenance than would have been ekpreZsedb'by words, 'of which, in' fact, shestpokebut fe ew The whole transaction seemed to'have a corresponding effect on 'allthie vendets around, each one of whom ireated the girl with particular respect. -'       ,' Amongtthe various piles and mats,' ,the crowd: of women' and men were repassing; buying and examining.' It was after dark before they began to disperse, and then many lights were noying on the square, as the sellers took up tleir- unsold goods .  .   At thb  alcalde's invitation, Jona went to his :house to spend: thee night- was introduced to his interesting wife; of Castilian blood, who spoke not; a wort of English. A pretty littiefamily of children' he had. ' His house w'ias pretty, fitted in the Mexican 'ishe; though many America{n' articles; of :fur- niture, &c., were arranged 'wiihin. -In- stead' of the marble"or the floor, his was carpeted according to iour style. A likeness of Gen. Washingto lhung 'up in company with others-of Iturbidei Morales, Victoria, and other distinguish-' ed Mexicans, not including 'however, Santa Ania, :of whom the ,laldalde wia no great 'admirer.' The conversaiio opehed upon this. He 'spoke of Wash- ington, of Jackson, of Clay, of Polk; and the present war; ran ' over the his- t6ry of the troubles in Texas'; spoke of Houston, and then of Santa Anna, Paredes, Bravo;: Bustamente,' &c.; 'om- pared the situation and prospects f th6 Mexican nation with' that of the United States. Was- at heart opposed. to 'the strong civil power of the clergy, thotgh in principle he was a true. and firm Catholic. Supper put aft end to the conversation, which had been spirited, and very agreeable to our soldier'Jonas; -The.: suppert was served up in the yard, under an orange tree, above which fine lofty cocoa-nut trees lifted their trunks, without a leaf or branch, save the lofty Wide-spreading' umbrella-like tops, with the large fruit hanging- in clusters on the trunk at. the roots of the leaves above. 'The orange trees:' *ere crowded with blossoms, which diffuied a delightful' fragrance.  ': \ i  At. the supper-table the' subject'of the Mexican laws; and mn ethods bof juis- tice was introdueed. The alcalde: exG plained" his :powers, the mode of 'hi election, and the manner of 'all priceed; ings before him, both elvil and 'riminal. In this, as he was &,ware that Jbnas iat a dabster at'the law' t home, he .*' very particular in his inquiries abboat t1i laws of the 'various states, esp:eciaff those 'relating to the tights of riai estate, and as' they rose from stppier,h+ invited Jonas to accompany him to the residenceIf -a MexicaM n lady, a'widowii     who. possessed an equitable right to a large t act of land in the .state of Louw islana, and who had long wished for pomt inforrgation .relative to. the method 9C fnecuring her rights. ;,.The, i invitation, accepted, the two ,W,1ked eot in the streets, It was, a fine niWght,disturbed, :by nothing save the noise .of- the countless. dogs,whJo kept ,up M .uniVersal: uproar, as the American, to. them so strangely dressed, passed the ouses andyards, and after proceeding through: several streets, they came to the, residence :of the lady,. After due weremnony, were, ushered- into a brilliant- ly lighted apartment, in. which the lady, with her eldest daughter,. Angelina, as, she was afterward introduced, were sea-. ted, with their needles, at 'embroidery, Twp little girls were also there. "..Jonas, with many :bows and "con- gees" by the alcalde, an exceedingly' po'ite man, was introducedas a "law, yqr from the State of Tennessee, of the Ulnited States of America,;! '-ahem,1 But t aty yrate, Jonas was a gentleman then,- and forgot al .things else.: T he, lady was dignified,: graceful, and intelligent, Angelina. was ,beautiful as- one jxight wish tq see';-rbut .when she spojke'an4 her pearly teeth were just per- ceiyed; added to thaeexpression of her largfull black eyes, her beauty was of an. common appearance, She was not, tall, but most gracefully formed,-and the. soldier gazed upon her with perfect, '4miatioa , while with, a timid, expresr-. ion' of curiosity; ut just discernible, however, so well was it concealed by; the, dignified. bearing of good breeding , and education, she, surveyed. the gucst, a, with. a smile she replied to his obser- c vations., Ini a fewmoments all restraint, if,. ahy there. hgd been, was removed, . and the alcalde and. the lady conversed, i i, rapid Spanish.: ;The words '"Loui-1 siana ' ,andq c ",TenneSsee "could be oc',: ,opkalfly, distinguihed by Jonas, who, wow erver,.had forgotaboutthe land, and  ,: bny..,; mustering vp: ajl the Spanisl, c waa able:;, not. caring about any reg-, ri!:r cOnverSation, but mpaking such rer:  mnks' aa lisknowledge of the words t would: alJow.;,A;,d dsking Angelina. for: e,; 9sle ehjeot, being to. secure,   a the. continual. repetition of: ,her. smies, ,7 which were freely given as5: h ec0.mI r interested in his observations and, amu i, sedundoubtedly at his, broke% Spanish, though not a trace of her *features z bo- o trayed it, She, had a hundred iaquiries e to make respecting American ladie:,-- , their manners, educat;ion, and.,aceone. plishments; she was much pleased, with, the simple manner. of marriage, aslrela-. 3 ted to her,. Before that. she had neverl 1 heard of any method save, the long, COn- plicated,.and expensive one, of their own2 land. * Still by. Jonas was the camp forgot ten, -and the rough soldier,introduced I, into thiss ciety, was acting the gallant, The lady apparently notiqing the plea-: sure with which he .had entered into the., conversation, took simply partnough to give it the sanction of her approbation, The alcalde was pleased, and a couple 'of hours passed off delightfully, toward. the conclusion of .which, the land busi- ness was mentioned, and Jonasi and the.. alcalde invited to call on the. following. :fqrenqon to attend to this-rwto,see the, papers therewith, connected., ga4 moreo, especially was itinsisted upon that they.' should dine there.. T ,is accepted, with as much or mnore. ceremony' than ,that at: 'their entrance,. did they .depart,; so many-: smiles and bows did the alcalde give; n4 Jonas followthat after the street was gain-, edl the latter kept on bowings and. "'ecoji- geeing "with smiles and serapse ; fora, half a square he thus went, before he., ;could, bring himself to a perpendicular,'. ,and the tfirst salutation of a bow. given them by a passer -by set him to, going,; again at the same. But the ,ad,venturea- of the evening, were not yet over. Passing the, ,open door- of, a, bBliard room,. the alcal, le spoke of t!e ;essire ifondness of .th, Mexican peopie,for gamn.  'bing of every description, ald ]dproffered :to go in, and fgllowed by Jonas he. pro- ceeded into the crowded room. As,be- !was bearing his gold headed, tasseled' cane, the. "Baton  de. Justicqa," or, badge of his office, he was treated Fqi'h !marked deference, asa hbe seateired6 Hy:' the crowd of as sirly looking. devils sa uSee h-nTwVeVMroiathrs V olunteer, pe- under head "Marriage Cetemonies inexb'.,   ever Jontas looked ;Iupon,--who then in turn surveyed. the Angerican, with. aihy thing but pleasantilooks. They-scowled at one another; their faces black' enough any. way; were, more so,. as they thus confronted each other, andmuttered iex- ilamations of- curajb':. (pronounced car- rakwhoo,; a-curse ;  )." :Am ierieano.". The soldier saw in a'moment what company he had got into, and knew that. at that time of'night his, lifel ,waa naoet worth. a "baubee," if he shoived' the least symp.! tons of uneasiness.: -He .was aware, that he was the only A'meriqan in town, or within reach. There were about thirty Mexicans in the room., Some were bet- ting with. the dealer: ot. mowta 'something like faro,-others were playing- att' bil- liards,--but the :most were:!sauntering rounds and as the couple thus entered; these immediately collected into groups, talking low to each other, and looking at, the, American sidewaya;. A shade of so- licitude passed over; the ,face: of the al- ealde, but not: over that of. the soldier,: his left hand was. in his pocket, as he en, tered--,his revolver, placed there previ- ous to starting- after Gen. Cos the even'- ing bef6re,. was still there.; -he knew that the caps. were good. and the' fire sure,-- ilethe. breast of his uniform was, a good bpwieaknife, and on his right side was a- 'sm'al,' keen,. silver sheathed dirk, or rather poinard, which had been a pres- ent from. Tennessee..,. He.. had, arms enough, to .'settle the matter for a half dozen of them, but was, ny.,hoi means anxious to begin the strife sgaiastauch odds. The dress, the mud en it" the. fact clearly i:sen, that some. lad, command over the othersi in, an in- taN:flatiahed the impression on the sol- 4ier's:aind that they were :a scouting party oCfGeniralCos':s commanpd. This old: town, separated by four miles of. wa- tar,;ad islaids from:Tiampi co, they could, &pp-taclhin the nights find out what theyi could with regard tothe American move- Wmen ts and pickup any ing4lee soldiers ot couples:they might, find&  hi$tconclusion was the:work of an in-, stant 'with tlonas:; ana attempted. retreat ,ould.'have broughIt sure, deatlhon the spot;,. nor e-venk could the, alcalde have 'xed;him. ; His'reisolntion of action wa   taken as quickly.. He made a low bow to all vith .tflhet, salutation of buenos tar- dis, seiiors!..(g0dd., eveing,. sirs,). and i walked directly up to the mront& tvabl :amid those. theire, and 'threw. down a' half dollar on a card of which he knn w rot the name: or the numbern * At the same moment .with the expression,4.mt bueno, (very good,): he appearedlhighlyy pleased at-tlhus finding a :,onite .bank, and speaking as though he was only one of'manyi thetre,he addressed the alcalde,' :requesting him to send do wn to the boats and give Dr. F,'s compliments to Major Tuttle, Captains,.Hunt' -and Selbey, and Lieutenants,Qrant and Smih, and 'tell 'them that there was a monte baAk there open, and also: to inform the major..that there' was. 4n empty building there. td which he had better march the detach,: ment than to, put the tents up on. the. beach, and that the cavalry company could get forage for:their horses there. The alcalde pon the., instant,; seizing the, idea, looked around, and with much au-, thority. ordered a man, one of the towns- people, to go: delivering this, message to him in full in Spanish, which, as may be: supposed, attracted the attention of tle2 whole crowd ;---4hey glanced at:th. 'sl-' 'dier, who was apparently paying no, at-t 'tention. to them,,but who having luckiliy won a half dollar on lis bet, was pick'- ing up his two with aQ loud. laugh, aitnt then requesting 'the alcalde, to-tell .the man to hurry before tihe troops gt their tents up,: he bet again.'. This addlfionar message was called out by thie, alcalde, as. the Mexican had already got to the door. .The effect was such'as might be' supposed; the ropm was cleared in "less' than, no timer' and the rapid sound 6f footsteps going i the, opposite alirectiao fromn: ti4h bank; Could, beheard;;, tehe 4W ole party were off for theirses lIr seecre 'ted out..., . , 'Th ,calede touchng .tie soldief with r Is :cne, the .latter '.iiavuig aaaiIwond; ;said wfith a b'dow t the eairt fiat hi' ,would go down hims!f to the beani, and inform, tihe officers, ana. wiith ykt' anobter bpow, the two left,:,     - , .'Mexican playing cardshave not the' aces oi' ouia. They are itamped with'crownli, elubt hot. sea, &c., ..  - ,        ..     Not- a word was now spoken by either till two squares had 'been rapidly passed, and the alcalde's house was in view., -Seitlor," said he, as he slackened his walk-s" '"Those fellows are far away now, ri- ding as thouoh the devil was after them. You were never born to be killed in this war," lie continued; "let us walk slow, now." '"Why do you think so?" said the soldier., "Be6ause," replied the alcalde, "you cannot be placed in more danger than yot were to-night. I know 'those fel- lows. Their captain, one Ignacio Lacon, is a perfect cut-throat. They belong to General Cos's force down here. They have' kept out of this place for four or five weeks, and this is the first time they iave been in since the Alabama compa- nies who were over here have been with- drawn. I had no idea," he continued, "as we entered there,' of their being about. You took a good method to start them, and nothing else would have saved you: the cowardly scamps wanted to save themselves, and now they are ri- ding as though the troops were in reality if pursuit of them. Major Tuttle; Cap- tin: Hunt, and the troops just landing, and wanting barracks," he continued, laughing, " are there any such men?" "No! all fictitious,-made for the oc- casion," said Jonas. J "Better still," said he. "But here we are, and you are safe again," said he, as he opened the gate of the stone wall overhung by the lofty cocoa trees--and' entering, closed and 'fastened it, and passea into the house' by a private way, and now they were in a peaceful room. Ie called his wife'Rosali'a, and'speakinig to her, soon fine brandy and glasses were' placed upon the table; "tomoalgo," (take something,) said he in' Spanish,'and as the glasses were filled, he continued 'in, Eniglih-,          ; A Are you armed?"  ' Th soldier replied by takihg his wea- pons frbm his person and laying them on the table before him. The number of shots to be. fred, together with the knife, astonished the alcalde. . .    : "My G-d, wtlbtpirepared," isAid& he, "but that would- hot have saved you4 though at first you might have killed o, disabled several, but they all had arms under their horongos, and their escopettes and lariats Were, not far off."' "It is well," ,he continued, as he;sat musing.; "if they had'killed ybu in my presence; it would have got me into a hot place with Gen. Patterson; and if in the mean time you had killed any of them, it would have been equially disastrous to me from my own people, for I accompanied you there. Take some more," he continued; "of this' brandy ;, I sent to New Orleans for it six years ago," -and taking another; 'the two, still "cool as cucumchers" en'- tered into ' conversation to which the events of the evening had given rise. An account of the Captain Ignacio La- con, who had run away on, the false alarm, led to another by the aldalde of the captain's comrade General Cos, in which' his private history was given, his military capacity. explained, and infor- mation given which, might. have been of. some use to the commanding general of, the American; army -at that time ;, and finally the whole military establishment of the: Mexican nation was rather se- verely criticised by the Mexican, and many inquiries made respecting the reg- ular army 'of the United States, the dis- cipline of the volunteer forces, tlbe milii tia system, &c., &c. It was now after  'll o'clock; the conversation might have been more extended, but the soldier:was getting sleepy:' to tell the truth, he -had taken during the day as much brandy as 'he could stand up to, enough inifatlt to have made three men in the fq'uiet' of private life 'perfectly intoxicated:. but:it the stirring, exciting scenes of camp, the case is different. It would astonish one to know how much one soldier thus sit- uated can take with' impunity Jonas 'had drahk on the river, on thee:gulf, in the city of 'Tamnpico,: in the townof old Tampico, and then, since he had come in from the montel table had' taken two more. , He was getting sleepy; his 'host perceived it, and-rising remarked; 4 bamn. ,anos a la cotna,eior, .det us got6 sleep) and leading: the way into another apart, ment finely furnished, he'laid .dowax th i'   light and with a bow, and " buenbs: nb- ches;" (good night,) he left. Jonas gat down for a few moments: thought as he' looked at the fine bed and fle splendid apartment, of the contrast between that so rich, so quiet, and so roomy, to the lit- tle, contracted, noisy tent in which he reposed' the night before. With an ex- clamation of gratification; and an entire ignorance and carelessness of whiatmight be the events of the morrow, he threw himself upon the bed, and'in the still- ness of the night soundly slept, and in his dreams was again at home; and so ended with sleep this third scene, and with his waking, on the next, a beauti- ful morning, we will pass on to SCENE FOURTH. Jonas had slept soundly; in the morn- ing when he awoke, the sun had already risen above the lofty "Mira," and was shining down upon the beautiful town. The alcalde coming into the room had- awakened him, and a servant brought a small cup of strong coffee; after taking this our soldier rose, and paid more at- tention than usual to his toilet: for he remembered that he was again to'meet the lovely Angelina. As breakfast,' which the alcalde took in American style, was to be late, the latter pro- posed to the soldier to visit some beau- tiful gardens in the vicinity of his house. His own garden, though extremely beau- tiful, would not compare With some oth- ers there, he remarked; and the two kept their way along the streets, gieeted most politely by men, women untd childreii as they passed-. "The garden of a wealthy merchant of Tampico, DonPepe Posa- das, was the finest, aid indeed' the only odie 'visited, 'for -Jdnas could: have spent hours and days in that delightfuil retreat. The 'beauty :of this extelled any thing' that he had ever 'before witnessed. A young; fair looking Mexican received theii at the ardhed stone gate, anrd with great attention condicted them through it large -efent ; it wasdivided by walks, fringed with a beautifulplant whose flow- ers were as fragrant as beautiful. Part of the extent thus dividedwas but a thick grove of orange and banyain trees, the lat- ter setting from its branches new stems   and trunks': downward. The shade of' this was impervious to the iays of the sun; under this shade'wer*stone benches; with 'backs of the: same material, witk grassy elevated plats about them, and on! pillars near stood marble statues of Hebe' with her cup, Venus with Cupid, Ceres,: and Pan, with his pipe. These statues) were arranged' within the grove elncir-i cling the lattice-work 'summer -house;' throtigh thegrove in three spaiklinih riv ulets, over beds of shell,' ran a branch' of pure 'water,-mimic falls were here: and there made so that a continual mur- mur rose on the ear, lulling tliseto sleepk who might sit-within the delightful re- treat. The water as it entered the gar-' den was distributed' over an artificial! marsh, in which were water plants of-thet richest foliage, most luxuriantly loaded' with gaudy flowers of the largest size:' after having flowed in a thousand un- seen channels through this, it was 'col- lected by a shell basin, in the center of, which was an artificial pile of moss-cover- ed rocks, surmounted by alarge shelviing one, on which was a statue of Diana! bathing. Large numbers of gold fish, and a silver looking slender 'fish of an-i other species, and spotted trout, and here and there others for variety, perch and' chubs, were in this large, circular basin. The gardener remarked that as many asi there were, theyf required' but little feed-' ing, for the-water running 'through-the" luxuriant, close growth of the marsh, brought to thiem insects and food nearly: sufficient. 'Over the fount as it left the- basin, was a light stone bridge of some' five feet span, the -arch of which was closed by'a stout wire screen, to prevent' the escape of the fish. From a little b'e- low the bridge the water being divided into the three branches, was meander- ing thiough the grove; enclosing, how-. ever; twh beds before it arrived there. These'beds were crowded with tulips,' the largest that Jonas had' evei'seen,' and the fiest flowers of species unknown to himi; after passing through the groveee the streams reiiflted, enclosiAg two other- similar beds, and then ran iinder anoth-; eribridge, over which passed ihe main: avenlue of the garden. ' Then it .agai 'fifbvd into' a basii like the fdrmieibiNt     the statue there in the center. was of old Neptune, with his trident, his Herculean limbs and heavy beard. After leaving this the stream was divided into many branches, which ran through a mimic for- est in which all ornamental trees were growing thickly together, with nooks and close. retreats, and sharp corners in the paths and recesses, -unseen from eacrl other, with flowering vines running over the seats within. The same ,sound, of murmuring water was heard from all these retreats, and, as at the request of the alcalde, the attendant, an excellent performer on the guitar, went back to get his instrument, the two sat down in one of, the delightful recesses. The garden- er, on returning, went into another, and he was not seen in his approach nor yhile he played and sung a Spanish song of which Jonas understoodmnot one word,. but. the music of which was delightful to his ear,-more so from the situation from which it was given, and in whicll it was heard.. He played again a soft and most plaintive air. ,Then ceased, and lqaving his guitar, again joined his visitors, who carried away with thesweet melody, now sat in breathless silencee Beyond the grove the water was con- ducted in various little channels along. through lofty bananas to another succes- sion of flower beds, and then into still an- other basin: but in that, instead of a statue, was but a simple dolphin., The bottom of this basin was like the. others, of white shell and golden colored sand, Beyond this, the higlh stone wall closed tle scene: this wall in all of itsextent, around was thickly overgrown with at- ternatryjvy, grape, and thenflowering vines,. In the rear, of the garden,waq enclosed from view a more. extensive Summer house witjh batlingi; hquses, dressing closets, and a retired suite of rooms well furnished with plainh but am- ple furniture for convenience of the fam- iles. ,isiting. . /  ,   , '. T The soldier would not have been tired with a view for' hours of the large and dglibtfful gardens, - butI the breakfast hour, according to the lalade's assert tion, had arrived, and accepting two . splendid boquets that the attendant had.  prepared, with -a smlail gift to. him ,they    I le'ft the garden of Pepe * Posados, and i went up to the house of the, alcalde, Breakfastwas forgotten by the soldier in C admiring the beauties presented Ito hig view in the balmy, delightful morning. Jonas took his breakfast like " a whife 'man," and afterward, walked with. his h ost up the lofty "Mira," from the top of which, seated at a rude rancho, with plenty3 of pulque brought by the polite owner of the same to drink, and first rate cigars to smoke, they sat in quiet and looked down on themost' beautiful and comprehensive view that the soldier had ever witnessed: for a city in the dis-, tance, a winding river for many miles, dotted with ships and steamers far below him, a lake like a sea, and islands of en- chanting beauty-Ia large town, venera- ble and beautiful, at his feet far below: the blue sea on the rear, and an imposing pile of distant mountains far over the lake on the other hand; the encampment of an army,-the busy trade of commerce -agriculture though rude, yet busy,- the minor trade of a thousand boats,- all at once were before his vision spread out like a vast animated map,--a singu- lar expression, but the only one that can convey the idea. i Still the alcalde and Jonas smoked, looked, and puffed again. The former. had observed the view a thousand times, but he remarked that the encampment of the American army and the conse- quent increase of shipping and business Oof every description,: with the several, steamers plying on the river below, gave. a life. to the beautiful. scene which had never been seen before, nor would be' -shortly again. ,The soldier lopked with earnestness. and delight uppnthe wide scene, ,hich to hinm appeared like an earthly paradise6 He thought o'f, what this country might be made had it an enterprising, intelli. gent, industrious population. The al- calde leaning his .ehin upon.,his gold headeds staff,surmised his thobghts, and :mnking some observations on the beauty * Pepe, pronounced Pa-pe', i a nicknlatie -m^ . what. lilk 'D ick " fo Richard: but the: no ted. att t  btheuthr otheie the aho heowner's true chri. tened iane i*wn fist at Vera Crtu, and Iti h'  in pserte4 .- ldeilted l,; Plepi d    ef the scenery of his country, and want of intelligence of its people, concluded with the hope expressed, that if might yet be better with them,--oped that the ex- ample of'the Americans- might be pro- ductive of :advantage, &c. 'The Mexi- can rtilcher6 again appeared with more pulque ': another glass was taken, and the couple walked slowly down toward the town, and through that on to the beach and the lake. Xs they approached the beach they saw a crowd there, and heard a- confused noise arising therefrom, and on approaching nearer saw a fight going on between some of the townspeo- ple and some American soldiers. ' They hurried on. At the voice of the alcalde the. Mexicans all fell back, and left the three A'mericafis,' who as Jonas hurried to them, he found were-in a state of in- toxicition, and as abusive as men could well be. They were three complete row, 'dies, and in'this instance by 'their own tale,' Jonas found they were wholly in the wrong: having hired a boat to bring them over, and not only refused to pay the boatman, but beat him and his com- panion severely on their insisted demand, and hadl ten thrown a junk bottle at a woman near, the force of which upset her in the water where she had' been washing corn. They also, had been struck with stones thrown at them after- ward, and in a. few moihents miust have been stabbed by. the infuriated crowd. Jonas joined them, determined, if posi'- ble, to prevent them from being more in- jured, while the alcalde ordered all the disturbers to' leave. The soldier,'en- deavored to quiet the men, but' was: in- quired of by one in his drunken manner, to what regiment he belonged, and then cursed by all because he did not belong to the same regiment thatthey did. The battalion (Baltimore) to which these chaps'belonged, had ever since the bat- te of Monterey, taken-(anmong many of 'these were low characters recruited out of the streets and alleys of Baltimore,)- a dislike to the first' Tennessee infanitry, and in their ignorance they confounded A* liquor, he juice of the maguey plant, an ' nsramois American aloe, fermented. See "TWelve enth Volunteer," plate, page 4.2.   the three Tennessee regiments together Among the offieers and most of the prti vates of that battalion, no 'sch feeling was entertained, but among these itWex- isted strongly. . : 'Jonas seeing that he could do no goodi retired 'from them, and one at the same instant picked tup a stone and threw it at the nearest Mexican who'was listening to the alcalde. 'This striking him on the cheek, floored him, cutting his face se- verely. The alcalde, at this act, became exceedingly angry, and-in a loud voice ordered the crowd to seize the men and tie them, put them in a boat and carry them over to Tampico; not to hurt them, but to deliver them to the guard at the wharf: Whether the Mexicans have ani courage or not, these, thdugh unarmed; jumped on the three, and in less time than it takes for the writing, they were fast, and in less than five minutes more, they were in a boat going back to Tampico as fast as they had come. Confound these chaps: they got Jonas into a deue'e of a sctrape after they had gone, for their threats of coniing back with their battalion, &c.;e to burn the town, were loud arid fiequent, and as for Jonas himself, although le had cndeavr ored to act as a friend to them,' they threateinedhim " with the d-me--d- st thrashing that he ever got, the d--xm--i l Tennesseean." One of the threats Was worth as-much as the' other, and both were idle enough, -- but the people did not think so. They crowded around the alcalde, fearful of the threatened visit. The alcalde applied to Jonas. The' sola dier told him that there was not' thp slightest reason for alarm: that the men were,so completely under-the influence of liquor that none of them would know when they became sober any thing about it.- that instead of ireturning, they would be fortunate if they escaped confinement in the guard house for a week or mord, and that it was rnonsenseto think of their inducing theit-comrades'to come over in sufficient numbers to perform their idle threats: that even could they get enough to promise so to do, they would not 'hav the face to come. But, that if theptr- ple 'were: alarmed ienugh to I quit tei, heI jight write "nrite to Colonel Gate,     themilitary commander of the city, and inform him of the circumstance,-the alarm of the people, and request a guard to be stationed there. The alcalde liked this idea very much, and insisted uupon Jonas writing the note, which the soldier did to the above effect, and signed the name of the alcalde to it, directed it to Colonel Gates, and it was sent off by an- other boat, which, from the manner in which it was pulled, must have arrived at Tampico before the other. This scrape, as Jonas and the alcalde both thought, was now ended, and it being 11 o'clock, the two went to the store where they had first met on the day previous; there they took a pull at the seven year old brandy, and then went to see about the Louisiana land spoken of the preceding evening. The lady, and the beautiful Angelina, were ready for their, reception. The latter appeared more beautiful to the soldier, than .on the evening before. Refreshments were passed round in the first place. A table stood near, and on it were the papers, to which Jonas :directed, his attention; while the lady, the .alcalde, and Ange- lina were engaged in a spirited conver- sation. The case. was simple and clear; -her right was incontestible, and but:ia few- moments were requisite for Jonas to put her on :the more proper track, and write for her a letter to an attorney in New Orleans. She was delighted, and the soldier was no less so, for he obtain- ed some of Angelina's sweetest. smiles, as he announced the result of his inves- tigations. -More respect, if possible, was paid to the soldier than previously. Ah! Jonas was a gentleman then, of the " upper ten," sure. - A correspond- ing, degree of affability, condescension, and professional ease, came over him, -ahem 1 He had already, from seeing the alcalde bow so much, assumed himself a continual conghing; 'he bowed and bowed, until he really thought he would never be able again to bring him- self to the immovable soldier's position.  While the alcalde and Senora B - 1 again became interested in a new, point  with relation to the circumstances under which her former; husband had been 1 induced to visit New Orleans, and ,pur-    chase this property, with a view of removing his family thither,. Jonas, not listening to them, was dilating largely to Angelina upon the extreme beauty and fragrance of the flowers he had seen in the garden of Don Pepe Posadas, as before mentioned, . The Spanish maiden remarked that that garden was rather more costly than any other in the town, but that she had some peculiar varieties of flowers which Don Pepe had not, and invited Jonas to walk upon the inner corridor of the mansion to see them. The couple left the room that thus opened upon the corridor; which, was ron the second story, and ran around three sides of the interior square, or paved courtyard. It was supported by stone pillars, and in turn supported its roof by like pillars, but with orna- mented capitals. The floor was of large, perfectly smooth, square tile. A mas- sive balustrade ran around, on the top of which, fitted to receive them) were a, row of flower pots, extending round the three sides, or the full length of the corridor; and not only so, but another row was placed on the the floor against the balustrade; and there were nearly as many in this as the other, The back of the square was open to the view of the lake; a stone wall of ten or twelve feet in hight, ran from one wing of the building to the other; in the center of the wall was an arch gateway leading out upon a square pier, against which, as well as against the strong foundations of the wings of the buildings, the clear, deep water of the lake murmured in its gentle waves. Along the top of the wall were placed two bristling rows of iron spikes, and pieces of broken glass between, thickly set in. cement, to pre- vent any one from climbing the wall. 'A heavy gate closed the outlet to the pier, while under an arch made in the right wing of the building Angelina informed the soldier was kept floating in its own element a pretty boat, used only by the family; for this place, in the water traveling habits of the people, was al- most a second Venice. The extent of the visign over tW beautiful lake, and its delightful iSlands, has been mentioned and repeated ;. but   4he soldier was never reary of viewing ,it inowit came'upon him- in 'connection, with other beauties. . This was beauti- ful in ;one sense; the -flowers -were beautiful in yet another ; and in another still, and best of all, to the- American, Angelina was the more beautiful, the more- attractive, the chief object of attention; for the lady had a soul filled with, lofty conceptions and power of mind, but with them, a depth of feeling and affection. that could be seen in 'ler eyes, heard in her words, and noticed in her every action. So, while the soldier -admired the scenery of the lake, and admired the beauty of the flowers, he admired her the most of all; and while -he extended -his hands, pointing out to the distant green islands, so sweetly reposing on the bosom of the water, with the towering palms rising above it, it waq only to gain from her remarks of assent, and smiles of approbation: and while -he admired and praised the ex- ,treme ;:beauty and fragrance of her flowers, so new to him, it was only to -meet the gratified expression that beam- ea from her eyes. Taking a rose just 'blooming from. a luxuriant bush in the roojn, the American presented it to the maiden. It was accepted with a deep Vblush mantling her cheek, and a bud just opening was returned to him. In the pleasure of her company, he ,forgot all else. The maidens of home were. banished from his mind; though -the soldier before, through fie whole campaign, had been pretty -faithful to their-remembrance. For nearly an hour :1di they walk the- corridor, or leaning near the flowers, talked of attachment and love ; or gazing at the slender boats as. they went and came over the lake, ot* were advqccing far out. Another meeting was asked by the soldier, and granted; and a sailing party in -the boat;,to one of the islands, was promised 'by- Angelina. The .'dinner hour- had iurived, and they were joined 'by the *ial4alde and Senora B--n, the mother. :The alcalde smiling, said in, English, to the soldier, as they werestaiding close to-Angelina, at a pillar, -  ; i"T-his will hardly be your last visit here, Sefor. Do you think the-ladies   of our place so interesting, that you can spend no time with the gentlemen?". This question confused Jonas, so is to  cause the color to rise to his face,':as well as to that- of the lovely Angelina, who knew the purport' of the remark, by its instantaneous effect, though- she understood not a word of the sentence. Rosalia too, her sister, about twelve years old, a beautiful little girl, hanging to her mother's arm, looked at the soldier, as he thus was for an instant  confused, and addressing her mother, said in Spanish, "The American's eyes are so blue, so pretty, I could sit and see him smile all the day."  The remark caused both mother and the alcalde to laugh, and Jonas, glad of the opportunity to turn the conversation, to, insist upon being told what the remark was, not knowing that it was about him. The mother looked at Ro- salia, who cried out, putting her hand playfully on her mother's lip, whoiwas beckoning assent to the alcalde to tell Jonas in English, i no, no, dear mother, don't tell him ;" but the alcalde related it, which confused the soldier and Ange- lina more than ever; the latter looked as though she thought that, they might suppose her taste npilar to Rosalia's, from the length of time- that had elapsed since she- had left the room, simply to show the soldier the flowers.: The embar- rassment of both, however, was removed somewhat,. by the announcement of dinner, to which - all immediately. pro- ceeded. The dinner was in true Mexi- can style. Course succeeded to course, more than a dozen in number. The dishes were many of them' entirely new to the American, and all -were -so'hot with red pepper, seasoned to their:uni- versal style, that the soldier was ptzaled to keep the tear from starting in his eye, excited by the burning pepper. l'The wines were excellent,-4the Conversatioh was spirited, and the time prolonged. Now leaving the soldier thus in such company, and .so well situated at the table opposite to-the charming Angelina, let us, in imaginati6n,: pass over; tlhe -water, and notice one transaction in Tampico, and another in the camp, .each     ofwhicl, had an immediate effectmupon the situation of Jonas ' .  . The first' is Tampico.- The ,two :boeats had Harrived there,;-the drunken men were deliveied to-the officer of the guard, with the alcalde's message,! and they were instantly marched- lip to' the guard house and confinedM within its gloomy cells. ',The note written in the alcalde's name by Jonas, was deliv- ered to colonel Gates, who immediately ordered a regular lieutenant to take a sergeant, corporal, and twenty men, and in two boats, to go to Puebla ,Viejo, and diligently search that place, arrest- ing any soldier. there, who was without a written permit in military form.. The lieutenant anid 'his guard immediately 'started. When leaving the Wharf,the harbor master, Clifton, by, name, who, held his. office by appointment of the. commander,. proposed to accompany the lieutenant, and did so. Thei boatsidepai t- ed from: Tampico during the ,time that Juqnas .was on the corridor. with the beautiful' Angelina, as before described. She leaving them, rapidly passing over the beautiful water, the. soldiers in each boat all being regulars, all sober,and in full military discipline, the glancing rays; of the sun reflected from their, bright muskets, while a sxnall American flag, streamed; out from the stern of each, boat,--let us for a ioment glance at the camp. in the immediate company to which Jonas belonged, andt notice the other transctioa referred to. -  On the evening Previots,the company having got through 'their sleeping, and gambling, were ordered out to, evening roll call. ' The line was unusually full; no, one was on the sick list; no one .was appariently. absent. The lieutenant .in comamadd .leaned on his sword, While 4,;: orderly sergeant taking out his book, ,cemmnced the roll; calling the names ,oi the captain, lieutenants, sergeants, corporals, and then' theb long list of privates, who stood shoulder to shoulder immovable ; Wm. H. Axtel,. "here," was the response ;.Wm. N. Anderson, "here ;"Luke Burr,: "here " ;Jonas I. Brown, "here ;"Jonas Brown," here:;" Wam H. Dewherry (the horse cracked geniu), "here;" and. so on; it was.   ":here," ' here'  here, he" inmu6ch'fe t gratification. t,he first lieutenant; till it came down: ti Jonas's name,. George C. F -'--*-r,: was 'called. out: of course 'no answer was: given, for Jonas was far away thenm . George ;C. F- r,. was repeated by' the orderly, in a louder voice ;--no'; answer. G eorgte C. F -- r, slihouted he, still lcpder,-no answer yet, 'and the pdncil was. lifted to put down the cross-mark-.   '    ' "Where is'F---r?" called the first lieutenant. .          . 'Does any one know?"  .. .  i: Gone to old Tampico,"' called out the one who had accompaniedhim to the boats.  , .  -  - * ' , , The lieutenant's countenance fell, for Jonas was not. much of .a favorite with ,himn,nor he in rturn with Jonas. The roll was finished, and the line dismissed. The' lieutenant walked to the captain's tent  - '          . , "All present, sir, except F -" t'-; he has 'gone to, old Tampico.: has he a ,permlit?"  "All right"' said the captain; "hehas liberty,-he will be back presently;'. - Oni dispensingfto the tents the forage already drawn the night before, the: phi losbpher, Ingram, remarked, ':,.$ !' By shot bags," a favorite expressibo of his, , . Jonas has gone to old TampieoJI He will. be back with a bushel of notes for his book:. We must feed:his .horse for him; for' by shot I know himiand 'he had as lief stay .6verlthere all .niglhtas not, if he can get any items by it,",and so saying-lie tooklJonas's forage bag;arid well fed the horse, while another bouglt him hay, &ec.       .  ., The philosopher was right, for Jonas did not make his appearance. Thei:night passed; away.. The reveille roused the 'sleeping'army, and the rolls of: every company were again called preparatory to the morning drills and evolutions oh the plain.; the same scene occurred as ,o the evening before; Jonas's messmates had again ;fed his horse as they did tlmir own, and had taken their places in rank!; thelnaieae run down the roll; Jonas was again three times loudly called, :and anotherf eross went down 'opposite ,s nam e. u .. . . v :    -. ,'X "   A' - Has not F-r yet got back?" de- manded the. lieutenant. Hisf messmnates answered in the neg- ative.. The roll was finished; the com- pany was formed in ranks, marched to the plain, and drilled for an hour, and dismissed. The captain was busy, as on the evening before, in making out the pay rolls. The lieutenant entered the marquee. "Captain Sneed, F-r has not yet returned." The captain was uneasy, but thinking that perhaps he had remained in town on his return, he replied, "Well, he will be back presently," and went on with his writing, at which he was soon so engaged that Jonas was forgotten. The morning passed away,-Ithe fore- noon regiment parade was over,--the duties were through, -- when again the time of roll call arrived, and was gone through with, and a third cross was put at Jonas's name, and again the lieuten- ant reported his continued absence. The captain laid down his pen: "This must be'looked into. There are large parties of General Cos's scouts on the other side of the. river, as infor- mation was received today, of which Col. Thomas told me a little while since; they may have picked' F-r up. I fear they have. Send sergeant Matoon here. In a moment the sergeant appeared, an ill looking fellow, between whom and Jonas was a hearty hatred, caused in the first place by the meanness of the non-com- missioned officer in a transaction at Little Rock, Arkansas, in the first part of the campaign. "Sergeant," said the captain, "F--r went to old Tampico yesterday, and has not returned, and I fear that he has been killed by the lancers who were lurk- ing about yesterday in that neighbor- hood. Take six men with your carbines, and go over there and see if you can hear any thing of him. I am fearful that he is killed or rmade prisoner; here is two dollars which will pay for your boat." Away went the sergeant to get his men, delighted with the opportunity of going with a guard to old Tampico; for he did love to show himself, and more 6   delighted to have such a chance' at Jonas, whom as he had himself treats ed meanly, and then been afraid to acknowledge it when the author of the transaction was called for, he now .re- garded with a perfect hatred. "Captain," said a tall handsome look- ing young man by the name of Walton; who had dressed himself up' that day, "Won't you let me go with them?" "Yes, Joe, you may go." "But I want to swell a little, and as- tonish these Mexicans; won't you lend me your old uniform coat and one of your swords and sash, and. let me go with them, but not in the squad. I want the Mexicans to call me ' captain:' I want to hear how it will sound," The captain laughed and assented, and Walton was soon in the boat with the red' sash and the officer's sword. "Now," said the captain, " if you are caught shamming the officer, you will get into a bad box; but don't bring my name in." "No, sirt Captain, I can carry it through," said Walton, as he touched his cap with a very military air, which made the' captain snort with laughter. "Well," said he, "go along."', By this time sergeant Matoon; in all the dignity of petty office, looking as though the fate of nations hung upon his actions, had brought up his squad of six men, and halted-them in front of the cap- tain's marquee, and the latter and Wal- ton stepped out. At the sight of Joe in the captain's old uniform, and his pompous air assumed, the whole guard laughed, at which Joe made them a mili- tary salute, and the captain joined the roar. "Joe wants to go with you, sergeant," said he, "to swell, as he calls it, the offi. cer. Let him go it independent, return- ing with you," and off the guard went, The sergeant congratulating himself up- on being able thus'to get the upper hand of Jonas, while Walton bore out "the officer" fnely-liis red sash flaunting in the breed, they marched up into the town. lobwas taken immediately for an officer reatly to his delight:-he touched his cap, and bowed again and again. They went to the landing, hird,     a Mexican long canoe, like that in which Jonas had gone at first, and over they started; an hour or perhaps more after the regular guard had gone. On this route we will leave them for a few min- utes and return to the first. The regular guard had gone on the ,shell beach: two of the sailors who rowed the boats remained, while the guard landed and marched up into the bwn. They proceeded through several streets. The people were pleased to see them. They found no Americans, how- ever, until on inquiring, the lieutenant learned that there was one American in the house of seilora B-n, and halted before the door. Their number made their line long. Their arms were order- ed with perfect regularity, and the officer knocked at the house door. One of the servants went there, then hurrying up stairs through the interior court, entered the dining room with the greatest alarm depicted on his countenance. Ameri- canos soldare! he exclaimed, and went on jabbering Spanish to the alcalde, who with Jonas and the ladies had not yet risen from the table, to the purport that there was a troop of Americar soldiers below, and that they were after Jonas, as he pointed at him, thinking it perhaps a good idea for that gentleman to be get- ting out of the way as quick as possible. The ladies were both exceedingly alarm- ed. Angelina turned pale as death, and looked at Jonas most beseechingly. "'Tis the guard you sent after," said the soldier to the alcalde; to the latter's instant relief, and with a smile and a repetition of the information to the la- dies, to their relief as much, he rose, and followed by Jonas they stepped out upon the corridor, and down the stone steps to the arched gate or door way, and there met the officer standing, -the harbor master near him, and the guard all fa- cing the doorway. "Good day, sirs,'? said the lieuten- ant. "Do you belong to the army?" said he to Jonas. "I do, sir," replied the latter :-" to the Tennessee cavalry.?' "There has been a disturbance over here," continued the officer, "and I am sent to arrest all Americans with-,    out permits of absence,-have you one?" "No sir," said Jonas, "I have none." "Well, I must arrest you, then." "Sir," said the Mexican, "I am the, first alcalde of this town. He sent the men who made the disturbance to Tam- pico," he continued, as the officer looked at him with surprise, to hear him speak such fluent and correct English. "It is at my request that this gentle- man," pointing to Jonas, (ahem!) "is with me. It was his advice that led me to request an American guard, and in fact he wrote the letter for me, and though he has no permit, he has been of such service to me and the lady of this mansion, I would ask it as a favor to me, that he be not interrupted on that account, on be arrested by reason of his own advice to me having thus been car- ried into effect, for to that alone is owing the fact of your guard being here." The lieutenant, a perfect gentleman, by the way, was puzzled. His orders were peremptory, but he did not like thus to arrest an individual whose con- duct was thus certified to by the princi- pal man in the town, to accommodate whom, he and his guard had been sent He hesitated, but Clifton the harbor- master, a fool of much apparent dignity, replied unasked,- "Can't help that, old boy, orders pos- itive-he must be arrested-take charge of him, boys," said he to the guard-but they did not move. The lieutenant was highly displeased, and turning to the other, simply remarked, to his chagrin : "I beg leave to remind you, Mr. Clif- ton, that I command the guard." This brought a smile all along the rank, and then turning to the other, continued- "Well, it's a hard case, gentlemen, but I will do all I can for you. What is your name and company?" said he to Jonas. It was given. "Well," said he, taking out his watch, "it is now three o'clock: you must go back as a prisoner. I wish you had a permit-but I will not disturb you now while we examine the town for more, if you will give me the word of a soldier that you will report yourself at the boats on the beach at four o'clock."   'tI wil," said Jonas; this time with t the alcalde out on the walk in front, l and in full view of the guard, and ( the officer having turned to his ser- t geant, directed him to march through M the town in search for Americans, and t in View of the people, and to proceed l to the beach at four o'clock, coming a by the billiard room, where he would  in the meadn time rest a little. Off the guard started.  Lieutenant C. invited Mr. Clifton, a little chopfallen, to accompany him, and  on they went, with another bow to the  alcalde and Jonas, and the two returned to the ladies, who were delighted to find the matter no worse, but were much con-  cerned at the idea of Jonas returning to  Tampico a prisoner. Angelina was the most so, but the soldier laughed it off, saying that life in warfare was full of variety, and that one must be prepared for any thing; and walking upon the cor- ridor again, he talked with all the broken Spanish he could command to the maiden: '-told her that if itwas possible he would see her again: that he was going to Vera Cruz, and from there the Lord only knew where: that risks and privations, disease and death, were of course the soldier's lot, but if he could before he went, he would see her again,--would come to take part in the sailing party spoken of, and see her lovely face, and hear her voice once more. What she could not understand in words, was perfectly intel- ligible to her by expression; she presen- ted him with her card, and her mother coming up did the same, and taking leave of them on the corridor, he saw the last of the stately selnora and the beautiful Angelina. It M-as about a half an hour since the guard had departed. Going to the store at which they had first met, the two call- ed for cigars; and a Mexican came in with a message to the alcalde, to attend to which he stepped out, remarking that he would be back in ten minutes. Jonas, smoking and thinking of An- gelina, walked alon a a square, telling the store keeper as he left that he would return "poco tempo," ("a very little while." The soldier was sad-Angeli- ja's form was before his eyes-but his   thoughts took a new direction as he dis- covered coming up from the beach a file of men, with an officer at their head: he looked as they came nearer, and. who should the officer be but Joe Wal. ton,-the file of men of his own com- pany, headed by sergeant Matoon, who appeared as if he was commanding a brigade. "Hallo, boys," said Jonas, "what are you after?" "After you, sir," said Walthn, with a flourish of his sword, and a bow, " a la militaire." "Yes," said sergeant Matoon, as he came up and halted the file. "I am ordered by Captain Sneed to arrest you." "For what?" said Jonas. "For being absent from camp," re- turned the other. "'T is a d-m-d lie, I know," said the soldier; "Captain Sneed knew what I was, about, and I don't believe a word of it." The other's countenance quailed, which fully convinced Jonas that he was lying, and the sergeant turned to one of the men, Irish Jimmy, as he was called, to prove it. "By J-s! sergeant, I don't know, sure; indade, you told me to come,- that's all I know-sure it is the blessed dhrop of the liquor that you promised us, and we have not seen it yet, indade we have n't," said Jimmy. One of the other men remarked that it was the cap- tain's order to arrest Jonas, (but for this he had taken the sergeant's word only,) but as he said so, Jonas remarked, that in such a case he would certainly go without giving them any trouble, but that he could not understand why Cap- tain Sneed should act so foolishly as to give him tacitly full permission thus to go, sanctioned by the colonel, and then send to arrest him. As Jonas said this, the sergeant made an insulting remark that touched the sol- dier, and he then swore " he would be d-m--d if he did go with Matoon,- and that he knew it was a lie, and that they were over there on a spree," and he then demanded to see the sergeant's permit and order: but Matoon had none.     The regular guard in the mean time had in full strength turned a corner into the street, and seeing this collection, were coming up. The little guard looked at them. Jonas saw his chance, and de- termined to improve it. The regular -sergeant halted his company. ' "Hallo," said he to Jonas, whom he recognized immediately, "what's all t6is?" Jonas teplied " that it was a sergeant of his company, who said that he had been sent to arrest him, but he believed it all a lie, for the sergeant had no or- der or permit." "Ha! ha! my boys," said the regu- lar, " that cat can't jump, - where is your permits?" "We have not got any," said Ma- toon. "We werd sent to arrest this man."              - "A d-m-d pretty- tale," said the regular, contemptuously; " and you are a sergeant, are you?-off on duty, and got no order,-is that your officer?" said he, pointing to Walton, who had stepped off a little, as though he had nothing to do with the business, and who, as he heard this, would have given all his old shoes to have been back in camp. He trembled for Matoon's an- swer, but the latter, luckily for him, was thinking so much of himself, that he only answered "no! I'm in command of this squad." "Well, then, you are all prisoners- have any of you a permit?" "No! no!" said all:-we are a guard." "A h-11 of a guard,--off here from the camp in an enemy's town, and noth- ing to show for it." "Men," lie contin- ued, "take the arms from these men: fall in there in front," he ordered, as they were thus forcibly disarmed; they 'objected, but being compelled, obeyed  reluctantly, while Matoon reasoned and  'begged, and then cursed, but was on  that peremptorily ordered by the other  'to shut up, or be gagged."    1 "Take that man, too," said Matoon, ( pointing to Jonas.  "Shut up your mouth, you d-m-d t fool," said the regular; who then spoke a 'to Walton, who had been so much alarm- (   ed, and yet interested, that he had tct thought of slipping off. "You are at officer, are you?" He was too much scared to speak. but bowed, while the regular scru- tinized him to his greater trepidation, but the opinion of the regular was ex* pressed by his words, as he turned off-- "Some d--m--d green volunteer lieu- tenant-looks as if he had been steal- ing a sheep," and then ordering the column forward, with a bow to Jonas, whose arrangement with the lieutenant he had heard, and having seen him too, in the company at the house in which he was first arrested, he had from associa- tion, a greater respect for him. Jonas burst out into a roar of laughter, as the column thus moved off, in which the reg- ular acquiesced by a meaning smile, for he more than half suspected the truth: but he had performed his orders, and he had also taken a strong personal dislike to Matoon for his expressions to him. "D-n you! keep step," he called out sharply, "prick that fellow up with your bayonet, if he walks that way," said he to the soldier in rear, and off to the beach from whence they had just came he marched them; they not hav- ing had, in the meantime, a drop of the liquor expected by them. There they were forced to get into the boat-- Matoon as sulky as he could be, and not allowed to vent his feelings in curses. The rays of the sun were hot in the boat in which they were placed, while over the other the officers had a fine awning which kept off the burning heat. The sergeant ordered his corporal and men to take charge of the prisoners, while he should go up to Lieut. C. to report. As he thus came back, Jonas had returned to the store, where the alcalde had also arrived;. and while telling the latter about it, the regular sergeant came, by. Jonas calling him in, he made a polite bow to the alcalde, and then turning to the soldier, re. marked that " he had the sergeant safi enough now." Jonas, speaking to the Mexican, the brandy was set before thi three, much(to the regular's satisfa-.tion and evident gratification; and the aol- dier remarking that he would go wih   him to the lieutenant, and the alcalde j wishing to see the end of it, all went. At the billiard room were found Lieut. C. and Mr. Clifton, engaged in a game. The sergeant reporting that he had seven prisoners, and that there were  no more Americans in town, or about it. The lieutenant appeared much grat- ified -at his success; for that was a pretty good haul; nor would he have' liked to hdve returned empty handed to Tampico. Jonas reported himself, and the al- calde renewed his conversation with the lieutenant. The game being finished, the officer wished to take a walk up on the "Mira" to observe the beautiful scene pf which he had heard so much; and invited Mr. Clifton, the alcalde and Jonas, to accompany him. This they did freely; and a pleasant walk it was to all, and the lieutenant felt amply compensated for his trouble. Nothing more was seen of Walton the officer, but Jonas afterwards found that he walked about the streets, con- tinually fearful of detection, and avoid- ing the guard boats, struck the beach above them out of view of the soldiers who were yet there with the prisoners in the boats, it being while the lieuten- ant and his companions were gone to the "Mira." Walton there hired a Mexican to set him across to Tampico, and on his arrival hurrying to Capt. Sneed, then in town, he told him that Jonas was safe, walking about free and as large as life in old Tampico, and that Sergeant Ma- toon with his guard hadall been arrested, and Matoon threatened with bIing gag- ged-the regoulars having them there in custody. The captain did not know what to make of this intelligence. Why the guard was arrested? Why Jonas was free from that which had befallen the rest? "Why was you not arrested?" said he to Walton. "This good sword, sir, and this coat were, all that saved me," replied the other. "Did they take you for an officer?" demanded the puzzled captain. '.They asked me if I was an officer,   and I bowed," said he. The captain: laughed. When will they be over?" he asked. , "They won't be over in less than an. hour and a half or two hours, and then they will go to the guard-house," replied, Walton. "I must send down and have them released when they arrive," said the captain. "It's 'a singular affair, any how, and I cannot understand it," con- tinued he, musing.  Walton begged the captain to lend him a coat; said that if he had that uniform off, he would never be caught in one again; earnestly told the captain that he was fearful of going through the streets of the city towards camp for fear of detection,-that he had enough of it. There was, however, no alter- native for him; the captain insisting that he should carry the uniform and sword back to the camp, and there was no other way to do this save for him to wear it.-And we leave Walton, as with much trepidation he proceeded down the stairs, and putting on, or rather forcing on a " bold look like a sheep,"; he walked rapidly, out of town, and scud it' for the camp,-during the cam- paign never wishing an officer's coat on again. We return to the parting of the four as they came down from the Mira. The alcalde insisting upon going into the store mentioned before, all did so; and t then at his expense, and much to his apparent gratification, all took some of the " six yearold brandy;"Farewells were exchanged, and as the hands were shaken cordially, a pressing invitation was given to Jonas to come again. Thus leaving the Mexican gentleman, the three proceeded to the beach, where crowded in the open boat, were the other pris- oners; most of them sulky, but more especially so was Sergeant Matoon. En- tering the other boat, at the invitation of Lieut. C., Jonas took a seat by him Iin the stern sheets, protected from the sun by the awning above, and in style, even though a prisoner, the soldier went back to Tampico. The prisoners in the other boat were crowded together like ,sheep in .a market wagon. The lieu-     tenant apologized for the fact, that he would be obliged to deliver Jonas to the officer of the guard at Tampico. The soldier begged him not to think of it, for he said that be had never got into a scrape yet, but that he had been able to get out again. The boats, propelled by so many sailors, cut the water rapidly. The islands were passed, and out of Jonas's sight; as the last island closed to him the view of the mansion containing the lovely Angelina, he gazed earnestly up- on that till it was shut from his vision. The busy city of Tampico was again before him, and after a passage of a little over half an hour, the boats ar- rived at the wharf; the soldiers landed, and the prisoners were marched up; Jonas, however, going in company with the lieutenant: so that no one who saw him, dreamed, as he gazed at the others, of his being one of them. The list and the men were delivered over to the officer of the guard, and thus ended with the soldier this scene, and we now pass on to SCENE THE FIFTH. There was no distinction now between the prisoners as they were thus deliver- ed to the officer of the guard house. Sternly was every name and the compa- ny of each demanded; all weapons were taken from them. Jonas was disarmed of his bowie knife; his revolver, dirk, and pistol, and then in a filthy room filled with drunkards, scamps, and dirty fel- lows, upon whom the vermin Were creeping, Jonas, the sergeant, and the guard were all ushered without a word of explanation being heard. Jonas felt now that he was a soldier again, and not only so, but a soldier in a little worse predicament than ever he had been in before. The sergeant growled, whined, and almost cried, because, as he said, "that in the discharge of his duty he had been arrested, his character injured, and he confined in the guard house." Jo- nas walked amid the dirty crowd: heard the sergeant's complaints, but pitied him Rot-the mean scamp, with not an hon- orable principle about him. The other men were variously affected; they were   all good soldiers, and not one of them had ever been in the guard house be- fore. Some looked ashamed, -others laughed, but "Irish Jimmy" growled all the time, not because he had thus been arrested and placed in this nause- ous hole, but because that arrest had ta- ken place before the sergeant had given them a drop of the liquor that had been promised them at old Tampico. Jimmy declared that the hot sun had scorched the roots of every hair on his head while for so long he had set in the open boat at the beach under arrest, and that he would be as bald as Dewherry. He swore he would be d-m-d if ever he would go after Jonas again: that it was a judgment on them all: that Jonas was a clever fellow and a good soldier, and a d-m-d sight better than some that had command over him; (this was ac- companied by a wink and a nod of his head at the sergeant, as much as to say, take that, you scamp; you promised us a horn if we went, but you were so ea- ger to crow over Jonas, that you would not get it when you might have done so, but pushed on, and then got us all arrested, and so help yourself, d-n you! ) Some of the rest swore that Ma- toon was a fool to leave camp without a permit or written order, &c. The ser- geant caught it from all around; anxious to trap Jonas, he had been trapped him- self, and not only so, but had got six men in the same situation. The other inmates of this wretched hole laughed and cursed Matoon, as' he whined and complained. Some of these blessed specimens of hu- man nature had hats, others had not; none of them had beds or blankets. Some of them had thus been confined for two and three weeks. Some had coats, and others none: some were mi- nus a whole pair of breeches. On drun- ken sprees they had been tattered and partly torn off from them. All were unwashed. The hair of many of them had not been apparently combed in six months. Three or four groups with blood shot eyes, trembling limbs, dirty faces, and most tattered clothing, were squatted down together on the floor, with old packs of cards, still playing 'and gambling, though thus confined   The floor was covered with inches of filth. I Fleas and disgusting vermin were swar m- ing in myriads. Jonas was obliged to stand continually, for there were no seats, and to sit down on the dirty floor would be to have been covered with vermin; so leaning back against the door, from which he judged these customers were likely to be shakeh by the continual opening and shutting of the same as more new pris- oners were put in, or some other called out, he folded his arms, and surveyed the scene before him. This room of the guard house was of stone, with a stone floor, dirty straw being strewn over it in some places. It was about thirty by twenty feet in area, and over ten in hight. In it were some forty prisoners. It was lighted by 'a wicket through the door, heavily barred with cross irons, and beside that, a huge window on the opposite side, with heavier perpendicu- lar bars of iron set firmly in the stone, above and below, admitted air and light. Around this window was a crowd of the dirty fellows pushing and scrambling continually with each other in reaching the bars, to look out on the square, or to induce some soldiers or Mexicans to obtain for them bread, or fruit, or any thing else to eat. Water was brought in by the guard: many of them in there had a little mon- ey, for general pay-day had taken place a few days before this, and those who had been in the longest had kept them-. selves in funds by picking the pockets of those who were just put in. Many a good soldier was there confined by the petty tyranny of his lieutenant or captain-many a man picked up by caprice of the sergeants patrolling the town, and thus confined in that dirty hole, to which our jails at home would have been comfortable in comparison. In the groups playing cards were many evidently under the strong influence of liquor; but how these had obtained it was a puzzle to Jonas, who, in watching the dirty crowd, had become interested in their movements and actions. Two others were so interested that they were stretched out in the filth close at his feet, while one more was in the other extrem- ity of the room. A most disagreeable   odor filled the room. One man, a reg- ular, sat against the wall near to Jonas; his hands were pressed to his head, which rested on his elevated knees; he appeared as if he was absorbed in deep thought-his blue uniform was dirty, but it was whole, and although in so fil- thy a situation, he appeared as if he had been neatly dressed when he was im- prisoned; he looked up at Jonas, and then, at the sound of a string of most vulgar curses that came from the next group, "G-d d-m it, go it boys," said he, "it's all in a life-time." He spoke with a bitter expression, that sounded to Jonas' ear as though he had determined to give himself up in despair: his eyes were blood-shot, and late excessive use of liquor was strongly marked in his face, yet his countenance was intelli- gent, his forehead full. Jonas spoke to him. "How do you get brandy in here?" said he. "Easy enough," replied the regular, looking up at him again, " have you any money?-if you have, hand it out, and I'll get some for you, and go halves, for I have not got a cent." "No," replied Jonas, "I do n't want any, but I want to know how you get it." "Give me a quarter," said the regu- lar, "and I will show you." Jonas gave him the quarter of a dol- lar; he thought that as he was in there, he would learn something of that scene, for there never was a military occupa- tion of a city without a guardhouse; but whether those in the other cities taken in Mexico, were like this one, Jonas did not know, but supposed from the con- versations he had heard from those who had tried them at Matamoras, Monte- rcy, Camargo, Victoria, &c., they were about the same. The regular rose with his money,-his face in expression hav- ing much eagerness. He was in person large, well formed, tall, straight, and a good specimen of a soldier; he pushed his way to the window, cursing as loud as any among the cursing crowd. At the window, or about six or eight feet in front of it, stood two of the guard with their muskets, stationed to prevent any ,liquor being conveyed in, while half a     dozen Mexicans were there ready to take the money, and buy articles of provision, &c. To one of these he gave the quar- ter, telling him that he wanted "pan," (bread.) The guard outside looked on unconcerned, for provisions were not forbidden. In a very few moments the regular brought back to Jonas two round loaves of bread, baked so hard on the outside that they looked as if burned. With a smile on his dirty countenance, he handed one of them over, while he sat down with the other. Jonas, sur- prised at the bread, when he had expect- ed liquor to be brought, broke open his loaf, and inside, to his greater surprise, found it completely saturated with bran- dy just introduced. The regular looked up at him with a knowing smile, as he thus examined it. "These Mexicans know how to fix it," he said, as he took a; huge bite into the middle of his loaf, and then continued to take out the inside from the shell like gouging out the " in- nards" of a watermelon. Jonas turned his two pieces over, while the brandy dripped from them. "D-m-d good measure," contin- ued the regular,-" but you are look- ing to find how they got it in the loaf. I 'll show you," and turning his own over, he picked at the shell, and out came a plug of crust that had been neatly cut and inserted into the hard baked shell after the liquor had been turned in, and the spongy inside had absorbed it immediately. One such plug was in each end of the loaf, and was put back with so much neatness, that one unprac- I tised would turn it over many times be-  fore he would see the place. "Well, that's ingenious," said Jonas.  "These Mexicans fix it up," repeated  the regular. "'But how do they know what you want?  you can't speak before the guard?" "Oh, easy enough," said the other, who had cleared out one of his shells,  and laying it down by him, as he had 1 turned his face to the wall, and was grabbing into the other, " draw the money across their hands when you give c it to them, and tell them you want bread, c if you want brandy:-if not, put the i] money right into their hands."'  v   "Well, well," said the soldier, "are they caught at it?" "No, they never have been caught at this; but they had other Ways for a long time, and one of them got caught tat those, and they thrashed him and -sent him off." "Well, what was done about it?" "They watch sharply for any thing like a bottle, ever since, and for near four days we did not get any liquor, till a chap managed to bring some in here to sell to us." "Brought it in here,-did he get in with it?" "Why he was d-m-d smart: he got the insides of a pig, such as you know our old women at home, stuff with sausage meat, and cleaned it, and filled it with liquor, and tying one end of it to his ancle, then wrapped it all around his leg like a snake, and around his body two or three times, and had the top tied to his waist; then he wrapped a lot of corn sacking torn up into strips, round the other leg to make it equal in size. We thought he was a fat fellow -when he came in," continued the regu- lar, chuckling to himself at the remem- branch, "but he was d-d lean when he went out; there is some of his rags there now," said he, glancing at some strips of sacking that lay mouldering in, the dirty straw. "But how did he get in?" "Why, when he was fixed he came by here, and pretended to be drunk, and told one of the fellows on guard that he looked d-m-d fine there, guarding a set of men that were better than hewas. The other threatened to call the sergeant of the guard, and the chap cursed him and the sergeant too, and walked off, but he had not gone far before they had him, and placed him in here." "Well, you got liquor, then?" "Yes; that night we 'sucked the snake,' as we called it, right dry, and he had a lot of dimes and bits for it," "How did he get out?" "The next day he sent word to his captain that he had been saucy to an- other soldier on guard, and that he was in the guard house for it, and he 'wag very sorry for it, &c., and the captain   came 'by and obtained his release, but I 'll be d-d if it had been an officer that he had spoken to, if he had got out so easily; I know that by experience." "Well, how long did you gowithout liquor,' then?" "Why, that day these Mexicans fixed up these bread doings. The d-m-d guard watch for bottles, but don't look at the bread." "Well, can you trust these Mexicans to bring you change when you don't have it?" "Oh yes, they go straight: there is but six of them, and they won't let any other come near them,-they all know the game." "What do you pay them?" "A picayune a trip,-they only go across the square: two loaves to a pic- ayune,-the liquor is a bit, and that leaves them their picayune out of a quarter, and the liquor in one loaf is enough at a time ;-but I have been in here so long that I am out of money, and I have to watch those that come in that don't know, and get it for them on halves. That's the reason I sat down by you." "But, do you let every one know this?"  "No! only those that a fellow can see knows enough to keep it still when they go out: some d-d fools would blab it." "How long have you been in here!" "Over three weeks." "What are you in here for?" ".My first lieutenant was tight one evening on drill, and I was the pivot man on the left of the platoon, and he thought I moved in wheeling, and he called me 'a d--d s-n of a b-t-h,' and I told him ' that from the looks of the puppies, his mother was the biggest dog of the two,' and he had me arrested and marched off here, and is going to have me court-martialed, so he says." "Will he do it?" "No-for his being drunk would be brought out, but he will keep me here as long'as he can; but we are going to Vera Cruz, they tell me, before long, and I will get out then." The conversation was stopped by the heavy drawing of the bars of the door {without, the turning of the large key,   and the sound of the bolt of the lock as it flew back, and as Jonas stepped out of the way the door opened a little, and in the spruce sergeant appeared, with a paper in his hand. "Sergeant George Matoon," he call- ed-" private Jimmy Brown, John Mc- Donough," &c., &c.; it was the list of the guard thus imprisoned.   Captain Sneed had sent for their release. Jonas listened for his own name, but it was nok there. * "D-n   the captain," he muttered, as Matoon passed out with the rest, throwing a malicious glance upon our Jonas; the door was again closed, locked, and bolted. Night was approaching. The soldier did not like the idea of staying there, He rapped loudly at the wicket, and of the soldier there who came to know what was wanted, he asked to see the lieuten- ant in command, and that officer, of the Baltimore battalion, (whose name the authorjvould gladly insert here as credit to his gentlemanly conduct, but uninten- tionally it was lost,) came to the wicket. Jonas requested of him a pencil and paper, and that a note he would write, might be sent to. Colonel Thomas, of the Tennessee cavalry. The lieutenant po- litely assented, handed him the pencil and paper, and on his knee the soldier wrote :  "COLONEL THOMAS t-I am here in the guard house; will you have me released? Yours, &c. "Tampico, February 27th, 1847." The note was instantly sent off by the favor of the lieutenant, and the man who carried itfor a reward in addition promised him by Jonas, met the colonel on horseback, not fifty yards from the Captain Sneed had been informed by Walton that Jonas was not arrested; consequently, his name was not on the list sent. - o oot      who, wincing a little under the previous tales that bore rather hard on him, told the author he would consent freely to their publi- cation, provided he would relate this tale, and his application to, him for release from" the guard  house, together with the circumstances that fed to" it, the author now presents his respects, and freely relates the circumstance, which among many more happened to both, as well as to all others of their' thousands of comrades in those days, when they all went " sodgering" to Mexico.     guard house, going out to camp. He spoke to him, and presented the note, and the colonel laughed, and rode in front, still holding the note, and speak- ing to the lieutenant, as the latter came out of his room adjoining, he directed Jonas's release, and remained, as the sergeant again unbolted and unlocked the door, and swung it open and called out aloud. At the sound of his name, Jonas jumped, and as the regular said, "good!--God bless you, old fellow,- don't get in here dagain," he came out into the open air. The colonel seriously inquired how he got in there. Jonas replied "that it was a longrstory."   1 Well, well," said the colonel, "come down tomorrow to my marquee, and tell me all about it. I thought," said he, as he rode off, "that perhaps you might have gone in there to take notes," and he rode away with a laugh,-but Jonas was then in no mood for laughter. He inquired of the lieutenant, and found that the three chaps whose conduct in old Tampico had led to all this trouble to him, were still confined in another room of the guard house, in which those who came in drunk were placed, and the "accommodations" of which were not equal to those of the apartment of which Jonas had been an inmate. The soldier now started for camp, for the sun was nearly down: wishing to see the captain at once. He encountered one of his com- rades, who had met the others, and they had told him of the conclusion of their time, while acting as guard, to his great merriment. He informed Jonas, that the captain had come up to town, and was writing in a room hired at a particular place near the Plaza de Arnas. Jonas immediately turned, and walked rapidly there, and soon got into another scrape, which we will relate as SCENE THE SIXTH. Sergeant Matoon had known where Captain Sneed would be, having been told by that officer as he left the camp to go to old Tampico in search for Jonas, and as he now obtained his liberty from the guard house, he hurried through the streets, fearful all the time that Jonas.   might be released before he could see the captain. He was aware that he had not been ordered to arrest the soldier, and the best way that suggested itself to his mind, fertile'in rascally schemes, was to influence the captain strongly against Jonas, before the latter could appear in person. Finding the officer at his rooms, the sergeant, hardly noticing the pres- ence of some other officers, immediately commenced a long report of his proceed- ings, part of which was true, and part false; weaving the whole together, he related the manner of his going to old Tampico, his rapid search, his finding Jonas, and in a mild manner his tell- ing the latter that the captain had been concerned about his safety, and had sent him with the guard to look after him, &c.; that Jonas in reply had " d--d the captain for an old woman, said that he was perfectly able to take care of him- self, that the captain always had a pre- judice against him on account of his po- litical tenets at home, being at variance with those held by the captain himself, and because Jonas had voted against him before the war, when the latter was a candidate for the legislature. That the captain might mind his own affairs, or go to h--11, as he chose." The ser- geant continued, "that when Jonas spoke in this contemptuous and abusive man- ner of the captain, that he, the sergeant, then told him that he would arrest him, ahd carry him back to camp. That Jo- nas then swore he would not go, and a guard of regulars coming up at that time, with whom Jonas appeared to be on very good terms, so much so, that he induced the sergeant of that stronger guard to ar- rest him, Matoon, and his whole guard, and march them as prisoners to 'their boats, leaving Jonas free as ever; that as they did this, he asked tie regular sergeant to arrest Jonas also, and the other had told him to shut his mouth or be gagged,-that in returning he told the regular that he would inform Cap- tain Sneed of the whole proceedings, and the regular replied, ' Captain Sneed be d-d, keep time there,' and ordered one of the other soldiers to prick him with the bayonet if he did not do it, and that Jonas at this remark had burst out   into a loud laugh while seeing the ser- geant and his guard thus marched off as prisoners, and that the regular ser- geant had joined in the laugh, confirm- ing the appearance of a good under- standing between him and Jonas, espe- cially at the expression,' Captain Sneed be d-d.' That Jonas had told the reg- ular that he, Matoon, and the men were some of his own company that were on- ly over there on a drunken spree, which remark caused their arrest. That Jonas had followed them, highly amused, till they were confined in the boats exposed to the hot sun, and then he had called the regular sergeant off, and they went and drank in high glee over the scrape of having Captain Sneed's guard all thus prisoners, and safely kept. That then leaving them there broiling in the sun, Jonas went off for an hour or more, act- ing the gentleman with the officers, and the alcalde. That having returned, he took more liquor, and came to the boats, and laughed at the prisoners, and by in- vitation, got in the other boat by the side of the officers, and was as large as life, and d-d Captain Sneed. That, how- ever, he and all the rest of them were put in the guard house, and there he was using the same words, and the last expression that he, Matoon, heard Jonas say when leaving the guard house was, d - n Captain Sneed." This corres- ponded in many parts with what Wal- ton had related before; as he had just arrived, anxious to get rid of that uniform, and the captain believing all of it, was, as may be supposed, furiously angry. Not so with the other officers; the tale, even as told by Matoon, was so ludi- crous, that they all roared with laugh- ter. "So," said Lieutenaht Smith, al- most stopping his breath in a pause of his laughter, " you and your guard were all arrested and brought to the guard house?" "Yes," said the sergeant, "every mother's son of us thrown in there for obeying orders." The lieutenant snort- ed again. "Where is F--r?" demanded the captain, pale with rage. "In the guard house, sir," said the sergeant, with a wink of malicious grati-   fication, at the probable successful ter- mination of his scheme. "Well, there let him remain." But Jonas was not there. Rapidly passing street after street, burning with anger, he had found the captain's quarters;-- had, in the splendid building, ascended three flights of stairs into a lofty corri- dor which, singularly enough for that country, was enclosed with glass, and then into the captain's room he walked, and popped upon them to the astonish- ment of all, and the alarm of the ser- geant, who had hoped that the guard house might retain him for a long time. The anger flashing from the captain's eyes was answered by the same from his own, while the sergeant looked blank, and the officers gazed with sur- prise on the group. For a moment not' a word was spoken, and Jonas with a rapid gesture towards the sergeant, ask, ed the captain, "did you send that con- temptible scoundrel over to arrest me?" The tone, the words, the action, struck the captain's attention, for he saw in an instant that the anger of the soldier was not directed against him, but at the ser- geant, to whose face he glanced, and the confused, guilty expression there, noticed also by the rest, prevented him from ma- king the answer that as raised to his lips. In a voice steady, but forced, he order- ed Matoon to remain where he was, and rising, came to the door, directing the soldier to come out. A rapid conversa- tion of half a dozen questions and an- swers on either side, led them both into the true light of the action of the ser- geant, who, in the mean time, hearing these, and knowing what they would in- 'evitably lead to, began in a storm of fury to swear that Jonas was a d--d rascal, and as he was saying that he ran out and struck the latter a'violent blow on the back of the head, as he was with his back to the door, facing the captain, not noticing the sergeant, for it was now near dark. The blow threw Jonas for- ward against the captain, but recovering himself in an instant, he returned it with such effect as to knock his assailant back against Lieutenant Smith, who had ran out after him. At this instant, as Jonas 'was repeating his blow, the captain     seized him, and threw him back against the glass, breaking two large panes, while the sergeant was also pulled away by the lieutenant. The noise had been loud before this, and, attracted by it, the Frenchman to whom the house be- longed,a little weazened, dried up speci- men of humanity, had cautiously crept up two flights of the stairs: but as these blows came with the corresponding loud- er noise, he ran quickly up the other stair- case with his hands above his head, and with his face the very picture of alarm, he rapidly exclaimed, I( mon dieu! mon dieu! messieurs! shentlemens! no be one fight here!" and as the broken glass came down round him as he ascended to within a few steps of the top, he danced with alarm on the stair way, with his hands higher up, his fingers wide spread, " no be one fight here, shen- tiemens." "Go back," shouted the cap- tain to him. "Shentlemens," began he again, casting a wild, and most beseech- ing look at the officer; " go back," thun- dered the captain, as he jumped to the bead of the stairway towards him, and down popped the Frenchman, running round the head of the next stairway, but returning instantly to the front of the first. "l Mon dieu! shentlemens! no be one fight here!" "Go down!" again stormed the captain, as he made another motion toward the stairway, and the lit- tle Frenchman's bald head disappeared quickly below. "Sergeant Matoon," said the captain, "go to camp immediately. F--r go in my room there: I will investigate this matter tomorrow." Jonas did not like this, and as the sergeant went off, he de- termined to get away from the captain, ad following Matoon, to catch him on the bare plain near to the camp, and to give him a thrashing. The captain, Lieutenant Smith, and Jonas went back into the room, and in answer to the ques- tions of the former, the latter told enough to excite their curiosity. "Captain, let me go now;" said Jonas. "No, no," said the captain, "you want to overtake Matoon, and have a  fight; you must stay here half an hour,"  looking at his watch, " and that will give him time to get to camp, and then you   may go-so now you might as well tell us 'all about it." Jonas related the points of the whole, of the guard, of Matoon, of his previous arrest, of the actions of Walton, of his sudden dis- appearance, &c., to their great amuse- ment. The captain said that if he had known of the hatred existing between Matoon and Jonas, he would have sent another sergeant;-- e was fully con- vinced of the culpable actions and false- hood of Matoon, but as he did not wish any more disturbance, before he would allow Jonas to depart, he extorted a promise from him that he would not speak to Matoon or trouble him in any way that evening, but go to his tent di- rectly; Jonas promised that, to'get away, and the captain wrote a permit for him to pass the line then, for it was after seven o'clock, and the sentinels had been posted for the night. Jonas was warmly greeted by his messmates, who had heard from the return guard of his safety, and shortly after he spread with themhis blanket, and lying down, en- deavored to sleep; but long after they' were asleep he was yet awake, for the various scenes of the last forty-eight hours crowded upon his mind-crossed the field of his memory like a fresh and brilliantly painted panorama to the vis- ion. Forty-eight hours before he had been sweetly sleeping where he then was, and how many incidents had transpired meanwhile. The truth of the quotation came home upon him, " we know not in the morning what the day may bring forth," but one thing lie knew, as finally he was composing himself to sleep, and that was, that in the morning Matoon would be certain " to catch it" for Ids conduct; and sure enough he did, it be- ing the first thing Jonas attended to on the next morning after drill: and although the latter was not permitted by the too quick interference of others to do the job as completely as he had intended to do, yet he did it entirely to the other's sat- isfaction, and the effect of it was to make the scamp behave himself perfectly squarely toward Jonas for. the remain- der of the campaign. To old Tampico Jonas never had the opportunity to return-a few days after   this finding him on the Gulf of Mexico in a large ship, which with another held the whole regiment, bound for Vera Cruz; but when the scenes of the bom- bardment and capture of the latter city had taken place, he received a letter from sefiora B- with relation to her business, containing, too, a message from Angelina of remembrance,-both writ- ten by the alcalde in English, who added his own, with the wish expressed, again to see the soldier at Pueblo Viejo. But the fates were against that, and Pueblo !   Iiejo, with the persons there, iever has, and probably never will be seen by him again. And now the author, on the con- clusion of this tale, lays down his pen with reluctance, as he thinks of the busy scenes inte which memory carries him back as he writes,-of the individuals here mentioned, as together never again to meet. Stirring actions, exciting dan- gers, and then most lovely and beauti- ful scenes,-for, perhaps, never shall he [ see the like again.   FIGHTING ON ONE'S OWN HOOK.   IT is not the size of the person alone that makes the efficient soldier; neither does it always happen in the field that those regiments composed, as the re- mark is, " of the finest looking men," who move " like clock work," in every drill and evolution to the spot, distin- guish themselves in action above the others; Sometimes it is the reverse of this with whole regiments, and often so with individual soldiers, who, good for nothing at drill, or in camp, or in fatigue parties, are yet the very d-v-l for fighting. Elgin A. Mullins, of company I. of the 1st Mississippi rifle regiment, was an instance of this. Mullins was a little fel- low, a very little fellow; so short was he that when he made his application at. Vicksburg for admission into the ranks of the company from Holly Springs, un- der the command of the gallant Captain J. H. Taylor, he was refused, solely on account of his diminutive stature, and perhaps the looks of his "phiz," which was by no means handsome; but the captain; seeing in it the indications of a determined spirit, and fearless disposi- tion, evaded the military retriction by receiving Mullins as a fifer, and so in that capacity he was mustered into the service;--but a fife bhad always been Mul-ins' aversion, he had never tred to blow one himself, and his limited knowl- edge of music did not enable him to dis-   tinguish one note or tune from another. However, when the instrument was han- ded over to him he made some vigorous efforts to e'xtract music of some sort from it, to the great amusement of the conm- pany; entirely failing therein, he threw it down, and applied to Captain Taylor for a rifle and accoutrements, and was accordingly furnished with one, which to load he had to place with the butt of it from him before the muzzle could' be sufficiently 'depressed to enable lirms to insert the cartridge. So Mullins went to the war, on the muster roll a fifer, but any thing but that elsewhere, for during the whole campaign he never again touched a fife, though he was ex- tremely fond of the name of a musician, and it was of much advantage to him, for being neither that, nor marshaled in the ranks, he moved in a sort of inde- pendent manner,--going and coming pretty much as he chose. A perfect stranger to fear, completely reckless of' consequences, he would go alone out of camp for beef, stroll off further, run more risks, and bring in more beef than any other -ne chose to do. Several lit-. tle skirmishes he got into with rancheros and guerrillas, but his rifle was good-- though held low, its aim was sure. At the battle of Monterey he was in his ele- ment, for rapidly back and forth behind walls, and houses, and in the open streets, amid the thunders of the battle, did "liutttl     Mullins," as he was called, coolly load, and as coolly, and every time with effect, fire upon the enemy on the house tops, and behind the barricades ;-storms of grape and canister swept continually by and around him, but touched him not. If his eye caught a good view of a Mex- ican through the smoke, that chap was sure to hear from his rifle. He noticed not what troops he was amid, for part of the time he was with his own regi- ment, then in the 1st Tennessee, and then in the 1st Ohio. The little Mis- sissippian, known by his rifle, was in all ranks occasionally, but mostly by him- self, and in the latter way was he, when after fort Tannerio was taken, the com- manding officer advanced toward Gen- eral Twiggs, drawing his sword to de- liver it, Mullins was near, covered with sweat, and blackened by the smoke of gunpowder, he was resting, breathing hard with his previous exertions. In no manner had the conflict slackened in front, or on the right of them as they thus stood-the cannon shot and shells from the other forts were turned upon the captured, and were striking around, while the discharges'of small arms were incessant. A dim, blue, hazy smoke hung above the captured fortress, in, and before which, so many lay dead, dying, or freely bleeding. Mullins cast- ing his eye toward the officer as he was thus drawing his sword, thought that he was about to attack General Twiggs, and without the least reflection, leveling his rifle, at the instantaneous crack, down dropped the Mexican with the sword in his hand. Twiggs was fu- rious, and forgetting his station, he ran toward the little fifer with his drawn sword lifted, and anger flashing from his eyes, looking more enraged on account of his having white mustachios, and Mul- lins, on his approach, for the first time, "turned tail," and ran as fast as his duck legs could carry him, looking behind him, and up to the sword gleaming over the head of the infuriated general, who had overtaken him with the same ratio of speed, that a war horse would run down a pony-the blow descending on the lit- tle fifer's head was, however, diverted by the second thought of the general, to.   a severe slap with the broad side, instead of the edge, across the shoulders of the culprit, followed by others with, all the force of the general's brawny arm, ac- companied by a storm of curses at "the little rascal," who danced around, more concerned, however, at having the gen- eral thus upon him, than at the blows. This castigation, which was given di- rectly under the full fire of fort Diablo, was only stopped by the running up of the other officers of Twiggs' staff, who interfered, and the little fifer cleared out; the general composing himself, returned. The Mexican was dead, and, the only ef- fect on the other Mexican officers was a quiet smile at seeing. el general Ameri- cano running so furiously after his little soldier. They were conducted off, and in' less than ten minutes Mullins was with some scattered men of the Baltimore bat- talion ;-he fought the whole time, and though so exposed, came out without a mark, save the one left by the sword of General Twiggs. At Buena Vista. Mullins was present. When the regiment marched from Sal- tillo in the morning for the field, and the sudden peals of cannon reverberating along the' mountains informed them that the bloody conflict was already com- menced, the march was hastened, and in the quickest step they hastened along. Mullins' legs were worked to great dis- advantage in conveying their owner fast enough, loaded as he was with the rifle, and full supplies of ammunition, togeth- er with his knapsack. He puffed and blowed, trotted and walked by turns, as eager as any; he was fretted and angry because he could not keep up. He swore he would have a horse before night, that he would fight like a gentleman, and so grumbling, cursing, trotting and puff- ing, the little fifer kept in the rear of his company. As the regiment arrived at the battle field, it went immediately into action, advancing against the heavy body of the Mexican army which had driven in the left of the American line. Mullins, as the regiment halted, and formed in line of battle, forgot his short legs, and delivered his fire for several successive volleys with effect. The regiment, how-   ever, were, obliged to fall back, and then were charged upon by a body of Mexi- can lancers, who were repulsed by the rifle balls alone, which emptied the sad- dles of many, and the loose horses boun- ded in terror over the field. Again did the little fifer long for a horse as he saw these thus loose, but there was no time then to endeavor to get'one. United with the 3d Indianians, the regiment again successfully withstood a heavy attack of the Mexican column, and Mullins' rifle rang clear as any at their approach; but a lull in the storm of battle took place by the appearance of a flag of truce from the Mexican general. During the tem- porary cessation of the firing, the wearied soldiers threw themselves on the ground and endeavored to assuage the suffer- ings of their mangled companions. A Mexican horse richly caparisoned, came bounding over the field. Upon seeing him, the fifer, unable to resist the temp- tation, started after him, and getting near to him, attracted his attention by his soothing voice. The horse .stopped, turned rouxid, threw higher his head, and examined Mullins as he silently ap- proached,' but not satisfied with his ap- pearance, the animal turned with a loud snort, and' rapidly ran off farther, and toward the Mexicans who were at the foot of the mountain. Within the reach of their fire did Mullins pursue, unmind- ful of them, and as much engaged, in these terrible moments of suspense to thousands, in endeavoring to catch the horse, as though he and the animal were in a quiet pasture at home. No thought of the instantaneous renewal of the bat- tle crossed his mind. Luckily for him, the horse starting onward again, ran around over the scene of the late con- flict down between the stations of the American troops, becoming more gentle towards his pursuer, and soothed by the latter's continual coaxing as he came near, the horse finally stopped in a ra- vine, and allowed Mullins to secure him. Once mounted, he found two fine pistols in the holsters, both loaded; exulting in his prize, he came up out of the ravine, looking for his regiment, but the battle had recommenced in all its fury, - far over the plain and the mountains on   ' either hand his vision extended, the former here and there was obscured by clouds of rising dust and smoke; to his left was a long and imposing body of Mexican cavalry, already on the move; 'to his right, as he faced the gorge, or pass, where the heat of the fight was going on, was the hacienda of Buena Vista, and between him and that was a small body of American cavalry. His own regiment having shifted its position, he could not see, and toward this body of Arkansas cavalry he rode, was welcomed by them, and joined in the ranks, though he had but his rifle and pistols. The Mexican cavalry making a circuit, came down on the hacienda of Buena Vista like an avalanche. Nobly did the little band under Col. Yell meet the shock, and although the column in its impetu- osity forced these out of the way, and destroyed the gallant leader with many of his men, yet ;the destruction in their own ranks, forced the column after much loss, to divide-part to retreat, and part 'to continue on towards the mountain; upon those thus retreating the fire of the scattered bodies of Americans rapidly recruiting, was incessant, while the cav- alry pursued, using their sabers with ef- fect. With these our little fifer and his charger rapidly rode, but his long rifle was empty, nor could he there load it, his pistols were also discharged, and he was not skillful enough in cavalry exercises to ,e able then to reload them. It was more than he could. do to hold his rifle and re- strain his fiery horse. So on after the retreating column Mullins sped like the wind; the foremost rank of the pursuers was gained, and Mullins was in the "me- lee," but wholly inefficient where the blow of the saber was parried by the lance, and steel clashed with steel. "Hold on, Mississippian, you will be killed," shouted an officer of May's dra- goons, as Mullins was passing him,-both going at the top of their speed. "G-d, I can't do it," was the reply, as Mullins dashed ahead, tugging with all his might at the reins, but the furious horse recog- nizing his companions, ran after them re- gardless of restraint, and singling out one that was rode by a Mexican sergeant, pursued him with all the vigor with which     his powerful limbs were endowed. The sergeant thus so rapidly pursued, though well armed, turned and doubled as he sped over the plain, but the horse of the fifer turned and doubled as the other did, and gained upon him at every leap;- Mullins now was rather anxious to be on foot again. He would not have cared, but been highly gratified, had he only a loaded pistol, a rifle, or a bayonet,- but as he rapidly neared, in spite of himself, the long keen lance that glis- tened in his vision, he felt it in ima- gination, already insinuating its cold surface through his liver, and again he ,gave a desperate pull at the reins, but the horse with a higher bound than be- fore, still kept on. The Mexican plunged his long spurs in the side of his animal. With the swiftness of the wind, and far away from either of the contending ar- mies, did the two speed on in their singu- lar race. Nearer and nearer yet came Mullins to the dreaded lance, and again did he throw his strength'on the reins, but to no purpose, and as bound after bound brought the head of his horse up near to the quarter of the other, the Mexican glancing behind for an instant, lowered his formidable weapon, as Mul- lins thought, to transfix him with its sharp point, and a most vigorous jerk on one rein did he give the steed to pull him off from the other, but the advantage thus for an instant gained, was lost by the .next bound bringing him full along side of his antagonist. The Mexican, frightl ened nearly out of his yits, raised his lance quickly, and handed it over to the other, as checking his horse, Mullins also slackened his speed, as his rider eagerly clutched the lance so unexpectedly pre- sented to him, and after a few short bounds the two stopped. Our little fifer, out of breath with his race, demanded in -broken Spanish the name of the other, "Francisco Alvases, selor," said the   sergeant, who in turn then asked tie name of his captor---" my name is fifer Mullins, of Captain Taylor's company of the 1st Mississippi rifle regiment, at your service," pompously replied Mullins,y-- "no entienda Engles," (I don't under- stand English,) said the other, wagging his head. "Well, come along then," said Mullins, "you can understand this," as he caught the other's horse by the reins, and his own then satisfied, willing to walk, he led the prisoner triumphantly back to Colonel May, to whom he deliv- ered him, and when complimented by that officer amid the smiles of all in the ranks, who having discontinued the pur. suit, had' seen the race, and were now for a few moments at rest, replied that he was only anxious the prisoner should know by whom he had been captured, "for," said he, "colonel, the d-d Mex- ican don't understand me." One of the men in the rank who spoke Spanish was called out by the colonel, who was amuw sed at the eagerness of the little Missis- sippian. To him the fifer spoke,-"Tell him," pointing to the prisoner,--( that my name is fifer Mullins, of Captain Taylor's company, 1st regiment of Mis- sissippi rifles," said the fifer with an air of much importance. This was transla- ted to the prisoner, who acknowledged it by a polite bow. The fifer rode off satisfied, and the prisoner was sent to the rear. Mullins, however, had enough of fighting on horseback for that time, and getting to the hacienda he secured his horse, and on foot fought the remain- der othe day, art of the time with the 2d Kentucky infantry, part by himself, until neathe close of the action, he again joined his own company, swearing by G-d, this thing of fighting on horde- back, and loading one's gun going at full speed among the enemy, was not the thing it was ' cracked up to he.' M      
         
      
   
