
    ----CITATION----
        Anonymous. Julia Tremaine .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6990
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Julia Tremaine 
            
                  JULIA TREMAINE;  OR,  A TALE FOR ALL TIME. Philadelphia: PUBLISHED BY WHLT AND YOST, ROORKINDERS AND PUBLISHERS, 809 MARKET STREET, 1855,   Entered, according, to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, BY WIIILT & YOST, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Eastern District of  Pennsylvania.   PREFACE, TO THE READE t THE publishers in presenting the follow- ing tale to an American public, feel no hesi- tation in pronouncing it one of the most in- teresting, refined, and beautiful stories yet offered for their perusal. The style is pure and simple, abounding in deep and thrilling interest from the first to the last page. In every day life we have frequently ob- served parallel cases to those drawn in Julia Tremaine. The deserted wife with her help- less babe, forsaken and forgotten by her un- worthy spouse, with tears will answer how   iv       PI1EFACE. near her case approaches to the sorrowful Julia. The profligate and extravagant, disregard- ing all the better feelings of humanity, lured on iby ambition to the attainment of unhal- lowed ends, will answer how near the picture drawn by Lady Maria approaches her case. This is no overdrawn, exaggerated tale of human life. That there does exist in society, these forsaken wives, and unprincipled wo- men, festering the good intentions of honest persons, is beyond all dolubt. This then will hold up to them a mirror, in which they may see a "counterfeit pre- sentment" of themselves, the sequel proving that virtue and honesty of purpose must and will triumph over all the fiendish intrigues and plots tlhat can be concocted to achieve their overthrow. WHLT & YOST. Phila, I Marclh 25t11 J5,   CONTENTS. CHAPTER I. Introduction to the Earl De Moreton-Julia's first love- flenry Beaufort spurned-Julia's grief-Sir John Hamil- ton's rage.                   13 CHAPTER II. The return of Elizabeth Hamilton-Sir John Hamilton gives to Beaufort a commission for the West Indies to insure r his separation from Julia-The return of Beaufort-Julia amid all her griefs refuses to disobey her father-Beaufort's expostulation-Julia's decision-The sorrowful parting of two who were never to meet again on earth -  19 CHAPTER III. Marriage of Elizabeth Hamilton-Julia's first meeting with Lord De Moreton-Lord De Moreton received by Sir John Hamilton as the accepted suitor of Julia-Her marriage- Her declining health and untimely death. -  26 1*   yi         CONTE;NTS. CilAlT'EiR IV. Funeral rites paid t to te lamented Julia-Earl De Moreton's grief--Elizabetlh the sister of Julia, gives birth to a daugh- ter whom she names after her departed sister, anld who is destined to pass thirough many griefs and sorrows. 32 C H APTER V. Earl De oMoreton thinks of sending Harcourt to Eton-Julia's protestations-Lord De Moreton and Lord Arundel desire to see their families more closely united by the marriage ot Julia and Ilalcourt--The grief of Julia and Louisa at the (tepartpl c of Npw)bourg and Hlircourt for Eton. 35 CH'AP IERI VI. Trremaine meets for the first time Lady Maria Priam--He falls a victim to her fascinations--lrolongs his stay from homne--Louisa and Julia presented to royalty, and their triuimph-L-ord Newlboulrg arrives at home-Lord De More- ton questions him in regard to the absence of Tremaine- Learnl the reasonl. atn immeliately departs for Oxford- sit.  -     -   -  .. .-      40 ('Al . PTEl t -IT, The deep game played by the Aslton family to entrap Tre- maine-The arrival of the Earl De Moreton---inds his son and Ladly Priam together-His indignation-Maria's rage at the departure of Tremaine-Her determination to follow him. should his absence be prolonged. 5   (CONTENTS ,        Vii CHAPTER VII1. Lord De Moreton's decision, should Treriaine adhere to his purpose of wedding Maria-Their arrival at home--The meeting of Julia and Tremaine-His astonishment at the change in the person of Julia-The ball at Lady Arundel's -Lord Buccleugh and Julia-His offer and her decision- Tremaine's feelings turned to pity for Maria-His animated praises of her not liked by Earl De Moreton.  60 CHAPTER IX.. Preparations for the double wedding-Lord Buccleugh re- ceives the Earl's answer to his offer for Julia's hand-Earl De Moreton's letter to Lady Maria-Her rage at receiving it-Tremaine's commiseration for Maria.     73 CHAPTER X. Wedding day-Julials happiness-Lord De Moreton's present -The departure of the bride and groom for Hampshire- Tremaine's efforts to gratify every wish of Julia's heart- He desires to keep concealed from her his previous at- tachment for Maria-Return to London-Lady Maria in London-Her letter to Tremaine-A dark cloud com- mences to darken the future path-way of Maria, 78 CHAPTER XI. Tremaine reading to Julia when Maria's note was delivered to him--Trernaine leaves the room-Julia's curiosity to see the contents of the unopened letter-Tremaine'sre-   v'iii        ONTENTS. turn-Is tlhlnderstlruck at ttle contenls ,ofi the note-The great change in his person-The evening spent at Lord Newbourg's-Tremaine r   vsolves to leave the note of Maria unnoticed.      -      -   88 C(1A PITER XII. The ball at Lady Buccleugls-The meeting of Tremaine and Lady Maria-Her artifices used to deceive Tremaine -Tries to monopolize his society-Seeks to plant the seeds of jealousy in the bosom of Julia-Julia's sleepless night --Maria's exultations--Her plans to overthrow the happi- ness of Julia.    -   -   .      9(; CIIAPTIER XIII. Tremaine not so devoted to Julia since the ball-She breaks the seal of a letter (througth mistake) addressed to Tre- maine from Maria-Her consternation at its contents-The indifibrence of Tremaine-Thc tears and silent sorrow of Julia-Tremaine's visit to Maria--The arrival of Lord De Moreton--He surmises the cause of Tremaine's absence -Proposes a trip to 'aris, to defeat the plans of Maria- Tremaine finally yields to their united wishes. 107 CIAPTER XIV. Tlremaine hesitates to break the tidings of his departure to Maria-Her efforts to retain him-His hopes of a final separation-The departure of Julia and Tremaine-Julia's spirits somewhat revived--ler journey's end-Tremaine's   CONTNTS.          - ix unceasing attentions to Julia-In their evening's ride are astonished at passing the vehicle of Lady Maria-Tre- maine's agitation-Lady Buccleugh's invitation for Julia and Tremaine to meet Lady Maria-His confusion and re- luctant consent extorted. -   -      120 CHAPTER XV. Tremaine's dejection-His absence from home prolonged to an unjustifiable length-The proposition to return to LougK Abbey-Tears-A message from Lady Ashton-The walk -Tremaine's intention to dine with Lady Ashton-The wavering vacillating disposition of Tremaine-Again in- volved in the arts of Maria-Her triumphs-Julia's tears. 132 CHAPTER XVI. Tremainestill absent-Despair-Tremaine's letter-The birth of her infant-Arrival of Augusta Dornton-The return of Tremaine-Self-condemned, needing no accuser-Again unceasing in his attentions to Julia-Julia's Triumph- Maria's manocuvre-The Italian beau. -    147 CHAPTER XVII. Julia returns to Villa Blanche without Tremaine-A night of sorrow--A tear-Relenting--The challenge-The pertur- bation of Tremaine-His night of agony-The duel-A false i;eport-The author conducts Julia to Tremaine-Finds Maria and Tremaine about to enter a vehicle-Leans faint- ing against the mansion-Observed by Lord Buccleugh-   4          OtN I J C TENTS.. Takes her in an insensible condition to his residence- Maria endeavours to poison tilc mind of Tremaine-Over- rules all objections and detains him still longer with her. 160 CHAPTER XVIII. Julia at home-Return of Treinaine-Previous remarks of Maria taking effect upon the mind of Tremaine-Tre- maine's embarrassment at the recital of Julia's story-A day of joy-Tremaine still under the influence of Maria- Another letter from Maria-Tremaine arrives at Lady Ash. ton's residence-The debt-The means to discharge it- Tremaine's inability-The jewels-An angel on earth- laria's exultation on seeing the jewels-Gets possession of them.             -   -   374 CHAPTER XIX. The arrival of Lord Ashton and Maria--Thre invitation- Lord Ashton's3 boldness-Want of refinement-The enter- tainment-Julia perceives her jewels upon the person of Lady IMaria--Il r amazement-Julia's indisposition-The return home-Lord Ashton dines with Lord and Lady Tre- mlaine-The hunting excursion-Tremaine again absent -.The intrigues of Maria successful.      193 ('IA'1-i'lt, XX, 'The arrival ot Aug'u sta-The way she was won-The friends about to leave France-The delay-Thme absence of Tre- maine still continues-Friends depart-Sadness and soli- tudIe.  .    . ..r           207   CONTENTSo        .  CHAPTER XXI. Julia alone-Appearance of Lord Ashton-His base propo- sals -Julia's indignation-The further success of Maria's schemes-Further evidence that all were made to mourn -The death of Julia's infant-The last of earth. 219 CHAPTER XXII. Arrival of Lord De Moreton-Julia returns to her family with Lord De Moreton-Julia's sickness-At home again- Julia is not permitted to retain any thing which may re- mind her of the past-The jewels returned-Tremaine and Maria at Villa Blanche-De Moreton's narration-Julia's calmness and her reflections.       -  228 CHAPTER XXIIL Tremaine's sickness-His return to Villa Blanche-The re- lapse-Maria's unwearied attentions-The settlement of 2000 per annum-Fiendish conduct of Maria-Tremaine again got possession of the jewels-Maria's letter. 247 CHAPTER XXIV. Tremaine for the first time sees through the machinations of Maria-His return home-His search for Maria-A for- mer letter of Maria's again protrudes itself upon Tremaine -Disappointments.         -      260   il         CtjONTENT K. C HAPT'ER XXV. Tremaine near Julia-Hears her name-Recognises the voice -The past forgotten-Arrival of De Moreton-Astonish- ment and repentance-The follies of the past forgiven- 71 Happy denouement.  -  -           1 ClHA PTER XXVI. Sir John Hanmilton--Henry Beaufort-a vessel wrecked-- I stlIlr Malas.      -          .280 CtAPTER XXVII. Lady Maria Priam-- 1 er Italian beau-More flirting-Maria's Death--The death of Lady Ashton-The bappy finale. 293   JULIA TREMAINNE, ETC. CHAPT ER I. "I was born so high, Our aery builceth in the cedar top, And dallies with the wind, and scorns the sun." SHAKSPEARE. "'-ARCOURT!" exclaimed Earl De- Moreton to his son, who, a boy of thirteen, was playing on the lawn with his sister and cousin; "Ilarcourt! you spend too much time in frivolity; you ought to think of something beside amusing two such children as Louisa and Julia! You must Jprepare yourself for Eton, sir, whither I intend to send you, next week. Your cousin Edward will ac- company you; and, I hope, while there, your con- 'duct will be such as to deserve the approbation of your father." 2   "      JULIA TREMAINE: Harcourt could only venture a hope that all might be as his father desired; and, as soon as per- mitted, flew with the half joyful, half painful intel- ligence of a destination for Eton to the duo who, to resume their sports, anxiously awaited his return. And, leaving the young group to their occupation, I will introduce their respective families to the notice of my reader, Lord De Moreton was descended from ancient and honourable ancestors, and pride, his lordship's ruling passion, was an hereditary feeling; for it was his boast that plebeian blood had never flowed in the veins of any one who had borne the title of De Aoreton. His lordship married, in early life, Sir John Ha- milton's daughter and co-heiress, a beautiful and auliable lady, and whoin De Ioreton first beheld at a ball, given by her father, in honour of her sister's marriage with the Earl of Arundel. Yet not alone the beauty of Julia lHamilton fascinated the senses of the young nobleman: her gentle disposition and unassuming and unaffected manners won his affec- tion. Poor Julia! the oae hm  she received, whilst it was highly gratifying to her relative, only tended to wound still deeper her already lacerated heart.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   15 Love for her cousin pervaded her bosom with un- bounded, hopeless sway; and, though Henry Beau- fort cherished corresponding sentiments, the pe- remptory will of a father interrupted the course of affection, and forbade his daring to aspire to her hand. Henry Beaufort, when he had scarcely attained his seventh year, was left to the care of his uncle by a poor and widowed sister; and Julia, three years younger than Henry, at the period of his admission a portionless orphan into the magnificent residence of Sir John Hamilton, was one year the junior of her sister Elizabeth; and, as was obvious to all, was, at this early age, a favourite with Henry. Reared together, the loves of the two cousins :'grew with their growth, and strengthened with their strength," and when, six months prior to Julia's introduction to Lord de Moreton, Henry returned from college, and had the temerity to represent his love for Julia to Sir John Hamilton, he never doubted, from the kindness the baronet had shown him, as well as from his extreme affection for his daughter, that he would be induced to study her happiness rather than her aggrandizement. Alas! poor Henry was doomed to disappointment; for no sooner was Sir John informed of his nephew's   16      JULIA TREMAINE; hopes, than, with a frown, commanding Henry from his presence, he hastened to his daughter's apart- ment, and, upbraiding her vellemently for meanness and breach of duty, vowed, that if, by word or look, she gave farther encouragement to his presumptu- ous nephew-the boy whom he had just spurned from his feet-that hour should witness Henry's departure from his native land. Julia silently and sorrowfully listened to the cruel and peremptory mandate--and Sir John added- "Dare to encourage his addresses, and, by heaven, I swear ..  ;Oh, my father!" hastily exclaimed Julia, "if I have erred, pardon me; and, in pity, extend your forgiveness to Henry, and I will not oppose your wishes." Sir John passionately returned, that his daughter knew the terms of his forgiveness. "Oh! do not act precipitately!" continued Julia; "remember he is the son of your sister, the child of your bounty and love." "Yes," replied Sir John, in a tone that exhibited but little hope, "and he has rewarded me for my love and care of him, by meanly, clandestinely en- gaging my daughter's affection."   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   17 "Do not say clandestinely, my father-believe me, it is no new passion that inspired us; we have long loved; we shall ever love." -"(Girl! you will drive me frantic, if longer I hearken to your folly, to your madness-but, re- member, Julia! added Sir John, somewhat softened at the presence of her grief, "that Henry is restored to my favour by your subduing this long-tried love, or folly-any term most consonant to your wishes. I will now leave you to reflect on the welfare or ruin of your lover." As these words were uttered, the baronet left the room, leaving Julia a prey to the most poignant anguish-for, to resign her cousin, and his long- tried affection, she knew would be to seek death. Yet how act so weakly or ungenerously as to ruin his future prospects, by continuing to oppose the will of her father? "I will subdue this long-tried love," she ex- claimed, bursting into a fresh agony of tears, and half repeating her father's words, "and' restore Henry to the regard and confidence of his only pro- tector!" Julia, relieved, after having thus severely noted the truth of her affection, inwardly ejaculated-"If I cannot be happy myself, let me be the means of 2*   1 8      JULTA TREMAINE; renderingo others happy-for my father will derive satisfaction, and Henry will not condemn an adhe- rence to duty." lBut Julia's heart whispered that were their situa- tions reversed, Henry the wealthy heir, and she the poor dependant, that her cousin would never resign her love; and a reflection arose, that lhe would de- spise her for her easily broken faith. Strange! Julia had now touched a chord that would not bear vibration! and she wept long and bitterly at the bare possibility of being the object of contempt to the only being whose good opinion was conducive to her happiness. "Ah, that Elizabeth were here!" she cried aloud, --referring to her sister, who was then visiting a relation-"hIer affection and judgment would strengthen my waywald mind." Tr'li painful reverie, however, was interrupted by an attendant informing her that dinner was on tlhe table. And grief causing temporary indisposi- tion, and parental will threatening a cousin's silent presence, Julia desired her excuses to Sir John  Hamilton, and sought the repose that reluctantly waited on her agitated frame.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.    19 C HAPTER II. "Rather a thdusand times to part, than die; Yet now farewell, and farewell, life, to thee!' SIIAKSPEARE. WHEN Julia awoke in the morning, her sister, who had returned unexpectedly, was seated by the bedside-watching her with patient affection; and the sisters soon tenderly embracing, Julia, with surprise mingled with pleasure, inquired to what she was to attribute the unexpected delight of see- ing her sister. "'Oh! to chance and change," Elizabeth blush- ingly answered. "I was tired of Aunt Bridget, and longed to see you and papa; and, if I must con- fess," she added-again blushing, and laughing- "in my absence, poor Arundel has been very me- lancholy-at least, his letters are sad-and, wishing to assure myself of the truth, I yesterday morning bade my aunt a hasty adieu,'and departed, without apprizing papa or yourself of my intention, feeling my presence would be more acceptable than aletter.   20       JUITA TREITAINE;  But, dearest Julia, how ill you look!" continued Elizabeth, as with pain she observed the change in  her sister's countenance; " every particle of colour has deserted your cheeks and lips!" , Julia admitted ill health, and hinted that she wished to communicate much, though little that would give satisfaction: and was nigh commencing, when Sir John's voice, summoning his daughters to breakfast, precluded farther conversation. And soon, the sisters, presiding at the breakfast-table, found that, though their cousin's place was vacant, no reference was made by Sir John to an unusual chainge. Elizabeth, however, more than once inquired for Henry: but, as she remained unanswered, Julia's heart saddened at the reflection that the love of her cousin migiht already have rendered him a wanderer. Elizabeth IHamilton was beautiful in person, and joyous in disposition, and those who had once seen lher countenance radiant with smiles, never would have thought a tear could dim the lustre of her eye. Her heart, however, was the seat of sensi- bility, and her ear was as ready to listen to a tale of distress, as her purse was open to relieve. At this period, she was on the eve of marriage with the Earl of Arundel-a nobleman of high reputation, who possessed the first place in her   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   21 heart, and who ardently loved in turn: and though aware of her sister's unfortunate attachment to her cousin, her intercession with her father to forget Henry's want of fortune had been in vain. Sir John Hamilton, although a kind father in the ordinary acceptance of the word, preferred for his daughters a noble to a halpy marriage; and fortu- nately Elizabeth had placed her affections on the man chosen by her father for her husband, and Sir John anticipated the solemnization of the nuptials with the most unqualified gratification. But Julia's choice was a shock to her parent's pride, and Sir John determined, even if the con- sequences resulted in the death of his daughter, never to consent to a union opposed to his ambi- tion-and well knowing Julia's nature to be dutiful, he felt that she would not wed even the man she adored, were her father's approbation to be with- held; consequently, Sir John anticipated :that Julia would move in a high sphere of society. Sir John wisely considered, that, although he might trust Julia, yet, to retain Henry an inmate of his house was not only dangerous, but exposing his daughter and nephew to trials-especially as Henry had declared to him, that, unless forbidden by Julia, he would never forego the hopes origi- nating in former, happier days.   22       JULIA TREMAINE; Henry had long importuned for a commission, which Sir John had, from time to time, delayed; but Sir John was now resolved no longer tc delay the fulfilment of a promise that would hasten the departure of his nephew. Accordingly, a few mornings after the preceding events, sending for Henry, he presented to him a commission, with an immediate order to join his regiment-at the same time expressing a hope, that the gift of the commission was satisfactory. FlInry, politely, but coldly, expressed his thanks, for his heart told him there was resolved a plan of separation from all that was dear to them; and, on quitting the presence of Sir John, rushed into the garden in search of Julia, but found, to his mortifi- cation, that she had departed some hours before, with Elizabeth, to visit a dying relative from whom there were considerable expectations. Grieved at the chance of events, he entered a post chaise his uncle had prepared for him, and, witlout bidding one adieu, left Hamilton Lodge for London, where he had been scarcely a month, when his regiment was ordered to the West Indies. His misery was now at its climax; he resolved to see Julia for the last time, to entreat her to become his, despite of the cruelty and injustice of her pa-   OR, A FATHER S WISH, ETC.   23 rent, and if she refused, to exact a promise that none should possess her hand but himself; and, within an hour after a resolution, was on the road to Hampshire, and, in a few hours, was in the pre- sence of Julia. At the sudden appearance of her cousin, Julia fainted, but her lover's impassioned accents soon restored her fleeting spirits, and, with the aid of Elizabeth, Henry was enabled to speak of his ap- proaching departure from England-and Julia, as might be expected from her character, (hearing the unexpected iftelligence with silent grief,) could not be tempted to swerve from principles of duty by the numerous eloquent persuasions of her sister and cousin. "No, Henry! no, my sister!" she exclaimed ;" amid my sufferings, let me, at least, enjoy the approval of conscience. If I am to sink an early victim to the grave, let me die with the blessing, not the curse of a father." "I will see my uncle,' Henry answered, " and he will not, he cannot be inexorable to my prayers -for the happiness of his daughter and nephew is risked.7 Sir John being absent in the neighbourhood, Henry, with impatience, waited his return, and no   24       JULIA TBEMAINE; sooner was the baronet returned than the unhappy young man again threw himself at the feet of Julia, entreating to be allowed to think of her as his fu- ture wife; and passionately said, however distant might be a period of union, if a required assurance were given, he would be satisfied, nay, happy, in leaving the country. Bult Sir John would give the unhappy lover no assurance, and sternly said that if his nephew had been intended for Julia's husband, a degradation need not be deferred. A last interview with Julia was allowed the agonized Henry, on condition that Sir John should be a witness-and it was a trying moment for the wretched girl! On the verge of bidding farewell to a beloved being with whom she might be con- versing for the last time, and to whom, though the companion of her childhood, and the cherished friend of her riper years, it was disallowed to give one word of consolation or hope to cheer him on his voyage. The kind-hearted Elizabeth, with emotion nearly equal to the grief of her sister, limited the misery of parting by whispering to Henry that Julia was unequal to the aggravated agony of repeated fare- wells; but when the lovers, with a last adieu really   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   25 hanging on their lips, threw themselves into each other's arms, even Sir John turned aside to conceal a tear at the misery he was causing two beings whom nature had empowered him to protect and unite. But time was hastening, and, as Henry rushed from the room, Julia sunk into the extended arms of the weeping Elizabeth, remaining for some time in a state of insensibility, and recovering only to lapse into an illness that for many weeks confined her to her chamber. But the period fixed for Elizabeth's nuptials was approaching, and Julia endeavoured to exert her- self, and to support, however difficult, an appear- ance of cheerfulness-though too often a sigh would escape at the contrast of the happiness of her sister with her own blighted prospects. Meanwhile, Henry had sailed with his regiment, and had failed in several attempts to see Julia, who, patiently submitting to her fate, would not deviate from a resolution not to encourage the hopes of her cousin. 3   26       JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER III. i' "Suoow breaks seasons and reposing hours, Mak1ce the night morning, and the noontid(e night." SHAKSPEAB E AT length the auspicious morn arrived when the hlappy Arundel was to receive the blooming Eliza- beth from the hand of her father. Julia presided as bridesmaid, and, after the mar- riage ceremony, as she embraced her sister whom she hailed as Countess of Arunclel, a tear of delight glistened in her clear brown eye at the prospect of her beloved Elizabeth's felicity. The bride and bridegroom were to depart for a cottage on the estate of Sir John Hamilton, whence, after remaining a fortnight, they were to be accom- panied by Julia to Arundel Castle; but Sir John, who spared nothing on a gratifying occasion, en- treated, that immediately after the honeymoon, the bride and bridegroom would return to Iamilton Loder, where a suitable fete should be prepared. And, it was in the course of succeeding weeks,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   27 at a ball given in honour of the marriage, that Julia first beheld Lord De Moreton, who was not slow in convincing her of the admiration with which she had inspired him, and who, on making overtures to Sir John, was joyfully received by the baronet as the future husband of his daughter, whilst poor Julia was commanded thenceforth to receive Lord De Moreton with respect and affection-her expos- tulations with her father on his injustice, and with Lord De Moreton on his compulsory suit, being utterly vain. Only inform Lord De Moreton of my regard for I Henry '! she falteringly exclaimed, "and if, with a knowledge of my sentiments, he consents to make me his wife, I will not hesitate; for, hereafter I cannot be upbraided for having deceived him." But Sir John protested that he would not per- mit an act of absurdity that might expose Julia to considerable suspicions, were his lordship, with the knowledge of a previous attachment, to marry her -and being inexorable, it was begged only that his daughter might recover the health and spirits which had entirely deserted her-and, as he had no reasonable objection to offer to a last request, and, indeed, had no desire to hurry the marriage, feeling that, in obtaining Julia's consent to a   28      JULIA TREMAINE; union with Do Moreton, the remaining wish of his life was obtained, he now trusted in his daughter's obedience and affection. Lord De Moreton was, therefore, the accepted suitor of Julia, and, six months after Henry Beau- fort's farewell to his native country, became her husband-and, Julia ready to fulfil new duties, and, finding in Lord De Moreton a most affectionate husband, found that her position was not so diffi- cult as had been anticipated-whilst within twelve montlhs after the marriage, a guarantee was pro- vided in the birth of a son and heir, and, in the caresses of her infant treasure, Lady De Moreton found that the world had yet charms for her. Also, about the same time, Elizabeth presented her husband with a fine boy; and, for some time, was rich in the promise of the future, till within two years her domestic happiness was allayed by the declining health of Lady De Moreton, again likely to become a mother. The hectic flush on the cheek of Julia too plainly bespoke consumption, whilst the dazzling lustre of her beautiful eyes pronounced too fatally that she was gradually sinking, an early victim, to the grave. "Oh, Elizabeth V" she would say, when conversing with Lady Arundel, " if my child should survive   OR9 A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   29 its mother, watch over it with maternal care; for though amiable and affectionate in nature, Lord De Moreton would not be able to give those early es-, sential lessons of peace which, perhaps, only a female can impart; and, if my unborn babe should be a girl, take her entirely under your protection- there could nothe abetter monitress than yourself." Elizabeth promised all and more than was re- quired by Julia, yet not half the kind acts she in- tended to perform, if her sister was really snatched from her; but as she beheld the bloom on the beau- tiful cheeks of Julia her sanguine disposition con- sidered it improbable that Julia should die. "Dearest sister!" she would say, "you will soon recover: believe me, it is many months since you possessed this bloom of health; you are certainly thin, but I feel assured that the spring months will re-establish your health." Julia shook her head, but would not unnecessa- rily inflict pain. As spring advanced, Lord De Moreton was nearly distracted to behold Julia like a drooping lily, unable to support her faded form; he was dissuaded : by physicians from removing her to a warmer cli- ; mate till after her accouchement: and when, at the 3*   30       JULIA TREMAINE; dreaded time, birth was given to a daughter, Julia's pure spirit fled to the regions of immortality. Neitler force nor persuasion would turn the af- flicted Do Moreton from the remains of his angelic Julia, and it was only in his past uniform kindness towards his deceased wife thlat he could derive any degree of consolation. Sir John Hamilton was present at his daughter's demise, and most keenly felt that it was his cruelty which had broughlt her prematurely to the grave. Lord Arundel was the only one capable of di- recting the obsequies of his lamented relative. The children were sent to Arundel Castle, a residence witlhin a drive of De Moreton priory; but little Harcourt, just now three years of age, would insist upon seeing mamma; and, when taken to the bed where the corpse of his mother was lying, repeated, "Mamma sleeps Harcourt will wake her to kiss him before he goes to play with cousin Ed- ward." But the child being' told his mother would not awake-that he must kiss her while she slept, put his little arms around the neck of his inanimate parent, and after kissing her several times, said, turning to the Earl, who was mournfully observing   OR, A PATHER'S WISH, ETC.    31 him--"Poor mamma very cold! Papa, kiss and warm her!"' De Moreton, snatching the child to his bosom, rushed from the room; and, after putting him into the carriage that waited to convey him to his uncle, locked himself in his chamber, there to weep over the loss, the irreparable loss he had sustained in the wife of his bosom, and the mother of his help- less babes. "To memory doubly dear; thus alone, Can I partahke of happiness on earth!" C              W   932      JUITA Tl EM A IN ; CHAPTER    IV. "Henrce let me haste into the mlidwood shade, Where scarce a sun-beam wanders thro' the gloom." SHAKSPEARE. WHEN the last sad duties were paid to the la- imented Julia, the mourning widower prepared to depart for the Continent, to endeavour, in absence from all that reminded him of lost happiness, to remember that he still possessed blessings in his offspring to attach him to life. Harcourt was the idol on whom the Earl had centred his hopes; the poor infant, whose birth had proved so fatal to its mother, he could not bring himaself to see. "You, my dear Lady Arundel," he would say, "will prove a mother to her helpless infancy. I will not, I cannot see her until my return to Eng- land, when I trust, if time may not have obliterated the cause of sorrows, it will so far have diminished it as to allow me to look upon my child with af- fection."   O, A FATHERS WISH, ETC.   33 Elizabeth could say nothing to refute the reason- ings of his lordship, however unfeeling she might at the moment have considered them; and, hurrying to the nursery, pressed the sleeping babe to her bosom, and, then sinking on her knees, prayed to the Giver of all to endow her with sufficient strength of heart to fulfil every promise made to her lamented Julia. She named the infant Louisa, fearing that Julia might be too familiar to the ears of its father, and remind him too forcibly of bygone days; but when three years after, she became the mother of a little girl, she could not surmount her desire to call it after her beloved and regretted sister. Meanwhile the children grew in beauty and strength. Edward, Lord Newbourg, had attained his thirteenth year; and Harcourt, Lord Tremaine, was his junior only by a few months. The boys had been instructed together, which had cemented a fi'iendship that promised to contintue;during life. Their tutor, a gentleman of worth and learning, had not failed to instil into their youthful minds the precepts of honour and morality; and, at this early age, never were more promising youths than the heirs to the two noble houses of De Moreton and Arundel.   34      JULIA TREMAINE; Lady Louisa Tremaine was a sweet, unaffected child of ten years of age, with great promise of beauty; while the fascinating little Julia, just seven, was the delight of all. Even Lord De Moreton (who had again settled himself at his favourite estate, from its vicinity to Arundel Castle,) although her name gave rise to heartfelt emotion, loved her with more than ordi- nary paternal regard; and, when she would run to him, with her straw-hat filled with the produce of the pleasure grounds, and ask him for a kiss for bringing him pretty flowers, he would involuntarily exclaim: "What a beautiful child she is! She would grace the name of De Moreton: and will, indeed, if spared to us, make Tremaine a charming wife!" For even at this tender age the idea took posses- sion of thei mind of his lordship, who, since the death of his wife, had been rather eccentric and somewhat harsh, although his heart was the seat of many virtues.   OR A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.    35 CHAPTER V. "Marriage is a, matter of more worth Than to be dealt in by attorneyship." SHAKSPEAARE. WE return now to our first chapter, where young Harcourt, full of the intelligence that his father was about to send him to Eton, rushed to inform his companions of it: the news, however, had a different effect upon all. Lord Newbourg looked forward with delight to the prospect of so soon seeing the metropolis of which he had heard much and read more. Louisa, at the idea of losing her brother and cousin, shed tears, which no assurances from them of the separation being of short duration had power to dry. Julia, with childish anger, protested if Lord De Moreton persisted in sending them away, she would no more annoy Broomfield, the gardener, by gather- ing his choicest flowers for him. Hlarcourt caught her in his arms, and conveying   36       JULIA TREMAINE; her into the house, promised to send her from London every toy that She could desire. "Do only send one," she returned. "Plenty of paper, and I will learn to write. Louisa will teach me, and when I can send you a letter, Harcourt, how happy I will be!" "Well, but Julia," he answered, parting her jet and glossy curls on her polished forehead, and kissing her red and pouting lip, "I can send you both paper and toys." "No, I will not have them!" and indignantly kicking, from her the headless trunk of a doll that had found its way to the drawing-room, Julia war- lled the following little song, taught her by Louisa, to induce her to attend to her lessons: Trifler away! I heed you not, I'll henceforth study to improve my mind; And then, how happy Julia's lot, If like mamma, she's wise and kind! For what's the use of beauty's power, Without the graces of the mind? Then, bounteous Heaven, thy goodness shower, To make thy child both wise and kind. When the family were assembled in the drawing- room, the same evening, Lord De Moreton, who   OR, A FATHER7S WISH, ETC.  ' 37 had been some time watching the children,abruptly exclaimed: "They are mostassuredly formed for each other!" Lord Arundel, with astonishment, raised his eyes from the book he was perusing, and demanded who were the happy beings his lordship had thus or- dained. "Harcourt and Julia,' he answered. "I have some time contemplated the union, and young as Julia is, I am sure I shall live to see it consum- mated." Lord Arundel, smiling at his lordship's enthu- siasm, said, to see the families more closely united would be his first wish; but really the parties were so very young that he could scarcely view it in idea. "I Besides," he added, "Julia is such a mere child to Harcourt, that he may have disposed of his af- fections before she arrives at sufficient maturity to attract even his attention." "Disposed of his affections!" returned Lord De Moreton. "That he dare not do, contrary to my approbation; and," he continued, after a pause, "it will cause me many a struggle to give up the treasured hope of seeing your daughter fill the ex- alted station of Lady Tremaine." Lord Arundel reminded him that the affection 4   38       JULIA TREMAINE; of the heart was a free-will offering; " and wo be to the parent, he continued impressively, ' who could blight the prospects of a lovely and amiable pair from interested notions or family pride. I will never force the inclinations of my children, and I depend upon their obedience, from the education and advice they will receive from an excellent mother: it is too much for a moment to imagine that the disposal of their hearts and hands will cause me a moment's uneasiness. And your children, my dear De MAoretonf have the same nice and amiable monitress as mine; therefore, whatever your other sorrows, that of your children's disobedience will never be classed amnong them."7 Lord De Moreton, pressing the hand of his brother-in-law, promised for the present to think no more of what was at best but a wild scheme; "But I trust," he said, as Lady Arundel approached to ask his lordship a question, " that the time will arrive wlhen I shall embrace the lovely Julia as my (as well as your) daughter." The morning the boys left Arundel Castle was one of grief to all, Lady Arundel repeatedly charging them to bear in mind the counsels she had endeavoured to fix there. Louisa and Julia were, for a time, overwhelmed   OR, A FATHER S WISH, ETC.   39 with griefs, which, like the tears of childhood, were but of short duration. The two fathers accompanied them the first stage of their journey, and, ere they parted from them, had the satisfaction to see them full ofjoyful delight at the surrounding scenery.   40       JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER VI. "Oh! how unlike to love is love's shadow!" As nothing worthy attention happened during the days of clildhood, I will pass them over. Lords Tremaine and Newbourg, in course of time, left Eton for Oxford. Here they had remained nearly the whole period, when Tremaine, who pos- sessed not the penetration of his cousin, formed an intimacy with Lord Ashton, a fellow collegian, whose manners and address were so striking and plausible, that the acquaintance bid fair to ripen into friendship on the part of Lord Tremaine. Newbourg, who perceived, under the mask of candour, great dissillulation in the character of Lord Ashton, warned his friend of it, in the hope of inducing him to resign the intimacy; but the imlpetuous Tremaine refused to think unfavourably, on mere suspicion, of so pleasing and useful a com- panion. Lord Ashton, enterinog their room one morning,   OR, A FATHER'S WISII ETC.   41 presented to each of the young men an invitation for a ball, telling them that his mother had unex- pectedly arrived from the Continent (where she had resided the last four years, finishing the educa- tion of his sister,) at her mansion, Ireton Lodge, a few miles from Oxford. With satisfaction Tremaine and Newbourg ac- cepted the invitation, which was for the same even- ing; and, after some conversation of no moment, separated until the appointed time. As soon as the cousins found themselves alone, Tremaine exclaimed: "I wonder what sort of girl Ashton's sister isl If she resembles him in person, she cannot certainly boast of beauty." "I should imagine," answered Newbourg, coldly, "that her beauty, if she possesses any, will not affect either you or me; for we may denominate ourselves engaged men. At least I believe I ought not to class you with myself; for if the sister has half the brother's attractions, poor Julia will be quite forgotten!" "Julia forgotten, Newbourg! you have arrived at the height of folly. Oh!"l he continued, taking her miniature from his bosom and kissing it, "how 4*   42       JULIA TREIMANE; impossible it would be for the heart once warmed by the beautiful original to forget her!" Newbourg, smiling at the rhapsody, returned, "I agree with you, Tremaine; the heart that is once devoted to my sweet and innocent sister must be devoid of taste and feeling ever to allow another to usurp its empire." Lord Ashton called for his friends in the evening, to have, as he said, the pleasure of introducing them to his mother anCd sister. "I have not seen Maria," he added, "since her return; she was out rwhen I went this morning to pay my duty to lly mother. She was a pretty fair girl five years since, and time has not, I dare say, chanlged her very much." While Iis lordship was speaking, Tremaine felt assured that she would not attract him; for, in complimtent to his Julia, he was an enthusiastic admirier of dark eyes and hair. - When the young' men arrived at Ireton Lodge, they found a large party assembled. Lady Aslton, an elegant lady-like woman, welcomed tlem with great apparent cordiality; and calling a young lady to her, who was conversing a short distance from them, introduced her as h(r daug ter, Lady Maria Prin m.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   43 The figure of LadyMaria Priam was petite, but of most perfect symmetry; she was transcendently fair, and her golden hair hung in luxuriant ringlets on her small but elegantly turned shoulders. Lord Tremaine led her to a seat, and, engaging her for the next quadrille, was charmed with her 'playful manner. As a partner she was all that could be wished; her dancing was in the French style, in which she was a perfect mistress. Never had Tremaine felt so fascinated; and when the hour of separation came, he thought the even- ing the shortest he had ever passed. Lord Newbourg, who had watched with pain his cousin's attentions to Lady Maria, felt relieved when they departed, and asked him if he did not think [Maria pretty. Tremaine exclaimed "Pretty! how can you use such an epithet to one of the loveliest works of the creation! Pretty /?he repeated vehemently, "she is beautiful!" "And you appear to feel her beauty!" sarcastically returned Newbourg; " however, I will give you my opinion of Maria. She is unfortunately very lovely; I say unfortunately, for were she less beautiful, Maria would be in less danger. She is artful and designing, and, to form an advantageous marriage   "      JULIA TREMAINE; will sacrifice everything--ah, Tremaine, even the delicacy of her sex! She is poor indeed, so are all her family; and, if I am not mistaken, she will be aided by her family in her schemes." "But what is all this to me!" interrupted Tre- maine.  If she is the character you represent her, but which I cannot for a moment suppose, her arts cannot reach me; for shall I not soon be with my lovely Julia? and art cannot reach anything so good, so lovely as she is." Newhlourg, when he thought of his sister, believed tlhat if Tremaine really loved her all would yet be right; for only a few days would intervene before thev should meet her in London. The next day the young men called on Lady, Ashton and her daughlter to iniquire how the fatigue of the preceding evening had been borne. Lady Maria looked as beautiful as on their first interview, and, to the annoyance of Newbourg, Tre. maine devoted the whole of the visit, which was prolonged to great length, to her; and when they were bidding adieu, which was very tender on the part of Maria, there was given a general invitation, that was accepted with evident pleasure by Tre- maine. Indeed, time now flew unhe3ded by him, and   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   45 when the period arrived for quitting Oxford, he declared his determination of remaining there a few days longer. Newbourg was astonished at this unlooked-for delay, but coolly informed his cousin that whatever was his intention by thus disobeying and disap- pointing Lord De Moreton to say nothing of the other members of his family, that his own stay would not be over the following day. Tremaine appeared hurt at his friend's evident contempt of his conduct, but declared his inability to disappoint Lady Maria, who had formed a water- party expressly for his gratification; but assured him as soon as it was over, he would fly on the wings of love and duty to join his friends in Lon- don. Accordingly Newbourg left Oxford the following morning, and arriving in St. James's Square the same evening, was welcomed by the happy group that waited anxiously to receive him. "Where is Tremaine?" was inquired byall, in a breath. "What can have prevented him from coming?" Newbourg, in evident confusion, answered their interrogatories by saying that Tremaine had unfor- tunately accepted an invitation before the receipt   "     JULIA TREMAINE; of Lord De Moreton's letter fixing' his arrival in London. However, he trusted they would see him before the expiration of the week, w1hen he would, he was sure, be able to make his peace with them. Lord De Moreton looked displeased, and Julia's soft eyes were suffused with tears at Tremaine's neglect; whilst her heart told her, that if his anxiety was equal to her own for a meeting, no invitation would have kept him from her. "I wonder," she thought, "if my brother was included in this invitation! If he was," she sighed, "he could refuse-for he loves Louisa, and nothing so trifling would keep him from her." But Julia was spared, for the present, the pain of knowing that infatuation was keeping Tremaine from her, and that machinations were plotting to destroy his and her future peace. At the end of the week, a letter came from Tre- maine, excusing himself a few days longer; and Lord De Moreton angrily declared that if his son prolonged his stay any further, he shoul hhimself become a visitor to this Lord Ashton, whose society it appeared so difficult to quit. As it was the desire of Lord De Moreton, that Louisa and Julia should be presented to royalty, prior to their introduction to the world; and every-   OR, A' FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  47 thing being in preparation, for the, to them, mo. mentous events the attention of all was, in a degree, detached from the erringTremaine, who, meanwhile, was, from time to time, prevented, through the grief of Maria, from withdrawing himself from Ireton Lodge; where he had, since the departure of Newbourg, wholly taken up his residence. Lady iMaria appeared to live only in his pre- sence; and so flattering were the attentions she bestowed upon him, that he felt it impossible to inflict the pain of bidding her, farewell; for, at the bare mention of his departure, she had recourse to tears or an hysteric. Not that Tremaine had ever made professions of love-far from it! He had more than once men- tioned the name Julia, telling Maria that she was the lady his father, as well as his own heart, had fixed upon for his bride. "What pleasure it would give me," he would say, "to see you and my own Julia linked in the bonds of friendship; I am suire you have but to see each other to be everlastingly attached." On one 'of these occasions she answered, ' And do you suppose, Lord Tremaine, it is in my nature to love the woman adored by you? No! I feel that your Julia would not only be my dislike, but my abhorrence.,   48       JULIA TREMAINE; Tremaine did not like the expression of Lady Maria's countenance, while she uttered these words; it was not only dark, but, if it were possible for a face of such loveliness to express, malignant. "Abhor Julia!" he cried; "Maria, you do not know yourself! For heaven's sake discard such an idea-it is unworthy a place in your breast; I will not again name Julia, until you have taught your- self to think of her as my cousin, and the sister of my dearest friend." "As your cousin, and the sister of your friend," she replied, "Tremaine, how pleasing to think of Julia! But as your wife it is impossible for me to tolerate her!" Tremaine, pressing her hand, led her to his pony- phaeton, which had been ordered to take her a drive; and, in the fascinations of her conversation, Julia, London, and everything but his too seductive com- panion, were forgotten. On the day of presentation, Louisa and Julia appeared attired precisely the same-in pure white, an emblem of their innocence; and many were the hearts that felt the effects of their charms, as they were led, all blushing, to the feet of a beloved monarch. Lord Newbourg was ready to receive them as   OR0, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  49 they left the palace; and, as he looked upon the beauty of his sister, heightened by the confusion she had undergone, his affectionate heart said- "Could Tremaine now look upon her, the triumph of the designing Maria would be over!" The papers, next morning, teemed with the charms of the daughters of Lords Arundel and De Moreton, and numerous were the offers received by their lordships for the honour of their alliances. Lord De Moreton was seriously alarmed, as his son continued to absent himself, lest Julia should, amongst her many admirers, elsewhere bestow her heart; as nearly two years had elapsed since she and Tremaine had met. True, at their last meeting, his wish of uniting them had been made known to the youthful pair, and Julia had blushingly con- sented, on her seventeenth birthday, to become the wife of Tremaine-and Lord de Moreton felt, as- sured that something more than a common-place visit detained his son in Oxfordshire; and, feeling an attachment, prejudicial to his wishes, would be the result of a longer continuance from Julia, de- termined on an interview with Tremaine; and, thinking to gain some intelligence from Lord New. bourg of the Ashtons, he sent for him to his library, and thus addressed him:- 5   50       JULIA TREMAINE; "Newbourg, you have never entered into par- ticulars of the family of Lord Ashton. You will oblige me by giving me some information on the subject; for, I confess that, although I had a slight acquaintance with the late lord, his son is quite unknown to me. Pray, is he a married man?" Lord Newbourg, fearful of giving rise to suspi- cion, answered confusedly. "No, my lord." "Is he then residing at Ireton Lodge by himself?" "No; his mother, who has recently returned from Italy, is residing with him." "His mother! Then his sister is there also, I resume?" "Yes, my lord." "If report speaks truth, Lady Maria is hand- some?" "It does speak truth, my lord, for certainly she is uncommonly lovely." "And Tremaine, no doubt, admires her?" This was a question Newbourg knew not how to answer, without implicating-his friend; he therefore said, evasively, "I should imagine he admires her, for Lady Maria is only to be seen to be admired." Lord De Moreton had now heard sufficient, and, dismissing his nephew, ordered his travelling cha- riot to be ready next morning, to convey him into t f   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   51 Oxfordshire, deeming it most expedient to take Tremaine by surprise; by which means, he thought he should be better able to judge of his sentiments. Informing his friends he had business to attend to that would detain him a few days, he departed, with feelings anything but in unison with the pur. suits of his son.   5o2      JUIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER VII. "Ah, that deceit should steal such gentle shape, And with a virtuous visor deride deep view!" SHAKSPEARE. "ADY MARIA PRIAM had entered in her twenty- second year, and if her mind had resembled her person, happy would the man have been to have called such a treasure his own; but her heart was callous and malignant, and if she sought to obtain any point, no sacrifice was too great; or if foiled, in any of her deep-laid schemes, there was no mercy for the unfortunate offender. She had attracted universal admiration; but strange as it may appear, although many lovers had bowed at her shrine, none had been of suffi- cient importance to induce her to enter the lists of matrimony. It was rumoured that some of her lovers had, been favoured ones; that her heart was hack- neyed in the ways of love. However true this rumour, Lady Maria was too much mistress of   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   53 her feelings to let the world know more than she deemed necessary, and possessed such a semblance of innocence and unaffected beauty, that it re- quired the greatest penetration to detect her vices. Her mother was a mere tool in her hands, and forwarded all her plans, feeling assured, from the known generalship of her daughter, that she was not often likely to fail. In Lord Tremaine they expected to find an easy victim. The ball was planned by Lord Ashton to introduce the parties to each other; for, although his lordship cared little about entering into his sister's views, yet as her fortune was small, and she was necessarily an incumbrance on his limited estates, he felt little objection towards lending a helping hand to assist her to a husband-rich and powerful as was Lord Tremaine. Maria, therefore, played off her whole stock of attraction on the unsuspecting Tremaine, who thought her the most amiable and disinterested, as well as the most beautiful of women. She endeavoured to inspire him with the belief that she had conceived a violent passion for him, thinking, from the generous credulity of his dis. 5*   54      JULIA TREMAITNE; position, that her task might be accomplished with but little risk of her motive being detected. His love for Julia was a drawhack upon her schemes; but she relied too much on the power of her fascinations to despair of succeeding. Walking one evening in the grounds of Ireton Lodge, Tremaine hesitatingly informed her, that having received another letter from his father, he should be compelled to quit her the day after the following. "And you go to wed Julia?"Maria cried, burst- ing into a passion of tears. "Why distress yourself thus, my dear Maria? ' returned Tremaine. "I go to see my father, who must think me wanting in affection, to allow three weeks to elapse after the prescribed time, before I go to him; and I have other dear relatives that must feel hurt and offended at my too evident neg- lect of them. To Lady Arundel I owe a mother's care; and, however flattering your and your family's attention to me, the day after to-morrow I must tear myself away." "Without a hope of speedy return, or one assu- rance of your regard? Unfortunate that I am, to have placed my affections on an engaged object! You say your Julia was a mere child when last   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  55 you saw her; that two years have elapsed since then. Perhaps her heart may now be filled with another object beside the devoted Tremaine! Oh truth!" she continued, clasping her hands in ec- stasy at the idea, "if it were indeed so, Maria might, in time, by assiduity, hold the envied place in your heart that Julia now possesses." "Alas!" sighed Tremaine, "now possesses! The heart which I have to offer Julia is, I fear, but a divided one, and as such, is not worth the acceptance of a being so pure as my sweet cousin." "If you do not love your cousin, why marry her? It will be entailing misery on you both " "How could I wound the heart of my father by refusing to marry Julia, although her happiness is at stake? For he felt he was ensuring my felicity by electing her for my wife." "Throw yourself on the mercy of Lord de Moreton; acquaint him with the situation of your heart; and if he feels for his niece a real regard, he will not insist upon the union." Tremaine sighed; but, believing Maria's actions to be consonant with his own feelings-at all events, feeling that he should be performing his duty-resolved to write to his father immediately, fearing, should he trust it to an interview, his re- solution might fail him.   56      JULIA TREMAINE; He acquainted Maria with his intention; her pleasure exceeded all bounds, and throwing her-  t self into his arms, she declared herself the hap- piest of the happy, as this arrangement would de- tain him near her until the arrival of Lord de Moreton's answer. Putting his arm round her waist, and tenderly pressing her willing hand, Tremaine was, for the first time, about to declare himself her lover, when suddenly turning into another path, Lord de More- ton appeared. Tremaine, thrown off his guard, relinquished the hand of the astonished Maria, and remained some seconds overwhelmed with confusion. Lord de 1Moreton was the first to recovt, Opeech, and regardless of the presence of a female, aBi y demanded of his son to what he was to iih his long and unlooked for absence from his friends. "However," he continued, interrupting himsdf, "explanation here is unnecessary; my carriage waits at the gate to which I expect you will fol- low me;" and without waiting an answer from the thunderstruck Tremaine, abruptly quitted the grounds. As soon as Maria found herself alone with Lord Tremaine, she fainted on his shoulder; and Tre- *   OR A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   57 maine, seizing her in his arms, scarcely aware of his actions, conveyed her to the house; :where, as Lori and Lady Ashton were making morning calls, the care of the insensible girl devolved on him- self. How to act, Tremaine knew not; to leave Maria fainting, he felt would be derogatory to all feel- ing; and to wait her recovery, would be to ex- pose himself and her to the bitterness of parting. White thus deliberating between two evils, he was relieved by the entrance of the young lady's mo- ther, to whom h related, in as few words as pos- sible, the unexpected appearance of hisgfather.  Lady Ashton's surprise was only equalled by her chagrin; but concealing it under the mask of hospitality, she expressed her hopes that Lord de Moreton would take up his residence at Ireton Lodge during his sojourn in Oxfordshire, Tremaine informed her that he imagined his fa- , ther's stay in Oxfordshire was limited, as business with himself had called him to Ireton Lodge; his lordship, therefore, would, he was convinced, de- cline troubling her ladyship. Lady Maria now thought proper to open her eyes; and gazing round the room, as if in search   58      JULIA TREMAINE; of some object, looked on, Tremaine, who stood  watching her with intense anxiety.  "Thanks!" she cried, bursting into tears, "you  [: have not deserted mel Who was that dreadful man who accosted you in the grounds? What was the purport of his visit? I have a confused re- collection that he came to tear you from me!" "It was my father, Lady Maria, come to recall me to a sense of my duty, which, I blush to con- fess, I have too long neglected," returned Tre- maine. "Then it really is your intention, cruel Tre- maine, to leave me to despair and doubt, rather than make one sacrifice?" Clasping her to his bosom, he wiped her fast- falling tears, and swearing that his absence should be no longer than necessity rendered absolutely requisite, imprinted a farewell kiss upon her ruby lips, and rushed from the room. To describe the rage of Maria, when left to give free vent to it, is beyond the ability of my feeble pen; a thousand times she execrated Lord de Moreton for then stepping between her and the accomplishment of her wishes. "But he shall yet feel the power of my ven- geance!" she exclaimed, pacing the room. "If   OR, A FATHERBS WISH, ETC.   59 he refuse to yield to my desires, and if the hated Julia become the wife of Tremaine, be it mine to render her marriage miserable! Miserable 1" she repeated, smiling contemptuously, "the term is in- adequate to my feelings. Be it mine to make her rue the day she became his!" Determining, should the absence of Tremaine be lengthened beyond what her anxiety would allow, to follow him to London; and deriving a degree of composure from her resolve, she descended to the drawing-room to learn her mother's opinion as to her future plans. O                 ,   60      JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER VIII. All unprepared the sweet surprise to bear."  BLOOMFIELD. WHEN Tremaine joined Lord de Moreton, who was impatiently waiting for him a short distance from the Lodge, his lordship ordered the posthoys to proceed hastily on their journey, and had not travelled many miles, when attentively regarding his son, he demanded what he was to conclude from having found him in a situation so inimical to the happiness of his destined bride. Tremaine, who for the last hour had been en- deavouring to gain composure, with reluctance ac- quainted the earl with the terms on which he stood with Lady Maria. "Thinking, my dear father," he added, attempt- ing to take his lordship's hand, which was repul-  sively withdrawn, "it is better to inform you of the state of my heart before you insist on forcing me into the presence of my cousin; for, with feel-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   61 ings so estranged from those with which I last be- held her, the meeting will be productive of pain on either side. I, therefore, throw myself on your affection; and, however erring, do not forget that your son not only appeals to you for pardon, but for his future happiness." And do you imagine, boy, to meet with happi- ness in a union with Lady Maria Priam?" re- turned the earl, sternly, "after having basely robbed Julia of her affections, and, perhaps, of her peace of mind for ever?" "May it never be!" murmured Tremaine, "Hea- ven forbid it! But, my dear father, surely in your zeal for Julia, you overrate the consequences of my union with Maria. Julia was so young when last we met, that she no doubt acceded to your wishes without feeling even a prepossession in my favour." "And was such your idea at parting from her? No! I believe not. 'If I am not mistaken, you then considered yourself the possessor of your cousin's heart; but your wishes at that time were the same as mine; that they have changed is your misfortune. I will not upbraid you. Your own heart, if it has not already reproved you, will re- prove you; but never let me hear the name of Lady 6   JU,IA TREMAINE; Maria from your lips, for the name is hateful to my ears; but do not suppose that I wholly oppose four espousing her. No I I scorn to force your in- clinations, although your disobedience will cost me dear; for in electing Julia for the partner of your life, I had your felicity in view. I confess, my hopes have received a blow which time alone can alleviate; therefore, after seeing my niece, if you persist in pursuing your own mad career, wed Lady Maria Priam, and become an alien to your home and my affections." Tremaine was deeply affected at the words of Lord de Moreton; and feeling that he had nothing to offer in palliation of his offence, pressed the half reluctant hand of his father, assuring him that, however reprehensibly he might have acted, the disposal of his hand should never take place without a father's sanction. The remainder of the journey was pursued in silence on both sides; and- on alighting in St. James's Square, and learning that the family were engaged to a ball at the Duchess of Briscoe's, they immediately repaired to the drawing-room, where the party, with the exception of Julia, were all as- sembled. The long-expected Tremaine was welcomed with   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.      63 every demonstration of delight; and as there was no mention of his neglect, he felt relieved, on glancing round the room, to perceive that Julia was absent, and his warring heart prayed that it might be long before his eyes beheld her. He had just seated himself behind the chair of Lady Arundel, who'had been trying to prevail on him to join their party to the ball of the Duchess, when the door opened, and the object of his un- easiness made her appearance. As soon as Julia saw Lord de Moreton, she flew to embrace him, and as she raised her face from his shoulder, exclaimed, " But where, my dearest uncle, is Harcourt? How anxiously we have looked forward to your return, for we depended on his accompanying you." Tremaine, in perturbation, rose to salute her, but stood transfixed at the striking change in her person. Never had he beheld anything so transcendently beautiful as the creature before him. Was it pos- sible, he inwardly ejaculated, that the tall, ele- gintly formed.girl he saw, was the little playful being he had parted from two years before. She was dressed in pale blue gauze, the sleeves composed of blue blond, which added lightness to   "      JULIA TREMAINE; her sylph-like figure; her fine dark hair fell in long and graceful ringlets on a neck and shoulders whose whiteness would have vied with marble.,  How long poor Tremaine would have continued to regard her is unknown, if Lord Arundel had not laughingly said, "Julia, my love, you had better re- tire; for the sight of you has completely frightened your poor cousin."  "Why, really," he stammered out, "Lady Julia is so very much altered and improved, that had I seen her in other society I should not have recog- nised her." "A proof," returned Julia, smiling, "that the impression I had made on my cousin's affections was not very permanent." Lord de Moreton, trembling lest his son should commit himself, hastily demanded of him, with the view of turning the conversation, whether it was not his intention to escort the ladies to the ball of the Duchess? Thus pressed, Tremaine had no alternative but compliance; and, accordingly, quitted the room to prepare for the entertainment.  During the short time he was away, the party,  unacquainted with his intimacy with Lady Maria, animadverted on his behaviour when he beheld Julia.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   65 Louisa thought the incident unaccountable; it was so different to the manner in which Edward had met her after a two years' absence; he was all animated joy, while her brother appeared to feel no other sentiment than surprise, because Julia was changed from a beautiful girl to a lovely woman. Lord and Lady Arundel, although surprised at Tremaine's coldness, could not imagine, as they regarded their daughter, that it originated in-any regret at the prospect of speedily calling her his own. While Lords de Moreton and Newbourg au- gured, from his manner, that Maria had not suc- ceeded in completely estranging him from happi- ness, they doubted not but a short time spent with Julia would break the spell in which he was bound. When Lord Tremaine returned to the drawing- rooni, he approached Julia, and entered into con- versation with her, until the announcement of the carriages, when he handed her to the carriage occupied by Lady Arundel and his sister, and ac- companied her to the ball. On arriving at the mansion of the duchess, he drew Julia's arm within his own arm, and as he 6*   "      JULIA TREMAINE; conducted her to the ball-room, petitioned for the honour of dancing with her. Julia told him her hand was engaged for the first quadrille, but she should feel satisfaction, nay  pleasure, in dancing with him the second. He bowed, much mortified, and being at the door of the saloon when he heard her refusal, an  introduction to the Duchess of Briscoe prevented  her from hearing his reply. Dancing had commenced, and as Tremaine was leading Julia to a seat, an elegant young 'man advanced to claim her as his partner, and Tre. maine reluctantly resigned her hand, reminding her it was his for the next dance. Tremaine watched Julia and her partner till they joined the dance; and, as he observed the young man's attention towards her, a pang, resem- bling jealousy, shot through his heart, as the idea entered it, that, perhaps, while he was neglecting her, this devoted admirer, for such he appeared to be, had succeeded in gaining those affections which, in the morning, he had deemed of so little value that he would have thought himself blest to have  been assured of their alienation; but now, although only a few short hours had intervened, and that there appeared a chance of losing Julia's affections,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   67 he felt would be more than he had fortitude to bear. He started from his reverie as the Duchess of Briscoe laid her hand gently on his arm, and de- manded if he was so much devoted to his fair rela- tive as to have forsworn dancing. "If you have not, my lord," she continued, looking round, "pray take compassion upon some of the beauties pre- sent; for I can assure you your presence here to- night, so unexpectedly, has raised commotion in many a bosom, old and young." Tremaine assured her grace it was not only his intention, but his wish to obtain a partner, and the Duchess joyfully introduced him to a beautiful girl, who, with pleasure, accepted him. Lord Buccleugh, the nobleman who danced with Julia, was -.ung and handsome; he first saw her at the presentation, and had since followed her with admiration and love; he had not yet declared himself her lover, but so fascinating was her form this evening, that he determined to offer to her acceptance his heart and hand on the following morning. When the quadrille was ended, leading Julia to her seat, he was nigh being seated near her, when Tremaine advanced to inform her that Lady   68      JULIA TREMAINE; Arundel wished to converse with her, and as he passed Lord Buccleugh to take Julia's hand bowed haughtily to him, and, whilst conducting her to Lady Arundel, asked, with trepidation and a  heightened colour, if he was to consider his lord- ship in the light of her favoured lover. Julia, surprised, answered, "A favoured lover!  He is no lover of mine. Indeed, I can scarcely term him an acquaintance!" "Yet his manner evinces him to be your ad- mirer. But, pardon me," he added, seeing her blush deeply at his last observation, "I ought not to wonder at your exciting admiration; for cer- tainly, Julia, you are very lovely." To Julia's infinite relief at this moment they joined Lady Arundel, who told her "that, feeling unwell, she thought'of returning hom4' Julia declared her wish to depart with her mother, who sending for Louisa, the ladies de- parted, attended by Tremaine. The following morning, as they were leaving the breakfast-room, a letter was delivered to Lord  Arundel, who, after glancing his eye over the con- tents, said, "From Lord Buccleugh-an offer for Julia's hand. How am I to answer it, my love?"   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   69 he added, turning to his daughter. L I leave the matter entirely to your discretion and feelings." The blush on Julia's cheek'was reflected on Tremaine's as she answered, "I thought, my dear father, there was but one way of answering a let- ter addressed to you in such terms. My feelings have undergone no change, nor are they likely." Tenderly kissing her glowing cheek, her father left the room to answer the letter of Lord Buc- cleugh, which he did with pain, from knowing his lordship's excellent understanding and noble mind; but which, however, could have been augmented had he known that he was refusing the hand of his daughter to a man firmly attached to her, to bestow it on one whose wayward heart was at this moment so divided between two objects, that, although both were withiMi his grasp, he knew not which to select. It must be allowed that his feelings for Lady Maria were nearer akin to pity than love;,yet how to resign a creature so devoted to him, who, had given him so many tender professions of regard, he knew not; and when Julia, in all her winning sweetness, presented herself, he felt his heart torn by conflicting passions. To live with Julia, and not pay her those atten-   70      JULIA TREMAINE; tions her sex and beauty exacted, he soon disco- vered was impossible, and' a thousand times he be- wailed the fate which had introduced him to the too-seductive Maria.              ? A fortnight passed in this manner. One day Tremaine determining to write to Maria to ac- quaint her with his sentiments for Julia, the next abandoning the idea with contempt, and at length deciding on laying his heart open to his father, and to be guided by the result of parental reasonings. The earl had been anxiously expecting his son's application for advice, and receiving his unhappy son with affection and kindness when he demanded an interview, the softened Tremaine asked his advice and assistance. Lord de Moreton, having listened to a detail of all he had suffered, and what he w# at present suffering, was not slow in discovering that the pain of losing Julia was infinitely more severe than that of giving up Maria. He, therefore, said, "Tremaine, however my wishes may lead me to imagine your union with my niece likely to occur, I should be the first, believe me, to prevent its  completion, had I any forebodings that its consum- mation would, in any way, be detrimental to the happiness of either (but to Julia especially, for !!!,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  71 so amiable is her nature, so pure her mind, that nothing but felicity, so far as she is concerned, can result in a connexion with her;) but I confess to you, my son, with regret, that events are not exactly as I could wish,-at best there is but a divided heart, and I feel too assured of Julia's vir- tue to be under any apprehension of your feelings long wavering. Confess to me, were you, by any chance, to lose Lady Julia Newbourg, do you ima- gine that in espousing Lady Maria Priam, you would arrive at the height of connubial happiness?" Tremaine unhesitatingly replied, that most as- suredly he did not consider Lady Maria formed for wedded love. "She is," he enthusiastically added, "a creature e so brilliant, so highly gifted, both in mental and personal perfection, that I know not whether the possession of her would be productive of most pleasure or pain; for, unfortunately, her foreign education has given a freedom to her ideas, which however fascinating, would not exactly be tole- rated by an English husband." Lord de obreton did not quite approve of these animated praises, but wisely forbearing to notice them, he answered, "Lord Arundel must know no- thingtof this penchant for Lady Maria; for so stu-   72      JULTA TREMAINE; dious is he of his children's happiness, that no consideration would induce him to trust his daugh- ter's peace on a frail foundation." Lord Tremaine felt no reluctance to abide by this decree; for he feared, should a knowledge of it reach Julia, whatever her affection for him, her delicacy was too great to permit her to become, as she would suppose, the destroyer of another  happiness. Lord de Moreton took upon himself to divulge to Lady Maria the result of his conversation with his son; and, in consequence, now threw aside the constraint which hitherto enveloped his elegant and well-stored mind; and, studying to render himself agreeable, Julia, innocent and affectionate, believed him all that fancy pictured-amiable and kind.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   73 CHAPTER IX. "Follow I must-I cannot go before." SHAKSPEARE. As it wanted but a fortnight to the completion of Julia's seventeenth year, preparations were making for a double event; for, on the approach- ing birthday, she was to become the wife of Tre- maine. A double union was to be celebrated; for the happy Newbourg was to receive the hand of his highly-prized and beloved Louisa; all was, there- fore,- joyful, and each individual of the happy group appeared, in their affection for each other, to have attained all that was in life desirable. Even Lord Tremaine (although a sigh would for an instant replace the smile, when he thought of Lady Maria's despair when she should hear of their nuptials) could not but enter into the general delight. When Lord Buccleugh received the earl of Arundel's answer, he departed for the Continent 7   1t    JULIA TREMAINE;  most immediately, his affections having expe- enced a severe blow from Julia's rejection of his and. His nature was noble; and though his heart  ras wounded in its tenderest point, he felt no envy owards his more fortunate rival; but wished, with incerity, that, for the sake of the object of his Adoration, happiness might fall to the possession  f the lovers. But, to return to Lady Maria Priam, whom we eft imprecating anything but blessings on Lord de Moreton and his niece. Day after day arrived in anxious expectation of hearing from the infatuated Trcmaine, and passed, to her discomfiture, without her wishes meeting with their fulfilment. At length, a letter, with the De Moreton arms, was delivered to her I she impatiently broke the seal; and, with rage and consternation, perused the following lines:- MADAM,-I am deputed by Lord Tremaine to inform you that his sentiments for Lady Julia New-  bourg continuing the same they were prior to his :. lordship's introduction to your ladyship, he cannot  depart from the wishes of himself and family by  longer deferring the solemnization of his nuptials.  "Lord Tremaine begs me to offer to your lady-    OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   75 ship and family his best wishes for your and their felicity. "Madam, I have the honour to remain, "Your ladyship's obedient servant, "DE MORETON." To describe Lady Maria's feelings on reading Lord de Moreton's letter is impossible; her manner was phrensied, and, in the extreme; tearing the letter in a thousand pieces, she vowed that the ,  unoffending Julia should suffer for the father's in- solence and the infidelity of the son, in thus being so easily induced to forget the many proofs with which she had endeavoured to inspire him of her devoted love. To follow Tremaine to London, as affairs had proceeded so far, she felt would be little or no use; she therefore discarded all idea of seeing him until after his marriage. It was the intention of Sir John Hamilton, now far advanced in years, to be present at the mar- riages of his beloved grandchildren; and, upon arriving in town a few days prior to the event, was hailed by them with every demonstration of joy.  As he embraced Louisa, her mother's early fate (blighted through his pride) awakened the long   76      JULIA TREMAINE;  dormant remorse of his soul, and he uttered a prayer for the peace of her children. His remorse was augmented when he thought of  s Henry Beaufort, of whose fate he remained in ig- norance, never having heard from him since his departure (although now four-and-twenty years had elapsed since that period,) farther than that he had quitted the regiment through ill health, and, it was supposed, climate. Sir John had made many ineffectual attempts to discover if his nephew yet survived, and was in- duced to conclude that he had either changed his name, to elude inquiry, or had, like his Julia, fallen a victim to his love. When Lord De Moreton addressed Lady Maria, the brevity with which he did so was more with a view of destroying her hopes than insulting her; but had he in reality been acquainted with her character, he would not have deigned to hold com- munion with a being so wholly undeserving of con- sideration. When he informed Tremaine he had written to her, the ashy paleness that overspread his counte- nance convinced the earl of the hold she possessed on his son. Commiseration was indeed powerful; and a pang of conscience smote him when he re- - i   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   " fleeted that, should a meeting take place after his marriage, if she had sufficient wit to appeal to this feeling, that Julia's happiness would be wrecked, perhaps for ever. But his lordship could not long dwell on such a subject, and he ended his musings, as he had many times before, in trusting to his niece's well-known amiability to reclaim all that was needful in his son. 7*   78       JULIA TREMAINE;  CHAPTER X. "With equal virtue form'd and equal grace, The same distinguish'd by their sex alone- Her's the mild lustre of the blooming morn, And his the radiance of the risen day."-THOMSON. THE morn that was to give Julia to the arms of a husband was ushered in with feelings of joy. Lord De Moreton's heart, however, was the only one that felt not happiness at the accomplishment of its wishes; and this long-sought, this much-de- sired union, was productive of as much pain as pleasure, from the doubtful sensations created in his bosom by his son's unfortunate meeting with Maria. He watched intently the countenance of his son, and firmly believed he saw naught there to disturb his repose. Tremaine's countenance was, indeed, this happy morning, irradiated with hope; and, not till the ceremony was nearly completed, did one thought obtrude to darken his prospects.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   79 For a moment the form of Maria flitted before his fancy; he closed his eyes, as if to exclude it, and a cold tremor ran through his veins. Reco- vering, his gaze fell on Julia, and her bright and sunny looks speedily succeeded in dispersing the cloud of apprehension from a brow nature had never intended for anything but the seat of benignity. Gently pressing the fair hand Lord Arundel had placed in his care, he whispered a fervent prayer that the peace of Julia might be the peculiar care of Providence. Happy Louisa! no forebodings of future misery presided at thy union! Hope promised fair to cheer thee to the end, for thy beloved Newbourg felt, in possessing thee, he had attained the summit of earthly happiness; and his heart assured him, that in fulfilling his duties, he was crowning his own joys by surveying thy faithful love! When the wedding party were in the breakfast- parlour of St. James's Square, Lord De Moreton, taking the hand of Julia, and affectionately pressing it, presented to her a necklace and bracelets of pearl, with diamond clasps, saying as he gave them, "Accept these baubles, my beloved girl, as a trifling proof of my regard. You will, no doubt, consider it as a small, a very small bridal present; after the   80       JULIA TREMAINE;  magnificent one so recently received from your  grandfather; but you will prize it as a memento of this happy event long after the giver is consigned to his native earth; and if your union should prove a happy one, which Heaven in its mercy grant, the remembrance of De Moreton will be embittered with no pang for being its promoter." A tear fell on the hand he held as the earl ut- tered the last-words; and, to conceal it, he clasped one of the bracelets on the beautiful arm of Julia, and cheerfully added, "If your arms, my love, should rival the pearls in whiteness, the diamonds will have little cause for exultation, as the bright- ness of your eyes will completely eclipse their lustre." Julia, smiling at the compliment of her father- in-law, answered, that from being his gift, the va- lue of the jewels would be inestimable. To his daughter the earl presented a similar gift; but widely different were his feelings while presenting it. Embracing her, he exclaimed, "Take these, my dearest Louisa; you will not prize them less for being the gift of your affec- tionate father, as a proof of the heartfelt satisfac-  tion he derives from your selection of a partner  for life. May you be happy, my children. And,"   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   81 he added, as he placed her hand within her hus- band's, "I have no fear on that head; for so en- twined are your hearts, so congenial your minds, that ye and felicity must be companions." Lord and Lady Tremaine were to depart for the cottage where her mother had passed her honey- moon, and which Sir John had presented to the bride on her marriage. Lord Newbourg and Louisa were to depart for the Continent; and it was decided by Lady Arun- del that all her children should meet that day six weeks in St. James's Square, prior to their taking possession of their respective town residences. When the moment of parting arrived, it was felt most keenly by all. The couiltess was nearly over- whelmed with grief, she had never been sepa- rated for a day from her idolized daughters-for Louisa, the cherished object of her care, was as dear to her affections as Julia-and well had this amiable woman fulfilled the promise made to her lamented sister, to watch over her children vith the tenderness of a parent. It was long ere they brought themselves to a last embrace, the -ntlemen repeatedly reminding the weeping trio of the short space that would in-   82       JULIA TREMAINE; tervene before they would be restored to each other. The beautifully sequestered cottage to which Lord Tremaine and his bride were going, was situated in the fertile county of Hampshire; and, in the charming month of May, when nature ren- ders everything delightful, this spot appeared a second Eden to the youthful pair who, for a short time, were to become its inhabitants. No wish of Julia during the six weeks spent at this secluded residence remained ungratified; and believing herself the possessor of what she valued most on earth, her husband's affections, she en- joyed as much happiness as can possibly be within the reach of mortals. Indeed it was Tremaine's study to guard from her knowledge his acquaintance with Lady Maria; and, aware that Julia's peace was as dear to his father and Lord Newbourg as it was to himself, he felt secure she would -never be conscious of his heart straying from its first allegiance, especially believing himself so firmly attached to Julia, that he could be in no danger if even exposed to the fascinations of Maria. But Tremaine felt something bordering on un-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   83 easiness as the time approached to leave the spot where he had experienced nothing but delight. "Would we were to remain here a twelve- month," he thought, as he wandered round the garden, whose luxuriant beauties had drawn him from the side of Julia, "for then my sweet Julia would so have entwined herself round my heart, that no temptation could reach it. Temptation!" he repeated, indignantly rebuking himself as Julia appeared at the window to tell him she waited breakfast, "can it reach me, if clothed ever so lovely, while I call such a being mine?"And, has- tening to her presence, he soon, in her smiles and delightful converse, forgot that aught existed to disturb his repose. Julia was extremely anxious to see her beloved relatives again; and early on the appointed morn- ing, they were on the road to London. Lord and Lady Newbourg had already arrived at the Earl of Arundel's, and Tremaine and Julia were received with open arms by their delighted, and expecting friends. "How charmingly you look, Julia!"Louisa ex- claimed. "Vegetating in the Wilds of Hampshire has given a deepeikint to the roses on your cheeks, which infinitely improves your beauty."   84      JULIA TREMAINE; "Ilow fickle is woman's fancyl" answered the laughing Julia, "how often, dear Louisa, you have admired me for having so few roses to boast of!" "A proof," returned Louisa, "that however your loveliness may be increased, it can never be diminished." "Why, you are more complimentary than any admirer I ever possessed. Pray, say no more, or really, in spite of mamma's wise counsels, I shall become vain. The dinner bell!" she continued, smiling, "how fortunate! as it precludes me listen- ing longer to your praises." The arrangements as to the residences of the new-married couple were soon made. Lord de Moreton resigned his residence in Piccadilly to his son and daughter, intending to become their visi- tor when inclination or other causes' brought him from his favourite seat, De Moreton Castle, whilst Lord and Lady Newbourg engaged a delightful mansion in Belgrave Square. Tremaine had inquired of his father if he had heard anything concerning Maria, and learnt with regret that the family were in town for the sea- son.           w "You need not make yourself uneasy about   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   85 Maria," added the earl, "for the loss of you has not broken her heart; indeed, if I mistake not, (smiling,) it is made of more invulnerable mate- rials. I understand, among her numerous lovers, one is shortly to lead her to the hymeneal altar." "Excuse me, my dear father, if I doubt this re- port. Maria has too much sensibility to encourage a man unless she returned his love. At present that must be impossible. I have every reason to suppose she was so unfortunate as to attach herself to me;."  Lord de Moreton smiled while he asked his son if he thought his vanity might not in a slight de- gree have overrated Lady Maria's good opinion of himself. "Far certainly," his lordship continued, "you were hoodwinked during your short inti- macy with her, for you believed her all virtue and modesty; while the world, though it endows her with beauty and accomplishments, robs her of the two other requisites." Tremaine replied indignantly, that the world, in this instance, as in many others, was not to be re- lied on-that its censorship would not permit it to bestow so many rare qualifications on one ob- ject. It would be pleasure to him to imagine that her love had wholly originated in his vanity, for 8   86       JULIA TREMAINE; hle should not then have to reflect that he had left her with less peace of mind than was found with her. The earl again advised him not to be depressed on that account, for time would succeed in show- ing this paragon in her proper colours. Julia entering, the conversation, to the relief of Doth gentlemen, was diverted, Lord de Moreton feeling angry with his son that he slould think of Maria and her foolish whims, as he thought proper to term her supposed love; whilst Tre- maine, astonished that his father, whose notions of female perfection were on so liberal a scale, should be so prejtldiced against this poor girl as to deprive her of the ornaments of her sex. J ulia's situation at this period confined her to the sofa; and, in watching and attending to her wants, mluch of Tremaine's time was devoted. Ah, how gratifying to the earl were the willing attentions of his son!"All is as I firmly antici- pated," he internally uttered; ' and 1 have been so blessed as to have formed their felicity! Happy Tremaine, in possessing such a treasure, more bliss is thine than usually falls to the lot of erring na- ture!" Lad(y Maria had, with her mother, come to town   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   87 for the purpose of commencing her attacks on the husband and wife (whose happiness she could ima- gine from not having met Tremaine at any of the numerous parties she frequented;) and now begin- ning to despair of seeing Tremaine before she left London, as the season was far advanced, formed the determination of writing to, him-a determination no sooner conceived than executed. She, there- fore, addressed the following letter to him: "If Lord Tremaine has not lost all feeling, he will, the first opportunity he can detach himself from the idol of his affections, call in Bruton Street, where he will behold the victim his cruelty has made in the unfortunate   "MARIA." Haiing despatched this note, with hopes that it would have the desired effect, she enjoyed more satisfaction than she had known some months, and prepared for the visit; which, from the knowledge she had of Lord Tremaine's heart, she felt assured would be the result of the appeal she had made to his commiseration'   88      JJULIA TREMAINE C(IAPTER XI. "My eart lament, that virtte cannot live Out of the teeth of emulation. "-SIIAKSPEARE. TREMATNE was reading to Julia the beautiful poem of the Corsair, when Maria's note was de- livered to him. Carelessly throwing it on the table, he continued reading, until there was an announce- ment of Lord Newbourg, who requested him to re- pair with him to Tattersall's to give his opinion of a horse he was about purchasing. His lordship, learning from Julia that her health was recently considerably improved, prevailed on her to come to them in the evening, as they ex- pected Lady Buccleugll with her niece. If you feel yourself equal to face a little bustle," Lord Newbourg continued, "you will derive much pleasure from an introduction to Augusta Dornton; for, though not handsome, she is extremely amiable and accomplished. Louisa is fascinated with her, and your tastes always assimilate."   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETCo   89 Julia promised to join them in the evening, and the gentlemen departed, Tremaine leaving the uno- pened letter of Maria on the table. Some time after he had left the house, Julia, taking the letter, admired the writing of the superscription, wonder- ing who it could be from, as she was wholly unac- quainted with the hand. It was unquestionably a lady's writing, and she was ignorant of Tremaine having any female correspondents, his mother Louisa excepted. "But Harcourt will enlighten my understanding when he returns," she exclaimed, replacing the letter; "for he invariably leaves his letters for my perusal." And the letter and the curiosity it had excited, were alike forgotten until the owner appeared; when Julia laughingly cried- "Harcourt! what a negligent correspondent you are! The letter Birch brought you this morning remains unopened; and, if we may judge from the characters, the writer is a lady." A lady!" replied Tremaine, smiling; "then it is from Lady Arundel, I imagine. Why not have broken the seal, my dearest Julia?-although, I dare say, it is merely inquiries after what is so pre- cious to us all-your health.'  8*   90      JULIA TREMATINE; Bring it, Birch; for an answer has been, 1 am ure, long expected." ' The writing is not mamma's," Julia said; "I trust she is well. But here is Birch--read, and ease my anxiety." Tremaine turned over the paper several times in visible agitation, as the thought glanced across his mind that it might be from Lady Maria; and thrusting it into his pocket, as, meeting Julia's eye anxiously regarding him, he said, "Be not uneasy, my love, about your mother's health; had she been unwell Louisa would, undoubtedly, have informed me when I saw her this morning." Then, after a slight pause, thinking, as Julia knew the letter to be from a female, he had a right to give some ex- planation, he added, confusedly, "The letter, Julia, is from a lady who writes to me occasionally for having been so-so fortunate as to have rendered her a trifling service." Julia-the unsuspecting Julia-was satisfied with this excuse. Possessing no guile herself, she dreamt not of guile in others, and imagined Tre- maine's confusion originated in the praise he ex- pected to meet from his grateful correspondent. With this idea, she arose to prepare herself for   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   91 Louisa's party, and left her husband a prey to the most agonized feelings. Tearing open the letter of Maria, as soon as he was alone, Tremaine was thunderstruck at the con- tents. As he paced the floor, he asked himself, was it possible Maria could act so indelicately as to re- quest an interview; to wish to hold communion with him now the husband of another! Oh, no! it could not be! She must be suffering from some dreadful malady, occasioned by his desertion, or she would never have forgotten the dignity of her sex in addressing him. Leaning his head upon his hand, he shuddered as he gave free reins to his thoughts-he beheld Maria as she was when he first saw her at Ireton Lodge, in the bloom of health and loveliness; and she was now, he thought, a prey, no doubt, to sickness and to sorrow-a martyr to his weakness. So absorbed was Tremaine in deep and melan- choly reflections, that he perceived not Julia, twho had entered the room, until she approached him, and, gently taking his hand, inquired if he was ill. Starting, Tremaine mechanically snatched his land from his wife, and coolly demanded if she was already dressed (preparing to leave the room as he   92       JULIA TREMAINE; spoke;) when Julia exclaimed, "You are ill, dear Harcourt! allow me to send an excuse to Louisa, for I shall have no satisfaction in going to her if you are unable to enjoy yourself." Tremaine, interrupting her, said he was perfectly free from indisposition, and in a few moments would be ready to attend her. The husband now leaving the room, Julia threw herself on a sofa, to wonder at the strange altera- tion which had taken place in Tremaine during the short time she had spent at her toilet. That the change was owing to the letter, she felt no doubt, and much she felt surprised that the contents were kept from her knowledge-as she was denied the satisfaction of offering some allevia- tion to the uneasiness which he was too evidently labouring under. Yet so innate was Julia's delicacy, that, much as she desired to know the cause of his discomfiture, she determined, as it appeared his wish, to be silent on the subject. While proceeding to Belgrave-square scarcely a word was spoken by either husband or wife; Tre- maine feeling himself unequal to conversation, and Julia fearing to disturb his musings by an inter- ruption.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   93 Arriving at Lord Newbourg's they found a select company of visitors. Julia was introduced to Lady Buccleugh and Augusta Dornton-was charmed with the unaffected manners and enlightened conversa- tion of the latter-and perceiving that Tremaine's dejection had decreased, she was restored to a serenity that irradiated her countenance with a smile of peace and love. As they returned home, Tremaine, himself again, spoke of Augusta Dornton in terms of admiration. "Do you not think, Julia, her singing is delight- ful?" he asked. "  I am an enthusiastic admirer of a fine voice! How I wish you would cultivate your voice, my love; for how often does memory trace back the days of childhood, when I listened with charmed ears to your dulcet notes." Julia was surprised at Tremaine's wish for the cultivation of her voice; as, possessing from nature a voiceof the sweetest melody, it had been Lady Arundel's delight to give her the finish of science, by procuring the first masters during her stay at Hampshire. After her marriage, from there being no musi- cal instruments, Julia had never been requested by Tremaine to sing; and so retiring was her nature, that she had not attempted, unasked, to display the   "      JULIA TREMAINE; charm he so much admired. Though in London she had sometimes touched the strings of her harp, her situation had precluded her from singing. She therefore answered, "Augusta Dornton is, certainly, a charming girl; with you, I admire her singing; but why, dear Harcourt, could you suppose that my mother, whose attention to my education was un- wearied, should have neglected so essential, be- cause fashionable, an accomplishment? If my voice is not all that your nice ear could expect or wish, it proceeds not from want of cultivation." Tremaine, taking the hand of his wife, assured her that if her present strains bore any assimilation to those enlraven on his heart, they must be all the most fastidious could desire, and concluded by wishing that, if enabled, she would, in the morning, gratify him. The note of Maria again presented itself, and caused an unplcasing reverie. "What am I to do?" Tremaine asked himself. "See her, and represent to her the impropriety of a second meeting, or allow her note to remain unnoticed, as a proof of my dis- approbation of her request?" Imagining silence and disapproval of her con- duct the most expedient course, he decided on it, and retired with less painful feelings than he had   OR A FATHER9S WISH, ETC.    95 supposed possible from the first perusal of the bil- let; but his heart said that if he was acting un- kindly to Lady Maria, he was only doing justice to Julia. Julia feeling indisposed the following morning, Tremaine, as he listened to her judicious and ani- mated remarks, and watched with delight the vary- ing expressions of her countenance, found his reso- lution strengthened of allowing Maria's note to re- main unnoticed. Amongst the numerous calls, Lady Buccleugh and her niece were the only persons admitted, and the ladies were convinced that Julia suffered from the fatigue of the preceding evening. They expressed considerable disappointment; as her ladyship in- tended giving a ball, which, she assured Tremaine, she should consider incomplete unless graced with the presence of himself and his lovely wife. Julia, ever ready to oblige, promised, if not pre- vented by indisposition, to add one to the list of her ladyship's visitors, whilst Tremaine unwillingly assented to the arrangement, fearing the exertion would be too much for Julia's delicate health.   9        JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER XII. "No, 'tis slander, Whose edge is sharper than the sword, whose tongue Outvenoims all the venom of the Nile."-SIHASPEARE. ON the appointed evening, Tremaine and Julia repaired to the residence of Lady Bucclcugh, where a numerous party were assembled. As Julia did not dance, Tremaine was leading her to a sofa, when a faint scream arrested his attention. Iastily turning, his senses were for a moment paralyzed, as the pale and lifeless form of Lady Maria Priam met his vie w. In an instant all was confusion; and as Julia felt the arm tremble that supported her, she hurried her husband to a scat; and, throwing open a window, said, "The excessive heat of the room, my dear Harcourt, has nearly reduced you to-the state of the lady opposite. But, see, she recovers. How handsome she is! It is a face quite unknown to me. Observe if you are acquainted with it."   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   97 Tremaine, when he learned from his unsuspect- ing wife the near vicinity of Maria, dared not raise his eyes; and, for an instant, thought of returning home; but the pusillanimity of such- conduct, and the suspicion it might create, caused him to aban- don the intention as soon as formed. Maria was conveyed to a window; and, on re- covering, looked towards the sQfa occupied by Tremaine and Julia. She gave the former a look so tender, yet so full of wo, that he removed from Julia, to conceal his emotion. Contrary to the expectation of all, Lady Maria in a short time had sufficiently recovered to join the dancers; and, to the annoyance of Tremaine, who had sought. this amusement to avoid her, he found himself next to her in the dance. So situated, he could not but inquire after her health; and was answered, without resentment, that she was much better than she desired. While Lady Maria spoke he had an opportunity of observing her altered appearance. The bloom had forsaken her cheeks, and her laughing eye was languid and without expression: and as Tremaine's glances wandered to Julia, who had advanced to- wards them, and was conversing with a gentleman, he perceived that the heat had given a glow to her 9   98       JULIA TREMAINE; round and dimpled cheek; while, as she raised her clear brown eye to the face of her companion, her looks were so innocent, so full of happiness, that his heart expanded with delight, and he internally exclaimed, Sweet Julia! may thy fair open brow ever remain, as now, unclouded by care 1" When the quadrille ended, chance threw Tre- maine near Maria, who took this opportunity of drawing him into conversation. After a few desul- tory remarks, she said, holding down her head, that lie might nlot perceive the blush that mantled herl che!eks (or which ought to have mantled them,) "o doubt, Lord Tremaine, you were surprised at receiving a letter from me?" "After receiving it," he answered, "I am sur- prised to see you here to-night, Lady Maria; for I concluded you were suffering from some malady either mental or corporeal.'" "I am," she returned, vehemently, "suffering from your unkindness-your desertion. Look at my cheeks! Do they appear as they did when first you beheld me? Oh, no! Tremaine you have wreckeld my happiness for ever! To leave me with vows of unalterable love, and to see me not again -to wed another, without sending the forsaken,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   99 the devoted wretch who believed your protesta- tions, one line, to say Farewell " Tremaine was much agitated while she spoke. Dreading, from her vehemence, she would attract observation, he endeavoured to soothe her, to bring her to a sense of her .own and his situation; and concluded by saying, that the vows she reprobated were more imaginary than real; for, from the first of their intimacy, she had known of his betrothment to, another; and he must, therefore, entreat her to be calm; or, if she persisted in conduct so deroga- tory to decorum, he must immediately quit her so- ciety. This threat did more towards calming the im- petuosity of Maria than any plan he could have used; and a gentleman at that moment approaching to request the honour of dancing with her, she told him she was engaged; then, turning to Tremaine fith one of her sweetest smiles, she said, "Accept my thanks, Lord Tremaine, for lecturing me to a sense of propriety. Unfortunately, I am governed by my feelings, instead of governing them. If I had a mentor like you near me, to my cheek when I err, recent experience tells me that my faults would soon be diminished;" and Lady Maria paus- ing, and both remaining silent for a minute, she at   100      JULIA TREMAINE; length raised her eyes languidly, and continued, "Will you extricate me from the dilemma I shall otherwise be in, by dancing with me? for the gen- tleman I refused has been regarding me ever since, and will detect the falsehood." Tremaine hesitated, to see if any method pre- sented itself of refusing Maria's request; then, without speaking, took the hand already offered to him, and led to the set. When the quadrille had commenced, complaining of fatigue, Maria begged he would go in search of Lady Ashton, as she wished to return home. Tremaine had procured a chair for her, and was departing, when Maria, seeing Julia alone on a sofa, told him she would go to her; and, urging him to order the carriage, as her faintness was returning, precipitately quitted him. Tremaine's surprise at her seeking Julia's con- versation for a moment riveted him to the spot; but recovering his self-possession, he departed to execute her commission. Julia, who had long expected Tremaine, was astonished to see him advance so near without ap- proaching her, and followed him with her eyes till he left the room; which lMaria observing, exclaimed, "Like myself, madam, you are regarding Lord Tre-   OR, A FATHER'S WISII, ETC.  101 maine. He is an extremely handsome and elegant young man; but he is surprisingly altered since his marriage. Perhaps you were not acquainted with him previous to his wedding?" "Oh, yes!" replied Julia in alarm, "I knew Lord Tremaine when very young. To what alteration in him do you allude, madam?" Why, he has lost the bloom of health; but no wonder-his marriage was a compulsory one. He was to my knowledge, devotedly attached to a lady in Oxfordshire; but his father persisted in this union spite of his son's wishes and entreaties to the contrary-You are faint, madam; allow me to offer you my salts. The rooms are excessively crowded. Shall I throw open a window?" Julia assured Lady Maria she was perfectly free from faintness; and refusing the salts, said she was merely suffering from a slight headache. Lady Maria at that moment seeing Tremaine, bade Julia good-night, and flew to his side. Learn- ing that all was in readiness to depart, she leaned for support on his arm as he conducted her to the carriage; and Lady Ashton, who preceded, pressed him so earnestly to visit her, that Tremaine, to es- cape farther importunity, consented to call in Bru- ton street. 9*    102      JULIA TREMAINE; It was some time ere he felt himself sufficiently composed to seek Julia, to whlom he had scarcely spoken during the evening; but as he sauntered through the rooms his eye mechanically sought her, till he beheld her seated, with her head resting on her arm. Alarmed lest she was fatigued, he in- voluntarily approached; and, gazing in her face, saw the traces of tears. Anxiously inquiring if she were ill, he took her hand, and drawing her towards him, said, "Julia, this is the last time I shall allow you to spend your evenings from home. To gratify your friends, my love, you will sacrifice your health. I must take you home immediately; for so changed is your aspect these last few hours, that in the pale, inanimate form bbfore me I can scarcely recognise my bright and smiling Julia." "Ah!" tlougllt Julia, "how grateful to my feel- ings would this solicitude have been this morning; but now, alas! the only gratification I derive is the hope that if not blest with the affections of my husband, I possess his esteem." And, for the first time in her life, Julia, from sorrow, passed a sleepless night. The words of Maria haunted her imagination, and banisled her repose-"To my knowledge, he was devotedly at- tached to a lady in Oxfordshire."   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   103 Now, then, his prolonged stay in that county was explained; and his strange behaviour towards her- self when they met proved beyond a doubt that the words were but too true. Ah! why," she cried, in the bitterness of wounded affection, "Oh, why did not Tremaine make a friend, a confidant of Julia! And so de- cided would have been the rejection of his hand, had I known 1ils heart was possessed by another, that my will, most assuredly, would have consented to the union so desired by him." She determined to attend breakfast, that Tre- maine might not suspect that she had any know- ledge of the state of his feelings; and fervently praying to the beneficent Being who can bestow peace on erring mortals to' give her fortitude to bear unmurmuringly His decree, she was enabled to meet her husband with composure. Far different were the feelings of Lady Maria Priam the morning after seeing Tremaine. She was all exultation; for she doubted not, but anticipated, the accomplishment of her schemes of revenge. On arriving in town, she had visited every en- tertainment where she considered it likely to meet Tremaine; but day after day added to her disap- pointment, till at length the determination of wri-   104      JULIA TREMAINE; ting, as we have described, and the receiving no answer to her letter, induced a rage that knew no bounds, for she concluded, from meeting him, that Julia's amiability, which, wherever she went, she was compelled to hear of, had restored her to his first affections. Cursing Julia for possessing more power over him than herself, she was addressing a second letter to him, when arose the recollection of the invita- tion to Lady Buccleugh's ball. She had heard her ladyship speak in very high terms of Lady Tre- maine; and believing it possible she might attend the ball, withi, unquestionably, Tremaine accom- panying her, she prepared to work on the suscep- tibility of the too credulous Tremaine, by por- traying to him her sufferings through his unkind-  By discardingio fromll her cheeks the rouge, which custom liad rendered necessary, and by throwing as much languor into her countenance as possible, she hoped to impress himi with the conviction of lher love for him remaining unsubdued; and so anxious was she to put her plans in action, as to be almost the first to enter the splendid ball-room of Lady Buccleugh.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, .ETCo   105 With intensity of feeling, she heard each name announced; but when Lord and Lady Tremaine riveted her ear, and Tremaine entered, with Julia hanging on his arm in all the confidence of requi- ted love, and she saw Julia's graceful loveliness, and Tremaine's attention to her, her hatred and malice was more than her woman's heart could sus- tain; and, for a short time, she really remained in- sensible. On recovering, she eagerly gazed round in search of the objects ofher anxiety; and, behold- ing Tremaine, she was not slow in discovering his emotion. That he avoided her was evident, and his conduct tended to increase her desire of conversing with him; when, therefore, near him in the quadrille, her recent indisposition forwarded her wishes, by giving to her whole appearance a semblance of ill- ness, whch Tremaine, who believed her what she seemed, thought proceeded from wounded affection. And thus she succeeded in attaching him to her side while she remained in the room; and, as he ordered her carriage, she hinted to Julia certain statements that she hoped would create jealousy, lead to reproaches, and mar the future peace of the husband and wife.   106      JULIA TREMAINE; Lady Maria was herself too guarded to press Tremaine to visit her, but deputed Lady Ashton to perform that part-with what success we are already acquainted.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.    107 CHAPTER XIII. "Patience and Sorrow strove Who should express her goodliest. You have seen xunshine and rain at once; her smiles and tears Were like a better day; those happy smiles That play'd on her ripe lip seem'd not to know What guests were in her eyes."-SHAKSPEARE. TREMAINE was not now so devoted to home as during the first three months of his marriage; but as the town continued full, no other emotion was raised in Julia than satisfaction for the continu- ance of his kindness and attentions the most un- wearied; indeed, so much so, that the impression Maria's insinuations had made on her happiness began to fade away, and she was beginning to re- assure herself that Tremaine's heart was her own, and that her informant must have laboured under delusion in asserting that he did not love her. As she sat, one day, indulging in these musings, and waiting the return to dinner of Tremaine, who   108      JULIA TREMAINE; had been absent since the morning, a letter was brought; and carelessly breaking the seal, without examining the superscription, the following lines met her bewildered sight:- "My beloved -- , many, many thanks for your miniatlure; it lhas just been sent me. What an agreeable surprise! How I long to thank you in person! You will, according to promise, see me this morning. Poor Julia! how I pity her for not possessing your love, though I envy her being your wife!-Yours unalterably,    ' MARIA." The letter fell from Julia's trembling hands; and, leaning back on a chair, she closed her eyes, and endeavoured to lose in insensibility the acute- ness of her misery. "I may yet be deceived!" she cried, starting from her seat, as recalling that no name was men- tioned. "I may yet be deceived! and Tremaine, whom my heart has adorned with every virtue, may yet be deserving of its best-its purest feel- ings." She snatched the letter from the place whither it had fallen; and glancing on the address, found the characters were the same as the well-remem-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   109 bored billet that had caused such emotion in Tre- maine a few weeks since. On inspecting the ad- dress, she saw it was to Lord Tremaine; but so flourishingly was the word Lord written, that a servant might easily have mistaken it for Lady. Julia again attempted to read the fatal scroll that, in a few short moments, had reduced her from a state of felicity to one of real wo; but une- qual to the task, and concealing her face in her hands, she gave free vent to the emotions of her heart. Her grief vas interrupted by the butler's mes- sage to inquire if dinner should be placed on ta- ble, as it was the hour of nine. "Nine!"Julia repeated, " and Tremaine not yet returned " but checking herself, as she observed the attendants regarding her attentively, replied, she felt too unwell to attend dinner; and as the evening was so far advanced, desired Bryan, her maid, might be sent. Taking the letter of the worthless Maria, she locked it in her desk; and hastening to her chaim Ier, resolved to conceal from Tremaine that she knew auglht of his derelictions from duty. "Would that I had ever remained in ignorance of his conduct," she repeated, as she watered her   "O      JULIAX TREMAINE; pillow with the bitter tea s of affliction; for then, as heretofore, I could meet my husband's smiles with rapture, and listen to his praises with de- light, from supposing them the spontaneous effu- sions of affection; but now, his endearments I must consider reproaches, for depriving him, al- tlough innocently, of his heart's dearest treasure. For his attentions are those he may deem neces- sary to the woman he has made his wife--wio bears his name-and whom honour teaches him to watcll over and protect." That she was an object of pity to the writer of the letter, did not, in the least augment Julia's an- guish. Ah, no  Since assured of Tremaine's in- difference, her cup of misery was full-so full, that the world's frown had no more power to in- crease the draught than could its smiles diminish it. It was late ere Tremaine sought his home, and Julia, who had not attempted to seek in repose all alleviation to her wounded spirits, heard his well- known and long expected knock with deep emo- tion. Resentment had some share in her feelings; and, for a moenlt, she wronged her pure and gen- tle nature by supposing herself capable of re- proachng hin for his perfidy.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   " Her heart beat high as he approached her cham- ber; she heard him inquire tenderly and anxiously of Bryan for her; and, at the sound of his loved voice, the woman and his wife rushed tumultuously to her bosom-everything was forgotten but ten- derness for him, and she resolved^ to receive him with the wonted smile of gratulation after a short separation. IBut recollecting, as he turned the lock of the door, that she had passed, ome howrB in weeping, that her face must bear evident traces of tears, she endeavoured to compose her agitation and feign sleep. Tremaine entered cautiously, and drawing near the bed softly, called on her name. Scarcely could Julia refrain from answering; but as she feared to trust her voice, lest she should betray her heart, she remained silent. Tremaine, conceiving her to be sleeping, pressed his lips to her cheek, and, fervently blessing her, retired to seek the repose he supposed her enjoy- ing.- But it was long ere sleep closed his weary eyelids, and Julia, who heard sigh after sigh es- cape his agitated breast, internally exclaimed- "Would that I possessed the ability to restore peace to his tortured bosom, and the loss of my   "2      JULTA TREMAINE; own hlappiness I should, indeed, consider but tri fling!" In the morning, Tremaine, observing the pale check and heavy eye of Julia, took her hand, and inquired, with solicitude, after her health. To her assurance of being well, Tremaine watched her a moment, and replied, "I trust, my dearest Julia, you did not wait dinner yesterday, in expectation of my return; but-but, rather un- fortunately, I met an old friend-a fellow-colle- gian; and we had so much to say, that, on looking at my watch, I discovered it to be most unex- pectedly, considerably past the dinner hour. I therefore sought a repast elsewhere." he was much confused while speaking, and, in suspense, waited the reply of his wife; who ap- proaclhed, andl, with a smile dimpling her cheek, said- "I cannot deny, my dear Harcourt, that I waited long and anxiously for you, perhaps long after you dliscovered it was too late to keep your appointment with me; but had I known you were eijoying tihe society of a friend, dear as your pre- sence is to me, I should not have regretted your absence. But -why not have brought your friend   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   113 home? You know the satisfaction I derive from welcoming any one dear to you!" "I do know it, my love; but he is a riotous being, and, in your present health, I could not ex- pose you to tumult." Julia replied, that she feared he would spoil her by over consideration; and, for the first time, the breakfast past with heaviness and constraint. As soon as it was over, Tremaine's uneasiness in- creased. He wandered about the room until his horse was announced, when telling Julia he had promised to meet his friend at twelve, and it was not likely he should return to dinner, or, at all events, begging she would not delay a single mo- ment, he pressed her in his arms, and hastened down stairs without waiting a reply. Julia went to the balcony as Tremaine quitted the room, and watched him till his form was hid- den from her gaze by numerous vehicles; when, closing the window, she sank on a chair, and, with her head resting on her hands, thought of the change made but a few short hours in her destiny; when, from considering herself the most-enviable of women, she now felt her condition most pitia- ble. She was roused from her reverie by the voice 10)   "4      JULIA TREMAINE; of Lord de Moreton, who, having leen from town several days, had returned unexpectedly, and now entered the breakfast-room without his approach being heard. ITis astonishment at see- ing Julia in an attitude of extreme grief was only equalled by his alarm, and the nobleman stood some moments contemplating his niece before he ventured to pronounce her name. Julia started from her seat as the well-known voice of Lord de Moreton fell on her ear, and, rushing into his expanded arms, welcomed his re- turn with joyful surprise. Lord de Moreton's first inquiry, after affection- ate solicitude for herself, was for his son; and so guarded were Julia's answers, that his suspicions about Maria, whom he feared Tremaine had en- countered, were, in a degree, lulled, and he seemed to breathe freely, as Julia, for her melancholy, pleaded headache as the cause. With what anxiety did she watch the approach of dinner! for her foreboding heart assured her that to-day, as yesterday, would arrive without bringing Tremaine. "And what will my uncle imagine!" she murmured. "Alas! only what he might anticipate, after compelling his son to marry a woman wh)o was indifferent to him!'"   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   115 The dinner-hour came, but Tremaine, as was contemplated by his anxious and sorrowing wife, did not arrive. Again the earl became restless, and perceiving that Julia sent away her plate untouched, deter- mined to discover the cause of his son's neglect; and if, as he feared, there should be a renewed in- timacy with Lady Maria Priam, to frame some ex- cuse to remove him from her, ere he had cause to blush for his conduct. Tremaine arrived as Lord de Moreton and Julia were separating for the night. On entering the parlour, he did not perceive the earl, and was approaching Julia to excuse himself for again leaving her so many hours, when from an opposite mirror, he observed the figure of a man reflected. Hastily releasing the hand he had taken, he hur- ried forward, and beheld, to his infinite dismay, the features of his father, whom he supposed many miles hence. The blood rushed tumultuously to the forehead of Tremaine, as Lord de Moreton, sternly regard- ing him, said- "Julia and myself have been ,nany hours wish- ing your return, Tremaine; while you, no doubt, have been so entertained by yourfriend, that you   "6      JUITA TREMAIANE; deemed us not worth a thought. -However, this unknown Pythias nlust think you very inhospita- ble, for not inviting him to your table. I nope you do not consider Lady Tremaine would or could object to your chosen society-" Julia, who saw and felt for the confusion this pointed speech occasioned, hastily interrupted the Earl, saying- "My dearest uncle, Tremaine is actuated solely by consideration for my health, in not entertaining lis friend in Piccadilly. I was so much indisposed when he left this morning, as to feel inadequate to table-honours."7 Tremaine's eloquent eyes thanked Julia for her kind and timely interference; and, Lord de More- ton, fearing to give rise to suspicions in the bosom he believed ignorant of the existence of cause to disturb its peace, forebore to prolong the conver- sation, and affectionately uttering a benediction on both, retired to devise some plan to remove his son from the vicinity of Maria. Chance aided the wishes of his lordship; for as the trio, the follow- ing morning, were perusing the publications of the day, Lady Buccleugh and Miss Dornton were announced. The visitors called to bid a farewell, intending,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   117 as her grace informed her friends, to leave the me- tropolis in a few days for the continent, where they had some idea of wintering; as travelling and a warm climate were recommended by the fa- culty for the declining health of Miss Dornton. The Earl immediately expressed a desire to Tremaine, that he and Julia would join Lady Buccleugh's party and visit Paris, as it would ena- ble him to complete to his satisfaction, the im- provements already begun in Lough Abbey, the seat he intended for the residence of Lord and Lady Tremaine. Julia was delighted at the proposition, and anxiously regarded Tremaine who appeared irre- solute-his inclination leading him to gratify the evident desire of the Earl and Julia, where some secret cause seemed to promote indecision. Lady Buccleugh and Augusta, perceiving that Lordc de Moreton and Julia, had a motive for leaving England, employed their eloquence to win the consent of Tremaine, who, after a few ineffec- tual arguments, length at ssented, as both ladies most strenuously declared that change of scene was requisite for Julia, whose altered appearance too plainly bespoke that she had suffered from a residence in London.   "8      JULIA TREMATNE; It was therefore decided, as Lady Buccleugh had resolved to leave town in a few days, that the present arrangements should not interfere with their departure; but that her ladyship should, on her arrival at Paris, arrange for the reception of the young couple. Lord de Moreton seemed relieved from a weight of evil, at the decision come to; although he would have derived more satisfaction from their continuance in England, had nothing existed to in- terrupt their happiness, he looked forward with pleasure to their foreign tour. But not pleased were Lord and Lady Arundel, when informed of their children's intention to visit France. They wondered much at Lord de Moreton's anxiety, who endeavoured to expedite the journey. Louisa, who had learnt from Lord Newbourg her brother's penchant for Maria, was assured, as Lough Abbey was situated within a drive of Ire- ton Lodge, that her father had formed the journey to prevent the consequences of reprehensible inti- macy; and was the more assured, as her father had coinmmenced alterations where none was necessary, and planned improvements where none could pos- sibly be made, in so elegant and delightful a man- sion.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   119 She therefore endeavoured to the utmost, to soften Lady Arundel's regret at the prospect of being separated from her much loved child, by in- timnation how much Julia's health would be bene- fited by wintering in a warm climate; especially as Augusta Dornton's health remaining precarious, it might be inferred she would be removed to the south of France for the severe season.' The restoration of her child's health in some degree reconciled the anxious mother to the part- ing; and, with tears, she entreated Lady Buccleugh to watch over Julia's health, and to give her timely intimation, should a change take place for the worse. Lady Buccleugh promised to guard Julia with all possible affection, and endeavoured to smile away Lady Arundel's fear, by saying- "Now Julia is a wife, you must resolve to bear a separation with fortitude." =.   120      JULA TREMAINE; CIUAPTER XIV. "With Edgar o'er the wintry main, She, lovely, faithful wand'rer came."--PENRtOSE. TREMtITNE, who had been induced through the feigned indisposition of Maria, to devote much time to her caprices, knew not how to break to her the tidings of his intended journey, in her pre- sent weak state. Calling in Bruton Street, the morning before his departure, and finding Maria in the drawing- room, he ventured guardedly to inform her of his journey. He was astonished to find it meet her entire approbation. Certainly, the tears stood in her sweet blue eyes, when she told him he acted judiciously in separating from her, and that she trusted they parted to meet no more; yet the look of triumph she wore, almost led him to believe that her sorrow'was not so heartfelt as he ex- pected, or as she expressed.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   121 When, however, he arose to bid a last adieu, she threw herself frantically into his arms, and long and violently on his breast protested that in leaving him she lost all that rendered life desirable. Treliaine was violently affected, and tearing himself from her warm embrace, hurried from the house, and with perturbed footsteps entered the park; in the hope, that by the aid of an autumnal breeze, reason might, in some degree, resume her seat, before he presented himself to the neglected Julia. After pacing several times the banks of the Ser- pentine river, he felt sufficiently revived to rejoice that a final separation had taken place, and re- turned home with more satisfaction than he had experienced since his meeting with Lady Mary at Lady Buccleugh's. Lord and Lady Arundel, with Newbourg and Louisa, were to dine in Piccadilly, and had arrived some time ere Tremaine made his appearance; and many an anxious look had been turned towards the door each time it opened, before she was grati- fied by the sight of the object of her fondest wishes, and much she had feared he would disap- point her hopes, and absent himself on the last day he could pass with their beloved relations. "    122      JULIA TREMAINE; But Tremaine returned; his excuse was readily accepted by all, for all naturally concluded that there were many to whom he had a wish to bid adieu, ere leaving town. Yet, Lord de Moreton really knew how the morning had been spent by the young nobleman; for, as the Earl was passing through Bruton Street, he was surprised to see his son wildly rush from an opposite house, which he discovered to be the residence of Lady Ashton; and, for a moment, was prevented by indignation from following his son, whose hurried manner had much alarmed him, till, seeing Tremaine take the direction of the Park, fear overcame resentment- and, with nearly as much precipitation as Tre- maine, he pursued. When his lordship arrived at the Serpentine, he saw that his son avoided observation, and con- cluded that he had merely wandered there to re- gain lost composure; he, therefore, retracing his steps to Piccadilly, at each step rejoicing that this misguided young man would in a few hours be re- moved far from the woman who was unprincipled enough to receive him with a show of affection, now he was the husband of another. It was a severe trial of the affectionate Julia to   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  123 part from her beloved friends, and she required all Tremaine's kindness for her support. Lady Arundel concealed her own feelings to give fortitude to her daughter, and as she placed her in the arms of Tremaine, after embracing her, said- "To your care, my son, I confide her. My grateful thanks are due to Providence, that I need give you no injunctions to treat my child as she merits. No, you love and value her-and, there- fore, her happiness must ever be your constant care. Adieu, my children!" she added, enfolding both in her arms. 'I shall now cease from tears of parting, and think only of the blessing which will remain in store for me, of a happy, happy meeting," All assisted her ladyship in sustaining the droop- ing Julia, who felt that it was not alone the pang of parting which had occasioned her depression- for a prolonged absence was not expected-but the experience of Tremaine's neglect while in the bo- som of her family. And alas! she sighed, how much more keenly should I feel if doomed to suf- fer from his neglect when removed far from all who were interested in my peace. But were I   124      JULIA TREMAINE; only certain of his affection and attention, all  places, all societies, would be alike to me. Lord de Moreton was the only member of the family who bade farewell to Tremaine and his wife on the morning of their departure; and, in such spirits was his Lordship, that Julia expe- rienced the contagion. The weather was delight- ful; and as the carriage rattled swiftly over the stones of London, and left the noise and smoke behind, her heart was in some degree restored to serenity, and her naturally buoyant spirits re- covered their elasticity. A day's progress exhibited the fertile and de- lightful county of Kent, dressed in the beauties of the commencement of harvest; and content and smiling plenty gladdened in the hearts of our youthful travellers. who, arriving at Dover the second day of their journey, and the wind proving favourable the morning after, set sail with a fine breeze, and in a few hours touched the French coast. Here Julia had ample employment for all her faculties. Everything she saw seemed wonderful, and widely different from the cleanliness and com- fort of our own beloved country; yet every face wore the aspect of gayety, and every voice the bWJ VUU1 ) LVIIU VIV1J VLW U118.'V    OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   125 sound of cheerfulness. The graceful forms of the children dancing beside the carriage, to excite charity, with their happy smiling faces, was a sight so novel, and her remarks issued so spontaneously, that Tremaine hung delighted on her accents, and felt his heart brighten each mile he journeyed on- ward; and, when they entered Paris, clasping her in his arms, he assured the happy girl, that her pcesence had made this the most pleasant journey of his life. Our travellers alighted at the Royal Hotel, and despatched a domestic immediately to Lady Buc- cleugh to inform her of her arrival. Lady Buccleugh lost no time in visiting the hus- band and wife. Her ladyship had prepared a beautiful villa on the banks of the Seine for their reception, whither Julia wished to repair without delay, declining the polite and friendly invitation of Lady Buccleugh to make her house her abode till somewhat reconciled to French customs, which, at first, might perplex and strike with disgust. Julia was charmed with the situation of the house chosen for her future residence, which pos- sessed all the lightness and elegance of a French country house; the grounds were spacious, and laid out with neatness combined with taste, and "*    126      JUTIA TREMAINE; although the season for flpwers was far advanced, they flourished abundantly at Villa Blanche. Julia again regained serenity, for Tremaine was more the devoted lover than the husband, and her letters to England breathed nothing but uninter- rupted happiness. Her visits were paid only to Lady Buccleugh's family. For Augusta she felt the most fricndly warmth, and this young lady, regarding her al- most in the light of a sister, confided the secret of her love for her cousin, Lord Buccleugh, the discarded lover of Julia. Augusta was conscious of his love for Julia, but had not power to subdue her own love; and when a letter was received a few days after, by Lady Buccleugh, who in a conversation with Julia, stated Lord Bucclelugh's intention of speedily joining Ihis relative at Paris, Augusta's heart beat high at the idea of again being in the presence, and listening to the voice of one so loved; and hope, spite of her better jufdgment, would cheer her with the prospect of one day being the chosen of the heart so highly prized-so tenderly beloved. Lady Buccleugh desired the union of Augusta with her son, as, from understanding their charac- ters, she firmly believed that felicity would ensue,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   127 and, therefore, anticipated her son's arrival with an impatience shared only by Augusta. Tremaine having his pony phaeton conveyed to Paris, was delighted in driving Julia round the beautiful country and environs. The admiration which his wife every where excited, was highly gratifying to his vanity, and he was sometimes tempted to regret that her situation prevented him from exultingly presenting her to those societies where she would be extolled as the most beautiful woman that had for some time appeared. Poor Julia! She congratulated herself that she had succeeded in removing Tremaine from the tempter, and hope, that cannot long desert the youthful bosom, flattered her with the prize for which she so ardently sighed-the possession of her husband's heart. One beautiful morning, Tremaine was driving her to St. Cloud, and withkenthusiastic admiration, pointing out to observation everything worthy attention; and Julia, listening with charmed ears, was nigh answering one of his remarks, when a travelling carriage approached with great velocity. Her husband drew aside his phaeton till the pass- ingof the vehicle, which contained, besides another lady, Lady AIaria Priam, who, to Tremaine's con-   12S      JurLI TREMAINE;  sternation, was gazing from a window of the car- a'iage. Julia also recognised Maria, and a cold chill per-  raded her heart on discovering the lady who had so unequivocally told her of Tremaine's attachment to another, and poor Julia's foreboding heart said, her dawn of bliss was ended. She turned to Tremaine-he was pale and agi- tated-and expressed a desire to return. Julia, with pleasure, acceded to her husband's desire. Tlhe surrounding scenery appeared in an instant stripped of its beauties, for there seemed no inclina- tion or ability to break the unpleasant silence which hlad succeeded. Julia could not account for the sudden change in Tremaine otherwise than by the appearance of the lady, whom she imagined to be acquainted with the ol!ject of his regard. On1 tlheir return home, she sighed as she heard him pace, with disordered steps, the library (whi-  ther he had hastened,) and she thought of the power that the object of his love must still possess over him, if a friend could remind him so forcibly of his loss as to chang e him in a moment firom gayety to despondency. "And I, alas was weak enough," she said, burying her face in her hands, to conceal   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   129 even from herself the painful blush which suffused it, "to imagine to buoy myself with the hope that if removed from the presence of his idol, he would -he could-forget her." When Tremaine appeared at dinner, he had re- gained composure, and conversed with Julia in the affectionate strain that was his wont. He studiously avoided leaving the house, and ex- cused himself to Julia for not, as usual, driving her in his phaeton, by saying the weather was too severe for her delicate frame. A week passed in this manner; Julia., perfectly satisfied with any excuse that kept her husband near her, when Lady Buccleugh and Augusta Dorn- ton, passing a day at Villa Blanche, her grace, at dinner, addressing Tremaine, demanded if he had seen the new arrivals. Tremaine answered, with affected calmness, that he was without the latest news, and turned to Augusta to put a frivolous question, hoping to change the conversation; but Lady Buccleugh, with- out noticing the intention, continued- "I am surprised, my lord, the recent visitors here should have escaped your observation, for among them is Lady Ashton and her beautiful daughter, who is, I understand, an old acquaintance   130      JULIA TREMAINE; of yours. I dined with them yesterday, at the Duke de Boulin's, and Lady Maria, as usual, carried off the palm of beauty. She is anxious for an in-  troduction to Lady Tremaine. I, therefore, gave her and her mother an invitation for to-morrow, and I hope your Lordship will not be cruel enough to refuse joining our select party, with Lady Tre- maine." Tremaine, excited while her ladyship was speakl- ing, abruptly declined dining with her; "For, not for worlds," he said, "should Julia and Lady Maria meet. It could be no satisfaction to either, for Maria has often avowed that her inclination would lead her to avoid Lady Tremaine." But, fearing he had said too much, he added, "And Julia has too much innate delicacy to be ex- posed to the remarks of those who wish to know her to gratify their curiosity.", Lady Buccleugh, surprised, and highly offended at Tremaine's remarks, desisted from pressing her invitation; and Julia, seeing the heightened colour on her ladyship's cheek, declared to her husband a wish that he would not risk offending Lady Bhc- cleugh, as she should be perfectly unable to attend from a violent cold, which would render her a prisoner for'some days.   on, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   131 Tremaine, who had a sincere respect for her lady- ship, and who also feared to excite her suspicions, consented, ere the visitors separated, to dine with Lady Buccleugh, the following day. WI   132      JULIA TREMAINE;          f CH-APTER XV. "The iron tongue of time hath told twelve." TREMAINE S dejection, the next day, was appa- rent; he deferred going to Paris until the last mo- ment, and several times Julia was on the point of begging to send an excuse to Lady Buccleugh, so evident appeared her husband's reluctance to leave home. But the seeming selfishness of the desire pre- vented her, nd she saw him depart with an inde- finable fee ing of melancholy, which she supposed origriated\n Tremaine's anxiety at leaving her. *e returned early, and to her satisfaction in better i  ; he did not mention either Lady Ash- ton or her daughter, and, although she wished to learn something of them, she had not courage to ask him. The following morning he left her immediately after breakfast, as he said for an airing; and Julia waited long and apprehensively his return. Win-   OR A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   1.33 ter was far advanced, and the day dark and stormy, and it was concluded he must have paid a call- and yet he visited only Lady Buccleugh-when the last dinner bell rang without his return, and she felt convinced that if he were in her grace's house, her ladyship, who was all consideration, would have despatched a servant to have relieved her anxiety. As watching the quickly-receding hours, for the first timesomething like the truth flashed across Julia's mind, and the belief presented itself that Lady Maxia Priam was the magnet that attracted Tremaine from homei; or why, she asked herself, should he be so averse to an interview taking place between her ladyship and his wife? Why, since Maria's arrival, have secluded her (his wife) almost from observation? Julia wept long and bitterly as each incident impressed the unwelcome truth more forcibly on her senses, and, with all her gentleness, she could not but condemn Lady Maria for giving encourage- ment to a married man. It was late when Tremaine returned to Villa Blanche, and he blamed Julia for waiting for him, in a tone of asperity. The tears rushed to her eyes, and she felt her 12   134      JULIA TREMAINE; heart too full for utterance. Tremaine had before  neglected, but he had always returned to her with, at least, the show of affection. It was the first  time he had spoken unkindly, lowever he might have acted. After several ineffectual attempts, she recovered sufficiently to say- "Had I been assured of your safety, Hlarcourt, I might, perhaps, have retired to rest with compo- sure. When you left in the morning, it was with the understanding of your returningshortly; many hours have passed since then, in uncertainty on my part, for I believed that nothing but inability would have prevented you from writing to he, had a cause existed for detaining you." Trremlaine felt the reproof more keenly than Julia intended him to feel it; and, taking her hand, entreated her to forgive his remissness, to call it by no harsher appellation, and declared that no- thing should again tempt him to cause her unne- cessary uneasiness. But Tremaine's promises were uncertain. Day after day was now passed by Julia in loneliness and regret; she saw him once each day-for he breakfaste1d with her-but le seldom returned home till after a prolonged absence, and she had   OR, A FATHER S WISH, ETC.   135 sought her lonely couch, there to weep and pray, for the return of lost repose; for, since the re- proof from her husband for sitting up for him, she had not subjected herself to a second. Her grief was considerably augmented, by the departure of Lady Buccleugh and AMiss Dorntoin for St. Omer, to attend Lord Buccleugh, whom a serious illness prevented from visiting Paris. Lady Buccleugh offered to leave Augusta with Julia during her absence; but Julia most strenu- ously refused, knowing the state of Augusta's heart, much as she wished and needed the society of a friend--while, as she bade her friends fare- well the evening before they quitted Paris, her melancholy Was so great, that Tremaine, who had arrrived rather earlier than was his custom, passed some comments. "Any one would suppose," he said, "Julia, that you had parted from your nearest and dearest re- latives for ever, you are so deeply affected." I'I prize them as inestimable friends," Julia mildly returned; "and to me, at present, they are nearest friends-for many miles intervene be- tween me and all to whom I am dear." She heaved a sigh as she spoke-yet wishing not to betray the womanish weakness which her   136      JULIA TREMATNE; reason condemned, and pouring out the tea, re- minded Tremaine, who was vigorously stirring the fire, that she waited for him. As she gave him the cup, he regarded her at. tentively for a moment, and then exclaimed- "I wish, Julia, we were comfortably settled at Louugh Abbey; I should imagine the alterations were by this time completed." Julia's heart responded to the wish; and, raising her eyes to his face, she answered- "What prevents our going there, Harcourt, if it is your desire? The abbey must long ere this have been ready for our reception, and what de- light it would be to my dear uncle to welcome us to its venerable walls! Would we were going to- morrow!"' "How? Impossible, Julia?" "NWhy im possible, Harcourt?" "You are not, my love, in a situation to travel, and the season is inclement. No, I fear, accord- ing to my first intention, we must winter here; for I should never be forgiven were I to drag you through frost and snow, although it were even to place you in the arms of your parents." "Oh! I could bear any privation for such happi- ness! Why did I ever leave them?"   OR, A FATHER'S WISI, ETC.   1S3 "Why, indeed, Julia, if the task was so very trying!"7-and Tremaine's countenance became gloomy. With a woman's quickness, Julia considered her husband's remark an allusion to a union he might regret, and felt her heart beat vehemently; and after slight hesitation, thinking, through inadvert-  ence, she had chilled his feelings, answered-- f"How inconsiderate was my request; it would indeed, be impossible for us to travel in such weather! Hark, how the storm rages! I am very grateful you are at home," she continued, shudder- ing, "for I should, indeed, be miserable had you to face this storm!" "I suppose, Julia, you attach the same interest to my fate that you would to the fate of a stranger," returned Tremaine, who had not yet recovered his serenity; " for, so amiable is your nature, that if your enemy were exposed to this inclement night he would not have to complain of your rejoicing at his sufferings."  The anbidden tear again rushed into Julia's eyes; and "You are really unkind, Harcourt!" burst, involuntarily, from her trembling lips-i" to class my feelings for you with what they could be for a stranger!" 12.   138  J- TUTIA TREATTNE,; Tremaine, conscious that he had spoken unkindly, and in a manner her uncomplaining nature did not deserve, clasped her in his arms, and kissing away the truant tear, which stole down her clleek, asked for fo rgiveness. "How easy to forgive where we love!" felt Julia, as, encircled in the arms of her husband, and almost a stranger to his embrace, she forgot his unkind- -ness, his neglect, and remembered only that she loved him. Tremaine did not leave home the next daF, and an observer would have found it difficult to decide whether husband or wife derived most satisfaction from the arrangement. In the evening, however, Trenmaine received a note; and Julia discovered that whatever were the contents of the epistle there was considerable alteration in her husband's man- ner--for, firom being cheerful and contented, sud- denly Tremaine became gloomy and dissatisfied, and declarinfg himself unable to finish the game of clhess they were playing, soon retired to rest, sayingr he was attacked with a sudden headache. The morning rwas clear and frosty after a temples- tuous night; and Tremaine, recommending a short walk to Julia, was assisting lher to her cloak, when a servant entered, to say that Lady Ashton lhad 'I    OR A FATHER S WISH, ETC.   139 sent a verbal message which the domestic was or- dered to deliver to Lord Tremaine only. "A message!" returned Tremaine, thrown off his guard. "What can be her ladyship's motive for not writing? Say," he continued haughtily, "I am engaged, and cannot see any one." The servant left the room, and Julia, who had approached the window, roused Tremaine from the reverie into which he had fallen, by admiring the loveliness of the scenery before her. The sun alone shone resplendently, and dispersed with rapidity the hoar frost which enveloped the trees. She was the child of nature, and so calm, so delightful, did everything appear, after a night of storm and ravage, that her spontaneous effusion was rathter a prayer of gratitude to the Omnipotent, than the cold heartless remark of admiration. Tremaine was at her side as she ended the so- liloquy, and, drawing her arm through his own, smilingly told her she was an enthusiast, and then led her through the grounds. The country lies high around Villa Blanche, and Tremaine, deeming a change would be agreeable to Julia, prevailed on her to extend her walk be- yond the grounds. They had rambled some dis- tance, Tremaine totally forgetful that a message   "O      JULIA TREMAINE; awaited his return, and Julia too happy in his presence to remind him, lest she should be deprived of him, when a gentleman on horseback overtook them, and speaking to Tremaine familiarly, and regarding Julia with looks of admiration, nodded rather than bowed to her, and, smiling significantly, pursued his ride without waiting to be introduced to the lady. Julia inquired the name of the horseman; at the same time saying, she "rejoiced that he did not wait for an introduction, for his looks were so very bold, that had I not been under your protection, Harcourt, I should have considered it bordering on disrespect!" Tremaine started at her observations. "Treat you with disrespect " he returned, fiercely turning his eyes in the direction the horseman had taken; "he dared not!"After a pause, rather softened, he continued, "I think--I hope, my dearest Julia, that your delicacy was unnecessarily alarmed, for did I imagine the being existed who could regard you with unhallowed eyes, his fate would not been- viable." Julia alarmed at having excited the pride, that she could not term jealousy, of Tremaine, endea- voured to banish her husband's fears, and most will-   OR, A FATHERwS WISH, ETC.  141 ingly assented to his belief that she had been deceived, and exerted all the charms of conversa- tion to chase the occurrence from his mind. It was with reluctance that Julia, after a long walk, was compelled to confess that she felt fatigued; for many weeks had elapsed since she had enjoyed such unalloyed pleasure, or had been so long grati- fied with the company of Tremaine, or received attention or kindness from him; and like a miser, she was loath to part with her treasure. Arrived at home, Julia suffered a little from in- disposition which she deemed the effects of the walk; but forbearing to notice her illness, Tremaine was declaring his determination of devoting the remainder of the day to her, when a lacquey-de-vlace entered to remind Milor, that Lady Ashton's ser- vant still waited his pleasure. Evidently disconcerted, Tremaine ordered the messenger to be sent into the ante-room, where there could be an interview. Tremaine was only a few minutes absent from the drawing-room, where he had left Julia. His countenance expressed disappointment and chagrin when he returned; and, approaching his wife, and taking her hand with hesitation, told her that he had most unfortunately engaged himself to dine   "2      JULIA TREMAINE; with Lady Ashton the day before; that he had sent his excuses to her last evening, but her ladyship, bent on seeing him, had refused to receive them. Julia, who was free from every particle of selfish. ness, without hesitation desired her husband not to consider her; and, if it was his own and the wish of Lady Ashton, to pay the promised visit; while she herself would derive satisfaction from knowing he was happy. Tremaine sighed, and repeating the word happy emphatically, said, he felt he was only happy when with her. Julia was on the point of saying, "If such is in- deed your feeling, why not crown our peace by discarding your weakness?" But the time, she thought, had not yet arrived; and she felt that her husband did not sufficiently understand her character, for her to take the office of monitress. Without, therefore, attending to his remark, she said-'"You will, no doubt, return early, Harcourt; I will sit up for you; and, every moment after the prescribed time, rest assured my wishes will only keep pace with my anxiety." Tremaine assured her his wishes would equal her own until he again beheld her, and retired to C   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  143 dress, in the full conviction of rejoining her in a few hours. And, while he is thus employed, we will take a review of Lady Priam's conduct the last few months. When Tremaine parted from her in Bruton Street, he considered the parting a final one; and, althpugh in pity to Maria's feelings, he regretted the separation, he congratulated himself it had oc- curred before he might have cause to repent the connexion, He was surprised at the little appearance of sor- row displayed by Maria, and was induced to sup- pose it originated in a virtuous desire on her part to behold him no more; little thinking that she hailed the prospect of his going to France with delight, as, by following him, she should be freed from the molestations of his relations, and able to pursue her infamous designs to her satisfaction. She prepared for her departure a month after Lord and Lady Tremaine arrived in Paris. When she passed them in a pony phaeton, on her road to Versailles, she almost dreaded she had remained away too long, and determined to lose no time in her attacks. Fortune favoured her, by placing her near Lady Buccleugh, at the Duke de Boulin's; to whom she   "4      JULIA TREMAINE3 spoke so highly in praise of Julia, whom her lady- ship both loved and admired, that Lady Buccleugh felt inclined to abandon the unfavourable opinion she had formed of Maria (spite of her beauty and accomplishments,) and to fancy she might have been deceived. Lady Buccleugh, therefore, showed. iMaria more attention than she had ever done, and concluded by inviting her and her mother to din- ner next day, to meet Tremaine and Julia. Again Lady Maria's plans succeeded beyond her most sanguine expectations; and so powerfully had she pleaded her cause with Tremaine, by imputing to illness her visit to France, that, before the ex- piration of the evening, he was as deeply involved in her arts as ever. Day after day she devised plans to draw him from Julia, and succeeded too fatally in impressing on Tremaine's mind the strength of her own re- gard for him, by yielding to him all that is consi- dered most desirable in woman. This sacrifice, as he thought, certainly had power to keep him from Julia, as much even as Lady Maria could have imagined; for he felt, when in his wife's presence, the reprobation of his con- duct in full force, and dreaded lest his conduct should become known to his father, whose justly-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  145 excited indignation might be the means of sepa- rating Julia from him; for Tremaine feared that Julia's affections were not sufficiently his to resist Lord de Moreton's representations. Whenever Tremaine joined Julia, some pretext was invariably found by Lady Maria to tear the husband from his wife; and, on this last occasion, an indisposition, from which Maria suffered when- ever she chose, had been expedient to draw Tre- maine from Villa Blanche. On entering Lady Ashton's drawing-room, Tre- maine inquired for Maria, and learnt she was con- fined 'by indisposition to her boudoir; and, as was his custom, repaired thither with evident reluc- tance. Maria reclined on a chair-lounge, and, bursting into tears on beholding him, complained bitterly of his unwillingness to come to ace her. She re- proached him for not returning the love she bore him, and declared that his cruelty, together with her dishonour, were more than she could bear. Tremaine, while he endeavoured to calm her agi- tation, could only draw comparisons between the conduct of Julia and Lady Maria. For Julia, at his return, let his absence have been ever so long, received him with the glow of pleasure, and the 13   "6      JULIA TREMAINE; smile of delight; while Maria, if he left her only for a-few short hours, hailed his return with tears and reproaches. Maria, having recovered her smiles, her health improved rapidly; for she had forced a reluctant consent from Tremaine not to leave Paris that. night, as she had planned an excursion for the next day, of which she intended him to partake. Before he sat down to dinner, he despatched a note to Julia, informing her of his regret and ina- bility to see her as he anticipated; and Maria had the satisfaction of knowing, that, while Julia was regretting the disappointment of her hopes, ano- ther was triumphing over her by detaining him.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   147 CHAPTER XVI. "Oh, heaven! were man But constant, he were perfect!-'that one error Fills him with faults."-SHAKSPEARE. JULIA arose early, in expectation of Tremaine's return, and prepared everything she thought likely to tempt him after his morning ride. His letter had expressed his determination of breakfasting with her; and, although she was low-spirited and unwell, she endeavoured to divest her mind of care, in the pleasure of the anticipation of seeing her husband. She had stationed herself at the window to watch his coming; Nbt impatience had drawn her several times to the .reakfast-table to ascertain that all might be as she .,ided, and began to despair of seeing him that day, when a horseman was observed by her in the distance. She doubted not for a mo- ment but it was her husband--and, ringing the bell   "8      JULIA TREIMAINE; with unusual violence, directed the gate to be opened. Julia had hastened into the hall to expedite the servant in his commission; and, when she returned to the window, the horse and rider were hidden from her sight. She stood as long as impatience would permit, when again, unconsciously, ringing the bell, Bryan appeared with a letter, which Julia snatched from the maid's hand, and observed the writing of Tre- maine. The truth now struck her-she had mistaken the bearer of the letter for the writer. The disap- pointment almost subdued her highly-wrought ex- pectations into insensibility; but recollecting that probably something unforeseen had occurred to de- tain Tremaine, she broke the seal, and perused the following lines:- "MY DEAR J LIA,-Again am I, from dire neces- sity, prevented from hastening to you; and, I fear, several days may elapse before I shall see you. I leave Paris for a short time; but every post shall convey to you intelligence of me, and I shall most anxiously expect your answers. Let your health, for my sake, be your peculiar care; and with best   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  149 wishes for your happiness, believe me, my dearest Julia, your truly affectionate "TREMAINE." As Julia concluded the letter, the bitter feelings of wounded affection burst from her bosom in heart- felt sighs. Had Tremaine, she asked herself, really quitted Paris for any length of time, without seeking an interview to bid her farewell? And what had drawn him hence? She moistened the paper which contained his adieu with her tears, and sighed- but sighed in vain; for one remained absent. To leave her at such a time, far-far from all who were interested in her recovery-without one friend to cheer her through the hour of trial which she felt was just approaching!"But complaint is unavailing," she exclaimed, "and, although I had hoped to have him here, I submissively bow to the decree of Providence, who best judges what is right, and what is wrong." The following morning, Julia-the cherished child of a doting, affectionate mother whose anxiety would have amounted to distraction had she been aware of the situation of a child surrounded by none but dependants, and with only one assistant belonging to her own country-gave birth to a son. 13*   150      JULIA TREMATNE; No rejoicings crowned the infant's entrance into being; for none belonging to the babe, save a suf- fering mother, was conscious of its existence. When the babe was brought to Julia, the new- born and rapturous sensations of a parent took possession of her bosom; and imprinting a kiss of affection on its innocent lips, and enfolding it in her arms, she returned thanks to the wise Disposer of all earthly joys, for granting her such a rich blessing. For some days, owing to the anxiety she h-ad un- dergone, Julia remained in imminent danger. She heard only once from Tremai-ne, and Bryan, owing to her lady's inability, had written to him, stating the recent birth; but Bryan's letter remaining un- answered, it was concluded he was hastening home. One morning, the affectionate Bryan presented herself at Julia's bed-side, her face beaming with smiles, and asked if her ladyship was equal to an interview with a friend, as a person waited impa- tiently in the dressing-room to be summoned. Julia, who had but one person in her mind, half raising herself, answered--"Equal to see him! dear Bryan-what a question I Oh, do not, pray, keep me in suspense, but send him to me immediately!" "You mistake, your ladyship," returned Bryan,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  151 dashing away a tear, "it is not my lord who waits to see you-but-" "Not Tremaine!-not my husband!"Julia, in- terrupting, returned. "Oh, Bryan I how could you deceive me with that smiling countenance?"And, covering her face with the bed-clothes, she mur- mured-"I cannot indeed see any other person- do not press, for I am unable." She heard a light step as she concluded, and, raising her head, beheld Augusta Dornton standing near the bed,  Julia extended her arms--and "Ohl forgive my ingratitude-my unkindness '" burst from her trembling lips. "Say no more, my dear Julia," cried Augusta, embracing her, "but show me your child-I am already prepared to love it." The delighted Bryan placed the babe in Au- gusta's arms, and, as she caressed pd upraised the beauty of the infant, the gratified mother re- covered her composure. Augusta refrained from naming Tremaine, fear- ing to wound the susceptible feelings of her friend, as she had heard from Bryan, of her master's neg- lect; and had wondered almost as much as con-   152      JULIA TREMAINE; demned him when thinking of the- numberless vir- tues and graces of Julia. The anxiety of Julia's mind rendered her re- covery tardy. True, she was now blessed with the society and attention of a beloved and valued friend; and she sometimes deemed herself un- grateful for not deriving happiness from those kind attentions; but one desire was ever uppermost in her heart,-the desire that every mother feels,- the pride and joy of presenting her child to its father. On the tenth day of her confinement, she had fallen into a tranquil slumber, and awaking, un- drew the curtains, thinking to meet the watchful gaze of Augusta-but, who can describe her feel- ings, on beholding the pale and disordered coun- tenance of Tremaine. She uttered an exclamation of joy-joy too excessive for her present weakness, and sank fainting on the pillow. When she recovered, her head rested on his bosom, and he was chafing her temples; and the happiness of that moment repaid her for all her sufferings. But what became of the self-condemned Tre- maine, when he heard his neglected wife hail him as the restorer of her peace,-heard her, in answer   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  153- to his repeated calls for pardon, declare that, if she ought to forgive, the present moment com- pletely counterbalanced the offence I He could only press her hands to his heart-to his lips; and as he bedewed it with the genuine tears of repentance, endeavoured to assure himself that his folly had passed away for ever I It was a happy period for Julia-the remainder of her continuance to her chamber-for Tremaine considered himself too happy in attending to her wants. He doted on the infant-repetedly de- claring it was the miniature resemblance of his Julia. Her health being sufficiently re-established to take the air, Julia determined, in consideration for Tremaine, not to seclude herself more than the avocations of a nurse required. She looked - r.  ward to a return to England with delighttough her mother's letters, much as she desirieto se her child, pressed not a return until spring as farther advanced. Lord Buccleugh had returned with his mother  -: and Miss Dornton to Paris, and much of the time of the amiable trio was passed at Villa Blanl;. .li. Lordship still ardently admir&. ;Jula,R and; iath  stolen glances he sometime :':  towards hter2'  sadS&Bifi   154      JULIA TREMAINE; when she was occupied with her child, caused no very pleasurable sensations in the breast of Tre- maine; when he observed them. Julia's conva- lescence again led Tremaine into society; and Maria, whose entreaties for an interview hitherto had been resolutely refused, saw herself on the eve: of accomplishing her wishes. Julia had been introduced to her by the unsus- pecting Lady Buccleugh; and, as she beheld the beauty and admired the talents with which Maria was so enently gifted, her heart half excused Tre- maine for his neglect to herself. For the unaffected Julia, although she had only to be seen to be ad- mired, could not for a moment imagine that her own charms could be noticed in the presence of charms she considered so superior. Another triumph, however, awaited Julia. She observed with pain the attention shown by Tre- maine to Gdy Maria, who would not allow him for a moment  leave her side; and though his eye often wandered in search of his wife, she had al- ways an excuse ready to detain him. She had proposed music-having heard from Tremaine that, since the days of childhood, he had not listened to Julia's "wood notes wild." She concluded, therefore, that Julia possessed not the   OR, A FATHER S WISH, ETC.  155 charm of a fine voice, or he would not have re. mained so long in ignorance of such an accomplish- ment in his wife. Her malignity had been excited more than usual from the general observation Julia had attracted. So general, indeed, had that observation been, as much from the novelty of a new face as from its loveliness, that Maria found hersef completely thrown in the shade. Observing Julia's chair was surrounded by all the elegant and fashionable beaux of Paris, she selected a few connoisseurs in music, and, repairing to the music-room, seated herself at a harp, and having swept the strings, commenced singing an Italian air with great science and spirit. Julia, who was a lover of the concord of swit  sounds, as soon as the tones of music reached her ear, declared her wish to Augusta, who stood near, to hasten to the music-room. Augusta re - sented, and escorted by the gentlemen, they entered the salon de musique. Tremaine hung enraptured over the back of a chair opposite to Maria, as she exerted her really fine voice to the utmost; and when she had finished, every voice was loud in her praise; while as she retired from the instrument, beholding Julia, who   had stood near her, she entreated, with a curtesy, that Lady Tremaine would take her seat at the harp. Julia was nigh declining to sing, when Augusta's entreaties induced a compliance. She glanced at Tremaine as she seated herself, and his look of disapprobation almost annihilated her. Maria was leaning on his arm, and triumph shone in her eyes, as the following words, uttered in an audible whisper, met Julia's ear:- "Why, my dear Tremaine, annoy yourself? if she will expose herself, you must submit to hear her laughed atl" Tremaine's dark eye flashed with rage; and, shfking Maria from his arm, he hurried from the room. 'Augusta, who had likewise heard the malignant speech of Maria-fearing Julia's irresolution would be noticed-pressed her to commence; and Julia, ChPIEat she was called on to disappoint her elfemy, after a slight prelude, began one of Ros- sini'a most beautiful airs. Her voice was one of sweetest melody, and her melancholy had given increased pathos to it. While she continued singing, every noise was hushed, so enwrapt were all in imagination; and some seconds   OR,A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  157 elapsed, after she had ceased, before the listeners broke the dead silence that prevailed. But when their admiration did burst forth, it was mingled with much evident delight; and the gratified Julia arose, covered 'with the modest blush of sensibility. Lord Buccleugh had advanced to lead her from the instrument; but Tremaine, whom Julia's voice had attracted to her side before she had sung three notes, took her willing hand, and drawing it under his arm, withdrew with her to some distance. "How could you, Julia, keep me so long in igno- rance that you possessed so superlative an attrac- tion! every day some new charm unfolds itself;  but the charm of song indeed delights me!" "And yet, Harcourt, as a child, I have often heard you say, that I had a voice of much pro-  mise; but listen--Augusta sings, and you have before derived pleasure from her sweet charms." "Yes, Augusta sings sweetly; but I hear her music with indifference-for only you, my Julia, can ever again delight--all other voices will hence- forth, appear, anything but pleasurable." "Say not so, Harcourt-lest I regret that you  are acquainted with what your affection may con- true into too great a charm; for be assured," she   158      JULIA TREMAINE; continued, smiling, "that all you have before heard with delight, remains as admirable as ever." Maria, who had observed Tremaine's surprise and pleasure during Julia's performance, had con- tinued to watch him, after he had led his wife away, and now placing herself near him, and ut- tering a piercing scream, she fainted. This manoeuvre acted as a talisman in quickly bringing Tremaine to her side, for, dropping the hand of Julia which he held at the time, he rushed to Maria's assistance, and with the aid of restora- tives, assisted in her recovery. She instantly expressed a wish to be taken into the air, and, looking pleadingly at Tremaine, he offered her his arm, and they left the room, amid. the jeers of many, and the remarks of all; for France, although a country that allows great free- dom to married females, is perhaps, the most se- vere in its scrutiny of unmarried females while under the protection of parents or guardians. We might, therefore, conclude that Lady Maria, whose intrigue with Tremaine she took no pains to conceal, would meet from all a just condemna- tion; and that by her arts she had sacrificede9 pretensions to an honourable lover. This, how- ever, was not exactly the case; her extreme beauty,   OR, A PATIERS WIS, TC.    159 with manners' of a most seductive cast, induced was an Italian, whom- she really encouraged from motives of regard--intending as soon as she had enriched herself with the spoils gathered from her dupe Tremaine, to give her Italian suitor a right over herself and her fortune a  The jealous Italian was not always satisfied with her behaviour towards Tremaine, although she had sufficient address to conceal from him the truth, by assuring him that none but himself pos- sessed her affections, and received her favours. J  rk    JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER XVII. "Be thou as chaste as ice, as pure as snow, thou shalt not escape calumny."-SHAKSPEARE. AFTER Tremaine had left Julia so abruptly, she continued absorbed in recollection, until aroused by Augusta Dornton, who, taking her arm, led her towards the saloon. Julia's eye wandered everywhere in search of the object of her affec- tions; but Tremaine had departed; and after waiting a considerable time, her enjoyment for the evening having ceased, she ordered her carriage, thinking, probably, that her husband had returned home without her. Her first inquiry, on arriving at Villa Blanche, was for him; and, with disappointment, she heard he had not yet returned. Hastening to the nur- sery, where her child was enjoying the sweet sleep of innocence, she pressed its rosy lips, and, as her swelling heart revived, fell on her knees before the throne of mercy-fervently praying for forti-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   161   tude and judgment to guide her along the path marked out for her weary pilgrimage. It was long after Julia sought repose that it came to her relief. At every noise, however tri- fling, she started, thinking the truant had returned; but she saw him not till long after the sun had de- serted the south on the following day. Tremaine was greatly perturbed when he en- tered the saloon where Julia sat with the infant on her knee-and, enfolding wife and child in a warm embrace, she thought she perceived a tear fall upon the tiny hand of her child as he stooped to caress it, evidently with the intention of con- cealing his emotion. Julia felt her own eyes suffuse on beholding the tear, for she feared he again'intended to absent himself, and had come to Villa Blanche merely with' the view of bidding her adieu. She was, therefore, most agreeably surprised when he told her he meant to pass the day with her, and ringing the bell as he spoke, gave orders to be denied to every one. HIow assiduous were Tremaine's attentions this day to the happy Julia; and how did the deluded hope again cheer her with the view of happier prospects!   162      JULIA TREMAINE; In the morning, as Tremaine returned from Paris, he was accosted by the Count de Rossie, the nobleman whose looks Julia, on a former occasion, thought bordering on freedom. "So, my lord," said the count, " you are hasten- ing to your lovely brunete whom you seclude at your snug retreat, after having feasted on the beauties of the bewitching Maria. Happy fellow! to possess two such mistresses Were it generally known, you would be the envy of half Paris!" "Insulting puppy 1" reiterated Tremaine, trem- bling with rage, dare again to utter your base sarcasms, and I swear, solemnly, to chastise you with the weapon I now hold;" and Tremaine raised his riding-whip. This threat was more than the high-spirited Frenchman could brook; and, after a trifling alter- cation, they agreed to decide their grievances with pistols in the Champs Elysees at six o'clock next morning. The Count De Rossie returned to Paris, be- lieving he had acted, by challenging Tremaine, as nature and honour demanded; but his adversary, as he pursued his way to Villa Blanche, had widely different sensations. Conscience told him, had his conduct towards Julia been such as her virtues   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  163 merited, the insult had never been offered to her fame; but, like most people who live in error, he determined to inquire more, and, although con- demning himself, reprobated the count for daring, after having seen Julia, to class her name with opprobrium, thus endeaiuring to reconcile himself to the ensuing meeting, by supposing the count deserved to suffer for his insolence. Towards Julia he conducted himself as if nothing had happened; and she attributed his abstraction and uneasiness to weariness of her society, and tried to cheer his drooping spirits with the song of cheerfulness, ,and words of genuine affection. Towards evening his perturbation was more ap- parent, and when she rose to retire for the night, he embraced her, and excused himself from accom- panying her, observing there were letters of con- sequence to write. Julia sighed as she returned his embrace, and wondered what letters he could possibly have to write, that need rob him of repose. Although her cheek pressed her pillow, sleep was a stranger to hel eye-lids, and anxiously did her bosom throb with emotion as she heard the agitated footsteps of Tremaine pacing the library. At five in the morning he approached her cham-   ,                  4' -   JULIA TREMAINE; ber, and, supposing he was about to enter, she en- deavoured to assume some composure. He re- mained a few minutes at the door, and Julia, in the stillness of twilight, heard him sigh profoundly, and retrace his way to the library. Shortly af- terwards, the hall-door Bas gently opened, and., springing from her couch, Julia unclosed the win- dow curtains, and beheld him, with his English servant, in the grounds. Tremaine, meeting her eye as he anxiously surveyed the window, kissed his hand, and hurried from the garden. Julia continued standing in the same melancholy position long after his form had disappeared from her sight, and his pale face and heavy eye haunted her imagination, and convinced her, alas! too plainly, that he was a prey to mental malady. Hurrying on her dress she repaired to the grounds, hoping the morning breeze would restore her serenity, but her peace had received too deep a wound to be easily healed. The day drew towards its close without any- thing having transpired to excite Julia's suspicions as to the occurrence of the morning, when feeling weary of the book she was perusing, she threw the volume aside, and tried to beguile the time by fixing her attention on the surrounding country,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.    165 which a full-orbed moon rendered doubly splendid. The hills and valleys glowed with the beauties of vegetation, and all without appeared to partake of  tranquillity. Near a year had elapsed since Julia had left England, and suddenly her thoughts re- verted to her happy country and beloved friends; and an age seemed to have intervened since she had been blest with their presence. Her meditations were disturbed by voices be- neath the window, and, hearing her name pro- nounced, her attention was arrested, and the fol- lowing dialogue met her ears, the speaker being a servant of her own, who said- "A duel, Monsieur Jacques! was either of them killed? Speak quickly, that I may hasten with the communication to my lady." "I cannot say that either gentleman was killed," returned the other (who was a counmtryman) with the utmost sangfroid, " but, certainly, one of them was wounded, for I saw the wounded party removed from the grounds, and I think he was called Lord Tremaine." Julia heard no more. Tremaine involved in a duel, and wounded! His agitation, his melancholy, the preceding evening was, indeed, fatally ac- counted for ! Rushing down stairs, she was in the presence of the two men before she was herself  166      JULIA TREMAINE; aware, and, in a voice of agony, demanding where the wounded gentleman was conveyed, and, throw- ing the man her purse as she spoke, entreated him to be her guide to the spot. The astonished countryman, surveying the purse which Julia had given to him, declared his readi- ness to conduct madame to the spot where he be- lieved monsieur was carried wounded. Wrapping herself in a cloak, Julia hastened to follow the man, but so intense was her anxiety that she was much oftener the conductor than the con- ducted. Her elegant figure failed not to arrest the atten- tion of -the loiterers who thronged the streets of Paris; and long after nightfall frequently was her  progress interrupted by the look of freedom, and the nod of impertinent familiarity.  They were pursuing their rapid footsteps through the Rue de Rivoli, when their haste was impeded by a crowd, much to the chagrin of the wretched  Julia, who felt every minute an age which kept her from her husband, whom she expected to find alone, wounded, and in mental misery. As. these distressing thoughts filled her heart with agony, the door of the dwelling, around which the crowd had collected, opened, and a lady and   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  167 gentleman descended the steps. Julia at that moment raised her eyes, but how impossible is it to paint her feelings when they fell on the forms of Tremaine and Lady Maria Priam I Joy, surprise, and indignation assailed her mind by turns, and paralyzed the power of utterance. As Tremaine passed near her, she made an attempt to catch his arm, but her strength failed her, and she beheld him place Lady Maria in the carriage that waited for them, with the assiduity of a lover, and then followed her into the carriage. As the vehicle rattled from the sight of Julia, she felt herself truly isolated, and, leaning for sup. port against the balustrades, gave herself up to the delirium of the moment, and eased her aching heart by deep and heavy sighs. The' countryman who attended her, alarmed. and surprised at her sudden indisposition, endeavoured to arouse her; and her servant, who followed unperceived, and unsuspected by her, now stepped up, and respect- fully inquired if he should procure a fiacre. Julia, with joy, hailed the presence of her ser- vant, and, arousing herself from her sorrow, de. !red him to convey her home with all haste. The nan immediately departed on his errand, leaving tulia under the care of the countryman, at the door I        ,' -   168      JULIA TREMAINE; of her husband's mistress-late at night-in the streets of a foreign country I What a situation for the daughter of the noble Lord Arundel-the niece of the proud Lord De Moreton  She who, from infancy, had had her wishes almost anticipated- she, who had ever been accustomed to a train of willing attendants-now found herself afflicted and deserted, and her only protector a man, whom, till within the last few hours she had never beheld!  She was leaning in deep and sorrowful medita- tion against the railing, when a gentleman passing, attracted as much by her distressed attitude as her elegant appearance, endeavoured to procure a glimpse of her face. Fearing to be recognised by any person she knew, near the house of Maria, Julia rapidly retreated, whilst the gentleman fol- lowed, and respectfully requested she would feel no alarm, as his only intention in addressing her was to inquire if she needed assistance. Julia turned at the well-known voice of Lord Buccleugh, and, uttering a faint exclamation, sunk  fainting into the extended arms of friendship. The servant arriving with the fiacre, the asto- nished Lord Buccleugh placed the insensible Julia in the vehicle, and, ordering it to the residence of his mother in the adjoining street, entered the car-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC,  169 riage himself to assist, if necessary, in Lady Tre- maine's recovery. The consternation of Lady Buccleugh and Aun gusta was great when the youthful peer entered the saloon with the pale inanimate form of Julia in his arms; and, as they applied restoratives, were in- formed by his lordship how and where he had found Lady Tremaine. They instantly surmised that the hapless girl had hurried to the house of Maria in the idea of meeting Tremaine; and, although con- demning a proceeding that exposed herself to in- sult, they deplored that there existed a cause to prompt such decisive measures. They had heard of the duel which had taken place in the morning-had understood the occasion of it-but had never, for an instant, considered that Tremaine could be heartless enough to leave Julia to be made acquainted by servants and stran- gers with such a momentous affair; and, believing he had returned to Villa Blanche after the affair was over, they had been deterred from calling, ac- cording to promise, not wishing to interrupt their supposed reunion. Julia remained long in happy insensibility; and, when she recovered, beheld the anxious Augusta )athing her cold hands with the tears of the most 15   )    JULIA. TREMANE ider commiseration. For a moment recollection ain deserted the sufferer, and starting from the Fa on which she reclined, she exclaimed, gazing 'Idly round the room- What may all this mean? Why is Augusta in ars? Are, indeed, my worst fears verified? Is remaine then--" At the sound of that name, although uttered by erself, Julia's scattered thoughts resumed their rpire. She burst into a passionate flood of tears, rhich relieved her overcharged heart, without  neeting any interruption from her sympathizing riends, who wisely considered that the tear of affliction gives the greatest relief when left to flow free from all molestation. As soon as Julia had regained composure, she  acquainted her friends with the cause of her meet- ing Lord Buccleugh, and, in return, heard the par- ticulars of the meeting in the Champs Elyses thus  described: According to etiquette, Lord Tremaine fired first, and wounded his antagonist slightly in the arm; the count immediatelydischarged his pistol, and missed his lordship. The seconds then inter-  fered, and the young men willingly exchanged hostile for friendly feelings. The count was at-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   171 tended tohis hotel by Tremaine, who, after seeing every requisite attention paid him, departed with the intention of returning to Villa Blanche, to ease Julia's aixiety in case the affair should have been misrepresented. As, however, he was crossing the Rue de la Paix, Maria, with disordered looks and dress, presented herself, and, frantically seizing his arm, thanked Providence that he was safe from the dangers of the duel. Tremaine, though much annoyed, endeavoured to pacify her (fearing her gestures might attract observation;) but this he soon discovered was im- possible, unless he consented to accompany her home; and, flattered by-her apparent distress on his account, he reluctantly proceeded with her to the Rue de Rivoli. He forbore writing to Julia, intending to hasten to her the first opportunity; but so deeply did Maria envelop him in her wiles, that evening ar- rived, and found him still listening to her syren voice. He now tried to assure himself that, if Julia had heard of the meeting, she also must have learnt of his safety, and endeavoured to reconcile himself to his conduct, by believing that Maria's attachment deserved some trifling sacrifice on his part; and   172      JULIA TREMAINE; that, although Julia, as his wife, was an angel in her behaviour towards him, yet, if she loved him with half Maria's warmth, it would be impossible for her to greet him, as was her custom, with such cool and common place complacency. This idea, intended as a cordial, gave rise to un. pleasant reflections; and he began to imagine that if he himself was indifferent to his wife, perhaps Lord Buccleugh, whose attentions to Julia he had frequently observed, might not be so wholly dis- regarded. Maria had often hinted that Julia was not exactly what his fancy painted; and he resolved, in future, more minutely to watch her countenance and man- ner when in the Duke of Buccleugh's society. As he strode rapidly the length of the room, Maria, who had entered without being perceived by him, gently arrested his course by laying her hand on his shoulder, and, in a soft, melancholy voice, entreating him to become her escort to a ball that evening, her mother being too indisposed to accompany her. Tremaine made twenty excuses, which, however, were instantly overruled by Maria; who, when she had once fixed her mind on any purpose, was de- termined on its accomplishment.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  173 He therefore consented; again thinking, that by this time, no doubt, Julia had retired to rest, and that it would be more consistent to wait until his usual hour of returning home. But as Tremaine conducted Maria to the car. riage, we must do him justice by saying, that his heart was more with Julia than with his lovely mistress; and had he suspected that his neglected wife was a witness of his attentions to her rival, and had been in search of him, supposing he needed her kindness, he would have flown to have eased her anxious affection, even at the risk of losing Maria for ever. 15*   174      JULI, TREMAINE; CHAPTER XVIII. "Trifles light as air Are, to the jealous, confirmation strong As proof of holy writ."--SHASPEARE. JULIA was accompanied home by Lord Buccleugh and Augusta Dornton, the latter declaring her in- tention of faining with her friend until the fol- lowing morning. Julia looked her thanks; and Augusta perceiv- ing, that kindness from those who, in a manner, were strangers to her friend, reminded her forcibly of Tremaine's neglect, wished her cousin a hasty good night, and, taking Julia's arm, led her to the drawing-room, while, by conversing on different topics, she had the satisfaction, ere repairing to her chamber, of seeing a gleam of cheerfulness irradi- ating the countenance of her friend. Lord Buccleugh was early the following morning, in his inquiries after Julia's health; and he,with the   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  175 - ladies, were finishing a social breakfast, when Tre- maine rode to the door, but not without instantly perceiving, as he passed the window, Lord Buc- cleugh in deep and earnest conversation with Julia. His arm -lung over the back of her chair, and her beautiful eyes were resting on his face, as she listened with anxious interest to his words. As Tremaine entered, Julia arose with precipi- tation; and was about taking his hand to congratu- late him on his happy escape, when his darkened countenance and repulsive manner quickly de- terred her, and drove her again to her seat beside Lord Buccleugh. Imagining, however, that his coldness toward her originated in hI knowledge of her excursion of the preceding evening; and feeling, that although he might condemn her folly, he was its cause, and should be its full excuse, she resumed conversation with Lord Buccleugh, in the hope of creating a general discussion. Tremaine, who had observed Julia's movement with looks of high displeasure, then turned to Au- gusta, and requested her to assist him to a cup of coffee; for Lady Tremaine," he continued, forcing a smile into his agitated countenance, "is so plea: singly occupied at present, that she forgets by fast is requisite after a four miles' ride, fasti - AIRi   176      JULIA TREMAINE; Augusta, who pitied the undeserved confusion of Julia, impressively answered- "Lady Tremaine has indeed been occupied since last she saw your lordship, with sufficient to de- prive her of memory and everything else; but the long-wished-for felicity of seeing you, will, no doubt, restore not only recollection, but her se- renity." Tremaine now, for the first time, observed the pale cheeks and heavy eyes of Julia; and, ap- proaching her, he took her hand, and inquired, with some solicitation, after her health. Julia, who had felt a something resembling in- dignation, site of her magnanimity, which had prevented her shedding tears, coolly replied, that she was perfectly free from indisposition; but had endured much from uncertainty of his fate, after having heard of his being engaged in an affair of honour! "( But you must have heard of my safety at the same time that you became acquainted with the occurrence, Julia?" "Oh, no! I was assured of nothing, or much pain would have been spared me. Not until last night 4 ::!-:i? aware of the danger you had incurred. A ':?tryman   informed me you were wounded. I   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  1" acted precipitately, I am now, convinced, in giving implicit credit to the man's assertion. He, how- ever,-became my guide in search of you, as I be- lieved you were in suffering and anxiety; but," Julia continued, as a slight blush overspread her face, and a sigh burst from her bosom, that mise- ry, however, I escaped; for, in the Rue de Rivoli, I had the pleasure of beholding you-well-and, as I supposed, happy!" Tremaine, whose embarrassment was evident while Julia spoke, exclaimed, with vehemence, as she pronounced the last word, "And you were last night so near me, Julia! You saw me-perhaps, needed'my protection-and yet allowed me to pass in silence! But, no doubt," he added, "you possessed a companion that ren- dered my presence unnecessary- unwished-for, perhaps!" Hle glanced his indignant eyes around him as he spoke; but Lord Buccleugh had silently left the room along with Augusta. And, with folded arms, he traversed the floor in moody perturbation. Julia's wounded pride would have led her to. retire from one who was so ungrateful as to sus- pect her very kindness; at a time, too, when his neglect of her was so glaring; but, subduing her   178      JULIA TREMAINE; resentment, she replied mildly, though firmly, 4, The being exists not who could make your pre- sence aught but pleasure to me, I believe, Trc- maine. I need not say, the person who attended me, and who, till last evening, was a stranger to me, was the only companion I possessed when .I so unexpectedly beheld you. I attempted to pro- nounce your name; but the surprise-the pleasure of finding you so different from what my fears had represented, wholly subdued me, and I failed in the attempt; whilst your sojourn near me was so very short, that before I had rallied my spirits, the retreating sound of the vehicle that contained you was all that was left me." As Julia ended, the unbidden tear rushed to her eye, which Tremaine, whom her words had attract- ed to her side, observing, wiped away with the hand of returning tenderness; and, encircling her waist with his arm, he demanded, in a voice of contrition, the particulars of the eventful evening. Julia unreservedly informed him of every cir- cumstance, with the exception of her feelings when she saw him enter the carriage with Lady Maria; for her delicacy prompted her, and she did not wish to triumph over him, who, in spite of his   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  179 faulty conduct, was the being her heart fondly believed to be the foundation of all her happiness. Tremaine heard, with contrition, the pain his instability had cost Julia; and, although he wished that a service had been performed by any one sooner than Lord Buccleugh, he felt himself bound in gratitude to tender his thanks to that nobleman for the obligation. He therefore sought his lordship, who coolly re- ceived his thanks, but declined his invitation to continue with Augusta at Villa Blanche the re- mainder of the day; and the cousins, as soon as convenient, took an affectionate leave of Julia, and a formal one of Tremaine; leaving the recon- ciled and now happy couple at least satisfied with the arrangements. The morning of the duel, Tremaine had deposit- ed a letter in his desk to be delivered to Julia in case the result had been fatal to himself. He had given his servant directions how to act; but his. own intentions were immediately to see'his wife if he escaped; and then, immediately after, to ex- plain his conduct of the preceding evening, deem- ing it wiser, in consideration of her feelings, that she should remain in ignorance of the duel until its termination."   180      JULIA TREMAINE; He was deterred from his intention by the sud- den appearance of Maria, and, after being some time with her, his anxiety for Julia diminished. A servant of Lady Ashton's had observed Julia -attracted, at first, by her striking appearance, and afterwards by her visible indisposition when she clung to the railing; and the domestic, con- tinuing his watch, perceived Lord Buccleugh ad- dress her, (his lordship's person being well known to him,) and heard him pronounce the name of Lady Tremaine. He therefore thought proper to notice more, that he might have something worth com- municating to Lady Maria's woman. Accordingly he saw Lord Buccleugh assist and accompany Julia into a fiacre, and heard the coachman ordered to his lordship's residence; and he retired, well satis- fied with the result of his curiosity, to make a confidant of my lady's woman; who was not slow on her part in making her lady as wise as herself. Lady Maria listened with greedy ears to the supposed assignation; and, hastening to Tremaine, who was then thinking of escaping, that he might fly to Julia, commenced, with a few additions of her own, relating the particulars of the scene to which her servant had been witness.  Tremaine's eyes flashed indignant fire as Maria   Ot A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   181 attempted to traduce the fair fame of his Julia. and when she had concluded, he declared, pas- sionately, that the whole was a vile fabrication to lessen his wife in his estimation. Julia-the child of purity-unattended in the streets of Paris--for the purpose of assignation!-the bare idea was too absurd for him for a moment to imagine, much more to credit; and he turned abruptly from the wily speaker as he contemptuously spoke. Maria, smiling incredulously, and feeling she had more claim upon his generosity than his regard, desisted from the debate; and, taking his arm, was leading him to the breakfast room, when Tremaine, disengaging himself, said he had determined be- fore he saw her, to ride to Villa Blanche, to de- jeuner; and, therefore, must decline-her hospitality at that time. Maria had recourse to her usual method of de- taining him-tears; but on this occasion they failed in their effect; for, after several unsuccessful attempts on his part to comfort her, he departed, with the assurance of seeing her again shortly. When Tremaine had mounted his horse, which had some time waited for him, he felt his heart, in spite of the knowledge it possessed of Julia's vir- tue, assailed by the most unpleasant fears; and 16   182      JUIJA TREMAINE; urging the animal to its utmost speed, he performed his journey in a shorter time than it had yet been accomplished by him. The gate of the villa was open when he arrived; and, entering the court-yard, his sensations nearly overpowered him, on beholding Lord Buccleugh and Julia in so familiar a position. He was not slow in dismounting, and rushed, not very ceremo- niously, into the room, when the sight of Augusta Dornton, who had wholly escaped his observation, partly assuaged his anger-but not so far as to in- duce him to press the proffered hand of Julia. The insinuations of Lady Maria, that had cost him so much pain, appeared at once verified; and, quite forgetful of the censure his own conduct merited, his heart accused Julia of inconstancy. But while he listened to her explanation, un- mingled with one reproach, he acquitted her of aught that could make her character less lovely; and as he gazed on the exquisite beauty of her face and form, and dwelt upon the graces of her mind, a thousand times hle asked himself why such a being should be slighted for one who, although nature had been most bountiful to her, was yet in all other respects so much her inferior. "And do I possess the affections of this beaute-   OR, A PATHER'S WISI, ETC.  183 ous creature!" exclaimed Tremaine, mentally, as he watched the gentle, unassuming assiduities of Julia to promote his comfort. "Oh, no! How impossible! Has any one action of mine since I vowed at the altar to protect her been such as to ensure thenm? Even if her heart then elected me as its choice, could love live through unkindness and desertion? Alas, no! my own heart assures me it could not; and what I so highly prize--what I would give worlds to possess-is, I fear, lost to me for ever!" Julia observed his melancholy, without knowing the cause; and feeling her spirits forsaking her, but concealing her depression under the aspect of a delicate gayety, resorted to every method likely to restore him to wrhat she fondly remembered him in the days of their youth-light-hearted and cheerful, the delight of his friends, and the admi- ration of every society that he entered. She reminded him of the sports of their child- hood; she warbled to him the simple airs that had at that early age touched his heart; she led him to the nursery, to point out the beauties of her boy; and Tremaine, who doted on the babe, just becoming interesting, caressed him with all a fa- ther's fondness; and as the gratified Julia marked   184      JULIA TREMAINE; the smile of affection illumine his fine countenance, she prayed that the day might not be distant when he would regard his home as his dearest and greatest blessing. The day passed in uninterrupted happiness, save by Tremaine's regrets that he should not long be allowed to enjoy the sweets of domestic peace; and, oh how he longed to fly from the syren who thus stepped between him and his happiness! And a thousand times he formed the idea of escaping with Julia to some place where the witcheries, the seductions of Maria could not reach them! But he was deterred from acting thus wisely by believing that the blow to Maria's love would be more than her nature could sustain; and he more than ever despised himself for being tempted by beauty to become, as he imagined, the despoiler of innocence. How long Tremaine would have absented him- self from Lady Maria we will not take upon our- selves to determine; for the elegance and neatness which everywhere met the eye and delighted the taste at Villa Blanche so strongly contrasted with the disorder of Lady Aslton's residence, that when, on the second day, he received a billet from Maria, requesting his immediate presence on an   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  185 affair of moment, he felt, although in hourly ex- 'pectation of a summons from her, almost electri- fied, and was half-determined to allow the note to remain unnoticed. But the dread of her present- ing herself to Julia (and as she had frequently threatened, laying her wrongs before her,) deter- mined him to see her; though what could induce her to write so pleadingly astonished him, for her terms were now, in truth, those of absolute com- mand. He, therefore, bade Julia an affectionate fare- well; and with no very enviable feelings, pursued his way to Paris. On arriving at Lady Ashton's,. Tremaine was struck with the more than usual confusion that reigned in the dwelling of her ladyship; and, re- pairing to the drawing-room, he beheld Lady Maria with dishevelled hair, and in all the usual show of excessive grief. Tremaine demanded the cause of all he beheld; and was informed by them, as soon as permitted by her sobs, that her mother, having contracted a debt which she was unable to discharge, was in momentary danger of being disgracefully dragged to a prison. Shocked by this intelligence, Tremaine hastily -  16   186      J ULIA TREM AINE;  demanded the amount; and heard, with consterna- tion, that the sum was two thousand pounds. Ilow to act he knew not; for although Lord de Moreton's allowance was princely, he had already overdrawn his banker's account, owing to the fre- quent supplies Maria had received from him. He acquainted her with the unfortunate dilemma in which he was placed, and that it was impossible for him at present to raise the money. Lady Maria's grief became overwhelming, and she entreated him to ask Lady Tremaine to ad- vance the money. He started at the indelicate proposition; for if Julia had the money required, how, under existing circumstances, could he de- prive her of her purse! Besides, for a considera- ble period, he had not inquired into the extent of her household expenses, from not lately having had it in his power to give her what he felt she must require. Tremaine was aware of Julia's exactness, which would not permit her to be asked for payment of a bill a second time; and he repeatedly assured Lady Maria that from Lady Tremaine she must expect no aid. Maria's grief was distressing to Tremaine; and how willingly would hle have relieved it, had he   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   187 possessed the ability at this juncture! She re- peatedly assured him it was not for herself she de- manded his friendship, but for her mother,-her respected, her aged mother-that she petitioned! This appeal to his benevolence in behalf of age at length overcame Tremaine; and rushing from the house, without allowing himself to consider of the promise extorted from him, he without think- ing of his horse, hurried with anxious steps to the presence of her whose hand, he knew, was ever open, as her heart was ready to assist the children of distress. Julia, who perceived the unexpected approach of Tremaine from a window, hastened, with pleased precipitation, to welcome his return. But his pace slackened when he saw her white garments fluttering in the breeze; and most bit- terly did he regret attending to the suggestions of the artful Maria; and as Julia greeted him with the glowing smile of grateful love, his agitation nearly overpowered him; and leading her into the house he forced his reluctant tongue to utter the following:- "I fear, Julia, when I acquaint you with my er- rand, my return will not be so very acceptable as   1 8      JULIA TREMA INE; your speaking countenance whispers to my heart it now is." "I trust, my dear Harcourt," replied she, in alarm, "you have received nothing unpleasant from England. My foreboding heart tells me, from your too visible emotions, that my mother, or one equally dear to us, is unwell! Do not, I en- treat, increase my anxiety by suspense. Tell me at once the worst-I am already prepared to bear it." "Do not, my Julia, unnecessarily distress your- self. I most sincerely hope our friends are all enjoying good health. I assure you I know nothing to the contrary. But," he hesitatingly continued, while his forehead deepened to crimson, "I have a favour to request of my Julia. Can you assist me with a sum of money?"Tremaine's voice sunk to the lowest ebb as he pronounced the last words. And Julia, who was relieved from a weight of wo by his assurance that her relations were well, instantly unlocked her writing-desk, and taking from it her purse, with joy placed it in the hands of her husband. How delighted I am, dear Harcourt, to be able to administer to your wants. Only three days   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  189 since I received a private remittance from my dear grandfather. It yet remains untouched, for I settled my house-keeping accounts last week. I had devoted'this to the decoration of my person, but I now, with much greater satisfaction, devote it to your wishes. Its contents are a thousand pounds-sufficient, I hope, for your purpose!" Scarcely could Tremaine falter, though falter he did, that the sum required was two thousand pounds. "I have applied to you, Julia, in this emergency," he said, "because one is in danger of being im- mured in a prison. Perhaps the fault is hers- I believe it to be so-but she is a woman of highly respectable connexions, indeed of rank, and se- verely would the disgrace fall upon her son, now in England, who is a tried and valued friend of mine. Nothing but the claims she has upon me as his friend could induce me to acquaint you with her unfortunate situation, and so deprive you, al- though but for a time, of the munificence of Sir John Hamilton."' "And," Julia asked, her eyes beaming with be- nevolence, ' it is my husband who would apologize to me for aiding him with my mite to assist dis-   190      JULTA TREMATNE; tress? Have we not a sufficiency for the occa- sion?" Tremaine acknowledged he had overdrawn his banker, and that he possessed not the means of discharging the debt without applying to a friend. "No!" returned Julia, "there exists no neces- sity for such an application. Take these; you re- member them, Harcourt-the wedding present of your father. The pearls are very fine, and the diamonds of the first water, and a jeweller will advance a thousand pounds on them readily. Next week, when your remittances arrive, how easily can they be restored to me!" While speaking, Julia unclasped the ornaments from her throat and arms, and offered them to Tremaine, who, gently repulsing the hand that presented them, said, 'Do you imagine me capa- ble, Julia, of depriving you of your jewels? No! rather a thousand times should Lady Ashton's abode be a prison for life, than I submit to what would render me hateful to myself, and despicable to my family!"  Julia started when she heard the name of Lady Ashton. Tremaine had requested her assistance; but quickly repelling her rising feelings as she thought the more faulty the greater her claim to   OR, A FATHER9S WISH, ETC.   191 compassion, again entreated him not to make her wretched by refusing the pearls; there being no other alternative of rescuing the unfortunate debtor from her present difficulties. But it was long ere Trernaine's proud heart could submit to deprive Julia of her ornaments-- the highly prized gift of his father; and, more and more, he bewailed the folly which had instigated him to such an act, and internally vowed that, with the redemption of the jewels, all intercourse should cease with the unworthy Maria for ever. Deeply affected, he took an affectionate leave of Julia, and reluctantly repaired to the expectant Maria;- when, throwing the purse on a table, he slowly drew the pearls from his bosom, and press- ing them fervently to his lips, asked her where her jeweller resided, that he might procure the re- mainder of the money advanced to defray her mo- ther's debt. Maria's eyes sparkled with exultation as she gazed on the jewels; and, telling him she would send for Monsieur Byon, she extended her hand to receive them. But Tremaine, who dreaded to lose sight of them, instinctively replaced them in his bosom,   ^. t0     J[lUt 'LJUlAX TREtAIN :;i ,aying, for security, he would place them in the hands of the jeweller himself. Lady Maria had too much address to betray her chagrin; but determined that Julia, as a reward for her nobleness of soul, and the admiration it had visibly excited in the breast of Tremaine, should be lortified as far as her malignant spirit could inflict.  Assuming her softest voice, she told Tremaine, she thought he had better not be seen in the affair; she herself would offer the trinkets as her own,  by which means names would escape publicity. Tremaille on consideration, and after many doubts and fears, agreed at length to place the jewels in Maria's keeping; but as he transferred them, desired her to guard them with vigilance, as they belonged to an angel. And without deigning to notice the profuse thanks showered upon him by the mother and daughter, he with the rapidity of an anxious spirit, hurried to Villa Blanche and Julia.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   193 CHAPTER XIX. "He that stands upon a slippery place, Makes nice of no vile hold to stay him Up."-SHAKSPEARE. THmE following morning as Tremaine hung en- raptured over Julia, while she sung the air that had so charmed him at Lady Buccleugh's, a loud ring at the gate caused both to hasten to the win dow. A carriage entered the courtyard, and Julia dis- cerned a lady, and gentleman, whilst Tremaine soon perceived the Ashton livery. The smile of peace instantly forsook his countenance and mur- muring, "Am I ever to be thus annoyed? he im- petuously threw himself upon a couch. But not long was he allowed to remain in this position. The door opening, a gentleman advanced towards him; and seizing his hand with cordiality, protested that he called upon him to welcome him to Parisp 17   194      JULIA TREMAINE; Tremaine raised his head as the voice of Lord Ashton was recognised, and half-returned the warm salute; but the consciousness of having in- jured the brother in the person of the sister, de-  terred him from giving his lordship the friendly welcome he in reality felt. While Tremaine was thus taken by 5nrprise, Lady Maria had approached Julia; and thanking her, in the name of Lady Ashton, for the service she had rendered, entreated the favour of her pre- V sence to a quadrille-party that evening, the party to be given in honour of her brother's arrival. Julia felt irrepressible reluctance to hold any communion with persons she knew to be her ene- mies; but imagining it would give satisfaction to Tremaine, gave a cold assent to Lady Maria's pressing invitation; and Lord Ashton demanding to be introduced to Julia, relieved Tremaine from his confusion, and Julia from the unwelcome con- ference with his sister. As Lord Ashton took the hand of Julia from Tremaine, he exclaimed, imprinting the k iss of gallantry-- "I was surprised to learn from Maria that you had become a devotee to silver rills and flowery meads, Tremaine! but after beholding this gem of   OR, A-FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   195 loveliness, my wonder ceased that your eyes should be dim to all minor transactions." Julia's cheeks became rosy red as her eyes fell upon the equally crimsoned ones of Tremaine; and even Maria, at being thus detected in a palpa- ble falsehood, condescended to let nature have her due; for, spite of the application of her rouge, her heightened colour was visible. Tre- maine, fearing his friend would continue his blun- dering, took his arm, saying he had much to ask that was interesting only to themselves; therefore, with permission of the ladies, they would, for a short time, retire to entertain each other. As soon as the gentlemen had departed, Maria threw herself on an ottoman; and closing her eyes, seemed quite unconscious of the presence of Julia, who had made one or two unsuccessful at- tempts to draw her into conversation; but deriving relief from conduct intended to mortify, Julia took her work-box; and occupying herself with a purse she was knitting for Tremaine, awaited his return with Lord Ashton. As soon, however, as the friends returned, Lady Maria, whom Julia for the last half hohr had really considered asleep (so motionless iad she   196      JU LIA TREMAINE; been,) arose with alacrity; and ringing the bell, directed that her carriage might be in readiness. Her brother demanded the cause of her haste, declaring, bowing to Julia as he spoke, he had no inclination to quit Paradise so soon after having been introduced to an angel. Lady Maria, endeavouring to conceal her disap-  probation of her brother's gallantry, said she was  dying of ennui, for there had been nothing to en- tertain her in their absence, but the Gothic style of Lady Trenaine's dress. "I have been rating her," she added, "for wearing such an unbecom- ing cap. Only imagine, pink for a dark woman! Really people's want of taste quite affects one's nerves.  Tremaine had turned towards Julia while Maria was speaking; and in an instant had viewed every part of her dress, and had thought he had never seen her look so lovely, although a smile of con-. tempt played on her lip. She was not, certainly, so alluringly attired as Lady Maria; but so chaste, so simple was the tout ensemble, that he involunta- rily regarded the envious speaker with an angry frown. Not, however, so silent was Lord Ashton; for, regarding Julia while his sister vented her jea-   OR , A FATHER'S WrsI, ETC.  197 lousy, he scarcely allowed her to finish, exclaiming, in tones of admiration-   - "In pity to mankind, Lady Tremaine, continue to wear what my sister so openly terms unbecoming; for were it possible for you to appear more tran- scendent than I now see you, the peace of many would be destroyed for ever!" Lady Maria, to conceal her rage, took the arm of Tremaine, and asked him to hand her to her carriage; and telling her brother as she passed him with a malignant smile at Julia, she had no desire to hurry him from his charmer, departed. Lord Ashton, evidently chagrined at his sister's rudeness, with much grace and politeness, bid Julia adieu, begging her to be merciful to the froward. ness of a spoiled child. Julia, heartily disgusted with both brother and sister, rejoiced at their departure, sincerely hoping never again to have the honour of entertaining them in an abode of her own; and when Tremaine joined her in the saloon, acquainted him of Lady Ashton's invitation; and, with much surprise, heard him express his disapprobation of her acceptance of it. "As you have already accepted it, Julia," he said, " it would appear like pique on my part, were 17.    198      JULIA. TREMAINE; I to omit attendance; but the Ashtons are the last family in the world I would wish you to visit." Julia regretted not sooner informing him of Maria's request, and worlds would she have gien had any plausible excuse occurred to save her from makinr the promised visit. She attended to the request of Tremaine this evening, and taste and elegance were alike exerted in the adornment of her person. She wore a simple lace dress, presented to her by Tremaine on her birthday; and the emeralds that encircled her throat and arms were delicately contrasted by the snowy whiteness of her skin. Wnhen she entered the room, where Tremaine waited for her, he started with pleased admiration at the loveliness of her appearance, and no longer marvelled at Lady Maria terming her cap unbe- coming, when it concealed hair of such luxuriance and beauty. Delighted and proud,he led her to the carriage, gratified with the adnmiration he felt sure Dho would meet, and trusting that no mortification would assail her to dissipate the smile of pleasure from her lip, or to dim her eye with the tear of in- jured worth.  On arriving at Lady Ashton's they were received   OR, A FATHERIS WISH, ETC.  199 with every demonstration of respect by her lady- ship and her son. Lady Maria had not yet left the arduous toils of the toilet; and Julia derived satis- faction from being spared the discomfort of being longer in her vicinity than necessity required. Dancing waited, for her ladyship. Julia was engaged to Lord Ashton, by whom she was sitting, whilst Tremaine was removed only a short distance, and was in animated conversation with the lady he had selected for his partner. Julia was enjoying more happiness than she had deemed possible under that roof to experience, when Lady Maria, who had entered unperceived, advanced to welcome her. Julia was coolly but gracefully returning her compliments (as she scanned the costliness of her ladyship's dress, and the little attention paid to delicacy in its assortment,) when her eyes acci- dentally fell on her ornaments; and how impossi- ble to paint her surprise, her indignation, when in them she beheld her own pearls and diamonds, which she had only the day before given to Tre- maine, to procure a loan for the debt contracted by Lady Ashton. For an instant she closed her eyes, but believing she might be deceived,she again attentivelyviewed   200      JULIA TREMAINE; the clasps; she could not mistake; the diamonds  were large and peculiarly set. Oh, too surely they  were her own! and she had become the dupe of  Tremaine, to gratify the whims of an artful design- ing woman, who was bent upon the destruction of the peace of both husband and wife. Maria, who had exultingly watched the varying  countenance of Julia, now, with seeming noncha-  lance, stretched out her arm to her brother, and demanded what he thought of Lord Trremaine's present; adding, she had only received it yester- day. Lord Ashton admired the jewels exceedingly, and turning to Julia, told her " she was wrong to allow her lord to present such costly gifts unless on particular occasions." Julia, who had summoned pride to her aid, and had succeeded, during his lordship's inspection of the jewels, in regaining composure, asserted, re- garding Maria impressively, she believed they were presented on a very, particular occasion-one that would be as equally memorable to herself as it ought to be to Lady Maria Priam. As the quadrille sets were forming, and Maria's partner advanced to claim her hand, Julia was spared a retort. Lord Ashton now wished her to   OR, A' FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  201 join the set; but Julia found to dance was impos- sible, and declaring the heat was oppressive, ex- cused herself from performing her engagement. His Lordship would willingly have kept by the side of Lady Tremaine, but Julia assuring him she was utterly unable to converse from the pain in her head, he departed, to seek another partner; and Julia, finding herself free from intrusion, sought a retired part of the room, where, partly concealed near a window, she gave free vent to a passionate burst of sorrow. And, ah! how secondary was the loss of her pearls to her, compared to the manner in which they had been procured; "And were it possible," she asked herself, as her heart swelled nearly to bursting, "that the highly-born, the candid, the generous Tremaine had become so base as to de- scend to a falsehood for the attainment of his wishes!" ,She was interrupted in her painful meditations by the sound of a footstep, and placing her ringlets over her eyes, to conceal that she had been weep- ing, turned to see who was near her, and discovered Tremaine; who missing her from the merry throng, and learning from Lord Ashton of her indisposi- tion, had been in search of her. He inquired, with   202      JULTA TREMATNE; kindness, if she were better; but instead of an-  swering his inquiry, Julia coolly desired him to order the carriage, as she wished to return home. "Home!" repeated Treinaine, in the accents of surprise, for the first time observing her altered appearance. "What, my dearest Julia, is the cause of all I hear! and say--say, has anything occurred since I left you, to occasion the very striking change in your manner, as well as looks?" Julia, imagining that Tremaine was acquainted  with the cause of her nnea oiness, as he must have seen Maria, indignantly repeated her request for the carriage; and finding she could no longer trust her voice without betraying her feelings, again en- deavoured to escape observation. Tremaine, wondering at the coldness of Julia, so unlike herself, departed instantly in quest of the carriage, and soon returned to accompany his wife to Villa Blanche. Their ride was a silent one; Tremaine fearing  to inquire the cause of her taciturnity, lest he should hear it originated in some insulting re- marks from Maria; and Julia, unable to overcome her indignation, remaining wrapt in deep and sor- rowful contemplation of the future. She retired to her chamber as soon as she en-  1S   '0f, A FATHER'S WISH; ETC.  203 tered the house, and, before the throne of mercy, fervently prayed for the restoration of peace to her wounded bosom; and after the duties of devotion, she arose with-calmness, and sought the repose she so greatly needed. In the morning, Julia was happy to discover, that, with the agitation of the preceding evening, had subsided her indignation towards Tremaine; and, meeting him with her wonted affection and cheerfulness, he supposed (as he really wished to suppose) that the agitation that had alarmed him was the effects of fatigue or indisposition. And this would, perhaps, have been one of the happiest days Julia had passed since Lady Maria's arrival at Paris, (so assiduous was Tremaine to promote her comforts,).had it not been embittered by too frequent retrospection, and circumstances too recent to admit of doubt. Lord Ashton dined with Lord and Lady Tre- maine, but Lady Maria was not present--and Trec maine continued at home for several days follow. ing the eventful evening, and appeared sedulously ;o avoid Paris-for,if he took an airing with Julia, t was invariably in a contrary direction. Lord Ashton had become a constant visitor at Vrilla Blanche, much to the annoyance of Julia-   201      JULIA TREMAINE; and so marked were his attentions, so open his ad- miration, that even Tremaine began to observe them with sensations of jealousy. His lordship had been some time endeavouring to persuade Tremaine to join him with a party on a hunting excursion; but so much did Tremaine enjoy the comforts of home, that he knew not how to leave them. However, as on his refusals, Lord Ashton had not spared raillery, and continued to persecute, Tremaine, not relishing the imputation of being a jealous husband, consented to accom- pany him in the proposed hunt. This was a new trial to Julia; for she feared, if again separated, the wily Maria would find some expedient to part her from her husband; and Tre- maine, observing her dejection, regretted the pro- mise he lhad given, and repeatedly assured her that a week would be the utmost that would be yielded to the excursion; and that during his ab- sence she could arrange for a departure for Eng- land, wlither they would hasten immediately on his return. And this was a sweet balm to Julia, to cheer the moments of parting; and she dwelt with delight on the anticipation of its accomplish- nent. The morning Tremaine left Villa Blanche, as he   Olt, A FATH1ER'S WISH, ETC. 205 enclosed Julia and her infant in his arms, he pro- rnised to write to her by each day's post, and ob- tained from her a promise of daily correspondene. "I have much, my Julia," he said, "for which to ask your forgiveness. I have been, I know, if only by detaining you from your friends, the cause of embittering much of your time; but once again in the bosom of our family, adieu to aught but bliss! T am partly induced to join this hunting party (which is most repugnant to my feelings,) that nothing may intervene to prevent our leaving France; for were it known, indeed suspected, many obstacles would be thrown in the way of our journey." Julia promised to comply with his wishes; and, assuring him that his letters in his absence would be her greatest solace, entreated he would allow no opportunity to pass without writing. Lord Ashton, who suddenly attended to make his farewell compliment to Julia, interrupted the converse of the husband and wife, to the regret of both; for more confidence had been felt by them then than they had known during their short but eventful union; and they eagerly anticipated future felicity. X !S   JULIA TllEtMAlINE  ,Soon, however, Lord Ashton and Trelnailne de- parted, and Julia with indescribable sensations, watched them till their forms became specks in their horizon.   OR A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   207 CHAPTER XX. "Farewell--od knows when we Shall meet again- I have a faint, cold fear thrills through my veins, That almost freezes up the heat of life- I'll call them back again to comfort me."-SHAKSPEARE. Mss DORNTON, apprized of the departure of Tre- maine, hastened, with the precipitancy of friend- ship, to Villa Blanche. The amiable girl had much wherewith to inform Julia, and was certain of a pleased and willing auditor. Julia was pleased with the cheerful aspect of Augusta, and was not slow in congratulating her on the change. Augusta blushed as she implied a trust, that she should not be condemned by fastidiousness, in being easily won; for, my dear Lady Tremaine," she said, covering her face with both hands, "you have long known the state of my heart, and I, therefore, need not tell you all that I endured when I found that my poor cousin had bestowed   208      JULIA TREMAINE; on you his first affections. Many a sleepless night it cost me, and many an anxious hour by day. And, I am sure you will believe me when I say, that had his love been returned, I should have suf- fered less-for I should have known he was not doomed to the miseries of unrequited regard. You smile at what you may, perhaps, call rhap- sody, and, no doubt, imagine a kindred feeling made me wondrous kind. Be this as it may, I will not dwell on it, even had I the ability. I knew Frederick to possess a strong mind and steady prin- ciples; that when you were once married, he could not long remain your captive. And as love cannot long exist without hope-hope sustained my love, although, sometimes, it wavered, when 1 observed his ardent glances at yourself. At those times, I mentally inquired, should time change my cousin into a suitor of mine (hardly daring to suppose he could ever be my lover) could I, in delicacy, ac- cept or receive for a husband him who had been attached to one in all respects so much my supe- rior! Again, Julia, you are smiling. Well, I am not in a humour to'chide: so I will even leave your ruby lips to show your pearly teeth to ad- vantage. You are aware of the devoirsl I have lately received from Lord Alcroft. Several times   O1, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   209 I have observed Frederick's discomfiture when chance or design has thrown me near his lordship; and often my heart has fluttered with delight, in- stead of pity for my cousin. However, not to tire you more than is absolutely necessary with my tale of love, yesterday morning Lord Alcroft en- closed, under cover to my aunt, a tender of his hand and fortune to your humble servant; and Lady Buccleugh, who has a few secrets from her son, instantly made known to him the contents of the letter. He appeared paralyzed; and, as an in- ducement to me to accept his lordship's offer, called him all the conceited, presumltuous fops you can imagine. "I wondered where to find a termination to this -and, on my aunt, inquiring what answer she should return, I answered, from the knowledge Lord Buccleugh had of my lover's character, the answer had better be left to his dictation. Fre- derick was elated at my words; in an instant the cloud had vanished from his brow, and was re- placed by the brightest sunshine; and, seizing my hand, he asked if I really desired he should act as had been intimated. I assured him I had no re- gard for Lord Alcroft; and, without waiting for a 18*      210      JULIA TrEMAINE; second bidding, he penned what I presume was a refusal to my suitor's epistle. , "My aunt judged it expedient, at this crisis, to leave the rooml. I was preparing to follow, when Frederick fell at my feet, and poured forth his doubts and wishes. How could I act, Julia! thus taken by surprise! I believed, with most young ladies who have been thus peculiarly situated,-I listened-all my inflated notions of delicacy, and my resolution of passing a life of celibacy va- nished, for I saw the being I had loved hopelessly at my feet. I gave an unreluctant consent to be- come his wife; and, I trust, have crowned the hap- piness of us both." Julia expressed real delight from the narration of Augusta, for she had often blamed herself (al- though innocently) of being the cause of her friend's pale cheeks and colourless lip; she con- gratulated her with warmth and satisfaction, and demanded when the happy event was to take place. i"Not till we return to Buccleugl," replied Au- gusta, " as it is my aunt's wish to have every thing conducted with old English hospitality. We there- fore think of quitting France early next week-   OR, A FATHERS WISH, ETC.   2" both Lord and Lady Buccleugh expressing much anxiety to deprive me of my liberty." Julia told her she was herself preparing for the same journey, and that their departure was also fixed for the approaching week. That Julia was soon to leave France, was a source of extreme pleasure to Augusta; and the friends decided, should it meet the assent of Lady Buccleugh, to wait, the return of Tremaine, and commence their departure on the same day. As the friends had completed their arrange- ment, they delightedly greeted the visit of Lord Buccleugh, who most willingly entered into plans, providing only for the continuance of Tremaine at St. Omer's, not exceeding the promised time of re- turn; and Augusta consented to take her residence with Julia until the given time had expired. Lord Buccleugh passed the best part of each day with them, and all was harmony and peace. Tremaine was a constant correspondent-and Julia had no- thing to regret, and, indeed, nothing to wish, save her husband's speedy return. A few mornings after, her peace received a blow. Bryan, as eager as her lady to leave France, and, to quote her words, the odious language she had never been able to comprehend, appeared be-   212      JULIA TREMTAINE fore Julia with a countenance in which sorrow and anger struggled for preeminence. Julia regarded her maid for some time, placing and replacing the packages in their respective de- partments, before she inquired the meaning of her discomposure; and dreading to hear of new trials, waited with anxiety for the answer which poor Bryan found it impossible to give immediately. After wiping away a tear, Bryan said, "I fear, madam, we shall not see England so soon as we anticipated, which will be a severe disappointment to me, for I have thought of nothing lately, but Lady Arundel pressing my dear young master to her heart." Julia had also had the same pleasurable antici- pation, and, without noticing the first part of Bryan's speech, she answered, her beautiful eyes illumined with affection, "What a pleasure it will be, dear Bryan I How fondly my mother will love me for her Julia's sake!" "Oh, no doubt her ladyship already loves him! and it will be cruel of my lord if he really should postpone the journey." "Why should you imagine a postponement, Bryan?" asked Augusta. 4 Ah! I wish it was imagination, Miss Dornton,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  213 but I fear it will prove a sad reality; for Lady Ashton has given up her house in the Rue de Rivoli St. Omer's, who has, I understand, pre- pared accommodations for them for the next three months." Julia's heart sunk within her at this direful in" telligence; and much she feared that poor Bryan's high-raised expectations, like her own, were doomed to meet with disappointment. Augusta essayed to comfort her, by reminding that only three days re- mained unexpired before Tremaine might be ex- pected; and that even should he be a day or two over the time, how immaterial! It would but cause their expecting friends a little anxiety, which an arrival at home, well and happy, would easily dissipate. Julia endeavoured to be, reconciled by her friend's reasoning. But where we have once been deceived, we fear to trust; and she had to summon fortitude to enable her to bear the parting with Augusta, which she felt would eventually follow. How anxiously the arrival of the post-boy was anticipated by the trio at Villa Blanche! TIe came, but alas! there was no letter for the expecting Julia; and Augusta had little to offer as comfort, for she feared her friend was destined to disap- pointment.   214  '    JULIA TREMAINE; At length the morn of the day was ushered in, on which Tremaine had promised to return, and not till long after midnight would Julia yield up the hope of seeing him-when, weary with expec- tation, she retired to her lonely couch, to pray that the morrow would bring more comfort. However, another, and another day passed; a week had fled, and she remained without answers to her last three letters. She saw her friends hopelessly waiting to accompany her, and her grief each day increased; till, determining no longer to detain others, and free from selfishness, Julia urged the departure of Augusta and her fie nds. For some time Augusta refused to listen to her earnest entreaties to leave her. How, she inquired of herself, could she desert Julia, now she needed so much the presence of friendship? But her ar- guments were overruled by the high-minded and delicate Julia, who strove to conceal her wounded feelings, that she might not tinge with gloom Au- gusta's approaching happiness. "Of what avail, my dear girl," she would say, "is keeping you near me one week after another? We must part-why then prolong the hour? And, although our parting is not under very favourable   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  215 auspices, a happy meeting will repay us for all our sufferings. You weep, Augusta, as if you left me destitute of protection, and devoid of all felicity! Surely you forget that my husband is but a few miles distant; and, while my little one is spared to me, how blest I think myself, and how grateful I am for the blessing!" Augusta tenderly pressed the hand of Julia, as she thought on the husband she remembered with affection. What protector could she, alas! consi- der Tremaine, who could voluntarily leave his wife for days, nay weeks, without an inquiry after her health or repose? But not daring to give utterance to her thoughts, in pity to her friend, whose spirit she knew was deeply wounded, in spite of Julia's attempts to be cheerful, she retired to a window to conceal the rising tear to which her friend's-trials had given birth. The following morning, a letter, the post-mark tngland, addressed to Tremaine, attracted Julia's attention and surprise; the seal was black, the paper edged, but the characters unknown to her. With indescribable sensations she turned it over and over, half inclined, by opening it, to satisfy her forebodings. But the consideration and hope   216      JULIA TitEMAINE; that it might be on business deterred her; and, en- closing and forwarding it to the post, she trusted its contents would restore the long absent and ex- pected return of her love. Augusta had prevailed upon the impatient Buc- cleugh to wait the return of a letter from Tre- maine; and, for another week their departure for England was deferred. But when, at the expiration of the week, no let- ter arrived, or anything to give rise to the suppo- sition that Tremaine would answer it in person, an excuse no longer existed which could reasona- bly be adopted by Augusta to detain her friends in France; and accordingly, as all had been kept in readiness, their journey was to commence the morning following. The preceding evening Lord and Lady Buc- cleugh and Miss Dornton passed with Julia; and it was decided they should take St. Omer's in their route, that a letter might be delivered to Tremaine by Lord Buccleugh; as Julia had intimated her suspicions that he could not have received her letters, and allow them to remain unanswered, after his frequent promises'to the contrary. When Julia gave her last adieu to the friends from whom, latterly, she had derived her almost   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  217 only consolation, her fortitude nearly forsook her; and, hurrying into the Villa to hide the emotion which nearly overpowered her, she, free from ob- servation, allowed the bitter tearKto flow long un- restrained. She felt herself indeed, now alone in a strange land-without one sheltering breast to which to fly for refuge, or one protecting arm to help in the  hour of need. Her emotion was interrupted by Bryan's knocking at the door to request admission. The faithful creature had seen her beloved mis- tress rush into the house in all the tumult of grief; and, knowing that sorrow is often soonest assuaged by free indulgence to it, had suffered her lady to remain unmolested until she d'eemed it prudent to interrupt her. The summons of her maid recalled Julia from her misery; and, desiring Bryan to enter, she soon found her infant placed in her arms; while its nurse said with a sigh--"Ah! madam, in the sor- rows of friendship you forget maternal solicitude; or why, in indulging in grief, forego the delight of protecting your child!" Julia heeded not the words of Bryant though aware that their meaning was suitable to the occa- sion; and pressing the babe to her bosom, ex- 19 '   218      JULIA Tl1EMAINE; claimed, while the mingled tear of love and indig- nation strayed from under her long and silken lashes, "A double duty is mine to perform, sweet babe; a father's love through life will not sweeten the cup. Ah, no I Thou wast born to be an alien to his affection, from being the child of the. de- spised Julia I Be it, then, the delighted task of thy mother to guard thy helpless infancy, to watch thy maturer youth; and, should it prove that de- sertion is too truly our lot, may no selfish sorrow cause me to forget, that whatever thy father's er- rors, thou wast born to love and honour him 1"   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETCo   219 CHAPTER XXI. "ike the lily That once was mistress of the field and flower'd, I'll hang my head, and perish."-SHAKSPEARE. As Julia sat, sad and solitary, the following evening in her chamber, watching the setting sun, that, with roseate hue, tinged the waving corn and graceful vine, the tread of horses' feet caused her to move to the window with rapidity. Her heart beat violently, when she discovered the rider to be English, and the animal to be urged forward with the utmost speed. "He is come!" she exclaimed. "He has re- ceived my letters through Lord Buccleugh. Oh , how could my heart accuse him of cruelty-of for- saking me! The gate was speedily opened, and she flew with joy into the hall, to greet the return (as she supposed) of the long absent one. But the heart, so fondly beating with hope and love, was doomed   220      JULIA TREMAINE; to a cruel disappointment; for, as the man dis- mounted, she recognised Lord Ashton. Surprise, for a moment, took from Julia the power of utterance; but, rousing her faculties, as the idea glanced that Tremaine's illness had brought his lordship to Villa Blanche, she faintly demanded to whom she was indebted for this unex- pected visit. The visitor entered the saloon as she spoke, and his lordship, closing the door, took her hand, and raising it to his lips, answered:- "To your all-subduing charms, sweet Julia!- Since the first moment presented them to my ad- miring eyes, naught else has had power to oblite- rate them." "Then Tremaine, my husband, is well!" inter- rupted Julia. "My forebodings, Heaven be praised, are unfounded!" and the tears relieved her for a moment. Lord Ashton appeared softened by her sorrow; but recovering himself, as Julia dried her tears, he said- "Tremaine was well when I parted from him last night, and, what is far better, in the full en- joyment of all his wishes. Look not so wo-be- gone, my charmer! for, if you have survived his love, I am willing to lay my devoted heart at your   OR, A FATHER'S WISfH, ETC. 221 feet-to fly with you to any part of the globe- give up my kindred--my connexions, all-all for one answering look of love in return." He again attempted to take her hand as he con- cluded; but Julia, indignantly retreating from his touch, exclaimed, "And is this the man Lord Tremaine has chosen for his friend? His family the family he has se- lected from all others to be his associates? I am not indeed surprised that he should swerve from his duties, while so closely followed by disgrace and vice, in the specious garbs of affection and friendship." She attempted to leave the room, but Lord Ashton placed himself against the door. "Think not," he said, endeavouring to stifle his rage, "so easily to elude my love; and, believe me, when I pronounce that Tremaine is unworthy one particle of your affection. He has long carried on an intrigue with my sister, which I have delayed punishing with the contumely it merits in conside- ration of your virtues; but deny my supplications -reject my wishes, and my vengeance will speedily fall upon your husband-the dishonour of my only sister. But so firmly have you coiled the chains of love around my heart, that all shall be forgiven 19*   222      JUITA TREMAINE; -nay, forgotten-if you consent to fly with me. Remember your wrongs, Julia; if you pity not my sufferings, think on them-and let them actuate you to resentment---." "Wretch!" exclaimed Julia, her countenance lighted up with contempt. "Wretch! too insignificant for my anger! Know that I despise your threats equally with your pro- mises! And did I but possess the means of ac- quainting Lord Tremaine with your insolence, the chastisement you so justly merit should quickly be your reward; but it is from your machinations, and those of your sister, whose dishonour you are so willing to hide, by accomplishing mine, that I am indebted for the deprivation of a husband's pro- tecting arm to shield me from insult. Under this roof you cannot remain another instant; therefore do not augment your villany by refusing to follow my servant, when he receives my commands to show you to the door." She rung the bell as she spoke, and, on the ap- pearance of the servant, ordered Lord Ashton's horse to be prepared immediately; and, quitting the room with a firm and steady step, left his lord- ship too much thunderstruck at the result of his visit, to hesitate submitting to her commands. But his lordship's rage increased from his views   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  223 being so easily foiled by Julia's coolness, and as he pursued his route towards Paris, he was compelled to seek food and shelter for himself and his tired beast. Julia's person and manners had made a deep impression on his lordship's heart. He soon dis- covered how -Tremaine and his sister were af- fected, and argued therefrom favourably to his own wishes; he, therefore, encouraged Lady Ma- ria's views, by throwing Tremaine as much with her as possible, by which he hoped to enjoy Julia's society. Her coldness and evident dislike towards him baffled his schemes, and disappointed hisvanity; and he determined, by separating her from Tremaine, to throw her more in his power. He planned the hunting party with this view, and called upon his ready sister to aid him with her talents. Thus besieged by both brother and sister, it was not very probable that the too-credulous Tremaine should escape the entanglement thrown out for him; and as soon as he was considered secure, Lord Ashton left St. Omer's to pursue his designs on Julia. Maria was aware of these designs, and from the hatred she bore Julia, sincerely trusted they might   224      JULIA TREMAINE; meet with success; for, if successful, she saw an opportunity of her yet becoming the wife of Tre- maine (for it could not be said that Maria's senti- ments towards him were such as to induce her to become his wife had he possessed neither rank nor fortune.) No; we have before said, that the ob- ject who followed in her train was the idol of her heart-if such a being as Lady Maria could be said to possess a heart-whom she was enriching by her dishonourable connexion. But at the shrine of ambition she could make any sacrifice; and to be the idol of fashion, as was the noble and wealthy Lady Tremaine, was her dream by night and day. But when her brother returned crest-fallen, her highly-raised schemes seemed, at one blow, anni- hilated; and, cursing him in the heart for being so easily foiled by a woman whose only protection was her servants, she sighed to be enabled more fully to wreak her vengeance on the head of her unoffending rival. Alas, poor Julia; what became of her after Lord Ashton's departure? She thought her misery had reached its climax, and unable any longer to sup- port the firmness she had sustained in the presence of Lord Ashton, she sank on a chair, and bewailed her unhappy destiny. The connexion between   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   225 Tremaine and Lady Maria was then generally known-even her brother could mention it with indifference-could encourage it; and as she re- viewed each event since her marriage, she feared that hope, the afflicted's comforter, must henceforth be a stranger to her. But Julia had yet another trial in store-a more severe one than had yet assailed her-her child, the soother of her sorrow, the comfort of her soul, was seized with convulsions, and in a few short hours was no more of this world. What must have been the feelings of the afflict- ed mother, now bereft of her only blessing, and with no friend near to offer one consoling word! No tear bedewed her eye to ease her stricken heart; and she continued to hold the babe, who had breathed its last on her knee, in her fond, en- circling arms. She gazed upon the little fingers (that had so often entwined themselves in the ring- lets of her hair) now inanimate and cold, and the eyes just beginning to notice, now, alas! closed for ever! Bryan, whose grief was excessive, by persuasion induced Julia to allow the last duties to be paid- but no power could make her leave the room; she   226      JULIA TREMATNE; sat by the coffin as if deriving delight from the emblems of wo. In France, only eight-and-forty hours are al- lowed the dead above ground, and soon Julia felt she should be robbed of all that remained of her little one. As she looked upon the inanimate babe for the last time, as she kissed its marble lips and fore- head, she internally exclaimed- "Ah, me! for what am I reserved-that one grave is not allowed to cover me and my treasure! If I looked around, no support appears for a bending reed-no bosom beats with answering feeling to my own! There is nothing for me to wish for prolonged life!" Julia at this moment thought only of her hus- band; the idea of her mother was totally oblite- rated, though not long, in a heart replete with sen- sibility. With the recollection of her mother, tears, the first she had shed, relieved her feelings, and, sink- ing on her knees, she demanded pardon in daring to anticipate the will of the Most High. She arose from her knees relieved, and endea- voured to regard the insignia of death with calm- ness. This, however, was impossible; and, cover-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  227 ing her face with the pall, she waited with horror the awful moment that would convey the innocent source of her sorrow from her longing sight for ever. And the moment arrived--a trying moment-to behold the object, nearest and dearest, borne from the bosom by which it had been nurtured from the eyes that had watched its growing beauties! She tried to turn from a sight so heart-breaking, yet her eyes were fixed upon the mournful scene, and so cold, so marble-like was her whole appear- ance (which the habiliments of wo tended to in- crease) that she looked more like an ethereal vi- sitor from the other world, than an inhabitant of this. Julia's fortitude did not wholly forsake her until the coffin was removed, when, stretching forth her hand, she endeavoured to arrest its progress; but her strength failed, and, with a piercing cry, she sunk exhausted on the floor. e z11-'   228      JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER XXII. "Thus, nothing in this world can make me joy; Life is as tedious as a thrice-told tale, Vexing the dull car of a drowsy man."- SHAKSPEAaE. BRYAN, alarmed, immediately sent for medical assistance, and placing the sufferer on a bed, bathed her cold hands with the tears of faithful and com- miserating affection. On the arrival of the phy- sician, he opened a vein, but long and obstinate was the swoon of Julia; and her faithful attendant, the only being whose heart had entered into her sorrows, feared the light of day was shut out from her eyes for ever. But grief does not kill quickly; and, with re- turning animation, Julia felt her loss in its full acuteness. She gazed gloomily around the room; every vestige of the past had been studiously re- moved, but could the change relieve her misery? No her misery was too deeply implanted in her heart for outward show to heal. Yet she felt the   Ot, A FATHER S WISH, ETC.   229 kindness of Bryan in its full force, and there came the feeling, that one being still was near to whom she was dear. To continue on her couch, however necessary from her weakness and exhaustion, Julia found was impossible, and dressing hastily, she seated her- self at an open window, trusting that the autumnal breeze would chase away the faintness that op- pressed her. While thus seated, a letter was brought her; she broke the seal with avidity; it was from Augusta, and, hoping to derive comfort, Julia ventured on a perusal. Augusta intimated that on their arriving at St. Omer's they learnt that Tremnaine had unfortunately left the town the day preceding, and Lord Buccleugh was, therefore, pre- vented from performing his promise of delivering the letter to him in person; but that his lordship had given the letter to his friend in a full confi- dence. "And, I am sure, my dear Lady Tremaine," she continued, that in a few days you will either see or hear from your truant, whose failings you are so anxious to pardon; for Buccleugh (although he dis- likes interference in married life) has, in a few lines to your lord, spoken so forcibly of the love- liness of your conduct, that it cannot fail to move 20   230      JuluIrA TriMAINE; him. Therefore, for a short time, let your forti- tude support you; and, in the playful caresses of my little godson, forget that you are not restored to your family so soon as anxious affection would desire." Julia could read no farther; the mention of her child wholly subdued her, and she mournfully asked herself if, at that juncture, the return of Tremaine could soften her -egrets. She unlocked her desk, to place in it the unfi- nished letter of Augusta, when the fatal billet of Maria, from which she dated the commencement of her wretchedness, met her view, and sle con- tinued to murmur, "But such bliss is not in store for me! The woman unprincipled enough to set at defiance the laws of religion, will not desist until her work is completed; and when the heart that now fondly beats for the being of its cherished hopes shall cease to move, he may, perhaps, drop a tear to the memory of my wrongs." A few mornings succeeding, as Julia was pacing her chamber, irresolute how to act--at one moment determining to ease suspense, by hastening to St. Omer, and demanding an interview with Tremaine; the next, abandoning the intention with indigna- tion, Bryan presented herself, with a countenance   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   231 in which something like pleased importance was painted; and ,laying a note on the table, soothingly told her mistress to prepare herself for a surprise, before perusing the letter, as it was to apprize her of an arrival in England. "From England!"Julia faintly cried; and, tear- ing open the letter, read the following lines, al- most illegibly written:- "My beloved Julia,-If you can extend your forgiveness to your repentant uncle, see him with- out delay.-Yours, &c.,    DE MORETON." Surprise for the moment, deprived Julia of the power of utterance. Lord De Moreton in France! What excuse could she offer for the absence of Tremaine? See him-her father-in-law-she most assuredly must, and the rest must be left to chance. She again read the note, which restored her to something like recollection. Lord De Moreton was aware of her situation, or why call himself her re- pentant uncle. She inquired how the note arrived; and was answered by Bryan, in a letter enclosed to herself, and that the earl impatiently waited to be sum- moned to her presence.   232      JULTA TREMAINE; Julia instantly desired that his lordship should be admitted; and hurrying down stairs, in a few minutes was strained to the beating heart of her affectionate relative. It was long ere uncle or niece could articulate aught but broken sentences. Lord De Moreton first recovered; and, regarding her wan and al- tered countenance with intense emotion, entreated her to pardon him for uniting her to a villain. Julia, much shocked, entreated her uncle, in pity to her feelings, to consider before he again used such an epithet; for that it was his only son he was thus stigmatizing. "No!" exclaimed his lordship, impetuously striking his forehead, "he is no longer a son of mine! From this moment I discard him. The wretch who could wantonly cause the being in- trusted to his protection sufferings which your appearance too visibly evinces, is unworthy to be acknowledged the ,on of an honourable man!" Julia, bowed down with sorrow, was unable to contend with the carl's impetuosity; and, with her face resting on her hands, awaited in silence the issue of his visit. After a short pause, Lord De Moreton continued. "Julia, you must leave this place. The house of   OR, A FATTIER'S WISI, ETC.  233 Tremaine is no longer a residence for you. Make no opposition," he added, observing her about to speak; "for I had decided before I solught this in- terview.' "Oh! I cannot leave Villa Blanche, however re- pugnant to my wishes to remain here, without the concurrence of Tremaine-of my husband i" "Your husband! returned his Iordship, indig- nantly regarding her. "Are you indeed weak enough to think of him with tenderness-to wish to consult him about your removal, when he studies so little what befalls you?" "I firmly believe, it is not inclination," returned Julia, "that keeps him from me, but the perfidy of those persons he imagines his friends. Besides, my dear uncle, I am in hourlyexpectation of hear-  ing from him. No, I cannot-I will not leave this house, until time is given him to answer my last letter." "That he will never do, Julia! for he has left St. Omer with the wretch who shares his guilty pleasures. I learnt the fatal truth as I passed through the town.." No tear appeared on Julia's cheek at this heart- breaking intelligeice; she meekly raised her eyes, and exclaimed, Then this, indeed, is no place for 20*   234      JULIA TREMATNE; me, my uncle. Take me hence; and into the bosom of my mother let me pour my sorrow 1" "Your mother, my sweet Julia!" murmured Lord De Moreton, in bitterness. "And has he not then, acquainted you with the contents of my letter, written immediately after the event? But-those mourning vestments-what do they portend?" "That I am childless," said Julia, commanding her voice to firmness. "And if you have aught else to tell me, say it quickly, while I have strength to listen; for I find that my cup is not yet full." Lord De Moreton, deeply affected, suffered the big tear to roll down her cheek unchecked; and, taking her in his arms, said, "Would I had nothing more to say, my love; but if not from my lips, soon would the melancholy tidings reach you; and let this be your consolation in the hour of trial, that God, by taking her to himself, has spared your beloved mother from witnessing your misery." There was the pause of a moment. Julia an- swered not; the tears that had chased each other down her cheeks were frozen in their course. Mo- tionless, statue-like, she gazed upon the features of her uncle; then, with one long, loud, hysterical, and unearthly cry, as if the long pent-up passions of her soul had burst their barriers, she shrieked   OR, A FATHERS WISH, ETC.   235 rather than spoke the immensity of her sorrows- "Oh, my mother! She, too, gone! Then indeed is Julia friendless!" Lord De Moreton vehemently rang the bell; and Bryan, who had expected the summons, was ready with restoratives. Insensibility was a state of too much bliss for Julia long to possess; and, on open- ing her eyes, she seized the hand of his lordship, and exclaimed, "Why do we remain here, my deatrest uncle? Take, oh! take me hence!" Lord De Moreton, folding her in his arms, while his tears fell on her face, assured :her he waited only till she was sufficiently recovered to travel-- that his carriage was in the courtyard. Julia's courage seemed to rise with her misfor- tunes; and, telling Bryan to procure her travelling cloak, she was, in as short a time as her exhaustion would permit, ready to attend his lordship. Lord De Moreton ordered the horses to the next inn; and, giving Bryan directions to follow as speedily as possible with the packages, tenderly placed Julia in the carriage; and, with a few lines to his son, in case of his return to Villa Blanche, departed with his beloved charge, execrating his folly, as he looked upon her death-like countenance, for promoting a marriage which his heart at the   236      JULIA TREMATNE; time presaged would be productive of misery, at least to Julia. No words escaped Julia's lips during the short, melancholy drive to the inn; but, on the earl alighting, she entreated so pathetically to proceed, as she felt equal to it, that fresh horses were put to the carriage, and they pursued their journey. But Julia's strength was not equal to her asser- tion; and, at Calais, she was taken so ill, that the attendant physician pronounced her malady dan- gerous; and Lord De Moreton hung over the child of his love in breathless grief. Oh! how his heart reproached him while listening to the ravings of delirium, and watching the fever raging through her veins. "And H am the cause of this!" he would exclaim; " and if she is hurried to an early grave, what am I but a murderer? And if she survive, what reparation can I make for the de- struction of her peace? Oh! none!" he continued, covering his face with his hands, "Julia, forgive me!" The grief of Lord De Moreton at the perfidy of his son was as excessive as sincere; and it was long ere Julia recovered from her painful illness, and much longer ere she could travel. But to see Eng- land was the anchor on which her hopes rested;   OR, A PATHER'S WISH) ETC.  237 and, as soon as medical advice would permit, the channel was crossed. In England, every thing she saw reminded her of past happiness. Tremaine's kindness (and, as she then believed, affection) at Dover forcibly re- curred to her memory, and was sadly contrasted with his after conduct. Yet still her bosom whis- pered excuses for it, and a dawning of hope would cheer her with a view of happier days. Lord and Lady Newbourg met their relatives two stages from London: and as Louisa pressed the faded form of Julia in her arms, indignation against her brother nearly obliterated every feeling of affection for him. She was no longer surprised at Lord De More- ton's resentment; no longer astonished at his re- grets for the past. She wondered only how Julia could still retain tenderness for a being so little deserving. How sweet to Julia to be again folded to the bosom of the companion of her infancy-the sister of her love! So long had she anticipated it, that she could now scarcely believe the blessing real! Her beloved brother, too How her heart expanded on beholding him! But, at sight of their child her   238      JULIA TREMAINE; wounds bled afresh, and a tear intercepted the kiss she wished to imprint on its downy cheek. Lord Arundel had departed for Scotland on business, as well as for change of scene, on the demise of his lamented lady, and it was expected some time would elapse before he returned to England; and much as Julia desired to embrace him, she felt relieved that she was spared for a time hearing her father's condemnation of her husband. Tremaine, therefore, had no friends in his family, save the one he had most injured; and severe was the pain to Julia to hear him never mentioned but with resentment and indignation. Lord De Moreton would not permit her to retain anything that appertained to her marriage. Her carriages, servants-all that had ever called Tre- maine master, were discarded with contempt by his lordship; and, if she had consented, how will- ingly-oh, how willingly!-would the earl have annulled the marriage! But although Julia, from grief, was passive in most of Lord De Moreton's plans, to this she was inexorable; and neither entreaties nor threats had power to alter her resolution. Lord De Moreton wished her to travel, thinking   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  ,239 change might have a salutary effect on her spirits. Her health, too, was daily declining; and in the pale and attenuated form of Lady Tremaine, who could have recognised the blooming girl who, eighteen months before, was hailed a happy bride by her gratified and admiring friends. Julia had now been a month in England, and the pleasure and novelty of seeing her friends had in a degree subsided. Lord De Moreton had detained her in London, hoping to see her mix a little in society, as she had declined travelling; but, on finding that she could not enter upon scenes of gayety without an aching heart, his lordship, al- though internally vexed with her for nourishing melancholy, hastened with her to De Moreton Castle, where she had long wished to seclude herself. As she entered the carriage, the morning she left London, a sealed packet was delivered to her. It appeared to contain something weighty, and, pondering on-what it could be, Julia turned it several times over before she broke the seal. Lord De Moreton had his eyes fixed on the packet, and, desirous to ease his lordship's curiosity, Julia pro- ceeded with an exclamation of surprise, to exa- mine it. But how was her surprise augmented,   240.     JULIA TREMAINE; when, on removing the envelope, carefully wrapt in cotton, her bridal present of the pearl necklace and bracelets met her view. Instinctively she endeavoured to conceal them; but, on raising her eyes with painful feelings, to the face of Lord De Moreton, she discovered con- cealment impossible-he had already beheld them. "How is this, my dear Julia!" he exclaimed, taking the jewels in his hand, "where have these come from? If I mistake not, they are my present to you, the morning we must both think of with regret!"While speaking, his lordship had' taken the inner cover from Julia, and had perceived that it was addressed to his banker, in the handwriting of Tremaine. The earl frowned, as his eye made the disco- very; and he again demanded why the baubles had been out of her possession. Julia pressed to her lips the writing traced by the hand so dear to her; and, disdaining falsehood, said, "I intrusted them to the care of Tremaine a short time before our parting--a friend of his was in immediate need of assistance to a higher amount than he could draw upon his banker, and I, un- asked, offered these inestimable jewels, (because presented by you,) to relieve the unfortunate."   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  241 "And what friend had Lord Tremaine, who could require-who would accept of such an obligation, as the pledge of his wife's jewels, to relieve his pecuniary affairs? Are you acquainted with his name?" Julia had felt her emotion increase at every word of his lordship's speech, and, while her pale cheek blushed with the retrospection of what she had en- dured the fatal evening she saw the pearls worn by Lady Maria Priam, answered - "My dear uncle, I do know; Tremaine informed me of every particular before he desired my assist- ance. He enjoined me to no secrecy, yet still, I feel myself bound not to mention (even to you,) the names of the persons whose follies, for such I believe them to be, nearly brought them to a jail." Lord De Moreton pressed her hand as she con- cluded, telling her he would not further interro- gate her on a subject, which obviously appeared to affect her by too forcibly reminding her of her misfortunes; and that he was well assured, from her known virtues, that when she parted from the jewels, she had only the accomplishing of a bene- volent action in perspective; although it grieved him to say, that he believed his son's motive in procuring them was not so praiseworthy. 21   242     JULIA TREMAINE. Julia could not, however strong her inclination, offer any argument in extenuation of Tremaine's conduct. She thought that she had had proof, beyond doubt, that her uncle's suspicions were but too well founded; and, by again enclosing the necklace and bracelets in their covering, tried to hide her agitation. At De Moreton Castle, Julia began again to taste of peace, for she was freed from having Tremaine mentioned by her brother and Louisa, in the man- ner his-conduct merited; for the comments would have been more than, in her present state of body and mind, she could possibly bear. Lord De Moreton would not allow Tremaine's name to be uttered in his presence. His portrait was removed from the library; the room he had inhabited was locked up; and his lordship ap- peared to be sedulously endeavouring to banish from his heart the entire remembrance of his son. Yet, with not more intensity of feeling did Julia herself inquire of the post, than did the earl; for each day he depended on a letter of repentance arriving. Not that he wished a letter for any other purpose (as he tried to persuade himself,) but to give comfort to his drooping daughter. But when, at the expiration of three months, he remained in   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   243 the same state of suspense, and beheld Julia's in- creased melancholy and wasted form, he no longer resisted her pleadings, in conjunction with his own wretchedness, and determined to inquire after the object of their united uneasiness. Accordingly, his lordship hastened to London, and, on alighting at the first hotel, determined, without loss of time, to inquire at Arthur's Club house, expecting to meet some person known to him, who had recently arrived from the continent. Lord De Moreton was not disappointed; for, as he sat in the coffee-room, looking on vacancy, and wondering how the unhappy event in which he felt himself so unfortunately connected, from being its promoter, would terminate, he was startled by hearing the name of Lord Ashton pronounced by a gentleman who sat near him. "I am astonished," said a gentleman in answer to a/friend who had spoken, "to see Ashton re- turned without either mother or sister! For I un- derstood that his journey to France was to lead his lovely sister from the paths of temptation " "His lordship, I should imagine, arrived too late to prevent consequences," answered his friend, "for Lady Maria was then living as the mistress of Lord Tremaine; but since Lady Tremaine's de-   JULIA TREMAINE; parture to England, and a bar no longer exists for privacy, the guilty pair have determined to defy censure, and are, or were, living at Villa Blanche, the late residence of the injured wife, loving and beloved." Lord De Moreton could hear no more;* and, hurrying from the room, was soon at the hotel he had left.' Without loss of time he ordered the carriage to be prepared for his immediate depar- ture; and, after partaking refreshment, was soon on his way to De Moreton Castle.  His anger against his son surmounted every other consideration-even his love and pity for Julia was absorbed in it; and, during his journey, he vowed that the villain, base enough to set law and religion at defiance, should no longer possess a right over his wife. He determined to acquaint Julia with all he had learned; and, if she still persisted in her folly of refusing, to no longer sanction her conduct by re- siding with her, but to allow her again to take possession of the discarded honour of Viscountess Tremaine. But when the earl arrived at De Moreton Castle, Julia's pale cheek almost deterred him from in- flicting still deeper pain, and his lordship wavered   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   245   some time between resentment and pity, before he could give the narration. Julia listened with more calmness than Lord De Moreton anticipated, and he argued therefrom success to the scheme nearest his heart; and gently touched upon the subject, while he thought resent- ment and injured love were awakened in her breast. But he found her immovable as ever; she would not, for a moment, attend to a proposal which would prohibit her from dwelling with all the warmth of her heart upon the object still so near and dear to her. And Julia had yet another cause to discard from her bosom Lord De Moreton's notion. She was likely again to become a mother; and she antici- pated the birth of her child as the means of re- storing a husband to her arms, and of reconciling him to his family. This was a feeling that sustained her through all; for she would not, she could not believe, that Tremaine was so faulty as he was represented. She remembered the affection he had ever manifested towards her, and why should she suspect him of an attempt to delude her senses?, No! althouigh ap- pearances were against him, hope fondly whispered into Julia's ear, she was beloved.    246      JULIA TREMAINE; She thought on the love he had borne the infant death had snatched from them, and, at the thought of his anguish when he should learn the sad intel- ligence, a tear mingled with her own sorrow, and she would exclaim, sighing, "He has no one near to participate in his feelings!-no one to wipe away the tear, dropped to the memory of his first born I Would that I had remained in France to have soothed him with my tenderness! Ah, Tremaine I I acted not the part of a wife, wihen I left it to strangers to tell the loss, the heartfelt loss, you had sustained 1" Julia quite forgot, while lost in anguish at the idea of Tremaine's sorrow and loneliness, that she was herself at the time in the same situation; with this difference only, that, while he was unthink. ingly enjoying the gayeties of life, she was consign- ing her only comfort to the grave; that when his time came to weep, she was bereft of all consola. tion, journeying far from the cherished object of her affections, a sad and solitary mourner.   ORB,A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   247. CHAPTER XXIII. "Ah! sir, to wilful men, The injuries that they themselves procure, Must be their schoolmasters."-SHAKSPEARE. RETURN we now, briefly, to Chapter 19, wherein Tremaine departs to St. Omer. It was then his in- tention to return to Villa Blanche in a week at farthest; for, never had he parted from Julia with such reluctance, and several times he was on the point of forming some excuse to Lord Ashton (who, it may be remembered, accompanied him,) and re- turn. But the perception of the raillery it would excite, and of the very short time which would in- tervene before he should again see his wife, as he trusted not again to be separated from her, opposed his intention. The second day of his arrival at St. Omer, he watched in fond expectation the announcement of Julia's promised letter. It came not, and alarmed, he hastened to address her.   248     .JUI TA TREMAINE; But a week passed without tidings from Villa ,Blanche; and Tremaine, to ease the suspense which tormented him, had determined to depart to Paris to learn the reason of Julia's unlooked-for silence. He had given orders to his servant to aid his views, when Maria, of whom, in his anxiety for Julia, he had scarcely dreamt, arrived with Lady Ashton and suite, and was not slow in telling him her intention to reside at St. Omer; nor was Tre. maine less slow in informing her, he was preparing to leave the town. Her well-dissembled astonishment completely lulled to sleep his suspicions, while her words roused his anger and indignation. That Julia, as soon as possible after his depar- ture, had gone with Lord Buccleugh and Miss Dornton on an excursion of pleasure was firmly attested; for Lady Maria said she had called the day before she left Paris to inquire if Lady Tre- maine had letters to send, and had then obtained her information. "I before warned you of Lord Buccleugh's attention to your wife," resumed Lady Maria; " but my caution was disregarded, and other motives than consideration for your happiness were imputed to me; while your blind partiality for Lady Tremaine prevented your observing the   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  249 approaches of a man who loved her before she bore your name, who had fled his country through his love, and who was generally, although months had elapsed since Julia had become a wife, supposed to be her devoted admirer." Tremaine felt the force of Maria's words, but concealing his real feelings under the mask of anger, haughtily insisted that the name of Lady Tremaine might not again be coupled with the name of Lord Buccleugh; and feeling himself in his present mood unable to bear the expression of irony that played upon the beautiful lip of her ladyship, precipitately retreated to his room. Now then, at once, the seeming mystery was ex- plained; and she, whose very existence appeared to hang upon his letters, in his absence, as soon as released from his presence, had forgotten all her fond promises, and gone, no one knew where, in pursuit of pleasure, and in company with the very man who, of all others, he most disliked. As he paced the apartment his resentment knew no bounds. At one moment he resolved to follow and upbraid her with her perfidy; the next, deemed her not worthy of his consideration. At dinner he drank freely, which with his over- wrought anxiety, produced fever; and the next   250      JULIA TREMAINE; morning found him on a bed of sickness. With ,assiduity Lady Maria watched by the side of her victim, and from no hand but her own would she permit anything to pass the scorched lips of the suffering Tremaine. For ten days he was unable to leave his bed, Julia's duplicity (as he termed it) tending greatly to retard his recovery, for no answer had yet ar- rived to the many letters he had written. He knew not how to form a conjecture; he was still unable to travel, and, distracted with doubt, he wished to despatch his servant; but Maria in- sisted it would be prejudicial to his returning health to have a stranger near him, and one of Lord Ashton's servants was commissioned to convey to Julia the intelligence of his illness. To say that Tremaine waited with immense per- turbation the man's return is needless; and that, when the man did return, to say he came without an answer, is also unnecessary. Language is scarce adequate to describe Tremaine's sensations when the news arrived that Lady Tremaine had not yet returned to Villa Blanche. "Not yet returned to her home!" re-echoed Tre- maine with impatience, and starting from his chair, when Maria informed him of the retuin of the   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  251 messenger. "What has befallen? Something more than I imagine must have occasioned her absence! Suspense is maddening; I will no longer endure it!" and ringing the bell, to Lady Maria's dismay, he ordered a carriage to be procured immediately, and as soon as it was ready, entering the conveyance, desired the men to hasten with all despatch to Villa Blanche. He would not allow himself time for refresh- ments during his journey, but arrived at the Villa faint and exhausted, and with feelings so excited that when he alighted he could scarcely pronounce the name of Julia. All was in evident confusion; but Tremaine saw it not at the moment. Only one object engrossed his thoughts; and as he gazed round the gloomy drawing-room--so often graced with the presence and enlivened by the converse of the absent one- a cold shivering ran through his heart as he felt his desolation; and, in a voice rendered inaudible from emotion, he demanded of the man who attended, and who had been in his service ever since he had been in France, where was his lady? The man answered he did not know; her lady- ship had departed, with a gentleman, the day be- fore, he understood, for England.   252      JULIA TRnMAINE; With impetuosity, Tremaine rushed towards the man; and, seizing him by the collar, swore if he dared utter another word so calumnious, his life should pay the forfeit of his offence. As soon as the man had extricated himself from the grasp of Tremaine, the poor fellow, much  frightened, made his master sensible that the gen- tleman had left a letter for him, and succeeded in bowing himself out of the room with as much ex- pedition as his politeness would permit. Tremaine's impatience would not allow him to wait the man's return; for, on glancing around the room, he saw the harp and piano of Julia, and sus- picions too horrible to dwell upon assailed him.  He hurried into the hall; and, meeting the man  with the letter, precipitately snatched it from him; but many minutes elapsed ere the mist before his eyes assured him that the writing was his fa- ther's. It contained but few words, Lord De More- ton merely stating he had bestowed on Julia the protection she so greatly needed, and which her natural protector had so basely withdrawn-that he had hastened with her to England, andhe hoped Tremaine would not further incense him by at- tempting to follow or address either Julia or him-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  253 self, as henceforth he must consider him an alien to both. Acute as Tremaine's sensations were while pe- rusing this proof of his father's resentment and his own folly, a gleam of satisfaction softened them, when he found that his neglected wife was under safe and honourable protection; and burning was the blush that mounted to his forehead when he thought of the suspicions he had dared to har- bour against this child of purity. He endeavoured to compose himself sufficiently to summon a servant, to inquire more particularly, for Julia's silence had not yet been explained. The man who had before attended him, from alarm, refused to answer his summons; and the woman who had assisted Bryan in waiting on Julia, and who remained in the house, appeared to answer his interrogations. Oh, how Tremaine's heart was wrung at the re- cital of Julia's sufferings! How he was shocked by supposing that while she was in sickness and misery he was far away, lavishing upon others the soothings and attentions which she alone needed I which she alone merited. Big was the tear that rolled down his manly cheek, and bitter the sigh that rent his bosom, at 22  /    254      JULIA TREMAINE; the news of his child's death; and, throwing him- self on the bed so recently occupied by Julia and his departed boy, he gave unrestrained vent to his emotions, and, in the fervour of repentance, ex- claimed, "From henceforth, Julia, I am thinel Never shall my wayward heart again have to re- proach me for swerving from thy matchless worth I thy unparalleled sweetness. Forgive, oh forgive this last transgression, and deign once more to become my consolation and delight!" Tremaine arose from the bed, intending to fol- low Julia, without permitting even a night to inter- vene; but his head ached, his whole frame was feverish, and he found himself unable to walk across the room. Hoping to be better after a night's repose, he retired; but, by the morning, the fever had returned with redoubled ardour, and he was raving in delirium. When Lady Maria Priam discovered that Tre- maine had really left St. Omer through anxiety for Julia, her rage was unbounded; and, imme dv ately her feelings were mastered, she determin:: on following him.  She ordered her carriage to stay a short distance from Villa Blanche; and penning a few lines to {.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  255 Tremaine, sent her servant with them, desiring him to wait an answer. Tremaine had just retired to his room when the man arrived, and the person who answered the ar- rival was the same whom Tremaine had seized by the collar a few hours before, and who now, fear- ful of encountering a renewal of the attack, re- fused to disturb his lordship at so unseasonable an hour; and, taking the note from the servant, closed the door unceremoniously. Maria, therefore, had no alternative but waiting till the morrow, and sleeping at an inn. However, the first dawn of light saw her despatch her ser- vant for Tremaine's answer. On his return, she received an account of"his illness, and of Lady Tremaine's departure for England. This was joyful news to Maria; and, without loss of time, she availed herself of the intelligence, by hastening to the invalid, who was unconscious alike of her presence or designs, and installing herself mistress of the house. Tremaine's illness was long, and his recovery doubtful. Maria attended him with unremitting attention; and, although her presence was un- sought and unwished, returning reason compelled him gratefully to acknowledge her kindness in   256      JULIA TREMAINE; seeking him in the hour of need. So well was her seeming attention planned, that one of Tremaine's first acts of convalescence was the drawing up a deed allowing her for life two thousand per annum --in his estimation, a slight reparation for the loss of her honour. Maria's eyes sparkled with indefinable feelings as she held the proof of Tremaine's generosity;  and, placing it in her bosom for security, demand- ed, with unblushing assurance, a quarter in ad- vance  Tremaine was enabled, from his remittances having arrived, to satisfy her demand; and, writing to his banker, sent his servant with the order; and, at the servant's return, soon repaired with the money to Maria's room. He knocked; but re- ceiving no answer, opened the door, with the in- tention of placing the purse on the dressing-table. He had just deposited it there, when something in her jewel-box attracted his attention; and, exa- mining more, to his surprise and shame he disco- vered the ornaments of Julia I Tremaine's sensations nearly overpowered him at the sight; for Maria had told him she had re- turned the jewels, with her thanks for the loan,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  257 soon after he had given her the money for their redemption. Taking the jewels with him, he returned to his apartment; and fearing to irremediably lose these precious testimonials of his Julia's benevolence and magnanimity, locked them in his escritoir, his indignation against Maria amounting to disgust at this proof of her breach of confidence; and, on her entrance, a few minutes after, he upbraided her with warmth for her duplicity. Lady Maria contemptuously retorted to his words; and, flinging the door with violence as she left the room, told him the jewels had never been out of her possession since he placed them with her, and the regret that they would be re- stored to the woman whom she hated would haunt her through life. Her ladyship immediately prepared for her de- parture, after this interview; and in less than an hour, the following billet was delivered to Tre. maine:- "Having obtained what my heart has long de- sired, namely, independence, I retire from you with the most heartfelt satisfaction. The deed which you this morning gave me cannot, while I ,22*   258      JULIA TREMAINE; possess life, be revoked; therefore, I boldly tell 'you tMt you have long been my dupe. "1 it was who intercepted yours and Julia's let- ters (while you were at St. Omer's) not from the love I bore you-no--but from the hatred, the in- extinguishable hatred with which she had inspired me, for disappointing me in my ambition. I sighed to become your wife, that I might humble her, as well as fill an exalted station., She or my own vanity disappointed me; and, since your marriage, it has been the study of my life to render you and your wife wretched. "I have succeeded beyond my most sanguine expectations; for Lord De Moreton, disgusted with your weakness, has compelled your idolized Julia to consent to a divorce, that she may in the arms of another, find the happiness and protection denied by yourself. "I should not be thus explicit, only I feel rich and ample satisfaction in wounding you to the heart; and I fly to the Compte Albine, the Italian of whom you have so often spoken to me, to share with him my easy-earned spoil-the memento of your folly. He has long possessed my love; but while a chance remained of becoming Lady Tre-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.     259 maine I resisted his importunities; but since, from the disgust you have evidently taken- to me, all hope is fled, a few, a very few hours will intervene before I am his wife.-Adieu.     "MARIA." ^ '  'Ad   260      JULIA TREMAINE; CHAPTER XXIV. "Ah, Gertrude! Gertrude! When sorrows come; they come not single spies, But in battalions."- SIAKSPEARE. SCARCELY would Tremaine's impatience allow him to finish the insolent scrawl, of the unprinci- pled Maria; but willing to understand to what ex- tent he had been her dupe, he was induced to snatch the letter from the floor, upon which it had been thrown. More marked than ever did his faults now ap- pear, and deep and bitter was his anguish at having suffered an ambitious wanton, through his irresolution, to afflict him in the tenderest point. He did not understand that part of her letter alluding to his divorce; and, in misery and doubt, he snatched up an English newspaper, thinking to fathom the apparent mystery. He had nearly examined it throughout; and, somewhat relieved,   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  261 was about to replace-it on the table, when the fol- lowing paragraph riveted his attentions:- "We understand from undoubted authority, that the beautiful and neglected Lady T  e has, at length, consented to the measures of her noble father-in-law, to have'her marriage annulled. Her lord continues to reside near Paris, (in the house so recently occupied by his lady,) with his chere amie." Impetuously dashing the paper from him, Tre- maine cursed Maria in all the transports of rage, for he at once saw through her machinations in following him to Villa Blanche-he saw, too, that a hope no longer existed for a reconciliation with Julia; and, striking his forehead, passionately ex- claimed- "What, oh! what must she suppose me! for al- lowing a fiend to fill the place of an angel! My father, too I no doubt he execrates my name! And of what avail is explanation! Will they-can they believe, that Maria was not voluntarily placed here by me to triumph over Julia! At a moment, too, when death had so recently snatched away our blossom!" Deprived of hope, Tremaine felt wretched be- yond description, and Villa Blanche became hate-   262      JULIA TREMAINE; ful to him. He, therefore, settled his affairs as ex- peditiously as possible, and left the villa. Whither to wander he knew not. His heart led him to England; but the horror of arriving to find his marriage was finally annulled, deterred him from pursuing the route homeward, and he re- solved on journeying to the south of France. Before he put this plan into execution, he in- trusted the pearl necklace and bracelets to the care of his banker, to be forwarded speedily to Julia; and, with but one idea to console him, namely, that he was finally rid of the woman who had caused his misery, he commenced his journey. Tremaine studiously avoided reading the Eng- lish news, lest his worst fears should be verified; and he remained some months at Marseilles, in gloomy abstraction-never mixing in society. But at length he discovered that suspense was worse to bear than certainty, with all its horrors, and he resolved to relieve his mind by hastening to Eng-  land. Having formed this resolution he felt more com- posed, and the sunbeam of hope once more faintly cheered him as he journeyed towards Julia and his country. He no longer denied himself the gratification of a newspaper; indeed he searched   OR A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   263 minutely the journals; but nothing ever met his viewconcerning his family, until one day his ser- vant brought him some fine strawherries enveloped in part of a newspaper, whose date, he carelessly observed as he ate the fruit, was a month old; and curiosity prompting him to examine it, his eye wan- dered in quest of his own name, when, classed under the head of births, he read- "Yesterday, in Piccadilly, the lady of the Right Honourable Lord Tremaine, of a son and heir." The paper fell from the nerveless grasp of Tre- maine, arid, for a moment, joy, so long a stranger, deprived him of the power of action. But quickly recovering, he raised the paper to his lips, and, while a tear fell upon the name so revered, he said-                      - "My loved Julia! surely no longer a bar exists to our re-union! If you refuse to receive me as your repentant husband, thy gentle nature could not resist the father of thy child Yes, my heart assures me that I still have an advocate in thy bo- som; and that, by absence prolonged, the misery oif both is lengthened." He threw himself into the carriage he had or- dered, and pursued his course with as much ra- pidity as French travelling would admit. , t               ' -   264      JULIA TREMAINE; On arriving in England, he was undecided whe- ther or not to write to Julia. Fearing the letter might fall into Lord de Moreton's hands, he de- cided, therefore, upon presenting himself unex- pectedly before her; and, pursuant to this deter- mination, proceeded to London as fast as four horses could take him, and arrived late in the eve- ning at Fenton's, where he had ordered the car- riage to stop. Alighting with trepidation and a beating heart, he hurried to his residence, where he doubted not Julia still remained. He gently raised the knocker, fearful of dis- turbing her, and found it difficult to wait till the door was opened; but how unprepared was he for the disappointment which awaited hinm-Lady Tre- maine had left Piccadilly ten days, the woman be- lieved, for De Moreton Castle. He inquired, with tender solicitude, after Julia's health, and heard she was ill, and very low-spi- rited; but the woman was uncommunicative, and Tremaine could not gain a satisfactory answer to any of his numerous questions. Severely disappointed, he returned to the hotel, and, feeling it impossible to rest, ordered a change of horses, resolving to proceed directly to De Moreton Castle. As he travelled towards the seat   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   265 of his ancestors, how many different sensations as sailed him! But hope was most predominant; and he already, in idea, saw Julia's beautiful smile of welcome, and heard her sweet soft voice pro- nounce his pardon! He stopped the carriage a short distance from the castle, and leaping to the ground, proceeded on foot to the gate. He walked several times to and fro before he could muster sufficient courage to ring a summons; and, when he rang the bell, its deep and long tone reminded him of his father, so i justly incensed against him. He had prepared a letter for Julia, and, muffling himself closely in his cloak, awaited in breathless agitation the an- swer to his summons; and while, for the first time since he left London, the idea of Julia's absence from the castle presented itself, impatient of de- lay, his second peal was such as to bring the por ter wondering with expectation; and he, seeing only a pedestrian, rather sharply interrogated him as to his errand, without opening the portal. Tremaine demanded, if Lord de Moreton was at the castle, and was answered in the negative. He did not very much regret this intelligence; and, presenting his billet, desired him to take it to Lady Tremaine immediately. 23   266      JULIA TREMAINE; The porter by this time had unlocked the gate; *and staring at Tremaine for a moment, said the poor dear lady had not been at the castle since her confinement; and he was sorry to add, he feared she would not for some time be there, as she had offended his lordship, through having a picture, which had been placed with the lumber, removed to her dressing-room. Tremaine hastily asked whose picture she had incurred displeasure by removing. The old man answered, "Oh, the young lord's! And, sure enough, she was as fond of the picture as if it had been himself for I have heard Bryan say that she spent whole days in looking at it, and longing,' he added, with a sigh, "for her husband's re- turn." Tremaine's feelings nearly overcame him at this new proof of Julia's love; and, covering his face with his handkerchief, to conceal his emotion, he, in a tremulous voice, asked where Lady Tremaine was then staying. "At her cottage in Hampshire," replied the por- ter, and, observing his auditor's emotion, pressed him to walk into the lodge, as the clouds por- tended a shower. Feeling ill as well as fatigued, Tremaine ac-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  267 cepted the well-meant invitation; but fearful of exposing the old man to disgrace, should Lord De Moreton hear he had been an inmate of the castle, still shaded his face from view, while he attended with delighted ear to the recital of Julia's worth, of which this old and attached servant, who had lived in the family from his infancy, was never weary of speaking; and his pleased listener so gained upon him, that, unasked, he offered to show him the castle. This was what Tremaine ardently desired; and forgetful of his fatigue, he arose with alacrity, at the first intimation; and, crossing the courtyard, was ascending the spacious staircase, when correct- ing his impatience he allowed the old man to pre- cede him, at the same time entreating that the suite of apartments occupied by Lady Tremaine should be the first inspected. His guide, without hesitation, granted the re- quest; but when Tremaine found himself in Julia's apartments, he felt no inclination to leave them; and, to the astonishment of his conductor, declared his intention of not visiting any other part of the building. Although Tremaine had never seen Julia in these rooms (for they had been his mother's, and   268      JULTA TREMAINE; had been locked up from the period of her death,) everything reminded him of his wife; and throw- ing himself on a chair which he imagined she had occupied, from its being opposite to his portrait, sank into a deep and painful reverie at the revo- lution which he feared had taken place in his fa- ther's affections. For his likeness had been so highly prized by the earl, that he would not per- mit it to be placed in the gallery with the other portraits of his family, but had caused it to be hung in his study; and the reflection that it had since been classed with the lumber, showed but too plainly how degraded he was in his lordship's estimation. On awaking from his reverie, he looked round the room, and discovered that he was alone. He inspected Julia's music and drawings. The latter forcibly told the unsettled state of her mind, for none of the many attempts had been finished. Turning from the drawings, the view of which had not tended to increase his good opinion of himself, he approached the cabinet. It was locked; but, on touching a secret spring, it flew open; and mechanically, Tremaine drew the drawers from their enclosures. He had replaced several of the drawers, when   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  269 his attention was arrested by a letter falling at his feet. Picking it up with the intention of deposit- ing it whence it had fallen, the characters ap- peared familiar to him, and curiosity prompted him to unfold the paper. It was the letter of Maria, sent to Julia a few months after her marriage, whose contents are, no doubt, fresh in the reader's memory, and was pre- served by Julia in the hope of one day convincing Tremaine of his folly. But what were the feelings of Tremaine when he perused this fresh proof of Maria's perfidy and Julia's grief, dated from so much earlier a period than he could have conceived! Tearing the scrawl into a thousand pieces, he trampled upon it in all the vehemence of passion, and fervently wished that the misery the unfeeling writer had inflicted on Julia might be a hundred times entailed upon herself. He wept when he remembered Julia's undevia- ting affection towards him; for in no one instance could he call to mind aught which could lead him to imagine that she had suspected a guilty inter- course had subsisted between himself and Maria; and he now most sincerely desired to make repa- ration for his injustice. 23*   270      JULTA TREMAINE; Carefully locking the rooms, he returned to the lodge; and, shaking the porter by the hand, told him he must instantly depart, for his anxiety to see Lady Tremaine would not longer allow him to stay in the castle; and that he might shortly ex- pect to hear from him, when his attention to a forlorn stranger and his fidelity to a mistress would not be forgotten. Tremaine again entered his carriage, determined, in spite of fatigue, to proceed on his journey till midnight; and as he cast a last glance at the vene- rable pile he had just quitted, he sighed at the disappointment his hopes had sustained in not meeting Julia; and with impatience, calbcuited that even now two days must elapse before he could behold her.   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   271 CHAPTER XXV. "Who by repentance, is not satisfied, Is not of heaven or earth."-SHAKSPEARE. WHEN Tremaine found himself in the fertile county of Hampshire, his cheek, pallid from fa- tigue and anxiety, was flushed with delight; and his eye, long accustomed to look on nature with indifference, was lighted up with admiration at the surrounding scenery, although winter had set in, and leafless trees and fields covered with snow were the chief objects of attraction. But he felt he was breathing the same air with Julia, and that a few short hours would end his suspense, and, he trusted, ensure his happiness; and his fond heart whispered that a desert would be rendered to him a garden of ever-blooming sweets, if blessed with her loved presence. He arrived about eight o'clock within sight of all he most loved on earth-the cottage inhabited by Julia-and he hailed its appearance with de-   272      JULTA TREMAINE; light. The moments of bliss he had passed there, two years before, recurred with full force to his imagination. lie feared it was too late to present himself before Julia that night; and, although much against his inclination, determined on defer- ring an interview till the morrow; yet, still he could not resist the desire he fNlt to reconnoitre her dwelling; and, leaving his carriage and ser- vants at the adjacent inn, sallied forth. A low wall encompassed the grounds, and Tre- maine quickly boundin over it, saw a light in one of the lower windows, and, with precipitation, has- tened towards it; but so rapid was the beating of his heart, that his breast was scarcely able to con- tain it, when he beheld Julia's light form gliding to and fro in the apartment. She held her infant to her bosom, as if hushing it to slumber, and he could hear her sweet plaintive voice humming a lullaby. He approached nearer; he saw her consign her child to its couch, and, seating herself near it, her voice once more was recognised. Scarcely daring to breathe lest he should lose a sound, Tremaine listened with intense feeling to the following lines:-   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.     273 Angels guard my cherub love! Hover round him while he's sleeping! And, as near his couch I move, I'll not wake him with my weeping. Lullaby, lullaby. My infant treasure, sweetly rest! And dream not of thy mother's sorrow- For soon, perchance, to cheer her breast, Thy father may come here to-morrow! Lullaby, lullaby. Tremaine's sensations were wrought to their ut- most, as Julia again slowly murmured the last line of her lullaby, and, forgetful of his intention, he stretched forth his arms and pronounced her       6 name.                -  Julia instantly advanced to the window, and throwing open the sash, tremulously denmanded who called upon her. Tremaine had ventured a few paces, fearful of alarming her; but, to be once more addressed by a voice so long a stranger to him, was not to be re- sisted, and he answered- "It is---Julia-Trcmaine-your husband- come to throw himself a sincere, an humble peni- tent at your feet, to crave what he deserves not your pardon."   274      JULTA TREMAINE; Julia faintly called upon him. Tremaine sprang in at the window, and, the next moment they were locked in a long and warm embrace. The joy was too excessive for Julia's weakness, and she fainted, but remained not long in insensi- bility; and when recovered, doubting the truth of the surprise, and looking up, she beheld Tremaine's eyes beaming love and tenderness upon her, and felt herself once more pressed to his bosom, by his beloved encircling arms, she was convinced of the blissful reality.  What? she asked herself-what were her days, her months of suffering, compared to this one mo- ment of happiness? AhI they weighed nought in th6 scale; and the smile that dimpled her beauti- tiful cheek, ;;when she told Tremaine she had nothing to forgive, for his pardon was sealed long before it was demanded, was so bewitchingly cheer- ing, that it reached his heart, and rendered her, if possible, still dearer to him. Julia placed her babe in the arms of its father. A tear bedewed the cheek of each fond parent to the memory of their blighted blossom; and, as Tremaine pressed his lips to'the forehead of the pledge of affection since'bestowed upon them, the prayer that issued'from his grateful heart was   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  275 such as, we are assured, will not be refused by the gracious and bounteous Dispenser of all earthly weal. Tremaine inquired for his father, and heard that he had left Julia only a few day . His re- tirement was of short duration, for the birth of his grandson had restored her to his favour. Lord De Moreton had departed to meet Lord Arundel, who was returning from the north; and whom he intended to escort, with Lord and Lady Newbourg, into Hampshire. "So that we shall be, shortly," Julia added, "a felicitous family party." But Tremaine felt a check upon his happiness as the time approa&ed-for the arrival of Lord De Moreton; for though his Julia's love had stood the test of his own infidelity, ard the earl's wishes and resentment (and since their re-union she was more firmly his than ever,) yet, that his lordship would refuse to admit h;im to his presence he was well assured; and that Julia should again meet his reproach, caused a rankling at his heart, which all her soothings were inadequate to remove. At length the dreaded day dawned, and the ap- pearance of the carriages was the signal for Tre, maine to retreat, with an anxious spirit to the   276      JULIA TREIAINE; library. Julia, who had imbibed his preseuti- ments, awaited on the lawn, with varied sensations, their approach. But when she found herself in her father's arms, (who had alighted first, and whom she had not seen for two years,) the memory of her departed mother united child and parent, and, on his shoulder she wept long and painfully. Lady Newbourg interrupted Julia's sorrow,- gently drawing her from the arms of Lord Arun- del, and smiling through her tears, exclaiming, "Dearest Julia, gratify my curiosity, as well as affection, and introduce me to the little stranger! See! your father, too, is all sweet desire to bestow his benediction on the prop of his old age, the child of his amiable and beautiful girl!" Julia's eyes thanked, while she embraced the friendly speaker; and, taking the hands of Lords De Moreton and Arundel, she sank upon her knees, whilst pressing them alternately to her lips and heart, and said, with deep emotion, "I have yet another stranger without, awaiting with in- tense feeling to be summoned to your presence." "Admit the stranger instantly, my love," re- turned the unconscious Lord De Moreton, "for al- though I am not aware whom you mean, there is   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  2" no one you receive but may expect a warm wel. come!" Julia heard not the concluding part of the earl's speech, she had already left the room; and before any one of the party had time for consideration, the door opened, and there entered the pale and deeply affected Tremaine, led by his wife. Tremaine immediately approached Lord De Moreton,;whose astonishment had riveted him to the sofa, and taking his lordship's passive hand in both his own, with a voice suffocated with emo- tion, entreated forgiveness for the past. Julia had likewise approached, and, as the earl respectfully withdrew his hand from his son's grasp, exclaimed, looking imploringly in his face- "Forgive him! Oh forgive the penitent hus- band of poor Julia!" "Julia, you have deceived met" exclaimed Lord De Moreton, angrily. "I expected this not from you. Why did you not inform me who the stran- ger was you wished to force into my presence? Degenerate girl! I pity and condemn your weak partiality; and henceforth, may your husband's wavering love compensate for the loss of my es- teem!" 24   278      JUIIA TETMAINE; Julia threw herself into the arms of Lord Arun- del, as Lord De Moreton moved towards the door. "Oh, my father! intercede for your children! Suf- fer him not to depart without bestowing his bless- ing; teach him your lenity-the one Christian vir- tue, without which, man, the noblest work of crea- tion, is imperfect." Tremaine, who suffered more for Julia than for himnself, kissed away her tears, while Lord Dc Moreton regarded the afflicted husband and wife in deep agitation. And, as he paced with hasty steps the apartment, Lord and Lady Newbourg, hitherto silent spectators of the scene, at this crisis left the room, and returning with Julia's in- fant, laid it upon the carpet at the feet of his mo- ther, and then silently retreated to a seat. Julia caught up the infant, and looked tenderly at her uncle. At the sight of his grandchild his frown had already disappeared. She timidly placed the smiling boy in his arms-a tear fell on the infant's cheek. Tremaine observed the tear, and, approaching Julia, who stood by his side, sank with her before his lordship on his knees. The appeal was silent, but it reached the earl's heart. Nature subdued rescntment; and, drawing   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.)   279 his children still closer to him, with the hand that was disengaged he laid it on their heads, and in a broken, though impressive, voice, ejaculated, "God bless you, my children!"   280       JULTA. TREMA INE; CHAPTER XXVI. "Never- -oh never shall the past return! The lost-the dead-shall never be restored! TIy jySs are bThrine in the ritual urn, lBut never shall they cease to be deplored! A LARGE portion of the circumstances connected with the earlier history of Lady Tremaine had been sedulously kept from the ear of her grand- father, Sir John Hamilton, from respect to his advanced years.  There was, however, another reason which, as it might have interfered with the immediate thread of the narrative, we had hitherto forborne to introduce, viz., an occasional aberra- tion of intellect, produced in consequence of ulti- mately learning the history and fate of his nephew, Henry Beaufort. Four-and-twenty years had elapsed since the young man's departure for the Indies, and, al- though, as we have formerly shown, every possible inquiry was instituted 1by his uncle, still all was   OR, A FATHER'S WISIT, ETC.  28  unavailing, till an accident put him in possession of circumstances with which it would have been well if he had never been acquainted. In his soli- tude, Sir John had planned many schemes for the discovery of his nephew, and, as one plan had proved abortive, the uncertainty which appeared to attach to the after movements of one whom he felt he had driven from his native land, mingled with the reflection that it was his sister's only child, operated oppressively. Many were the entreaties the old man received, both from his son-in-law, De Moreton, and his daughter, the Lady Arundel, to proceed to town, andreside among his children, but in vain; for, save at the marriage of his grand- children, he obstinately refused to leave Hamilton Lodge. It is true, Lord De Moreton was perfectly un- acquainted with the real cause of Sir John's desire for seclusion-attributing the cause, in a great measure, to his age. A feeling of surprise would, however, occasionally arise, as he observed that as Sir John advanced il years, his manner towards him had gradually undergone a singular change; from a cold and formal politeness proceeding to a marked anxiety never to be in his company, till at length his father-in-law's aversion to him became so palpably manifest, that it excited the observa- 2a*   282      JULIA, TREIMA I1N S: tion of strangers. As the conduct of Lord [)e Morcton towards his b1ride had ever been of an exelmplary character, a continuance of this demea- nour of Sir John Htiailiton towards lim excited considerable pain, and he, at length, determined to question his sister-in-law upon the subject,. Lady Elizabeth Arundel, to whom had been con- fided the secret of her sister's love, and who had held many conversations with her father relative to the long and mysterious absence of Beaufort, well knew the cause of Sir John's aversion; but, in con- sideration of the feelings of Lord De Moreton, was restrained from the disclosure of the truth, affirm- ing that her father's anxiety and neglect proceeded from a fit of monomania; an assertion the truth of whihll, in consequence of his anxiety in regard to his son Trcmaine, Dc Moreton did not take much pains to analyze, nor finally to disbelieve. It was about the period when Tremaine and his lady left England for Villa Blanche, that Sir John Hamilton, having completed some alterations in the grounds attached to his seat, was walking in company with his steward and physician (whose presence latterly had been found necessary,) listen- ing to several suggestions that were made as to alterations. an1d cpnomenting : upon the danmage   OR, A FATHER7S WiTSH, ETC.  283 which a violent storm of the precedeing evening had done to a portion of the grounds. '"Have you heard the report, Sir John," said the physician,-" that, d3uring the night, a large vessel has been wrecked off the coast, and several of the people from the town have gone down to the beach, and have succeeded in picking up a number of articles belonging to the vessel?" "The information, I regret to say,' replied Sir John, "is too correct. The vessel was an Indiaman, and contained a cargo of considerable value; for- tunately, I am informed, the whole of the crew were saved." "With the exception of two children," inter- rupted the steward, "who, with their mother, were returning to England."r After more conversation on the subject, the party separated, and the rest of the day was spent by Sir John in his usual manner. It was towards the close of the same day that, whilst seated in his parlour, Sir John was informed that Mr. Riving- stone, the clergyman of the neighbouring town, was waiting without, and was anxious to confer with him. Any request from Mr. Rivingstone was only to be made to be granted, and the minister accordingly was ushered into the apartment. k   -24      JULIrA TrEM AINI]; To Sir John's request that he would be seated, Mr. Rivingstone politely but firmly gave a refusal;  and informed the baronet that the cause of his visit was of a description that would admit of no delay, and, that in his reverend character, he  should make a request that he trusted would not be despised. "You, of course, sir," he commenced, "are ac- quainted with the particulars of the wreck of the Indiaman, last evening. As soon as the intelli- gence reached me I hastened to the beach, and, thank Heaven I believe, was the means of saving some of the property, and procuring shelter for  some of the crew. Among the passengers was an  aged female, wo, with difficulty, was saved, though  she had, it seems, received considerable injury, in consequence of having struck against some of the rocks. She was conveyed to the house of one of the cottagers in an insensible state. As I was in- formed that the injuries she had received would, in all probability, prove mortal, I again called at the cottage; she had been in a fit of delirium, and in her ravings, had talked much of two children that we had been unable to rescue from the wreck. I understood that hsl was their nurse."   ORj A FATHER S WISH, ETC.  285 "Well," interrupted Sir John, " what is it you would have me do? ' "At once proceed with me to this woman; .and, if I do not misunderstand her, she has much to tell which will highly interest you, and that respects some members of your family.' "Impossible!" replied the baronet; "I have no friends-and yet," he added, checking himself, and with a sigh-" there is one; but that cannot be. What said she?" "Upon my questioning her," answered Mr. Bivingstone, "as to her life, she informed me that she was on her way from India to the seat of Lord Arundel, and inquiry proved that she was most anxious to see your honourable daughter, the Lady Elizabeth. I asked if 'she was acquainted with yourself, and she answered, Well,' and exclaimed, with much fervency, 'Would to God that I could see him ere'I die!' I informed her that it was not improbable her wish might be gratified, told, her of your residence in this part of the country, and, finally, ere I left her, promised to request you would see her. 'Tell him,' she cried, as I left, 'of Henry Beaufort "' -The old man had silently regarded the features of the clergyman during the latter portion of his   JULIA TREMATINE; brief recital, and had forborne interrupting him, for deep were the feelings of hope and expectation that struggled in his breast. When, however, Mr. Rivingstone concluded by mentioning the name of his nephew, it was more than he could withstand, and, ringincg the bell, to the astonishment of his servant, and ordering his hat and cloak, which were soon brought, he declared himself ready to accompany the divine to the residence of the dyilng female. Iamilton Lodgle was a short distance from tile towN1 of W--  (even then a sea-port of some cmi-  nocnc, and famed for its bathing;) and a few years prior to the marriage of young De Moreton, Sir John had purchased an estate here, and had latterly entirely resided on it. In a short space of time, the minister and the baronet reached the dwelling of the cottagers; and, to the inquiry of Mr. Ri- vingstone, were informed that the object of his solicitude had several times anxiously asked for him, and as to how long it would possibly be ere he could return; and, besides, had made numerous in- quiries displaying extraordinary acuteness, consi- dering her dying state. Uplon entering the apartment to which the aged female had been conveyed, although with the   .q ;1 _   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   287 .   greatest possible caution, the noise aroused her; and, raising herself in the bed, she exclaimed, anxiously, "Is he come?" The figure, now suddenly roused, was that of a female considerably past the meridian of life. Yet, despite the furrows which trouble had made, with sufficient traces of features thait had been surpass- ingly beautiful; and her form, though now shrunk- en with age, had once been masculine and sym- metrical. Sir John, as he carefully scanned her features, vainly endeavoured to recall any former recollection of the countenance that was now totally unknown to him. " You would speak to me of some events con- nected with my family," said Sir John, advancing to the side of the bed. "With such view, I under- stand, you have sent for me; and although a stran- ger, in compliance with a female's request, I am here." '" We are not strangers,7 answered the female, firmly. "Sir John Hamiltop, though years have somewhat changed us both, still I remember thee." "Well, well,' replied Hamilton, "it may be so; but I recollect thee not. But to thy business-this gentleman is my friend.?, "My story may not be told to any ears but thine;  2 8 8     J ULIA TREMAINE; at least such were the wishes of one in his dying hour, and one whose injunctions I must obey." "Let her have her wish," ejaculated Rivingstone, in a low tone of voice. Sir John nodded assent, and was left alone with the female. "It is well!"' she exclaimed, as she heard the door close. "And so, Sir John Hamilton, you do not know me! 1Has Esther Malpas, indeed, so much changed?" "Esther llalpas! E sther Malpas!"7 repeated the other. "Surely I have heard that name before, tloulgh it must be many, many years since.7  "Thou art right, it is many years since-more than a quarter of a century has elapsed since last  we met. I was but an humble tenant on your estate  when your nephew, Henry Beaufort, your only nephew, dared so far to forget his station as to love his younger cousin, Julia 1Hamilton. With pleasure I heard you had refused his suit--lad spurned him for his presumption-telling him of his dependent position-that he was but the son of a deceased sister, and that your charity had nur- tured him." "  It is false, woman! ' exclaimed Sir John, vehe- mently, "I never said--" "Not ill words," replied the female, "but by   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.  289 action. Disguise it not I You drove him from the land of his birth-from all he loved and held most dear, to a distant clime-the destroyer of the health, if not the grave of nearly every Englishman." "Woman! woman I why do you thus torture me by recalling recollections I would fain bury in oblivion? I know thee not; and thy claim to an acquaintance with me, are like thy statements, false! My nephew was not sent from my home as thou wouldst insinuate; but went. at his own desire, and at my expense, as an officer and a gentleman, to fight the battles of his king and country. If this be all thou hast to say to me, I will take my leave." "Stay, stay!" exclaimed his companion, with singular energy. "I have much more'to say to you-I would tell you of his after life." These words were sufficient to rivet the baron-et's attention; and, despite the tauntings which Esther Malpas occasionally introduced, he did not inter- rupt, but learned that she had formed an attach- ment for Henry Beaufort; that upon his departure for the Indies, she, in the disguise of a sailor, had contrived to follow him in the same ship; and that upon their arrival at Singapore, her sex was re- 25   290      JULIA TREMAINE; vealed by an accident, which confined her to the hospital. Esther then proceeded to narrate, that, while she was invalided, Beaufort was ordered to march with his regiment to a distant part of the country; where, in the very first engagement, from the over- powering number of the enemy, nearly the whole of the English party were cut to pieces. And whereas, despite every inquiry, no intelligence was received of Beaufort, it was supposed he had perished. "Years rolled on," continued Esther Malpas, "and I began to forget the memory of Henry Beaufort, and the causes which led me to leave my own country, feeling only a desire to return. I was now thirty years of age; and, although I had been in India upwards of ten years, I had stead- fastly refused many offers of marriage, contenting myself with staying with the family to which, upon leaving the hospital, I had fortunately been recom- mended. At length, however, I listened to the attentions of a gentleman connected with the medical staff, and changed my name from Malpas to Robinson." Esther then informed the baronet, that, follow- ing the fortunes of her husband, she was present   OR, A FATIER'S WISH, ETC.   291 at a disastrous defeat sustained by the British, in which defeat many of the British were taken pri- soners, the medicine chest was seized, and her hus- band, herself, and a number of the staff, marched up the country into the Burmese territory. That, owing to the medical knowledge of the prisoners, they were well treated; and that, to her surprise, among the slaves in the emperor's garden, she dis- covered her early lover, Henry Beaufort. The discovery led to a plan of escape, that was consum- mated on the evening of the day that Mr. Robin- son, froni an attack of cholera, expired. Esther narrated, however, that she was not daunt- ed; and that, with Beaufort, and a native lady of English parentage, a captive in the seraglio nearly from her birth, after various difficulties the English army was joined in safety; and that here, on making himself known, Beaufort would have assumed his rank; but the delicate state of Mrs. Beaufort re. quiring his attention, he repaired with his lady to Calcutta, where, in giving birth to twins, Mrs. Beaufort expired. The grief of the husband not allowing consolation, he surrendered himself to de- spair, was seized with an intermittent fever, and, in three days expired-" previously charging me," added Esther, "to bear his infant sons to his cousin,   292      JULIA TREMAINE; Lady Elizabeth Arundel, who, he said, would, for his sake, be a mother to them." "You know the rest," concluded the narrator, "I would have obeyed the charge, but, alas! Pro- vidence decreed it otherwise! Last evening the children perished in the wreck; and I feel that I shall soon join them." Esther MAalpas was right in her prognostication, liviing only till the next morning; while, on the  evening of the day of her death, the bodies of the two children were washed on shore. At the proper time, the remains of Esther and  tle children were placed in the same grave, at the expense of the baronet; and no being, save himself, knew that the grave contained aught than the corpses of a mother arnd her clhildren.  I;   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   293 CHAPTER XXVII WHEN Lady Maria Priam left Villa Blanche, she repaired immediately to the. Conte Albine; and, informing him of her independence, proposed to him to become its sharer. The needy Italian, with more joy than love, ac- cepted the proposition; and a Catholic priest (her ladyship having abjured the Protestant religion in favour of the foreigner she loved) was procured, and the well-matched pair were indissolubly united; and, accompanied by Lady Ashton, a few days after, quitted France for Italy; where, abiding at Naples, and an expensive style of living, introduced them to the societies of all countries, the Contessa Al- bine being most justly extolled for her beauty and fascinations. For a time her spirit of coquetry ap- peared to lie dormant; but the arrival of a young Englishman, rich and handsome, aroused her from her inaction; and his gallantry and profuse pre- sents awakened her to a sense of the full power of 25*   294      JULTA TR3EMATNE; her charms. To be brief, the young gentleman parted not with his gold in vain-the beauteous Contessa Albing favoured him, and he was the envy of all Naples. A dread of Italian jealousy induced the guilty pair for a time to be cautious; but, becoming bolder from their imagined security, the husband was, at length, no longer deluded by the blandishments of his cara sposa; and watching the guilty pair to an alcove whither they had retired, one sultry day, (thinking him far from Naples,) he was convinced of his dishonour; and, forgetful of everything but vengeance, he instantly unsheathed his stiletto; and, rushing upon his unsuspecting wife and her paramour, buried it repeatedly in both their bosoms. The contessa's wound was fatal; she survived but a few hours. Her lover, however, was more fortunate; for, chance directing his servant to the spot, he had his bleeding master conveyed home; where, summoning surgical attendance, he re- covered sufficiently, in the course of a few months, to leave Italy for his native country. Lady Ashton was much shocked when the black and stiffened corpse of the once lovely Maria was laid at her feet by the sanguinary husband, who   OR, A FATHER'S WISH, ETC.   295 upbraided her in strong terms for being the cause of her child's premature end; and her ladyship felt her error and her neglect of proper parental au- thority when too late. Continuing in Italy just long enough to see the last rites paid to her guilty though lamented daughter, her'ladyship departed for England, to join her son; but the disease which sorrow caused debarred that much wished gratification. As soon. as she disembarked from the vessel which conveyed her from the shores of Italy, she ordered a car- riage to take her to Ireton Lodge; and, travelling alone, and the posthoy opening the carriage-door to inquire for farther instructions, he, to his hor- ror, discovered that the- solitary inmate was no longer an inhabitant of this world. Her ladyship's papers explained her rank; and the melancholy news was sent to her only son, Lord Ashton, who did not long survive his mother; for, though Tremaine would have waited on him the instant he heard of his brutal proposals to Julia, ere explanation could be given or received, it was learnt that he had been summoned to the presence of his Maker-being thrown from hi horse, whilst hunting, and killed on the spot. When Julia read the fate of the Ashton family   296      JULIA TREMAINE; in the news of the day, she dropped the tear of commiscration to their memory-snatched away untimely, with all their sins upon their heads.- Treimaine was also shocked, although he con- sidered their fate only retributive justice. The two thousand per annum he had given to Maria for her life of course returned to him; and, though the sum was not missed from the princely coffers of De Moreton, he congratulated its return, from know- ing it would be better applied by his meritorious Julia than (had she survived) by the guilty and extravagant Maria. We have little more to add. Lady Buccleugh (our favourite Augusta,) accompanied by her lord, flew on the wings of friendship to visit Julia, when she heard of her reunion with Tremaine. The meeting was at the cottage, and, in the evening, as Julia gazed on the assemblage of friends and rela- tions by whom she was surrounded, she gently whispered to Tremaine, "Was I not, dear Har- court, a true prophetess, when I predicted we should shortly be a felicitous family party? Oh! if I had never tasted sorrow, could I have appre- ciated as they deserve the delightful hours devoted to love and friendship? I fear not. Then let us rejoice at the wisdom of Providence; and trusting   OR, A FATtHER'S WISH, ETC.  297 that our errors have hitherto proceeded more from the head than the heart, hope to pass through the remainder of our lives with virtue for our friend, and religion for our guide!' END OF JULA TREMATNE. END OF JULsIA TREMAINEo     A GLIMPSE     OF GLEN MARY. ji SiiPtE ff j    illis, t i t lmerialt nitd. MY friend B--- and myself were delighted to find, on our arrival at Owego, that the time which we had set apart for visiting the residence of Mr. Willis, was the most brilliant of moonlight even- ings, and that the mingled feelings of romance and enthusiasm with which we essayed this pilgrimage to the home of a true poet, would receive no un- toward damps from too generous rain clouds.- Few, comparatively, of the crowd of travellers who deem it due to their reputation as fashionable peo- ple, that they should tread the hackneyed route from the cities of the sea-board to the falls, ever find their way up the Cayuga to its head, and, lingering for a brief space to gaze at the exquisite   300    A GLIMPSE OF GLEN MARY. scenery which characterizes this portion of the Empire State, proceed thence to the borders of the Susquehanna. This route is comparatively untrod- den. Thousands are content, year after year, to visit and revisit the villages on the great central route, who would gladly make the beautiful episode, which'lthe route to and from Owego presents, if they were cognizant of even half its attractions. \We have both known Willis personally, al- though our acquaintance was but slight; but of his works we had both been intimate friends, and were among that number (a minority, once, but rapidly changing to a large and overwhelming majority) who, in the brilliancy of language-the harmony of arrangement-and the sparkling freshness of thought that are the characteristics of his writing, believe that he has wrought his way to the fellow- ship of poets, the true and the real. The village of Owego lies on the banks of the Susquehanna, which is at this point a lovely and a gentle stream, only swelling into the force and magnitude of a mighty river, when the freshets of spring and autumn give it unwonted capacity. In this respect, the Susquehanna differs from the Dela- ware, whose current is uniformly more swift and   A GLIMPSE OF GLEN MARY.   301 turbulent, as chafing with every obstacle in its progress it flows, " mountain-curved, along." Nothing could exceed the beauty of the scene which met our eye. The waters sparkled with the moonbeams-the village itself was brilliant with the lustre of the night, its white cottages gleaming, at intervals, like the tiny silver palaces in the eastern fable. In truth, it was the very night in which to visit Willis. Our route passed by many a pretty dwelling that we were half disposed to believe was the one of which we were in quest, but the distance de- scribed to us, as that at which the place of our des- tination was situate, was not accomplished until about three miles had been passed over. We had the recollections of Bartlett's picture of Glen Mary very vividly in our minds, and were on the qui vive to determine whether it was sufficiently accurate to enable us to recognise the original. A faithful guide it proved to be, for we instantly traced the correctness of the pictured similitude, in the first glance which we caught of the house. It is situate in a gorge of meadow land bordering the Owego Creek, the prettiest of all the many daughters of the Susquehanna, and where gently flowing waters, skirted by noble trees, are the leading and love- 26   302     A GL(M'SE 01F GIIIN IMAE1Y. liest pictures of the landscape. We were soon at the house, which is a Tuscan cottage, with lattices and portico, and embosomed in foliage. It looks, precisely as it was intended by its occupant it should look, like a neat and tasteful abode; with- out pretension to anything but the beauty of good order; and yet one at which no one could gaze for a moment without discovering that there was a fitness and a propriety about it, just carrying out our ideas of what a cottage should be; such a one as we do not find in books of architecture, but in the simple imagiriings of quiet good taste. In the neatness of the gravelled walks which lead from the road-sides, and in the profusion of beautiful shrubbery which is everywhere around, are seen the proper accompaniments to this cottage of the Glen. ," So sweet a spot of earth, you might, I ween, Have guessed some congregation of the Elves, To sport by summer moons had shaped it for themselves." W\illi s himself opened the door to us, and a single glance nt the apartment into which we\ were shown was suflicient to. banish all apprehension, lest the int'erior of the dwelling miight suffer by a   A GLIMPSE OF GLEN MARYo   303 contrast with the charms of the exterior. There was no article of household use or adornment that showed gaudily. It might have been questioned even if the Parisian man of furniture would have given his approbation to all the arrangements, but the impression made upon the observer wis that of exquisite good taste, that had grouped together the simple and the beautiful so as to give to com- fort the garb of neatness and ornament. I may not be more particular in my description, lest I might seem to transgress the honourable laws which goverh propriety. The Lady of the house was there, and at her feet, Maria, a noble grey- hound, well worthy to be designated as was Scott's. On a side table stood a large tulip-shaped vase, of stained glass, whose burden of bright flowers was an ornament, with a world of bijoux. There was everywhere abundant evidence that this was a chosen house for literature. Curious and exquisite engravings; volumes of the best poetry of every land, bound, as well beseemed such rich treasures of thought, in embossed vellum and gold.    ,        i Treatises of quaint and elaborate philosophy were scattered negligently, but not ungracefully around.   304     A GLIMPSE OF GLEN MARY. I-Tow charming is divine philosophy! Not harsh, and crabbed, as dull fools suppose, But musical as is Apollo's lute, And a perpetual feast of nectar'd sweets, Where no crude surfeit reigns." In the corner of the room was Willis's bust, of Italian marble, exquisitely chiselled by the hand of Greenough.  For nearly three months the poet and sculptor resided together in the same house in Italy, and then and there the work of modelling was done. I recollect to have formerly seen this bust in the Academy of Design in New York. By the way, in speaking of Grcenough, I am glad, for the sake of an artist I am proud to num- ber among my friends, that his celebrated statue of Washington has been removed from the Rotunda of the Capitol. It stood in what was usually called a bad light, with no dark ground for relief, as in the case of the statues of Peace and War. Much of the harsh criticism, which found its way into the public prints, had its origin in this circumstance. rThe beholder felt, without either knowing or rea- soning upon the cause, that there was something wanting, and found fault with the work itself in- stead of the accidental position in which it was placed.   A GLIMPSFE OF GLEN MARY.   3)0, To us, one of the most interesting of the literary treasures of Glen Mary, was the rare collection of autographs which was shown us. Ah! how many hands, now cold in death, had contributed to this treasure! I recollect, more especially, a translation of a Greek ode in the autograph of Byron, when a boy at Harrow--notes written by Lawrence Sterne, by Charles Lamb, by Garrick, by the un- fortunate but gifted L. E. L., Captains Ross and Parry, Basil Hall, Sir Hudson Lowe, the family of Bonaparte, Madame Catalini, Pasta, Leigh Hunt, Hoggr the Ettrick Shepherd, Rogers, Campbell, and most valuable of all-by the unapproached and unapproachable Scott. And here too were letters from the wife of Byron, and from "Ada, sole daughter of my house and heart." The handwriting of the mother and daughter could scarcely be distinguished from each other, so striking was the similarity. Nor was there lack- ing somewhat of a miscellany, for before us lay"The Earl of Eglington's " card to the Tournament, and one which speaks its own fame. "Admit two to the pit, NjcoL PAGANINI;" 2 26G   300    A (   LlMSiSE OF CLBIn IAXRY. There was also here a queer letter from Talley- rand to his secretary, cnjoining upon him to go to a particular shop in Paris and be sure to purchase a certain kind of cigars, evidently illustrating to posterity the rare judgment of the Bishop of Autun. Canova's "fine Roman hand" was here exhibited, and our friend IDr. S--, of Albany, orthodox though he be, would have welcomed to his great collection the autographs of Shelley, Godwin, and Mary Wolstencraft, the attachment of the last of whom to that child of genius-the painter Fuseli, forms so anusing, yet so sorrowful a chapter in the history of the passions. But I must reluctantly forbear any further mention of these relics, the examination of which was so delightful. There was a miniature there, painted by Saun- ders, (miniature painter to the King of Hanover,) the back ground filled up with a vase of flowers, and a partial view of a landscape, done so exqui- sitely, that I could not restrain my admiration. If properly allowed to speak of theoriginal, it would be to recall how much the pleasure of that visit was enhanced by her graceful hospitality. A fine cabinet painting from a scene in Tortesa, or the Usurer, one of Willis's own plays, did not escape our attention. it represents Angelo, the   A GLIMPSE OF SLEN MARY.        307 painter, drawing up the sleeve of Isabella.     But let me quote from the the a  the scene illustrated- ANGELO. (examining her cheekc.) There is a mixture Of white and red here, that defeats my skill. If you'll forgive me, I'll observe an instant How the bright blood and the transparent pearl Melt to each other. ISABELLA. (receding from him.) You're too free, sir! ANGO (with urprise.) Madam. ISAB. (aside.) And yet I think not so. We must look on it To paint it well. ANG.          Lady, the daylight's precious. Pray you turn to me, in my study here, I've tried to fancy how that ivory shouldr Leads the white light off from your arching neck, But cannot, for the envious sleeve that hides it; Please you displace it! (Raising his hand to the sleeve.) ISAB.         Sir, you are too bold. ANG. Pardon me, ladjy; Nature's masterpiece Should be beyond your hiding or my praise; Were you less marvellous, I were too bold; But there's a pure divinity in beauty, Which the true eye of art looks on with reverence: And though, like angels, it were all undrest, You have no right to hide it. How  rapidly ran on the time in the examina- tion of these works of art, in the reflections and   30tS    A GLIMPSE OF GLEN MARY. associations to which they gave rise, and in the thousand incidents of men and events, which were the theme of our busy converse! While so much of the romantic was visible all around this cottage, it might have been supposed that there would have been a strong bias of the same discoverable in the associations within doors. Such, however, was not the case. Anything like sickly sentimentality found no lodgement there, and my recollections of the opinions and criticism of our host were those of a man, who had seen the world so thoroughly as to make a rapid and just estimate of the pretensions of men ministering kindness to real genius, and detesting the vain or the worthless. There is a most unjust disposition abroad in our American world, not to judge of Willis as we do of Bryant or Halleck, by what they have showed us they could do. To criticise with severity Willis's writings, is one thing-to produce any- thing comparable to them, in thought or beauty, is another. Certain is, that apart from his reputa- tion as a writer, there was nothing at Glen Mary to detract from his fame as a poet. I left him when the evening was far spent; and among the hours of my life which I would mark with a white stone, were those spent at Glen Mary.   o. F iAT N Y; OR Ste   Bitle  itraB f  tihfaga; A VIRGINIAN TALE. CHAPTER I. THE WILL. EXACTLY seventy-seven years ago, Justice Gor- man, Mr. Wilcox, the village attorney, and Mr. Niles, the village schoolmaster, besides many more of the village worthies, met in the large old- fashioned hall of the ancient mansion house that stood half a mile from the village, for the pur- pose of reading the last will and testament of the deceased owner of the said mansion house. He had bequeathed his entire property, consisting   310      FANNY; OR, THE of a large amount of gold and plate, the spacious mansion, and an extensive plantation attached to it, to Harry Lincoln, his nephew, and namesake- with the proviso that he, Harry the younger, must make his home three months of each year, longer if he chose, in the mansion house, for the purpose of overseeing the plantation; or, not fulfilling the injunction, he would forfeit the aforesaid mansion house and the broad acres thereunto attached. At the time the will was opened, the heir was on his way from Cambridge, having been hastily sum- moned thence to attend his uncle in his sudden and last illness. Seventy-seven years ago, the most ra- pid mode of travelling was but a snail's pace com- pared to the wings of steam that hurry us through the air at this present day. So that when Harry Lincoln arrived at the mansion house in Virginia, he found his good old uncle had departed from this world, leaving his nephew heir to his vast wealth. Behold him, then, at the age of twenty-one, his collegiate course of studies completed, a hare- brained, thoughtless, good-hearted fellow, father- less, motherless, sisterless, brotherless, wifeless, with a fine person and a fine estate, and with no trouble to disturb his mind, save the death of his   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE,    3" good, old, indulgent uncle, who had brought him up from a boy. He dearly loved his uncle, the elder Harry Lin- coln, or "the old Harry," as the village black- smi th's envious sister often called him, and a kinder- hearted old gentleman, a more benevolent, or one more worthy to be loved, never existed. Peace to his ashes! ,e'   31'   rFANNY; OR, THEP CHAPTER II. TIE MYSTERY. TILE young master of the mansion house had now been three weeks within its dreary and desolate walls-dreary and desolate, because he missed the hearty tones of his kind old uncle; because he had just left a set of merry fellows at college; and because it was in that season of the year when mist above, and mud below, and cold between, existed to almost any extent. Harry Lincoln's time began to hang very heavily; each day seemed to grow longer and more dull. He read. and walked, and rode, but all would not keep off the blue imps that hovered around him, whispering their doleful words in his ears. Harry had seen pass by the mansion house, in the morning, going towards the village, and in the evening coming from the village, a figure that in- terested him in no small degree. For the last few days he had regularly stationed   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    313 himself, just after breakfast and before tea, at, the great hall window, to watch the coming and going of the fair inconnue. Who could she be? She had the prettiest foot and ankle he ever saw. The most fashionable ball- room belle might have envied her walk, so grace- fully, and with such an air distingue did she carry herself. A dark green travelling dress, that fitted without compressing her lithe waist, showed a form wavy and well rounded. Who could she be? Her whole appearance indicated that she was no common girl. Who could she be? Harry had not been able to catch even one glimpse of her pretty face-pretty hefelt it must be, for a close straw cot- tage, and a thick green veil, served effectually to conceal it. Who she wawas was mystery he could not solve. Harry was in his usual seat by the window, watching for the return of the mysterious lady of the veil. A book was in his hand, but he was in deep thought gazing from out the window upon the varied and many formed mud puddles that be- decked the way side. "She comes!" exclaimed he, " there she comes! I wish she would look this way. Out upon the man who first invented close bonnets and green veils! 27   314      FANNY; R0t, THE [low perfectly graceful all her movements are!  YWho can she be? There is an indescribable some- Ahing about her that excites my interest in spite of myself. There, the turn in the road has hid her from my eyes. I will find out her name and abode-in- deed, I will! and, if she is worth the trouble, I'll fall desperately in love with her. I have nothing else under the sun to do." Harry threw the book from him to the other side of the room; and springing to the bell, gave it such a pull as caused the appearance most instantly of an ebony phiz through the opened door. "I'se hea, massa." "Send some one to mend the bell-rope, Sarjo." "Ees, massa," grinned the black. "Any ting moa, m1assa? "Sarjo, there is a young-lady goes past here every day. You have seen her?" "Ees, massa," again grinned the woolly pate. "Do you know her name?"  "Ees, massa." "Well?" "Massa." "Her name, Cyclops-what is her name?" "He name AMisse Fanny, massa." "Miss Fanny what?" "lie Misse Fanny Stubbs, I b'lieve, massa."  "Horrid! You may go, Sarjo. Stay. Where   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    315 does Miss Fanny Stu-, the young lady-where does she live?" "Long wid de ole woman in de cottage. He no berry far, massa-'long side de road. He go eb'ry day to the village for teach de school-larn em A, B, C, massa." "Bring me my cap and overcoat," said the young man, after. a moment's musing. "Ees, massa." And the negro displayed his double row of pearls by a very significant grin, and vanished. He was Harry's favourite servant. A right worthy fellow was the husband of Harry's nurse, and had played with his "young massa" when he was but a baby. r      h   316      FANNY; OR, THE CHAPTER III. THE INTERVIEW. A SHORT distance from the turn in the road before alluded to stood the " ole woman's cottage." It was built upon Harry Lincoln's plantation. The old woman had rented it of his uncle many years before; had duly paid the rent for the first few years;; after that she remained in it by right of possession, no rent collector ever coming to dispute the right. Harry soon reached the cottage. A girl was sitting in one of its windows reading. "That must be Fanny!" exclaimed Harry. "She is beautiful. Indeed, she is. Just the style of beauty I always admired. She does not see me. I can almost read what she is reading in her ex- pressive face. 'Faint heart never won fair lady,' so I'll in,and introduce myself to the pretty Fanny." Harry's rap at the door was answered by the girl he had seen at the window. He took a hasty sur- vey of the apartment. No one else was in the   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    317 room with her. His eye fell upon a table, where lay the little straw bonnet and veil. He felt as- sured. My name is Lincoln-Harry Lincoln," said he. "Yours, I believe, is Miss Fanny Stubbs. Am I right?  The young lady smiled, and bit her lips, to pre- vent a laugh outright. "That is the name I an- swer to,' replied she. They then fell into an easy, merry uttering of each other's thoughts. Their conversation ran upon the Stamp Act Parliament had just passed-how the colonies would probably receive it. They talked of George the Third, and of the Georges that had preceded him; of the great earthquake that had taken place ten years before; of the French war, the Republic of Venice, and of republics in general. Fanny proved herself a stanch anti-royalist; and, by her playful eloquence more than converted Harry over to her own way of thinking, he only vowing never to kneel to a shrine more despotic than bright woman's, with beauty such as Fanny's for a crown. Meanwhile time glided by, unnoticed. Fanny was sensible and entertaining, and entirely free from all affectation. Lincoln was surprised to find 27*  j   318      FANNY; OR, TIlE so much refinement, so much ease and grace of man- ner, in a country schoolmnistress. She is a gay, witty little piece of mechanism," thought he. A little too much for me, and I was always considered an exceedingly clever fellow." "May I see what you were reading, Miss Stubbs?" said he, after they had exhausted an animated dis- cussion upon the manifold delights of a country life, particularly in the winter season. "Certainly; but do call me Fanny," replied she, laughing. Fanny had a peculiar laugh. Her head tossed itself back, with its myriad of sunny brown curls, and from out her rosy, dimpled mouth pro- ceeded the merriest, prettiest, "Ha! ha's!" in the world. "What! the Divina Commedia. And in the ori- ginal!" said Harry, as he opened the book she handed him. "Are you an admirer of Dante, Fanny?" "To distraction," replied the girl. Harry hardly knew whether she was in earnest or not. "What part do you like best?" "The Paradiso." "Dante shone a brilliant meteor in the dark ages. He was a most fervent, passionate writer. The   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    319 Divine Comedy is a most noble poem, intense and earnest. Do you read him much, Fanny?" "Yes, when I have nothing better to entertain me." "What better would you have?"' said Harry, looking surprised. '"That which I now have, responded she, with an arch glance. "Pray, what is that?" asked the young man, looking still more surprised. "Your agreeable conversation." "How shall I understand you, Miss Stubbs?" There was some pique in Harry's tone, and an ac- cent not slight on the euphonious name Stubbs. "Just as you please, Mr. Lincoln," replied the girl, coldly. "Good evening, Miss Stubbs." "What, not going-so soon-2" asked she, affecting indifference. "Going? Certainly." "Good evening, sir." As soon as he was gone, Fanny burst into a merry laugh. "H How ridiculous," said she, and she laughed again. "When I said just what I thought, too?" and she laughed on. "Yes, I really did like his   320      LANNY; OR, THE conversation. He puts me so much in mind of-" The girl fell into a fit of musing. At home, and in the room he had left three hours before, Harry gave himself a sullen throw into the old arm chair" that stood in that same corner as long ago as the elder Harry could remember- how much longer no one knew. "What a deuce of a girl it is!" and this was all he said; how much more he thought his biographer does not tell. He must have thought, for it is cer- tain he did not sleep-at least, not until his usual time for retiring into the land of dreams. The next day came-as next days are in the habit of doing. Harry arose, thought of Fanny-after dreaming about her all night-breakfasted, and took his station in one of the deep windows of the drawing- room to watch for Fanny. Fanny did not come. An hour passed, still no Fanny. Harry concluded she had gone by while he was at breakfast. He began to feel sad and low-spi- rited; he left the window, and paced up and down the room with rapid strides. "How tiresome it is!" exclaimed he, "to have nothing to do-to be for ever alone. I'll shoot myself-I will, indeed; it will be variety. No 1    VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    321 won't; I'll wait intil the afternoon, and go and see Fanny. But will she receive me? I'll make the trial, at all events." Harry again gazed earnestly out of the window, and then sat down to the piano. He played frag- ments of fifty different airs; all sounded discordant to his ears. He left the piano in disgust, and threw himself into the open arms of the great chair, to dream of Fanny.   .    \     /   322      FANNY; OR, TIIE CHAPTER IV. THE SURPRISE. A LOW, soft rap at the door aroused him from his meditations. "Come in!" said Harry, in a sulky voice. The low, soft rap was repeated. Harry opened the door, but started back half way across the room as the little veiled cottage presented itself, with Fanny's sweet face peeping out from under it, like love in a mists He sprang as instantly forward, and catching both of Fanny's little soft hands, he kissed first one and then the other, then both together, until Fanny thought it prudent to withdraw them-doubtless, for fear of having them devoured. Fanny spoke first. Fanny had a very sweet voice; it did not break a silence; it glided in as though the stillness waited for the smooth tones, and yield- ed them room. "Your man Sarjo told me in what room I should find his 'young massa,' and so-"   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    323 I am very glad you came, Fanny, t truly am; for I was just going into a fit of the azures." "That is a disease I never have been troubled with, to any extent," said Fanny, with a laugh. "If I can do you any good in the way of a cure, I am at your service. I have a holiday to-day, and can afford to spend it as I like best." "'Delightful task, to rear the tender thought, to teach,' and all that. Is it not, Fanny?" "JMost'delightful," said she, laughing with him. "An open piano, I see. Do you play, Mr. Lin- coln?" sarry replied by sitting down to the instrument. He was a lover of music; his soul seemed to guide the movement of his fingers. Fanny listened eagerly, and now and then, as he went on a silent tear trickled down her cheek. When Harry arose and looked around, Fanny's eyes were still moist; but the same bright, careless smile was dimpling her pretty mouth that had so charmed him from the first. "Thank you," said she; "it puts me in mind of --"Fanny hesitated and blushed; she turned to the piano to hide her blushes. "What a delight- ful toned instrument this is!" exclaimed she, run- ning her little dimpled hands over its chords. "It   324      FANNY; OR, THE recalls old memories, when-Shall I try if I can re- member anything I used to know? It has been some time since I have touched a piano." Harry replied that nothing could afford him more pleasure than to hear her. So Fanny played. She commenced with a wild, plaintive prelude, and, as she proceeded, recollections of the past came to her; she seemed to play her heart out, as though it felt the poetry of music. She played as capriciously as a butterfly roves from flower to flower-by turns lively and sad. Lincoln stood entranced; he forgot she was a village schoolmistress, and that her name was Stubbs. He only saw in the bright creature before him the first being he had ever loved. She sang at his request. One with so much heart could not help singing well. Her voice was full of tenderness; she sang as feelingly as she played. "You are a wonderful creature, Fanny," said Lincoln, when her song was ended. "Fanny, give up your school and come and teach me. Teach me how to love you as you deserve to be loved. Fanny, I love you. Will you be mine? What! silent and -smiling! You may laugh, but Fanny, believe me, I am in earnest. I do love you, sincerely. Still silent? You are a strange girl, Fanny. Shall I   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    325 get down upon my knees and offer you my heart and hand, as they did in times of old? If this is but the second time I have seen you, and if my love eem sudden, believe me it is none the less sincere. Speak Fanny-dearest Fanny." },8   326      FANNY; OR THE CHAPTER V. THE MST CLEARED AWAY. JuST as Fanny opened her pretty little mouth, full of smiles, to speak, Sarjo opened the drawing- room door to announce to his "Massa Harry" that I a young gemman " wished to see him. Sarjo threw the great door wide open, and at the same instant entered Mr. Richard Sinclair, one of Harry's college friends. Harry welcomed his friend warmly, but he could not help wishing he had delayed his arrival for an hour or so. "As soon as I had received your last doleful letter," said the new coner, returning Harry's shake with compound interest, "I resolved to come here instead of going home, although I have not been there for two years, and have not heard a word from tl ere for at last half that time. Your letter was of so deep a blue, that it made me me- 2   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    327 lancholy for full five minutes. I left Cambridge immediately, and started off post haste to see you, for fear you would shoot or drown yourself in your solitary prison. So here I am. What! Fanny!" exclaimed he, for the first time perceiving Harry's companion. "None other, my dear Richard," returned Fanny. A mutual and warm embrace followed. Harry's eyes began to grow green; he heartily wished his friend back at Cambridge, or anywhere but where he was; and was on the point of inviting him to mortal combat, when Sinclair turned from Fanny to him.  "Why have you never told me you were ac- quainted with my sister? And Fanny," continued Sinclair, "how came you here? Why did you leave home-and when? I am in a maze. Pray, explain." "Your sister!" uttered Harry, considerably re- lieved. "Why I am here is a long story-but I may as well tell it now." The trio seated themselves on the great velvet- cushioned sofa, and Fanny thus commenced, Harry meantime gazing into her bright eyes. You knew, Mr. Lincoln, that your chum, Dick   328      FANNY; OR, THE Sinclair, had an only sister in Charleston, South Carolina, and that he and this sister were orphans; but you did not know, until a few moments ago, that I, Miss Stubbs,"-Fanny gave a droll, expres- sive glance-" was his sister. I used to hear my brother speak of you, and all his letters were full of praises; that will account, in part, to you why I treated you so like an old friend. Papa died when we were young children, appointing Mr. Lacelles, an old friend of his, our guardian. The property was divided equally between us, but in such a way that neither of us could command a penny of it until we arrived at the age of twenty-one. So was it nominated in the will." "Who came with you, Fanny, from Charleston? -and when and why?" "Have patience, my brother' you shall know all in good time. I merely wish to say a few words explanatory to Mr. Lincoln.-My brother having arrived at the desirable age of freedom, has come into full possession of his share. Is it not so, Dick? I am still at the mercy of Mr. Lacelles, to receive as many or as few pounds as he chooses to give me. My brother, being a great favourite with him, always received an ample allowance. So did I,   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    329 until now-and now he will not let me have a shil- ling." "How happens that, sister?" "That is the funny part of it. About a year ago, Mr. Lacelles took it into his head that I should make him a nice wife. I was then sixteen, he being only sixty.' Fanny threw back her head, and laughed for a long time at the oddity of the thing. Her mirth being concluded, she went on with her story. "I always had liked my guardian, but could not think of marrying him. I told him so in a very respectful manner, but he would not take No,' for an answer. You know, Dick, how persevering and immovable he is when his mind is once made up. He kept teazing me, until I avoided his presence in every possible way I could., At last he became so importunate that I left his house and went to my aunt's. There I was still tormented in every way. He sent me threatening notes, and intruded himself .upon me at every opportunity. His presence became so disagreeable to me, that I refrained from going into the street, and would not see him when he called. He then told me, in a note, I should not have another sixpence until I became his wife. I knew he would keep his word, 28*   330      FANNY; OR THE as the event proved, He was determined I ,shoild marry him, but more from his having said I should than for any love he bore me. I saw in a Rich- mond paper, about that time, an advertisement, stating that Mr. Niles, teacher of a village school fifteen miles from Richmond, wished an assistant to superintend the female department of his school. A marvellous independent feeling arose within me, so I left Charleston without saying a word to any one, and, arriving in Richmond six weeks ago,. wrote from there to Mr. Niles. He called on me, and liked me well enough to try me. Since then I have been teaching in his school." A strange, wild plan, sister mine. Why did you not write to me?" "I wanted to see how it would seem to earn my own living, and I did not wish to stay any longer in Charleston." "I am glad it is no worse, Fanny; but you must givb up your foolish idea of school-keeping, and be my companion to the old country. I am going in a few weeks." "I object -to that plan in toto," said Harry. I, too, am going on a voyage, and wish a com- panion. But my voyage is the voyage of life; it   VEILED STRAW COTTAGE.    831 will be a very, very short one, if I do -not have Fanny to accompany me. What say you, Fanny?" "Yes, Fanny, what do you say?" asked her brother, laughing. "I will do as you both think best," meekly re- sponded Fanny, with a roguish smile in the corner of her downcast eye. And s  ey were married-Fanny Sinclair and Harry Lincoln.          M. S. P. J.   I I   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. "Thou hast call'd me thy angel in moments of bliss- Still thy angel I'll be, 'mid the horrors of this; Through the furnace unshrinking thy steps to pursue, And shield thee, and save thee, or perish there too." IRISH MELODIES. THE summer twilight was fast drawing to a close as Juliet Beranger seated herself by an open win- dow, almost entirely shaded by the abundant foliage of a vine. No lights illuminated the apart- ment; but the beams of an unclouded moon peered through the interstices of the verdant drapery, re- vealing a countenance which, if not radiantly beau- tiful, was very lovely. Though there was much softness in her truly feminine style of features, a critical observer would at once have concluded, by certain traits, especially the firm, sweet mouth, g   334    ORDEAL OF WOMANS' FAITH. that her character was not wanting in energy and decision. She imagined herself to be alone, for the gloom and obscurity which hovered in a dis- tant corner of the apartment effectually shrouded the figure of a woman, past the prime of life, who, for certain reasons of her own, had glided in un- perceived, and stationed herself there previous to Juliet's entrance. Juliet had not remained at the window many minutes before there was a rustling of the vine-leaves; and then, through the opening which had been effected, appeared the handsome and intelligent face of a young man about twenty- five. "Charles Percival," said she, "why have you disregarded my request? Did I not tell you in my letter that it would not be prudent for you to seek to see me again at present?" "You did, dearest Juliet; and in the same letter you told me that Mr. Briggs and his sister would both be absent this evening. Have they not done as you expected?" "Yes; but if we cannot meet openly, we had better not meet at all." "I know of no right which either Mr. Briggs or his sister has to control you in this respect. Were   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.   335 your father living, he would not think of assuming so much authority over you." "Where there is might there is right; and you know, if it so please him, my guardian can retain my property in his hands till I am twenty-one. Will it not, therefore, be better to relinquish all thoughts of marriage till that time, and even for you to discontinue your visits, since Mr. Briggs has forbidden them?  "And you are now only eighteen! Is it possible that you can wish to defer our marriage three long years, and, worse still, to banish me from your presence " "It is more on your own account: than mine that I make this proposition, Charles. I know that you are in good business, but not exactly in a situation to receive a portionless bride. When I am twenty- one, the law will oblige my guardian toyield me :my property." "I believe I have no reason to doubt you; but you know that Mr. Briggs and his sister are continually plotting to induce you to marry him." "Percival," said Juliet, gravely, and with a slight touch of anger, "is it possible that you can have one serious thought that I shall ever become the wife of Mr. Briggs?"   336    ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. "Stranger things than that have fallen under nly own observation. It is true that he is nearly old enough to be your grandfather, and that in person and manners he is equally repulsive; but he has unbounded wealth, which, with your own personal advantages, will place you at the head of fashionable society. Three years are a long time to be subject to the influence of so persevering a man as Mr. Briggs and so cunning a woman as his sister. But I will not urge you for the sake of my own gratification to what you consider an impru- dent step. I must say, however, that I have many misgivings. Three years! It is a long time." Not so very long; and it will be so much better for us to have my property at our own disposal on an occasion when so much will be needed. It would at present be a serious disadvantage to your business to be obliged to spare any part of your capital for the purpose of fitting up an establish- ment.}} "For the next three years, then, we are to meet as strangers." "Oh, no-whenever we do meet, we will meet as friends." Farewell, then,Juliet. You may reason rightly, but you likewise reason coldly; and you must for-   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.   337 give me if I say that I think, were I in a similar situation to yourself the impulses of affection could not so entirely yield to motives of prudence." "I perceive that you have little faith in the strength and disinterestedness of my affection," she replied; "but should ever the day of trial come, you may learn to think otherwise." Her lips quivered, and her voice trembled as she spoke, for her feelings were more deeply wounded by her lover's last speech than she cared to confess. He perceived her emotion; but something, not very unlike anger, prevented him from seeking to soothe her feelings; and bidding her "good night," he left the window. Juliet immediately withdrew from the apartment, without having detected the presence of Miss Briggs, her guardian's sister, who had been a silent listener to the conversation between her and Charles Percival. Mr. Briggs, though one of the wealthiest men in Philadelphia, looked forward with a degree of dread to the time which would oblige him to sur- render the fortune of his ward into her keeping; for, after having had the management of it for several years, it appeared almost like parting with a portion of his own wealth. 29 4   338    ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.  Percival had scarcely parted from Juliet before he regretted the manner in which he had alluded to her guardian, as well as the reproachful way he had spoken of the course she had suggested as pro- per to pursue, well knowing, as she had told him, that he needed every cent of his capital to proceed in the business he was engaged in to advanta;ge. Under the influence of these repentant feelings, he wrote to Juliet, saying that having had time to re- flect, his views fullj:eoncurred with hers. A mi- niature of himself accompanied the letter, which, he said, as long as she retained, he should consider her faith unwavering. In return, he requested her to send him a ringlet of hexihair. Juliet acceded to his wishes, and for awhile they felt secure in each other's affection. Miss Briggs, whose amiable feelings had not been brought into requisition by the conversation she had overheard, resolved to let no means remain untried to arouse the half-awakened doubts of Per- cival. Whenever opportunity presented, she hinted that it was not improbable that her brother's ward would marry in the course of a few months, who, she said, was a girl of too much good sense, when she could secure a perspn of wealth, to think of en- couraging the addresses of Charles Percival.   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.   339 This and similar sayings were in time reported to Percivl, revised and improved, as are all second editions of the kind, in a degree corresponding to the malic or lively imagination of the reporter. Neither did Miss Briggs omit to urge her brother to press his sit. "I have," said she, one day addressing him,t put affairs in such a train, that there would be a fair prospect for you, were you not so faint-hearted." Faint-hearted do you call ae?" said he. "I am no more faint-hearted than you are. But what would you have a man do?" "I told you the other day what to do. Praise her beauty. Women love to be flattered-that is, those who, unlike one I could mention, if I chose, have not sufficient strength of mind to despise it." You may thank your stars, Keziah, that your strength of mind in that respect has never been put to a very severe test. But we were speaking of Juliet. I did praise her beauty no longer ago than yesterday; but instead of blushing and looking down, as you said she would bee likely to, she. looked exactly as if she were laughing at me in her sleeve. In'the next place, not to, appear out of countenance, I seized her hand, and looked at her in a sentimental-like kind of way-that is, as 4,.  .      340    ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. near as I could judge-and what do you think she  "Why, she attempted to draw her hand away, I suppose; but that was a thing of course." 4 No, she did no such thing, but asked me if I didn't feel symptoms of the gout. 'Why ' said I, kind of taken by surprise, and moving my foot, half expecting to feel my old enemy give a tweak at my great toe. 'Oh, nothing,' she replied, 'only I thought you looked as if you were in great pain.' Now, you see how much good it did for me to try to look sentimental, when I know nothing at all about it; and I can tell you, Keziah, were it not for the girl's cash, I would never try to make love to her again as long as I live." "Well, since you don't understand making love speeches and looking sentimental, I advise you to go to work in a business-like way, just as if you were going to make a bargain for a bale of goods. If you appear in your proper character, Juliet will not think of laughing at you. As for other diffi- culties which may rise up in your way, I know the method to break them down; and, mark my words, you, with your heavy purse, will, in the end, prove more than a match for Charles Percival, with his handsome face."   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.  341 To effect her purpose, Miss Briggs thought that the time had now' come to resort to stronger mea- sures. The letter and miniature which Percival sent Juliet had, soon after their reception, by means which she would not have cared to disclose, been discovered in their secret place of deposit, and duly inspected. She had, up to the present time, resisted the temptation which almost hourly assailed her to possess herself of the miniature and return it to Percival, which was to be the signal that Juliet wished to consider herself free. She now determined to yield; and the first time that Juliet was absent she took the miniature, and en- closing it in a blank envelope, sent it to Percival. She instructed the person by whom she sent it to deliver it into Mr. Percival's own hands, and tell him that it was from Miss Juliet Beranger. Early the next morning what appeared to be a sealed note was handed to Juliet. She opened it, and the dark, glossy ringlet, which, at Percival's request, she had sent him in exchange for the miniature, presented itself to view. Not a single explanatory word was written. He had followed, what he imagined to be her example, and enclosed it in a blank envelope. Her first impulse was to return the miniature, for which purpose she unlocked the 29*   342    ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. cabinet where she expected to find it. A suspicion not far from the truth flashed upon her mind when she found it was gone, and without a moment's hesitation, she wrote a full account of all she ap- prehended to Percival, and requested that he would return an immediate answer. Miss Briggs, who suspected she would write to him to demand an explanation, was on the watch, and found means to intercept the letter. As Juliet had taken the precaution to intrust it to the care of a person in whom she had perfect confidence, she did not enter- tain a thought but that it was received. Her pride was aroused by his imagined neglect and indiffer- ence, and when several weeks afterwards they met at an evening party, she studiously avoided giving him an opportunity to address her, which more than once appeared to be his intention. Time passed on, and although, in obedience to his sister's advice, Mr. Briggs had several times come to the determination to address his ward on the subject of marriage, in the cool, straightfor. ward manner in which he transacted his business, whenever a favourable opportunity presented, some- thing appeared to rise in his throat and choke his utterance. At length, as the necessity of deciding the affair appeared to him to grow more urgent,   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH.   343 this symptom became so frequent, that he began to imagine that he was afflicted with dyspepsy, and had serious thoughts of consulting a physician. But this matrimonial scheme to increase his wealth, like many others with which his brain was teeming, was destined to be broken. The destroying angel was even then hovering over the city, marking his victims, among whom were the youthful and the aged, Athe rich and the poor. It was a lovely night, and the stars and the fair harvest moon were looking down upon the hushed city, from the clear, azure sky, that bent, as in love, over the earth. To the eye the scene was one of perfect peace as well as beauty. The breeze, which at intervals swept through the foliage of the trees that cast their quivering shadows across the streets, appeared to the most delicate sense to bear no taint on its wing. No one could have imagined that in the midst of this scene of beauty and appa' rent tranquillity, the angel of death was holding his carnival. But his feast was now nearly over. The night-lamp, now and then streaming from a   DEATL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. I window, showed that some solitary individual, un- stricken by disease, was still left to feed its fires, and close, perhaps, by its light, the dying eyes of a last earthly friend. In one of these chambers of the dying, Juliet Beranger stood, bending over the couch of one, on whose forehead the cold dewsof death were fast gathering. The face of the fair girl was very pale -almost as colourless as the white robe in which she was clad; but there'was nothing in the look which she bent7upongthe stricken formrof her be- fore her, expressive of that deep and earnest love which often beams through the eyes from the heart. She evidently remained wherejshe was because she considered it to be her dutyi she was bound there by no cord of love. ( What o'clock is it, Juliet?" inquired the dying woman, struggling hard to rouse herself from the stupor which began to steal over her. "Twelve. The clock has just struck." "There is no hope-I cannot get well?" said she, inquiringly. "No; the doctor says you cannot recover." "My brother-he is already dead ?" " Yes, he is dead." "And have they come to take him away yet ?" '  t  *  *'  ,   -   "No, he is still with us." "Poor Jedediah! he would have made you a good husband if you only would have married him. Hark I they are coming to take him away." She was right. Two men ascended the staircase, and before Juliet had time to prevent him, one of them opened the door. At the sight of one so youthful, apparently alone in the house of death, he raised his hat, and said, "In this chamber, ma'am ?" "No; yonder door opens into it-a lamp is burning on the table." "dive me some hartshorn, Juliet," 'aid Miss Briggs, when she returned to the bedside. When the hartshorn had been administered, "Tell the men to wait a little while," said she to the shuddering girl, "and I shall be ready for them too. Stand by me with the smelling-drops now, and keep life in me till I can tell you some. 'thing that lies rather heavy on my mind." Juliet complied with her request, and she re- lated to her the manner she had obtained the minia- ture, and sent it to Charles Percival. " The doctor said this morning that he has the fever, and is likely to die; but you must promise not to leave me to go to him till you are sure that life has left  me. Do you promise ?" said she, her glazing eyes, 'or a moment assuming a wild and searching look. "I do." "And forgive me for what I have done?" "Yes." "One thing more-tell them to bury me by the side of my poor brother." The clock was just striking one as Juliet emerged from the dwelling in which the dead were no longer present. Her steps, though they fell lightly on the pavement, sent a hollow echo through the still night-air. She had proceeded only a short dis- tance, when the rumbling noise of wheels, and the sharp- sound of horses' hoofs smote on her ear. She sunk back into the open space between two buildings, and the. black hearse, with its reckless driver, passed on. She again stepped forward, but another car of the dead, looming up darkly in the distance, caused her a second time to retreat. This also passed, and then, hurrying to the side-walk, she proceeded at a swift pace, fearful that her course would again be impeded, towards a large   building, which, previous to the epidemic, had been used as a boardinghouse. The front door stood wide open, and a lamp, flickering in the current of air which was admitted, stood at the head of the broad and splendid staircase, as if set down by some person in haste. The house was apparently utterly desolate, and as she crossed the hall, she started at the loud, and hollow sound of her own footsteps. She returned to the foot of the stairs, where for a few moments she stood irresolute. She wished, yet dreaded to ascend. "Percivall Did he still live? or had he fallen a victim to the pes- tilence? What if the hearse, which hurried so recklessly along, and prom which she shrunk with a feeling of dread, was bearing him to his last place of rest?" were questions which passed rapidly through her mind. Suspense had well nigh grown to agony, and rushing up stairs,.she seized the lamp, and opened the first door that presented itself. She saw that the root -was desolate, and yet she pronounced the name of Percival. She was answered by a low moan from an inner apart. ment. It was only a moan-not a word was ut. tered, and yet she knew the voice. The next moment she was at the bedside of her lover. She found him writhing under the torture inflicted by   348   ORDEAL OF A WOMAN'S FAITH. intense pain and a burning thirst, the disease having arrived at its highest state of exacerbation. Thoug', his mind was wandering, and approaching to delirium, he instantly knew her, and made a sign with his hand to prevent her approach; for at that time it was the general belief that the yellow fever was contagious. But one who had watched night and day, in obedience to the voice of duty, by those she did not love, would she now turn from a spot whither she had been urged by a love stronger than the fear of death? He had, it was true, accused her of coldness, and had been content to take back the miniature without seeking the slightest explanation. But these were nothing now, and her only thought was to strive to win him back to life, or failing in that, to descend with him, hand in hand,to the :valley of the shadow of death. He made no further effort to repel her, and from the moment that he was con- scious that she was hovering near, it appeared to his half-bewildered senses that the healing wing of an angel was waving over him, shedding cool and refreshing dews. The fancy was only an emblem of the reality. The attendant, when she found that Percival and herself were the only living beings in the house, could no longer be induced to remain,   ORDEALj O WOMAN'S FAITi.   349 and a few hours previous to the arrival of Juliet, at the moment she was going to leave, he had re- quested her to close an open window on account of a slight chilliness, occasioned by a remission of the fever. The atmosphere had consequently be- come heated and close, greatly heightening the ex- acerbation that ensued. Juliet cautiously admit- ted the fresh air, and procured cool water to allay his burning thirst.  The sun rose, the day wore away, night again closed over the desolated city, and Juliet, whose physical and mental energies appeared alike un- subdued, had never for a moment faltered or yielded to drowsiness. It was past midnight when Percival awoke from a sleep of several hours. He  felt that he was better, but he was very weak, and could only say, as he pressed the hand of Juliet, "I shall live, and we shall yet be happy." From that time his convalescence was rapid.- He knew not that the life, which seemed as the gift of Heaven in answer to the prayers of Juliet, was the price of hers. A strong will and the ex- citement of intense anxiety, had sustained her till the moment of danger was passedi Then she knew, though she did not venture to say so to him, that she was like the perishing flower, whose leaves 30   350    ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S FAITH. a breath would scatter. She endured little pain, but was affected by extreme languor and debility. The dreadful disease, with which Percival had struggled as with an armed man, had approached her in its masked and most- insidious form.- Though he was deceived, as well as the poor widow, long a recipient of Juliet's bounty, who, when the last of her children was removed, sought her out-she herself was fully aware of her situa. tion. She could count the footsteps of death, stealthy though they were, coming rapidly upon her. Still she sat up most of the day, and even walked about the room. She was supplied with everything necessary for her comfort, for the poor widow, who feared not death, thought only of serving her benefactress. For the first time Percival had been able to sit up during the whole day. The sun was just set- ting; and he sat beside Juliet before an open win- dow, whence could be descried the waters of the Delaware. Its bosom mirrored the golden glories of the sunset sky in a spot where -a single skiff, with its snowy sail, was gliding silently along. "Percival," said Juliet, "observe yonder sail, 'bathed in light, as it glides towards the haven of its rest. Do you not see the goodness of Him who   ORDEAL OF WOMAN S FAITH.   351 rules over all in suffering me to pass away to the place of my repose as calmly and silently, and cheered by the light of your presence?" He had never heard her allude to her own death before; and, with a sensation that might have been compared to some sudden and piercing pain, he turned from the lovely scene he had been contem- plating, and bent on her a searching look, to see if there were indeed anything to apprehend, or whether what she had said was prompted by some melancholy fancy. Her features were calm-they even wore an expression approaching to a smile; yet beneath all something seemed to lurk which looked to him like death. "Juliet," said he, passionately, "is it possible that we have been deceiving ourselves? Can the spectra approach under a mask of so much beauty and mildness that we knew him not?" "4 You have been deceived, Charles; but not so have I. The deception was necessary for your restoration to health, and I could not hasten to re- move it. There has been some sorrow in toe thought that I must pass so soon from earth andf -: him I love, but no bitterness. Let there be none .Sl:c  to you, I would be mourned with the same kinky,: : of regret which we feel when a star we love to '/  4      '     Y  '   ^.   352    ORDEAL OF WOMANTS FAITI. watch at evening sinks from our sight, or for the flower that opens its heart to receive the dews of heaven, which keep it fresh and beautiful even to the moment the worm eats away the last fibre of the stem on which it grows. Is it not better to pass away thus than in the whirlwind and the tempest? And is it not better still to depart while the rainbow hues of life's morning are bathing us in their glory, than to wait till the sor- rows of mature life settle over us like a gloomy pall?" Percival shook his head,jfor he dared not trust himself to speak.        / ,  "Something whispers me, Percival," she re- sumed, "that this is the last time we shall ever hold earthly communion. There is something here," and she placed her hand upon her heart, "that seems as if life were ebbing from me.- You know the spot where my father and mother and sister rest. It i: a green; sequestered nook, and the morning and evening sun shed upon it their golden beams; but the spire that rises from the old church near, ever at noon throws its shadow over the three graves, as if to shield them from the too glarish light. You will-will you not,   ORDEAL OF WOMAN'S PAITH.   353 Charles?--see that my grave is madre by theirs, so that the spire which points to heaven may once in the twenty-four hours wrap us all in its unbroken shade." He raised his eyes to hers. They had never looked so lustrous, and a radiant glow suffused her cheeks. Hope flashed upon him like a sudden rainbow.  "Juliet," said he, "you are better. Banish these gloomy fancies-you will live."  "Yes," she replied, in heaven, and there we shall meet again. Before then you will sometimes stand by my grave. When the green sod and the wild flowers cover it, it will seem only like a plea- sant bed; and you must think that my repose there is sweeter than it ever was in life." She said no more, and reclined back in her chair.  Percival, tob, was silent, and the hum of insects was alone heard in the hush of the deepening twi- 'light. The evening-song of Juliet's favourite bird suddenly broke the stillness. jt was a sound that X she loved too well to suffer it to pass unnoticed, but now she remained silent. Percival, in some surprise, looked up, saying, Did you not hear it, Juliet?"She answered not; and springing wildly $f,-'   354    ORDEAL OF WOMAN l' FAITH. to his feet, he bent over her. No breath came fromn her lips, which were slightly parted; and her brow, clear and white as Parian marble, was already beginning to be cold.    C. 0. THE END.       
         
       
   
