
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). The Yankee Middy, or, The Two Frigates .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6949
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The Yankee middy, or, The two frigates 
            
               dp

r


THE YANKEE MIDDY;
OR,
THE TWO FRIGATES.
A ROMANCE OF THE COAST OF MAINE.
BY WILLIAM ROBINSON.
MIlustrateni.

NEW YORK:
.H. LONG        &amp;  BROTHER,
43 ANN-STREET.
OINOINNATI: H. B. PEARSON &amp; 00,
17 E4ST FOURTH-ST.

N
k 5
f t
'
R
"
t
[y5
f         S?
3
y"ni{
r
1i
7-
iE


ci a,)~ii/V
S15                      -,O

A

THE YANKEE MIDDY;

THE TWO FRIGATES.

CHAPTER I.

ENTERED, according to Act of Congress, in the Year One Thousand Eight Hundred
and Fifty-three, by t. LONG &amp; EROTHER,; in the Ofilce of the Clerk of the
District Court oP the United States, for the Southern District of New York.

THE STORM    A ND T HE WRECK.
"To hear
The roaring of the raging elements--
To know all human skill, all human strength
Avail not ; to look around and only see
The mountain wave, incumbent with its weight
Of bursting water, o'er the reeling bark-
Oh, God ! this is indeed a dreadful thing !"

THE mad ambition, the lust of power, and the commercial
cupidity of Great Britain, in arrogating to herself the complete
dominion of the ocean, and exercising overit a lawless and un-
bounded tyranny, had at length in 1811+12, become so insup-
portable to the citizens of America, that they came to the deter-
mination of resorting to ARMS, in order to compel the "haughty
islanders" to recognize with more respect, their position as one
of the independent nations of the earth.
War was accordingly declared : the bill passing the, Senate
on the 18th of June, 1812. A little more than one year after
this event had -taken place, the main incidents of our historiette
occurred.
Those acquainted with the seaboard of the state of Maine,
will, coincide with us when we say, that it would be impossible

I

_- r
- ,;
~

t


THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR

6

to imagine a more fearful and awe-inspiring sight; than what
its rugged and iron bound-line of coast presents, when the
winds and the waves-the fires of heaven and its dread artil-
lery-meet like opposing armies in one wild, chaotic confusion.
Wo ! be unto the ship then driven on that rock-bound coast.
Beyond the reach of human aid, she is instantaneously dashed
in a thousand pieces among the huge masses of detached rocks,
and half-sunken reefs, that extend out to sea in some places for
nearly a mile; and over which the waves, when roused into
fury at the voice of the storm, break with a force and heights
that is truly awful to behold !
The night of the 10th of September, 1813, was one that the
inhabitants of the Maine coast had cause to remember for
years with sorrow and regret; for on that night, many a home
was deprived of its " bread winner," many a parent of a child,
mkny a child of a parent.
On that night, the Spirit of thge Storm, clothed in his most
terrific horrors, strode like the devastating Angel of Death, on
the face of the waters of the mighty deep. The windows of
heaven were loosed in their fury ; the rattling thunders boomed
forth peal on peal, until the earth seemed shaken to its very
centre ; and the fires of heaven alternately flashing forth with
a brilliancy that exhibited the minutest object for miles, and
then leaving all in darkness as deep as the grave, lent a sublimity
and magnificence to the scene, to which nothing can be likened,
than the battle of the seraphs with the legions of hell.
On this night, and in the midst of these horrors, a vessel
might have been seen, driving at a fearful rate, directly on the
rugged shores of Maine ; about equi-distant between Wells and
Kennebunk.
'er sails were torn to shreds and flapping from their yards;
and her rudder having been unshipped, she was thus entirely at
the mercy of the winds and waves, which were now hurryingher
on to certain destruction ; and ever and anon, as thelightaing
illuminated the awful scene with startling distinctness, the crew

might have been seen clinging to the shrouds, or lashed to spars,
and turning their faces with expectant dread on the fearful spot
they were being hurried at such tremendous speed.
On, on, she sped, past aid, past hope, and now she is within a
few feet of the breakers, which, like an immense wall of seefh.
ping foam, stretched along the coast. Nearer-nearer-she
enters their vortex. She strikes-again-again-again,
God have mercy on the poor mariners.

"7

I'
I

'x
.

F Taro I KiGfAfiBL

S  °
,

,n


THE YANKEE MtDDY ioR,

CHAPTER II.
THE IIME AND PARENTS OF OtR HERO.
"We will lift the curtains and show you the pictures."-Shakespeare.
"JusT at the self-same beat of Time's wide wings," as John
Keats hath it-when the event took place, as described at the
end of the last chapter-a scene of far different description was
being enacted in the large, roomy parlor of a substantial farm-
house, standing at the distance of little more than half a mile
from the edge of the cliff.T
The farm itself-known in the neighborhood as the Elms,  -
from the fact of its being surrounded and sheltered from 'the
storms of the coast by several of those stately trees-was a
large rambling and, indescribable building in its external appear-
ance ; but for comfort, cleanliness and hospitality, the interior,
and the inmates of Elm Farm, were decidedly second tQ none ;
even in those good old days of homely virtues and manners.
Farmer Weston, its proprietor and occupant, was, at the date
of our tale, a hale old man of sixty ; with a heart, genial as his
smile, and a disposition, frank, generous, and--extremely iras-
cible ; but, like all easily excited people, his anger was but mo-
mentary, as easily calmed as roused.
His family consisted of his wife-about ten years his junior,
and still retaining on her countenance traces of that superlative
beauty which had won for her, during her days of girlhood, the
appellation of the-Belle of the Saco-their son, Harry Weston,

a gallant youth of nineteen, now midshipman on board the U. S.
frigate Mohawk, of 36 guns; and Agnes, a beautiful, young,
hazel-eyed, auburn-haired girl of sweet sixteen; as amiable too
in disposition, as she was beautiful in form.
On the night we introduce them to the reader, the old man
sat in his easy chair before a blazing coal fire, enjoying the lux-
ury of a comfortable nap; while Dame Weston and Agnes,
seated near to a little work-table, were busily employed with
their needles; and at every fresh gust, that seemed in its fury
about to transport the farm from its "earth-bound ties," would
they give an involuntary shudder, and mutter some remark on
its fury.
"God help the poor sailors on such a night as this !" observed
Mrs. Weston, after a heavier blast than usual; "for if he does
not help them, all their skill will avail them nothing. I am
very glad that Henry wrote to say that they would not sail
from Boston until after the 13th; 1 am sure I should have
been miserable, had I known he had been out on such a night
as this."
"I never recollect such an awful night," said Agnes, "al-
though I have seen great storms before."
"I remember when I was a girl," said her mother, "and about
fifteen years old, there was just such another storm as this took
place. And oh ! what a frightful sight was it next morning, to
see the beach, for miles en both sides of Scarborough, Where I
then lived, covered with pieces of wreck and dead bodies, I'm
sure I shall never forget it."
The door was here slightly opened, and a specimen of the
human face divine, carved in ebony, presented itself; at the.
same time the lips of the said face .gave utterance to the word
" Missus."                                          *
"What's the matter, Mark ?" said Mrs. Weston ; "come in
and tell us ; don't stand there with the door open ; you let in
the cold air."
The individual thus addressed entered the apartment ; and

0

THE TWO FRIGATES.

,

a


10              THE YANKEE MIDDY ' OR,

t
E r
E
{
t

presented to the eye, the tall, supple, and well-formed person of
a negro, apparently about twenty years old. His name was
Marc Antony, but he never got more than Mark.
"What is the matter, Mark ?" again repeated the matron
when the namesake of Cresar's rival stood before her.
"Oh, missus, missus," began Mark ; "dis chile hab seen de
orfulest sight as eber was seen!"
"You stupid fellow," said his mistress ; "why cannot you
tell us at once what you HAVE seen?
"As I was cubin from Massa Wilton's," began Marc.
"What had you been to Mr. Wilton's for, on such a night
as this ?"
Cesur 'Gustus inbite me to spen de ebenin', marm," replied
Mark.
"Now, Mark," said Agnes, looking up from her work, while
an arch smile dimpled her rosy mouth, "that will not do; you
know it was Blanche Wilton's maid Juliet, whom you went to
see ; was it not now
"No, Missee Agnes, me 'sure you not," replied Mark, though
his confusion belied his words.
"Come, Mark," said Mrs. Weston, smiling herself, "never
mind this giggling girl; tell me what you saw
" Dis chile hab lef de house, marm, and was turning' hone,
when de fearfullest flash oh lightning dar eber was seen, 'lumer-
nated de hebens like de glory ob de- Lord, and den me seed
right amongg de breakers, close ob shore, a great big ship, which
de wabes was breaking' ober, orful !,A
"What's that ? what's that ?" ejaculated Mr. Weston, sud-
"denly awakening from his nap.
"Mark says there's a ship just come ashore amongst  the
breakers," replied his wife.
" Ah ! get me my topcoat then, 1lark---.be quick !" said the
old farmer springing to his feet ; "be quick, you black scoun-
drel; and then go and rouse Asa up."

}
t
1
r
f
6
i
F
i
F

,a James," exclaimed Mrs. Weston, "for heedh's sake, you
don't intend going out, do you ?"
"I do, though," said the old man, thrusting his"ns  to th
coat, which the negro held. "Now, then, Mark, oft' you gO and
rouse Asa."
Asa Brown was a tall, rough and ready Vermonter, and lived
with Mr. Weston as a farm laborer. He was nw, in spite dt
the hurly burly outside, snoring " great guns" in his bedronth -
and it was only after bing; nearly shaken out of his bed, that
he woke sufficiently to exclaim, in a voice something like a pig
who has got a cold, when he saw who it was that had refie
him.
"Yew tarnation all-fired sndhbail, what do yea Want ?"
"Massa say you hab to get up, and go to sabe a
Crew."
"I say Mark."
" Ees, massa Brown."
"Yew hay no pertieler desire tew hey yer nose flattened,
hey yer ?"
"No, Massa Brown, who flatten urn?"
"I will, if yew are not mity slick out o' this ere room."
"Massa Weston am waiten for yew to come," urged Mark,
edging toward the door, for he knew by experience Asa was
not a man to be trifled with.
"I calkilate he'll hey tew wait afore I come down," said
Asa, drawing his bedclothes about his ears, and commencing
his nasal performances as usual.
Mark hastened down stairs, and informed his master that Asa
would be "fired" before he went.
You great, lazy, good for nothing lubber," said old Weston,
bursting into his refractory servant's room; "if you're not out
of bed in less than two minutes, I'll lay this stick across your
shoulders."
"Yew wont, really, will yew ?" drawled Asa, who had been
awakened by the noise of the old man's entrance.

THE PWO FxIGATE.               11


THB 'Two FRIGATES.

12

THE YANKEE IUDDY OR~

"Wont I though; take that, and see whether I will or not,"
shouted the enraged old man, aiming a blow at Asa with his
crab-tree stick.
As the blow descended, however, Asa suddenly thrust out
one of his big fluke-like hands and caught the stick; then jerk-
ing it from the old man's hand, he snapt it in two, and quietly
dropt the two halves between his bed and the wall.
. Old Weston was furious ; but it was of no use-out of bed
Asa would not get, neither for threats or anything else; and
his master was at last obliged to give up all attempts, and go
down stairs.
Even had Asa been willing to have gone, they could not
have got far ; for the storm had now, if that were possible,
increased in intensity ; the .lightnings flashed more vivid and
frequent, and the thunder rolled in more startling peals ; and
had not the farm been surrounded as it was with the elm trees,
which broke the fury of the gusts, it must have suffered
severely; as it was, about midnight, one of the chimneys was
blown down.

CHAPTER III.
THE LAST OF THE wRECK.
"  ----this gallant which thou seest
Was in the wreck ; and but he's something stained
With grief, that beauty's canker, thou night'st call him
A goodly person : ho hath lost his fellows."-Shakspeare.
THE day had scarcely'broke next morning, ere the inmates
of Elm Farm were afoot; and the storm having now nearly
abated, (though it still blew hard,) Farmer Weston, Asa, and
Marc Antony started off to see if there was any survivor's, from
the ill-fated vessel, which Mark had seen driven among the
breakers.
"I cannot say but what you were right, Asa, in refusing to
go last night ; we should never have been able to have got fifty
rods," said the old man, as the uprooted trees, and blown down
fences, gave evidence of the fearful strength of the gale.  t'
Guess we wouldn't," was Asa's reply.
"Massa, shall dis chile run- to Massa Wilton~s, and Cesai-
'Gustus ?" said Mark, as they now -came in sight of a, plain,
dark-looking house, that stood in a slight hollow about a quar-
ter of a mile from the edge of the cliff.
"No," said Mr, Weston, "his master would not let him
come ; he dislikes his fellow creatures too much, to attempt in
any way to benefit them."
The man thus spoken of, was a Markhara Wilton, who, with
his neice Blanche, and two servants, resided in the house they

a

13

-     1


THE~ TWO  +KJ04TEB. I"

M           THE1 YANIERE 1MW)DY  R

were then passing. During the two years he had lived there,
he had not been known to speak to one of his neighbors; for
when any of them met him-which was not often the case, as
he chose unfrequented paths-he invariably passed in sullen
silence; nor returned any answer whatsoever to their greeting',
of fine morning, or fine evening, sir.
At last the simple-minded farmers began to regard him with
a species of dread, and whenever the "Silent Man of the Cliff
Cottage," as they called him, was descried coming their road,
they either stept on one side until he had gone by, or with head
averted, passed him at a more rapid pace.,
After about ten minutes sharp walking, our trio reached the
verge of the cliff; and stood for a minute or two gazing on the
beach below. 'The tide had now ebbed quite out, so that the
shore lay dry for nearly d quarter of a mile. Not a single yes-
tig9 of the ship remained entire, or connected together; but,
dashed into a thousand pieces, the wreck was strewn all over
The beach.
"Gorra mity l" exclaimed Mark; "but de sea am a strong
tieg, to abscobolate a ship dat way."
" Wal, I guess yew may say that, Snowey, an' no fear o'
$yin' 'ither," said Asa. "I've a slickish grip myself-"
"You hab, massa Brown."
" Jf yew 'trupt me agin, Snowball, I'll squash yer ; tarnation
seize me, if I don't."
"Come, come," said their master, "no quarrelling ; let us get
down on the beach; some poor fellow, perhaps, may have been
wslied close under the cliff."
They accordingly began to descend the species of pathway,
that wound in a zigzag direction down the front of the cliff;
and as it was.extremely slippery from the heavy fall of rain, it
required no little care on their part, to reach the bottom in
safety.
At length, however, this was accomplished; and they found
he sight even more impressive, than what it had appeared oni

the cliff; for independent of t e pieces of wreck strewn aroundj,
they beheld the forms of full a dozen of the shipwrecked grew,
thrown up close to the cliff; bruised and disfigured, from the
sea dashing them among the rocks.
"We had better go back, Asa," said old Weston, with a deep
sigh of commiseration, "all the poor fellows have gone to their
last home ; you and Mark here, can come down after bralj-
fast, and dig them a grave, where their own element will sipg
a requiem over it."
"Why, gawl darn my eyes !" suddenly exclaimed Asa, after
they had advanced a little farther along the beach, "hera's
Dummy."
"Who's Dummy ?" exclaimed Mr. Weston, in surprise.
"Why, the chap wot's so soshil with his naybrs-Mis Wil-
ton's uncle."
"Markham Wilton ?"
"Wal, I guess 'til," replied Asa, "and I'll be all-fired if he
isn't poorin sumthin' down a man's throat."
"Asa," said his master, as they approached, and saw that it
was really the reputed misanthrope enacting the part of th
good Samaritan, to one of the crew, who evidently yet retained
a small spark of the "heavenly flame." " Asa, I am afraid we
have all wronged that man with our foul suspicions; you sea.
early as we thought "ourselves, he has beat us in the laudable
intention of affording succor to any of the crew that migM
have been washed ashore."
" Wal, now, I shouldn't wonder if.he aint," said Asa; "folks
are alus tarnation too fond o' black leddin 'their nayber,
wether they hey cause tew Or not."
"Good morning, sir," said Mr. Weston, when they hacj ap.
proached close to Wilton, engaged in his task of endeavoring
to revive the shipwrecked man. "Early as we are, I see we
are behind you in good intentions, and what is more, good
deeds."
The singular being before them gave no reply to this greet-

:
r
.=
s
,
n,

;5


16             THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

ing, but continued at his task as calmly as though no one was
standing by ; and at last his efforts were successful ; for, utter-
iug a deep sigh, then a groan, the object of his care at last
opened his eyes. The shipwrecked youth was apparently
about twenty years old ; slightly built, but possessing a physi-
ognomy, which, despite the deathlike palor now spread over
it, was still decidedly handsome. He had a brilliant set of
teeth ; and when he at length opened his eyes, their dark,
eagle-like glance, denoted the presence of a soul of more than
common mould. When he had recovered so far as to breathe
freely, his taciturn preserver quietly arose from his knees, and
without so much as bowing or speaking to Farmer Weston,
walked away.
"I'll be darned," said Asa, "if I don't reckon that crittur a
little cracked in his upper works."
"He is a most singular being, to be sure," said Mr. Weston ;
"but now about this poor young fellow here ; how is he to be
got home? I wish we had brought a handbarrow with us."
"Don't worry about gittin him home," said Asa. "I guess
we'll easily get out o' that fix; here, Snowball, take hold of his.
legs and lift him on my shoulders."
"Massa Brown, what for you call me Snowball? Me say
massa to you ; cibility should hab cibility."-
Yew tarnation, all-fired looking son of the devil's gran'-
mother, if yew dont jest shet up, and dew as I 'tell yew, I'll
make that head o' yourn so you'll not know it again."
The namesake of the illustrious Roman, stood in too much
bodily fear of Asa, to stand out after a threat like this; so qui-
etly taking hold of the youth's legs, he raised him on the broad
burly shoulders of Asa; and the trio started once more on their
return to the farm.

:g
3:
r FF:
R
t
i
4
#
":
t
x
f}fig'
1d
f
i
!
't
«
4
,[
,f
}  t
f
f
3a
:4
ff
t
#

vt
f
i
S  7
_ '
G? t
# C

'K'E ' 'WO FIGATES=

17

CHAPTER     lv.
THE TRAITOR.   THE PURSUIT. THI. FWGHT.
"The foeapproaohed ; and oie for his told sin
Msun .  he tha towched the ark was slain,
The.wild waves mastered hirh and suck'd him in,
Aid sailing eddies dimpled ohi the main.
This seen, the rent at awful. distance stood;'
As if they had been there as serv'ants'set,
To stay orito go on, as he thought good,
And not pursue, but wait on his retreat."---Dryden.
OUR readers must suppose a little more than a week to have
ehpsed since the events las'described'took place. And now
when we agai1itesume our pen,we will conduct him on board
the Mohawk, 'Captain James Manly-.-one of the tautest little
frigates'that the "Lilliputian Navy;" (as John Bull sneeringly
called it)'of the United States, can boast of-as she was bowl
ing along =under'a heap press of canvas,' about four leagues
to the'nithof Cape Ann. ;I was a splendid night; and as;ithe
tight little craft danced along over the phosphorescent waves,
every' p&amp; ,sall; :and Tope aboard, wds as cleary defined on
the calhi, 'till bosoiviof the sea as though it had been another
ship sailing altigeide.i
'The hldoi Y{site her full-broad, bight, and clear; and
the countless twinkling, stars, as they came and went, and
came galn, wappearedlike the ever-shifting lamps in the;Chinese,
Feast':of th8 Ltisnerns, The brisk breeze, as itbwept past,
sgg!itegallant vese 'or horiway;whistled; aiong the'masts
and sails with that sound of mournful gladness, so iadescribably
2b

'     T         i                       _f   :      t       t#                    lam{                      .       f        j          r

'

G
a
'i:,# .
$ ''_
Y.^'
j tom'
r
1    iw
5; ,:a?##
,,, {
.  _
+,  . 4
i-S
s.;4N
h ,r' p;
:'
:
-'. °
vc
-
t
:
'''"
-, _
:y
V  ,
B ,
7;
r_
. a
s
,
r


pleasing as it falls on the ear on a calm, still night; then sweep.
ing down again, it careened away over the face of the waves,
breaking their mirror-like expanse into countless fragments of
scintillating and flashing brilliancy. The two officers in com-
mand of the forward watch, were pacing the deck on opposite
sides; and without any interchange of that social chat, or
yarn-spinning, with which sailors usually endeavor to rob the
watches of-their tediousness. The one on the starboard side,
was a tall, fine, manly-lookingtyouth,, dressed in the neat uni-
form of a Middy; while his companion on the larboard side
sported the swabs of a third Luff.
They had been .pacing ;thus for above ;tree hours, when
suddenly the lieutenant stopped in his walk, and, after pausing
a minute or two, in seeming agitation, at last crossed over to
his companion, and said, at the same time eitnding his hand-
"Mr. Weston, I don't see why you and I cannotrbe friends
again: my offence, surely, was not so heinous as to be past
forgiveness."
"Do you call an attempt on a sister's honor," said, the mid-
shipman, indignantly facing the speaker, "anoffence easy to
be forgotten? If you think SQ; you will eind yourself n aken.
Had we not sailed in the hurry we did, I hould; haye sought
that satisfaction THEN, which I nean tQdo a$ son s we put
into -port against I want no communicatin with -you, :nq
with any one so devoid of principle- and, hunt as whatyqu
are!"
"By hell !" exclaimed the lieutenant,9grating his teeth through
suppressed passion, " you; shall :pay {fothisand earlyl, toQ,;
and I will yet, in spite of you, make that prou&amp; ninx,. your
sister, an:object for the finger Hof -scornIto be pointed at ; I will
that, d---=F me, if. I don't !".:
"I fearyour threats as little as! wish for your, company,"
answered the midshipman ; *and when thu9pportunity comes,
you shall riot find me backward in: fulfilling MNE,' and; turning
on his heel, he walked forivard.:

p.

THE YANKEE MIDDY: oR,

t'
a
_ .
5
.Y t
Y;
4 . fx
't,
1 "  s}  1
i
i
Y   ='
t
" { "

THE ' 'iO FRIGATES.

19

Shortly after this, 'eight bells struck, and the watch ieloW
hastenied on denk to relieve their comrades. For 'few minutes
aftertheirappearance,ill was'bistle and excitement; for the
first lieutenantwho had now cote on deck, had ordered the
cours 6f then ship t be chalinged, and the last watch had there-
fore to stop, and assist in the task'of shifting the sails.
At length this was accomplished; and the M vitch hurried
away to their himknbbks, to get what quantity they culd of
that mast tiecarious of all objects to a sailor-sleep.
As midshipmart Weston was paying aft on'the starboard
side of the'ship, he heard a voice near him saf-
"Now nind, Jack, ,not until they're within a mile Or so."'
"Ay, ay, sir," was the answer, in gruff tones; "Pll make
all right, never fear."
Turning miuild, Weston saw that it was the third luff, who
was addressing one 'of the watch just going aloft. They did
not see our hero, however, as he stood within the shadow of
the diainiast.'
For some time after retiring to his cot,'those words so haunti
edthe mind of our middy, that he could not sleep. Hb apelled
them in all  manner of ways; and to all rraine f of objects,
but could come to no satisfactory conclusion's to their nean-
iag and full m reAlhn half his allotted tine for sldep had
expied, before cat lat olosed'his eyes'irslumber,
Iae might have ben asleep about half an 'hour, whensa'loud
and  continued trampling an  bustle on deck, and the hoarse
voice of the boatswain, calling, in the tones of a Stentor'-
"Tumble up, there, 'ny. beauties-tumble "4_p!" 1nde more
aroused him from his slumbers, and caused him to  sprinitgfrowi
his beth, and hasten on deok; on reaching' which, he ound
thc cause'of this excitement to'proOded front the fact, th t oi
their starboard bow, and within less than two riles' distaned,
four ships,"under all the sail they coiild jack lon, dwre rapidly
bearing down toiu'them.
"endft the lo-out of the fore=top !" our hero heard'Cap-

; ,
,-
t


7

2Q

THE YANKEE MIDpY;; OR,

THE "TWd FRIGATES.'

t~irl~apJy shout as he emerged, on dleco, after the lieutenant
ha4pade him sequainted with.the nigh approach=of l e enemy,;
and as the :man carne aft, and our middy caught ,a view of his
features,;he saw it was the same man whom, eieu t  qwn
had addressed the words to, that had pzed him .so. much.
Instantly they flashed can his mind i ; their true light-tiere
was treachery at work ! .
Hastening'aft, he gained as nigh a positi~  as he could to.
the ladder lpsding to the deck--on:the steps of yWhich the fQre-
top-rman ,(who was one they had engaged the yery day they
left Boston,) was nw standing. A few feet .from him, and
sitting on the breech of one of the= starboardsguns, was Lieu-
tenant Broom.,..
" You infernal sleepy-headed lubber !" exclaimed Captain
1haply, approaching the ladder-" why the  pil didn't'you
report those ships before they were so near ?"   7
," I hope, sir, you'll forgive me for being so careless," said
the fellow, in a submissive tone, " but last night I kept watch
for. Jqe Tomkins,. who. fell sick ; and that made .me sleepy to-
night, sir"
H arry Weston stopped , to hear no more ; but, stepping for-
ward, he exclaimed-
,Captain Manly, I am sorry to say it, but it i my opinion
we have traitors on board ! Just as I was eatingg ig deck,
after eight bells had struck, I heard Lieutenant room, there,
say to this man, as he was about to proceed alQft-. Jack, don't
report them until within a mile nor so.' I could; not make out
the meaning of the expression then, but in my opinion it is quite
apparent now."
"It's a lie !L-a d--d infernal lie.!" shouted Broom, his eyes
Idashing fire, ad his face pale with fear and rage, at his villany
being discovered..
In another niomentt the traitor was laid sprawling upon the
deck, by a blow from the fist of the indigrnant middy.
r..eton,", saidl Captain lanly,    tbany ou heartily

21

for thus exposing the teacherous rascls. You=shall not goy
unrewaMed ep'd ipiji iti. Boatswain,' see the-two scout
drelsmanacled and put below: they shall 'be well paid for
their services !".t
Every:'sihthatcoUld be, had been packed on the ship'; and
she was no dashiing thi-dugh The waters at  rate  that sent
the spray' flying' in showers about her bows. Her eburse had
been edged off three points more to leeward, Captain Manly
hoping by thus eating the land, to be able to make'Portsmouth
or York, 'before 'the largest of his enemies could corteup With
him.                            '
The;pursuin'g vessels had been distin'etly 'made'out to consist
of 'one'large ship; apparentlyy a 'eventy-=four') a *frigate, 'about
their own calibre; and the other two, Oorvettes or'brigs;'Which
latter; inespite' of the tremendous rate at Wh?ch'the Ml~ohawk
was dashing through the water, were now nearly within shot=
range.
Mr. Mbrnroe," exblaimed Captain Manly, addressing -his
first lieiteinaht; "have the'ship cleated for actiorfIhr v iewill
,teach those two fellows astern, if they cornsttiy ti ghe , that
Brother Jonathan is not o'beu-ayproadhed with impunity.'
Touching his cap in answer to the captain, Monroe(hastened
forward, to give the necessaryOrders; and,' ini'nother ininute.
the roll of the drumrr'and the shrill tones' of 'the ' earapiercing"
fife, 'were heard suminodng the' men to quaiters. For' about
fire  i tds aftkr,;th~e eld, on a hiall sa'le,';'presbnted no 'bad
idea of Babe  'TfIA lahings were thr'owe  off the starboard
and larboard guns  hot'and'pwder, and'rgetiaek of wads,
Were handed  nup from the magazine  'the'arm-ehests opened,
and bdarding-pike and'  ilttsses distributedd in' piles' aroud,
where they could be' seized at a minute's hotie' ;nd; faially,
the guns were double-shotted vith round gripe.- ' r"
By the time' this was done; 'and the nten oicec thore quietly
at their"seveal posts, the corvette. had' approahed within
firing distance ; and Captain Manly was just in the act of raising'

;
,'
,:'
; '
_
i  -
1    ,
;'3  ;
_ 'S
F  l
s«
:
.!
:
.  t .
_k
Pte'
yJ
i ;
-r
. ( L
^"T'
xa
sti
' )
.
tr
-.t
F*
tS
d
4z '
Y
.«}a1,

~                  r
;..-.

1


it~
t  t
'IL#
Ii{
I

TBUr " T4 FR GAT S" ;.

THE Y NKE. MI1DY ;  R,

his speaking-trumpet to his lips, to give the orders to fire, when
twe small columns of smoke were seen to issue from the bows
of eachof the corvettes; and, at the same moment, two thirty-
two-pound balls came whistling through the air--one burying
itself deep in the mizzenmast just below the top, while the other,
after knocking the trumpet from the hands of the captain,
paused between the mizzes shrouds, without doing any damage
at ally
r Warm work, that !" exclaimed Captain Manly, laughing,
as he threw the mouth-piece of his trumpet overboard : "those
two chaps show pluck, Monroe !"
"They do, sir," answered the lieutenant : "had we not better
luffiup,. and silencee, them? I think we could do it before the
other two were nigh enough to interfere."
"I think we could," said the captain, ' we will try it, how-
ever."
The yards of the Mohawk were accordingly braced back;
her bows hove round ; and, as she-luffed-up and obtained a
raking position athwart the bows of:the two corvettes-who
were running but, a short distance from each, other, and nearly
parallel--every gun in her starboard battery was discharged
into them.
For some minutes after this murderousbroadside, the smoke
was so dense, that the effects of it could note seen ; but when
the breeze rolled off the obscuring mass of vapor, the corvettes
were seen foul of each other, with all their upper spars and
:sails hanging about them ,in, inextricable confusion. Three
loud and, hearty huzzas burst from the crew of the Mohawk,
as this spectacle met their eyes ; and, had it not been for the
nigh approach of the frigate-their consort-Captain Manly
might have wore ship, run down, and taken possession of them
at once ; but,, as this could, not be done}without risking the loss
of his own vessel, he wisely refrained. It now, began to be
apparent? that an enemy whose ensign was neither that of the

23

stars and stripes, nor the blood-red cross of St. George, was
about to enter on the scene. This wa, a storm.
The heavens had been gradually darkening the last quarter
of an hour, and the wind increasing in intensity; while the
waves, losing their long rolling, billow-like motion, now broke
into foam at every few yards.
All the light sails were immediately taken in, the halliards
let go, and the reef-tackles;hauled chock-a-block; and, nimble
as monkeys, "best man up first,' away aloft hurried the tars,
to take in the reefs. This being done, they descended, and
resumed their posts ; while their gallant little craft under close-
reefed topsails,. spanker, and jib, dashed through the yeasty
waves like a mad thing.

22:

.1
k' I

Y
{,
tr a
GIGGGG
V'
Y '
3
1}[yi
' F "_i
"'
4.
f
t t,
;' S
_
H
t
r
S
Rr
i
i   .

i tt .
3                "    -                                E  .


t
l'
-
}
[%
t a

THE ANKEE Mfl DY;-4R,

TriIE GALE.   ON A LEE sHOE. .A BLOw-UP.
"The vessel ew
Towards the-land, and then the bilows grew
Larger and whiter, and roared as ; riumphin,
Scattering on far and wide the heavy spry
That shone like loose snow as it passed away."
Barry Cornwall.

. ;,"
:
5,    "t
:  3
;
r
i
[,
i
t'

I',

WE left the Mohawk rattling along under reefed topsails, and
plunging her bows every now and then under water, as though -
about to explore the wonders of the deep. This she continued
to do until about four bells; when the wind suddenly chopped
round to the north, and commenced blowing "great guns" in
earnest.
All the sails were now taken in, save close-reefed fore and
main topsails, to keep her steady; and under those. two sails
only she scudded along at the rate of twelve knots.
All traces of the seventy-four and the frigate had now been
lost sight of for above three hours ; Captain Manly there-
fore congratulated himself on his providential escape ; and
felt a species of gratitude to the storm, for its opportune ap
pearance.
About noon, land was seen on the lee bow; apparently at
the distance of about two miles. It was concluded to be Cape
Porpoise; and the bows of the ship were therefore hauled up
some three points or so, in order to make Kennebunk-port, if
possible.
The weather had been gradually thickening for the last

4 U

24

f4:

quarter of an hour and now, any object. at the dit noejof a
few hundred yardssIcould. not have been 1distintgished.
wind, to, at times came in such; tornadolike rpufl's, that thm ship
more than once was nearly laidon her beat.ends:;.but th , gafr
plant craft behaved herself =bravely; ;nd though evyytimber
and spar about her creaked .and groaned, a sthough about;t
part asunder, she was all '  right and tight": aryet~,;
Midshipman Weston, who had the command of. the maintop,
and where'he had'been, too, throughout nearlythe  bole gale,
now Ziescended to the deck, and coming aft, informed the cap,
tain. that, instead of being as they thought: near. apeorxpijse,
they were within less  than a quarter of * rhile of ;te dangeQu
rocky islet,:known as Boon Island ; .and;nit .n.ly: that, but tje
ship was now,.(through the influence of he current running be-
tween the island and  the main coast,)'being drven direqtly,9on'
an immense line of, breakers, but little nmore !than, live: hundred
yards off;t and which, the thickness of the atmosphere, bad prey:
vented the forward watch on deck from seeing.
3"Mr:.Weston,''said;Captain Manly, anxiously, "arebyow sure
you are right abouti our position ?"     . .  :
"Yes, sir," answered our heroic "I will stakeoimy, life.on it
that I am right. My father lives on the:main eoast:nearly!p,
posjte:to the island, therefore ;Iought to know." . b; I
'_oiyou should," said the captain, "and Idoubt not bit what
you are right. ' Monroe' continued he, turning to hitlieutenu
ant, "do: you think she would carry anymors canvas ?l.we
couldfonly edge he'r a point or two morb tt wind'ard,'weruight
yetrclearithe reef."         ,..        ':'
"   -." I don't think she would carry a ragbmrre;' answeredMorn
roe;  even with the'reefed topsail she haa:onther fou sepithe
maistibenda like a; willow _",  $it ! c  ' 1 .  ;
"It's our  nly chance;;however;" said the captain, A' and
well'try it Up, thetwmy ladsV? he troutedthroughhis trm
pet'; likely , li ely'ip with roU, topmbri--"ehake a reefiout $f
that topsail."          -a                    ; i ; n,, , o

t   _
4-
I
k
tF
itg
t,
f^
! 3      +
s
t'
1
1.
t 1!{
y    S!


t
;
!'!
{Z
f
i
i
3
t
44
f
e  :
t'
E
t
i
rr
m
(F
f
f

TII 1YANKEE IDPDY i0OB,

"Aye,; aye, sir," shouted: the men, springing from the. main-
chains, and laying aloft to-execute the order; and it  was the
last onethey ever did execute fdr an earthly commander; for
the whole'volume-of the sail was no: sooner. displayed to the
blast, than a sharp, splitting: sound was, heard, and then crack
went the topmast close by the cap head;. and the five or six
poor fellows who hadrgone aloft to take the reefs'out of the top-
sail, where hurled far away clear of the ship, beyond all reach
of aid, where they sank to rise bno more, beneath the furious.
Waves.
Theship was now in a fearful position; for the. breakers
were' not twenty'yards from her bow ; destruction seemed inev-
itable, and 'nothing, little short of a miracle, could save them.
It was a moment to try the nerves of anyeoginmander; lut
Captain Manly was equal to it ; ,his. coolness;never for a single
moment deserted him ; but calmly, clearly, and distinctly, as
though working the ship into port, did he stand on the' quarter
deck, and issue forth 'his orders..
" Stand by there, men," he suddenly shouted in his[trumpet-
like voice; "stand by there to cut away the{masts; and see
the two hawsers; and best bower cleared for dropping,; if they'll
held, we may ride it-out yet.' :     :  .=.
Luckily, this scheme, at the moment it was going to be put
into 'effect, was rendered abortive by an almost miraculous
event ; this was no other than a gigantic 'and mountainous
wave, which, striking the ship near lthe- stern sheets, hurled her
cOmpletely.clear of the low reef on which she was, hurrying_;
so near, however, was she unto it, that a biscuits might with
ease have been pitched upon it. IE a few minutes; more she
had passed the dangerous ledge, and was'ag in indeep water.
The gale had now evidently spent its fury;, and though the
sea wasstill fearfully high,. and the breeze .anything :hut a
zephyr,.it was plainly apparent tO all now, that their chances
of visiting the "coral halls" of David Jones; Esq., this cruise,
were decidedly lessened.

r   ;;
:
j'i=
r
; ;-
Y
.[
"t  1
i  _
4

x,
.
,
, "_
.
4,
c
l'
., t
;:
t:
t 
F'
.f  :
§'J  _
} / -
h  i

THE TWO FRIGATES.

27

AlUhands!were. now busily employe 'in clearing;away the
wreck offthe topmast, rigging ,ip a jury one,.pumping out the
water she had .shipped, and refastening the spars, asks, and
deck guns, that hadheen washed loos during}the gale.
"Sail-ho !", sung, out the look-out fprward.
' Where away ?',fr;
"Three points.on the weather-hea, sir; she is little more
than a mile from us.                          "
" What does she showv like ?" demanded Captain Manly.
'A large; frigate, or seventy-fogr, sir," was the answer.
"She is bearig down upon us under a heavy press of canvas."
Owing to the crippled state of the' Mohawk, their chances
of escaping their formidable opponent were anything but flat-
tering; but it was not in the nature of YANKEE TARS to give
up while there was hope.
All the sails that could be were now hoisted on board the
Mohawk, and her bows turned directly on to the Mame coast;
her commander determining, if possible, to run her ashore and
blow her up, sooner than that she should fall 'into the hands of
John Bull. As ,the land was only about three-quarters of a
mile distant' thisproject seemed feasible enough.
The Englishman had now hoisted his colors, and was fast
lessening the distance between hin and his intended prize and
having opened a heavy fire. from his bow chasers, was begin-
ning to make terrible havoc among the spars and rigging of the
Mohawkth                     pt                g
Captain Manly would fam have played a game at long bowls
with his enemy, but he was afraid if he did so, it would impede
the speed of his ship so much, as to materially endanger their
chance of escape.t.
A thirty-two pound ball now struck the mizzen boomof the
Mohawk, causing her to yaw so much, that she presented her
full broadside to the seventy-four; a circumstance that no
sooner took place,:than playing his trumpet:to his mouth, Cap-
tamManly bawled out ;,.

,A

a

26

S1,

I ih
5 pl
"v 6
e ^'
,. r
a


28

THE YANk  hIlDYl'  'OR,

ire it to them, 'mylads! let a shae'riori&amp;*itW'tim
before we' take to the boats point daref       tl  ilof
the sea, then show him What Yankee 'guiierg±canido.'
Giving a stentorian hurra, 'the men 'applied their' matches;
and in another moment  'theeighteenibakers bi:ihe Mohawk
opened on their enemy with such telling effect; that, had'4heir
shib been'in good sailing trim, the Amerieans mght 'have
escaped with ease."
Sweep hg heavily from the wind,' the Englishmah now pre-
sented his whole' broadside to his opponefit  hile his three
tiers of 32 pounders hurled forth their terrible rd  deathdealing
contents.                                    '
"Out' with the boats, men, lively 'li ey,"dried' Captaih
Manly, as the "fearful execution 'f the last 'broadside now
showed him the useless waste of life it wobld oecashih by'pro
loigirg the fight with their gigantic opponent" Out with
them, and tumble'ih' as quiclily aspossible; Mortoe,'see that
the wounded are properly distributed during the babtt iad'that
the are made as comfortable a possible  k. Drew, cn itiiiuld
he, turning to the econd lieutena'i, ' yDtio ali lay an eight=
minute train of powder 6' the m  aine;6 ie llbe a ldlesr
of'theshi, ,by the time It 'burns up."
" Aye, aye, sir, answered Drew, hastening =below  o 'ebut
his perilous task.
About five minutes' after'the "wodi'ded" ' hd' een'lo rd
into the boats, and all hands in, Lieutenant Monroe' called
outL_','_,"'
'Captain Manly, we are all ready for' statiing' entda er
t not yourself by stoping to long  aboard.
"Aye, aye, Monroe," replied the captain;' " ininlhhte;
Well,"' h  added, as Lieutenant Drev' no b'apeared,"i all
i-ight?"""                                         i
'es, sir,"answeied Drew; "we shall barely have ineto
get a respectable distance, before'the ekplosion"iakes place"
As Captain Manly, who was the last t6'leaveTda e d'ck dkpheIeed

a
a
r
f13-
6
i
r

THS  WO FRjATE .,
his foot on the ladder to descend into the boat, Lieutenant
Monroe suddenly exclaimed-
"Midshipman Weston- is on board yet ; I saw him go below
about five minutes ago, and he has not come on deck since."
As the captain was about to spring on deck agair), our hero
appeared, dragging after him the traitor, Broom; and as he
passed the guilty wretch down into the boat, he said--
"A shot from the enemy has sent the other one to his last
account.'            s'
"It will save the Court Martial a job," exclaimed Captain
Manly.
The boats now'pulled off; and they had got but a little more  .
than two hundied lards, before
" There came a horst of thunder sound,"
then a wide, iri  heet offlame shot upwards, high and bright;
the  ky wasdarienect for a minute or'two vrith ,the'imrhense
quantity of iphurled fragments ; and, in another riinute, afl that
remained of one of the tautestlittle frigates that ever 'ibughed
old Neptune's broad domains, was a mass of charred and black-
ened fragments
.  of ,  , 'i  ,  ' I  f  1  t  M "  F  t'

#.
_
"

; ='
;.
-
,
w't
; : x
s
..,Y'
'
; ; :.
..,
'
3
e,'.i z
.  ;
'
I,
t

''


g3~
Ii ,
11
r;j

THE 'TWO FRIGATEs.'

CHAPTER VI..
THE INvALID---THE LovERS--THE SURPRISE.
"He is the deuce among the girls."
Al eet Pic,.

TIlE locale of tour narrative now once more shifts to Elm
Farw, the residence of Farmer Weston ; and where the scene
of our introductory chapters were laid ; and the time, the{third
afternoon after the crew of the Mohawk had escaped in their
boats frmn the ,English seventy-four          i
P previous; to groceeding, however, with the further develop-
ment of our plot, we shall have to retrograde a few steps, in
order to explain one or two events that have taken place, since
we last visited the farm.
On reaching home with the sole survivor of the wreck, it had
been discovered that his left shoulder was dislocated ; while the
numerous other bruises which he had sustained, by being
dashed about among the rocks, caused him to remain in bed for
nearly a week, for it was a matter of the most excruciating pain
to him to be moved in the least. If assiduous and unremitting
attention to his every want, or the most careful nursing, could
have restored him to health, he would not have remained long
on a bed of sickness; for dame Weston had not had a job so
congenial to her tastes, or one that afforded her so much satis-
faction, "never (as she observed herself,) since she was a girl
about fifteen," when her brother was brought home one day
with a broken arm.,

t
yE
i
}
i

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR

30

31

But, as assiduous as she was in her. attention on the invalid,
there were two others who not only rivalled her in this respect,'
but exceeded her.  These 'were her{ daughter Agnes, and
Blanche Wilton, the friend and almost inseparable companion
of Agnes, and neice of" the Silent Man of Cliff'Cottage."
The daintiest of tarts and custards, and the choicest of£fruits,
did Agnes and Blanche shower with lavish profusion on the
object of their common solicitude. And it is a matter of doubt
that, had not the invalid been able to rise from ;his couch in
about a week after his arrival, he would' have stood a good
chance of actually having been "killed by kindness."
Oh, Love,.Eos! Cupid ! or whatever else thy names may be
-ever since thou, with thy little flame-tipped darts, caused a
city to have to sustain a ten year's siege, and finally be burnt,
(we will not endanger our character for veracity by ascending
higher on the ladder of antiquity,) what dissension and misery
hath thou caused among the sons and daughters of Adam.
Why is it co?  What' right hast thou, thou little, breechless,
bandylegged scoundrel-what right hast thou, we ask agin, to
do so . Thou hadst much better' get thyself a decent suit of
clothes, and go to some opthalmium and endeavor to have thy
sighi restored, than to go prowling about the world thus,  seek-
ing whom thou mayst annoy. What- cause Was there for thee
to be meddling with the hearts of two damsels who, up to the
moment of thy making them aware of the fact, scarcely knew
they possessed such a thing as a heart ?
But now that thou hast, with thy dissension sowing power,
entered on the scene, all the endearing ties of friendship, and
the gentle and open-hearted confidence ef'youth, mUst  give
place to the fearful torments of jealousy, mistrust, and rivalry.
Yes, reader, it was even so. Agnes Weston and' Blanche Wil-
ton, to whom Shakspeare's exquisite description of female friend-
ship in the "Midsummer's Night Dream," might but a few days
ago have been justly applied, were now rivals; and the 'man
who had thus inspired both their hearts with the tumultuous

, ;
-
, ,
_ y 4
S _ e
i
6 {   "
,


32                TIHE YANKEE, MIDDY  OR,
feelings of love, was the youth who had been so singularly res.
cued from a watery grave.         ;
,Marston Spener-for by this name.had le called himself--
was:not:only possessed.of a most pleasing exterior, nd. aspril.
liant a pair of large, dark, lustrous eyes, as ever flashed forth
the impassioned language of love ; but her had that vIginning ad-
diess, that seeming'e arzestness of devotion, and ever self-sacri-
fibing manner of gallantry, which are so irresistibly a tractive
in man, when allied with brilliant and, fascinating conversa-
tional talents. - How is it likely, then, that two young, warm-
hearted maidens, like Agnes and Blanche,
unacquainted with the world,"anall Its hollowness,"
should be ableto escape " the square of the flatterer."  w
Hisserpent-like tongue aided his guilty. projects but too well;
,and though each of the maidens was aware that he had breath-
ed the words of love to her rival-when Agnes, with tears in
her'eyes, accused him of the fact, he, had. solemnly assured
her on his honor, they were only the most hairmnless, words of
gallantry he had addressed her with.; but however,'as he saw
it gave his dear Agnes pain, he wouldtake care not to repeat
them. The' same. answer, with the name altered, did, when
Blanche also accused him of loving Agnes hetty tha her.
This explanation, made, we, will now oiee mor resume the
thread of our narrative.,
It was the afternoon, as we have said, of the third day after
the blowing up of the Mohawk; the day was warm and sunny,
and scarce a breath of air.stirred the.;leaves of the lofty elms
bending beneath. the weight of their thick, umbrageous foliage.
In a small summer-house, standing at the lower end of the
garden, attached to the rear of the house occupied by Mark-
harn Sinclair, the:Recluse, and which was nearly buried be-
neath a profusion of the clustering leaves, and star-like flowers
of the jasmine, ;the climbing clemati, .aid. the beautiful little
trumipet-ahaped, scarlet-hued ,convolvu4s---are seated a lady


Ij4
T HE .TWO FRIGATEs. -'
and, gentleman; both young, both handsome,
Wilton and Marton Spencer.
Blanche was very beautiful; and her form,
grace and proportions, seemed more like one of
" All lightness, life, and glee,
One of theashapesawe seem
To meet in visions of the night,"-
than that of a real, blushing, merry-hearted* little
Her eyes were so brilliant, and changeable in
while at one- moment you would have declare
jetty black, at the next you would have sworn
then dark blue1 then brown; for, as the calm
lonely mountain reflects from its surface the v
passing over it, so did her ees reflect, in their
the different emotions of her volatile nature: he
curling, and luxuriant; and of that light auburn,
color, which Correggio was so fond of adorning
and female saints with: her rosy mouth, and d
lips, were provokingly small and sweet, and.woul
even a St. Anthony with a desire for a close
But, with all these lovable qualities, Blanche
V                                                                     one very un-lovable one-she was a slight jilt.
Previous to Henry Weston's leaving home
his naval career as midshipman, Blanche and h
the Vulgate hath it, "sweethearts ;" but, while
was merely the ephemeral and upper surface
which only retains its intensity and strength d
ence of the object exciting it--on. nrs part, yo
it was the deep, ineffaceable love of a man.
"Dear Blanche," at last exclaimed Marston,
been seated some time in silence, listening to the
murous humming, proceeding from two bee-hives
the garden wall near them- dear Blanche,
made me a captive, as it were, in an enemy's la
li amd Ito that storrn, for throwing me upon t

36
It is;Blanche
in its slph-liko
those--
jade of fifteen.
their hue, that,
ed them to be
hey were hazel,
bosom of some
various shadows
r various hues,
r hair was long,
or "paly gold"
g his Madonnas
elicately-arched
d have inspired
r acquaintance.
had decidedly
to commence
e had been, as
on her part it
kind of love,
uring the pres-
ung as he was,
after they had
dreamy, mur-
placed against
although it has
nd, how thank-
i coast. To


ur  4
-'p4

THE TWO FRIGATES.

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

me it seems nothing less than the hand of Fate, who, having
designed thee, dear Blanche, to be my fellow-voyager through
life, took this manner to bring us together: dost not think so,
love ?"
Blanche was silent; but her heightened color, heaving bosom,
and a timid and furtive glance, which she cast from her large
eyes, swimming with love and tenderness, expressed anything
rather than dissent from his proposition.
"Say, dearest," said Marston, pressing her hand to his lips,
and fixing his eyes with a steadfast and imploring glance upon
her-" does it not seem so
Faint and sweet as the soft sighing of a zephyr over a bed
of violets, came the one , word, "Yes," from her scarcely
parted lips;. and in another moment she was clasped warmly
to the breast of the man, who that morning had breathed,
nearly word for word, the same sentence to the ears of Agnes
Weston.
"And you love me better than all ?" murmured Marston into
the ear of Blanche, as she lay in his arms; "and should I for
a short time leave this neighborhood, you will still continue to
do so, will you, my dearest Blanche ?"
"Yes, Marston, I will," said Blanche; "but do not speak
of going yet; your arm is surely not quite well."
"But the Westons may be getting tired of me, love ?" said
Marston.
"Nay, do not say that," answered Blanche ; "I am sure, if
you were to stop for a year, Farmer Weston would treat you
as well, and think as little of it, as though you only stayed a
day or two."
"But you know, love," said the artful villain, "there is a
refused and disappointed daughter in the house, who may not
think thus."
- "Do not mention HER, the pert minx," exclaimed Blanche,
tartly.
"She told me, one day," said Marston, fixing his eyes with

37

a basilisk-like glance on the face of Blanche, "that you were
deeply in love with her brother, now at sea. It is not true,
is it, love ?"
Dear Marston," exclaimed Blanche, reproachfully, "you
do me injustice to think so. I love none but you-indeed I
do not. I never loved Henry Weston; we were only friendly
together, as neighbors should be--"
Blanche suddenly stopped, uttered a loud and piercing scream,
and sank faintingly in the arms of her companion !
Henry Weston, with a pale and sorrowful countenance,
stood gazing in at the summer-house door !

a
n
/
2
3

36

j{
[H~ tttj t
t   tl
1IE
s
-'s
t     #
IL           I
F
F
4           4
°k
R
4


38       ~~THE 'YAitFAI 3M1Db; )E,THTWFEAlI.3

CHAPTER 'VII..
A COnPLEOP SURPRISES.

'

"To dream of joy, and wake to sorrow,
Is doom'd to all who love and live ;
And if, when conscious on the morrow,
We scarce our fancy can forgive,
That cheated us in slumber, only
To leave the waking soul more lonely,
What must they feel, whom no false vision,
But truest, tenderest passions warm'd ?
Sincere, but swift in sad transition,
As if a dream alone had charm'd?
Ah ! sure such grief is fancy's scheming,
And all thy change can be but dreaming !"-Byron.
AFTER the blowing up of their ship, the crew of the Mohawk,
by keeping close in with the shore, (and so out of shot-range
of the heavy-draughted seventy-four,) were enabled, at length,
to reach the mouth of the Piscataqua, and land at Portsmouth;
for when blown up, the Mohawk was only about three miles to
the north of that port.
On landing, the crew were dismissed, with orders to hold
themselves in readiness to be drafted in a few days into other
ships' companies; and among the rest, our hero. As the time,
however, when they should be wanted, was quite uncertain,
and Portsmouth not being such a very great distance from his'
home, Harry determined on paying the old Elm-Tree a visit;
and, hearing that a small coaster was just on the point of start-
ing for Wells, he engaged a passage aboard of her, and on the
forenoon after their leaving Portsmouth, arrived safely at Wells

! h-,°
ti,
,
-
-;
_ _;
t;
w.
= X.
,,  ;
E ,s '
,rii i

As Elm Farm was only some five or six miles distance from
the last-mentioned place, our hero, as soon as he' stepped on
shore, started at once, and on foot, for his home.
On coming withinsight of Cliff Cottage=-the residence of
the recluse and his beautiful neice-Harry, with the excusable
impatience of a lover, determined on giving Blanche an'agree-
able surprise; as he knew that she then supposed him far away,
"on the deep, deep sea," battling with the enemies of his coun-
try. Leaving the main road then, he hastened along a small
footpath that led direct. to the cottage; and, as he walked very
fast, it was not long 'before he arrived there, 'To make the
surprise more certain, he went around to the kitchen door.
When he entered, Juliet-a good-looking young negress-
was scouring away at.some, of her culinary utensils, and light-
ening her labors with strains of questionable harmony, she did
not hear our hero's entrance; but, when on 'raising her head,
she beheld him standing before her, she uttered a loud'screani,
an4 shrank, cowering, into'a corner, and sinking on her knees,
continued to half groan, half scream-
" De Lor' hab :massy 'pon us !--de mighty Lo? habnassy
'pon ts,and forgib us our sins!"
"What is the matter, Juliet ?" exclaimed Harry, in surprise,
approaching her; but the .nearer he eamej'the louder Joliet
screamed ;: calling out at :the top of her voice, for " de good
Lor' to hab massy 'pon herr-'de:good Lor' to sabe her!"
"Juliet, have you gone.mad,. or what the deuce is to do with
ycu ?"' e~laimed Harry, seizing her rather' roughly by the
arm.
Juliet stopped screaming directly.
"De Lor' be praised !--de mighty Lor' be praised !" she
exclaimed, with an emphatic fervency that left not the shadow
of a doubt as to its genuineiless, "you is no:ghost at all, den ?"
"Ghost, you foolish wench! what made you think I was a
ghost ?" asked Harry, in surprise.
" Kase we all tink you far away, tousand miles, fitin' on de

r      '
R j
{    y-+
f°
i                                       y _-+:s
! 
!  '
'2  ,
';:
" a,  '
' -.  +;
_'°
a  4 r
yu y
ti
L4
't

t1
'

t
F
'f
t    '
i   ,
Ft 1
y s
f
i
i     t
i   t
f
F
:i  {

" ,
t
.     .
f;  '
Sj
k   ;
l  A
f.
.t
.
t
.,
,:
.;_
1
t ,
',
w'
a
!; ,
tF
#   '

THE TWQ FRIGATES,              29


40             THE YANKEE MIDDY; eTR,

big sea," said Juliet ; "and when you cum'd in widout making'
any noise, as you did, I 'eluded 'twas your ghost:'but de mighty
Lor' be praised, you am not your ghost !"
"Where is your mistress, Juliet ?" asked tHarry, now that
the ghost was laid; "I want to give her a surprise," and his
eyes glistened with anticipative pleasure.
"I b'lieve, Massa Wesson, dat Missee Blanche is in de sUm-
mer-house, but dere is--.-de Lor' sabe us!. he's off like a
shot !" exclaimed Juliet, as, without stopping to hear the con-
clusion of her speech, Harry now sprang out of the kitchen.
Of the "agreeable" surprise he occasioned Blanche, the
reader is already aware; and we will merely add, that, after
gazing a minute or two, "more in sorrow than in anger," on
his faithless ladye-love, he turned on his heel, and abruptly
left the spot.
On Blanche Wilton's recovering her consciousness, she
gazed about her for some time, with a strange, wild, and un-
settled look ;,then, while a convulsive shudder ran through
her whole frame, she exclaimed, in a hoarse, hollow species of
whisper, and as though communing with her own thoughts-
"Gone! it must have been fancy ; yet there, methinks, he
stood, gazing upon me, with a pale, sad, reproachful look."
"Who was that man, dear Blanche, who looked in at the
door, and then went away ?" asked Marston; though he had
made a shrewd guess in his own mind, wno he was.
"Did you see him ?" gasped'Blanche.
"I could not miss doing so, without I had been blind," an.
swered Marston.
"Then it was no spirit, but his real self," exclaimed Blanche,
breathing more freely.
"No spirit could make such marks with its heels as these,"
said Marston, pointing to Harry's foot-prints in the garden
walk ; "but who was it, dear Blanche? It has made your
cheeks quite symbolical of your name, and your whole frame
to quiver like an aspen."

14
't
a  .
4
t 4
44
41
{
p f

-" It was Henry Weston," she answered, in a low tone, and
with an averted head, at the same time rising from her seat,
to leave the summer-house.
They sauntered slowly up the gravel walk, and were just
on the point of entering the house, when the door leading into
the garden was opened, and Markham Sinclair, the Recluse,
came forth. No sooner did his eye rest on the companion of
Blanche, than he suddenly came to a halt; and, for nearly a
minute, gazed upon him with a look in which it would be hard
to say, whether surprise or horror preponderated most. Then,
uttering a loud, piercing cry, as ihough wrung from him by
the intensest agony, he fled wildly into the house, leaving his
neice and Spencer rooted to the ground in surprise.

f
? n+
iv'.
t
r
 
r
i} -m'
p 4N SE
Sryryryry I
pa t..

THE TWO FRIGATES.              41


-THE YANKEE MIDDY; on,

CHAPTER VIII.
WHO IS HE? THE BROTHER AND SISTER.
ON the evening ef the second day after Harry Weston's
arrival at the "Old House at Home," he, in company with
our old acquaintances, Asa Brown and Marc Antony, was
enjoying the luxury of a whiff of the "weed," in the large
back kitchen of the farm.
Harry enjoyed, with great gusto, the conversation of'his
two companions; and very often, for the sake of a little sport,
set them at loggerheads with each other-never suffering them
to proceed to extremities, however ; and, as for them, it would
have been a dangerous matter to have breathed a syllable
against "Massa Henry," in THEIR hearing, for he was em-
phatically "the god of their idolatry," and was looked upon
by them as being a second Decatur.
They had been puffing .away in silence for some time, and
raising such vast volumes of smoke, that they were completely
invisible to each other ; and when Harry at length took the
pipe from his mouth to address Asa, his voice resembled that
of a Delphian priest issuing from the Clouds of insense envelop-
ing the shrine of the goddess.
"And you cannot recollect the name of the vessel at all,
Asa ?" said Harry.
"Blame me, if I can," answered Asa, emitting forth a puff
of smoke nearly as large as that of a good-sized steam-engine;
"it was such an all-fired, tarnation, outlandish name, that I'l'

'1
a
j

K
.r

be darned if I:can rikolect it; guess 'twas sumthin' about
Try-on, tho'."
"Was it the Triton ?" suggested Harry.
" No, it warn't that," said Asa ; "there was sumthin' afore
Try-on, but lick me if '1 can think-on't."
Massa Brown," said Marc Antony, "you hab got a button,
youfknow, wid de name on."
Why, gawl darn rny inmortal eyes, if I tint ! wal, now
that is strange-all-fire me, if its aidt-to forgit that ! Snow=
ball, the next time 1mi:going tew fell yew, jest remind me of
this, and I'll not."
"Ees, Massa Briwn; 'menot forget DAT."
There, Henry;" said Asa,'as:he handed him a small button,
"that's it; I pulled'it'off the jacketof one of the poot fellows
that we buried, carter bringing this all-fited skunk; -Spender,
here, when he oughter have been laid with them."F
The button was° one of these round,brass ones, with which
the jacket sleeve-cuffs of the'sailors of the British navy were
then wont to be plentifully.'decotated. Within a neatiyaraised
border, it bore the worded, "W iB.M. S: Amphitryton.
"The.A'mphitryton!" ',exlaimedj Harry, when he had read
the inscription ; "why, she was a frigate belonging'to the very
squadron, from which we had such anarrow escape.' They
have- been cruising between' Capes Cod and Sable, for nearly
two months. But why the devil did this Marston Spenoeor
ashe calls himself, say itwas the-Dart, India'mat, that he Was
wrecked in ?"
"Gtess he don't want it kbown that'King Geordie has lost
a friggit," said Asa ; '"but, Harry, yew don't meth tew give up
Miss Wilton, quietly, dew. yer ? Yew can-reckon on ne and
Lillywhite for backers, yew can."
"As to her," auswered ' Harry, bitterly, "she's not worth
another thought; buf him. I shall call to account for tampering
with the feelings of!Agnes; and I'll know who'he is, too, before
I sleep,'-or else he or I shall digest two or three inches'of cold

C11

THE Two FRIGATES.              43


S

i

44

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

steel. I'll go and see if he has told her who he is; and if I
should want you to-night, Asa, I will come into your bed-room
and call you."
When Henry entered his sister's room, Agnes was sitting
with her back to the door, and gazing out of the window; and
so deeply wrapt was she in her thoughts, that until he had
laid his hand on her shoulder, and said, "Asleep, or dreaming,
Agnes ?" she was not aware that he had entered. Turning
hastily around, she exhibited to his view a face of ashy pale-
ness, and eyes that were yet glistening with tears, from recent
weeping.
"Agnes, love," said Henry, as he seated himself beside her,
and took her hand within his, "how is this? what has hap-
pened, to occasion you this sorrow? you look quite wretched,
indeed you do, Agnes: what was you thinking of so deeply,
when I entered ?",-
"Nothing in particular, Henry," answered Agnes, with a
faint attempt at a smile ; "you know, Harry, girls will some-
times cry when they have no cause."
"But you are not one of them," said her brother, seriously.
"No, Agnes, you are not one to weep without a pause ; but
I know what the .cause of your sorrow is, and it grieves me
to the soul to think thata sister of mine should have such a
case. You love this impostor-this cast-ashore-this Marston
Spencer, as he calls himself."
"Nay, Henry," said Agnes, hastily, "call him not impostor; *
you know not that."
"Has he not reported himself a merchant seaman,. when
the ship in which he was wrecked was the Amphitryton, an
English frigate ?" exclaimed Henry. "0, Agnes, Agnes, this
affection for one like him, is unworthy you. Know you not,
that Blanche Wilton and he are seldom separate? and that
he is breathing in her ear, those words which, perhaps, an hou5
before, he has spoken to you? Oh, Agnes! for my sake, and
the honor of your sex, tear from your heart an affection so

THE TWO fRFIQATES.

45

unworthily placed. As for the traitor himself, it shall not be
long before I make him account for his conduct."
"No, no, no, dear Henry !" exclaimed Agnes, imploringly ;
"talk not of that; I will try to forget him, or anything at all,
sooner than you should endanger your life by quarreling with
him."
"Little fear of that, Agnes," said her brother, as he arose
to go; "he is too much of a coward to fight ; but I did not
mean that, Agnes-so do not let the thought cause you uneasi-
ness. Good night, love, and pleasant dreams; and try, for my
sake, dear Agnes, to forget this wolf in sheep's clothing."
That night, on Marston Spencer's entering his bed-room,
he found a small, folded note, addressed to him, lying upon his
dressing-table ; and, on opening it, saw it rants follows:
"If, the person calling himself Marston Spencer, be not the
coward, poltroon, and traitor, which the writer of this supposes
him to be, he will leave his chamber as carefully as possible,
a little after eleven o'clock, to-night,, and, descend into the
farm-yard ; where he will find one who is desirous of some
explanation of his conduct during his stay at Elm Farm." r
Crushing the-note in his hand, Marston looked at his watch;
then taking up a book, he sat down to wait as patiently as
he could, the hour of meeting his unknown, though suspected
correspondent.

I:

UN
F 5

i
I
h{
-   t=  c
i
1   a
y
I
c
b ¢
2v
S

s
r


4G)

THE YANKEE MIDY OR,

CHAPTER IX.
THE COMBAT AND THE FLIGHT.
"In duel met with dagger of revenge."
I- is' night-the noon of night-and the crescent moon is
pouring down  i grove, and plain, and stream, the mellow
radiance of her silver beams; the twinkling stars, like so many
brilliant eyes peering through a screen of violet-hued gauze,
gaze lovingly down from their homes on high, as though wish-
ing, like the Seraphs in the times of Eld,' to come down and
mingle with the children of men. All is still, serene and quiet,
and save the faintly heard
" Surgy murmurs of the lonely sea,"
as it breaks forevermore on the distant beach, not- a- sound
mars, with jarring discord, the solemn stillness that hangs like
a good man's blessing over the quiet landscape.
In strange contrast to the holy calmness of this scene, are
the emotions reigning in the breasts of the two men who have
now entered a small open glade in the grove, a little in the rear
of Elm Farm.
Calm and beautiful, we say again, as was the quiet repose of
nature, there was raging in the breasts of those men a storm
of fierce and conflicting passions ; and which was only to be
stilled (in their minds) by shedding the heart's blood of one
another.
0 man ! thou wert made in the express image of thy Creator ;

'.
.;
,
,
L

P1

and endowed by him, with the divine attributes of reason and
love ! Thou Wert placed in a paradise of earthly beauty, and
for a while "the ways of thy life were peace."  But, alas! the
desire of thy heart was sin ; yea, "as the hart panteth for the
stream," thy soul thirsted for the cup of iniquity; and lu! thou
didst take it and quaff it, and fell; aye, easy and without a
struggle, to the serpent-like wiles of the Evil One. And the
murder of Abel, the gentle and the good, wasthe first fruits of
thy falling away from God ! and, as the pure and holy spirit of
thy murdered victim, soared on high to the bright and eternal
realms of bliss-Envy, Hatred and Revenge, with all their
happy train, took up their abode in thy soul. Need we tell
with what fervor thou hast obeyed their behests! Need we
tell how under the name of HONOR ! thou hast bowed down the
knee unto the bloody Moloch! No! thine own heart, and the
hearts of husbandless wives and sonless mothers-made so by
the infamous practice of DUELLING-can best answer such a
question as that.
Reader, pardon this digression. After they had entered the
small glade in the grove, the two men whom we have men.
tioned, threw off their coats ; then,' each drawing a cutlass from
the scabbard he carried under his arm, they planted themselves
foot to foot, and crossed their glittering blades.
Previous, however, to any passes being exchanged between
them, one of them exclaimed-
"Then you refuse to make known your real name? or to
give your word as a man of honor, that you will remain on pa-
role during the continuance of the war between Great Britahi
and the States ?"
" Yes, to a common reefer like thee.!" answered the Other,
who, as our readers have suspected, was the youth calling him.
self Marston Spencer. "Come on, without further parley'; I
am impatient to chastise thee, for daringto address a gentleman
in the manner thou'hast me."
"Gentleman ! A double-tongued treacherous-hearted vil-

46s
11
t I 44
2
t4
EL'

THE TWO FRIGATEs.

4,'


48            'riE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

.a TH1WO F LIGATIE5.            49

lain, rather," exclaimed Harry Weston, with a sneer, at the
same time making, a pass at his opponent's breast. It was par-
ried, and the combat then began in real earnest.
In regard to size,, strength, and the management of their
weapons, the tw; young men were on pretty equal footing ; the
advantage, if any, being on the side of Spencer; he being as
collected and eool in his movements, as though merely taking
a lesson at the fencing school, instead of being engaged in a
fight where the result was to be life or death.
Harry Weston, on the contrary, was considerably excited.
For the contemptuous manner in which Spencer had treated
him; the thought of his supplanting him in the affections of
J3lanche, and of the misery he had wrought in the breast of
Agnes, had roused his naturally excitable nature to a height of
ungovernable fury ; and though this perhaps hindered him from
taking advantage of any sudden unguarded position of his'
enemy, it lent an energy and lightning-like rapidity to his
blows, that caused his opponent to exert all his skill of fence,
in order to keep himself out of "harm's way."
Suddenly the blade of Tarston's cutlass snapped close off by
the :guard, as. he was parrying a tremendous blow, which
Harry, with all his strength, had aimed at his head.
Beg your life, villain, or I strike !" called out the excited
Henry, as he raised his cutlass above the head of Spencer.
"Never, from a boor like thee!" hissed the latter through his
clenched teeth, at the same time drawing a siali stiletto from
his bre t, and, with a sudden spring plunging it'to the hilt in
the upgarded bosom of Henry !
Without a groan, the unfortunate youth fell heavily to the
ground;, while at, the same moment, a wild piercing shriek
smote upon the assassin's ear, and Agnes Weston stood before
him
Snatching up his goat, and the sword that had fallen from
the hand of Henry, the guilty Spencer fled hastily from the
spot.

CHAPTER X.
THE DANGER OF: TURNING OVERe---" I STILL LIVE."
"The spirit was willing,but the flesh was weak."
"Or all the darndest sleepy headed critters that ever walked
God's arth, I lick them all,.j dew, by Jerews'lem! I dew
hheve I should sleep if that ere trump was sounded, that old
Parson Dobbs used to talk of, and what he -sez'll rewze up all
the dead, I dew, by creation! butHarry otter rewse4 me suite
up, he ort; he knew how allfired bad I amto git out o' bed."
LThese words wpresuttered by Asa .Broyvn, as he hastily
dressed himself a little after -twelve o'clock, on the night the
duel took place.; Harty Westpn, as-he had promised, had come
softly intp Asa's bed-room, and told him to get up and be a wit-
ness of the duel about.to take place between him andSpencer;
but as Harry was in too much of a hurry to waste; a great deal
of time in rouiig him, Asa, had :gradually fallen over to sleep
again:; and;only woke;up, about an hour after the two youpg
men had left the farm.
Afgrhehaddresse4bimself, 4atole softly dawn stairs, and
hastened to the ypardin the rear ofthe farm; but neither Spen.
eer ror Harry conjd be see ; and for, minute or two he;stood
in complete, perplexity as to how to act.
, Sqd4enly 4ei glade in the grgye, and its fityss for their pur-
pose, struck Asa as being the likeliest place, for, p'eyouths to
have proceeded to ; and no sooner did the idea strike him, than
off he started at the top of his speed for the place.
4

.__
'
{
-Y
4; x'
Fia
r 1, ,
i
?
tiM
. ¢
i
"''
Pi
.

11
F

.
-  : ,
6i   i
F_
i
"i xy
- t


50      -        THE YANKIE MIDDY; OR,1*
He was not long in reaching the glade ; and the first objects
that met his view, when he entered it, were Markham Sinclair,
the Recluse, endeavoring to restore Agnes Weston to con-
sciousness, as she lay insensible on the ground, near to the
seeming lifeless form of her brother.
Asa no sooner appeared, than the Recluse arose to his feet,
and motioned to him to take up the body of Henry, and
carry it to the farm; whilsthe,: on hi , part, would take care of
Agnes.
As Asa stepped forward to'do so,:his fodt struck against
some hard substance on the ground ; and, on stooping down to
see what it was, found it to be a small dagger, its blade and
'handle incarnadined with blood.
"Guess I'll take this to the farm," said Asa, putting it into
the capacious pocket of his coat ; then turning to the recluse,
he continued-" it seems to me, stranger, thar aint ha' been
fair play here; did yew'see 'em fight ?"
The recluse did not answer.
"Of all the darndest chaps that ever I cum across, yew beat
all, yew dew, by Jerews'lem. I'll be gawl darned if I think
yew'd speak tew Old Scratch himself, was he tew bid you good
mornin'. If yew've no ile to ile 'yer jaws,' we've get nations
on't at the farm, we hey, and yew can hev some."
Disregarding this obliging offer of Asa, the recluse now took
up Agnes in his arms; and after pointing once more to the
body of Harry, 'left the glade in the direction of Elm Farm.
As Asa was raising Harry on his shoulder, a low moan
issued from his lips, announcing the joyful intelligence that the
"Grim King" had not yet'claimed his victim..
"Hoorah! hoorah! hoorah !" shouted Asa, like a stentor;
"alive yet, by creation !" and so saying, he started off with his
burden at a rapid pace, in order to obtain assistance for Harry
as soon as possible    '

4'
.'
i
tf
r   s
'
is
.,{z.
t,,
,,
.3 ,

THE TWO FRIGATES.                51

CHAPTER XL
THE LETTER-" A CHAMBER SCENE"-THE ELOPEMENT PREVyTED.
ON the same evening that the duel between Henry Weston
and Marston Spencer took place, -Blanche Wilton' had retired'
to her couch rather earlier than usual;'but the "honey dew
of slumber" refused to descend on the wakeful eyelids, and so
steep her troubled senses in forgetfulness.
Poor Blanche! since we last saw her, she has drunk deeply
of the bitter cup of sorrow ; and hath proved by the sad test of
experience, that the words of the immortal bard"of Avon-
"the course of true love never did run smooth," are but too
infallibly true.
On coming down to breakfast on the morning after her uncle
had'exhibited such a strange and terrible excitement on behold-
ing her in company with Marston Spencer, a note was pre-
sented to Blanche by her maid Juliet. On opening it, she
found it to read as follows:
"DEAR.NIECE-
You must at once, and forever ! cease to regard the youth
calling himself Marston Spencer, with the eyes of love ; and
though my conduct in thus coercing your feelings, may, at the
first thought, appear harsh and tyrannical, let it suffice you,
when I say, that it is IMPERATIVE NEcEssITY which compels me
thus to act; and thatwhen the proper time arrives for such a
communication taking place, all shall be explained entirely to
your satisfaction.
Your uncle and guardian,
MARKHAM SINCLAIR.


62

THE YANKEE MIDDY; Oa,

This letter plunged Blanche in the deepest woe, for it at
once put an end to her fondly cherished visions of future hap-
piness with her lover. Any attempt to change the decision of
her uncle, she well- knew would be worse than useless, for His
commands, like the laws of the Medes and Persians, when once
passed, were irrevocable.,
She was now, as we have said, laid on her couch, sad and
unable to sleep. She had heard the old Dutch clock, on the
staircase, strike nine, ten, eleven, and yet still she lay as wake-
ful and unable to sleep as when she first laid down.
The window of her bedroom looked irnto the garden; and as
she thus say with her face towards it, she suddenly beheld the
dark outline of a man's head rise gradually up, as though
ascending on a ladder. In another minute the face of Marston
Spencer met her astonished gaze, as he peered anxiously into
the moonlit chamber.
Scarcely knowing what she did, she arose and threw a loose
wrapper around her form ; then advancing to the window, she
raised it, and like a second Romeo, visiting the fair Capulet,
Marston Spencer stepped into the apartment.,
" "Dear -Marston," exclaimed Blanche, after she had closed
down the window ; "oh why have you so endangered your
life by coming to see me thus? I tremble to think whai' my
uncle would do or say, if he was to know you were here.",
"Your uncle is now from home," said he ; "though it may
not be long before he returns; I will therefore at once tell you
why I have visited you at this unseemly hour. Dear Blanche,"
he continued, as he drew her, trembling like an aspen, to his.
breast, "the inoment hath now arrived when we must either
hid each other an' eternal adieu, or, together, now' leave 'your
uncle's residence."N- 
'"My'God ! what has happened ?" gasped Blanche, wildly;
" Young Weston, this evening, grossly -insulted 'and chal-
lenged me: we met, at a short distance from the fart-foght-
and he fell. I do not think he is dead, though."
Ia,

t,
" l
r
r     ,
E
9
t
tf
I    -
i
4  s
4
it
£a=
:.3
.1 -
j to
"rl t
Y-1 X-
{HI
ttr w
ht
1
sPt

THE TWO  FRIGaTEs.5
E.And you, :4eart.arston," she= exclaimed, surveying g him
anxiously, "are you not wounded ?"
"Not even a scratch, love:. but let me tell you what I have
to{say, before your uncle returns. Balance , you have hitherto
known me but as:the shipwrecked mate of an English E.ad=
Indiaman: I will now undeceive you: the ship in which, I was
wrecked, was his Britannic Majesty's frigate Amphitryton,
of which I had the honor to be, first lieutenant. You start,
dear.Blanche--but it was even so; nor can the proudest of
England's lords boast of a nobler line of ancestry, or a name
more garnished by deeds of high achievement, than I can;
but let this be a topic for after-hours; .let me not forget that
which is of more importance at present. Dearest Blanche,
have I now to go from your presence, a miserable, heart-
broken man, or accompanied by you, as mine own sweet bride
elect,?"
"0, Marston," exclaimed Blanche, as she lay weeping in his
arms, "have pity on my weakness ! God knows I love none
so well as you; but-but----this is so unexpected and so sudden,
that I-I-cannot make up my mind to go now."
"And is this to be the end of all our fond dreams of future
bliss ?" -said Marston,. bitterly. "Oh, Blanche !---Blanche !--
you have embittered for ever my happiness in this life, and
I care not how soon death comes to relieve rpy heart of its
anguish : but why not now ?" he exclaimed, with well-affected
wildness; "why need I support this load of woe, when thus
so easily I can rid myself of it, and for ever
" Marston ! dear Marston !" she exclaimed, as she flung her-
self into his arms to prevent him, as she thought, from falling
'orb the point of his sword, which he had drawn. "I will go
with you anywhere! Oh, put up your sword, or you will kill
me with fear !"
Spencer, who had thus,, by a slight touch of the melo-
dtamatic, obtained his end, now clasped his deceived mistress
closely to his breast ; and, after she had somewhat recovered


THE . TWO FRIGATES.

54             THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OE,

her calmness, assisted her to get ready for departure. This
did not occupy much time; so that in a very few minutes
after, they had descended the ladder, and were hastening down
the gravel-walk towards the little door at the end of the garden.
Already had they got within a few yards, and were congratu-
lating themselves on getting safely away before the arrival of
the recluse, when the door was opened, and that singular indi-
vidual himself entered the garden !
To spring forward, and,,with a single blow, to fell Spencer
to the earth-to snatch Blanche from his arms, and bear her
safely into the house-was with the recluse the work of a mo-
ment; but, on returning to the garden again-which he did
as soon as he had placed the insensible Blanche on a sofa in
the parlor-Marston Spencer was gone ! and, although he
went to the outside of the garden, and gazed carefully around,
he could behold no signs of the frustrated libertine !
The latter, though falling.fron the force of the blow he had
received, was not stunned ; and no soone" had the recluse left
the spot, to convey his niece into the house, than he rose to
his feet and fled, and, by availing himself of the bushes and
trees growing in clumps about the neighborhood,'he succeeded
in making good his escape. Passing himself off as a midship-
man on parole, lie was at length enabled to cross into New
Brunswick, aid, shortly after, to reach the, port of Halifax,
Nova Scotia, which was then, as now, a rendezvous for British
men-of-war.

CHAPTER XII.
MULTUM IN PARVO.
THE surmise of Marston Spencer was correct. The wound
of tlarry Weston, though very serious, was not mortal. The
blade of the dagger having come in contact with one of his
ribs, it had glanced along just beneath the surface of the skin,
without reaching arty vital part, though the excessive hemor-
rhage had reduced him to a state of unconsciousness.
The surprise of the parents of our hero, when Asa Brown
awoke them, to make them acquainted with what had happened,
may be better imagined than described; and while on one'hand
the irascible old farmer launched forth a perfect tornado of
curses against the treacherous niiscreant who hsd so abused
his hospitality ; on the other, the old lady, after "a good cry,"
declared, that "never, since she was a girl about fifteen, had
there anything of the kind happened before."
As for Agnes,: though her brother, at the early part of the
night on which the duel took place, had  assured her that ho
would not fight Spencer, she had placed no confidence what-
eVer in the declaration, knowing that he only said so to quiet
her fears. She had therefore, throughout' the evening, nar-
rowly watched the proceedings of both. Harry, however,
managed to elude all her vigilance; arid it was not until he
and Spencer had started from the farm, that shekec me aware
of their intentions. She had immediately folloevthen,.and
tourad readeresy aroede1,-'n
our        are already'aware how abortive was her a'itempt
to prevent the duel taking place.


56                 THE YANKE    U1I'Yj UR,E

Poor Agnes! the flight of the villain who had so serpent-like
wound himself around her heart, caused her the profoundest
misery ; the more so, as she had to conceal every external symp-
tom of it from her parents, and wear a smile on her face,
when at the same time her heart was breaking with grief.
Under the skilful hands of his mother, our hero soon recover-
ed sufficient strength to rise from, his couch. One circum-
stance, in connection with the duel, we must not forget. This
was the dagger which Asa had brought home in his pocket.
On cleansing it from the blood that encrusted it, the words
"Viscount Seaham," were found neatly engraved onthe qpper
part of the blade; thus seeming to imply that their late guest
was a scion of one of the proudest of Englaqd's ducal houses.
Asa. Brown, happening ,to be present when this discovery
was made, asked, with a strange, incredulous look, if it was a
real fact that the "critter Spencer" was a "genewine lord ;'
and on being told by Harry that there, was not, the slightest
doubt but such was the case, he declared, that "he'd be all-fired
if he couldn't lick his weight three times over, in Epglish loids,
any morning, 'fore breakfast, without injuring his appetite at
all--he could, by Jerewslem1"
Late one afternoon, about a fortnight after the duel was
fought, a letter was brought to Elm Farm, addressed to Henry.
It was from his old commander, Captain Manly, inforrhing him
that he must report himself on. board the INVi cIBI-a forty-
four-gun frigate, then. lying at Boston-on thethird dayafter
the receipt of that note-as the frigate wasethenunder orders
to proceed on a cruise as soon as she could be got ready
for sea.
This was, indeed,, joyful news to Henry; for even the spells
of home, and the scenes and associations connected with his
boyhood,. had begun to pall upon his. senses, and to be viewed
by him[ with a listless indifference. Like the bold rover
-- {

"Like an eagle caged, he pined,
On the dull, unchanging shore ;
He longed for the flashing brine,
The spray, and the tempest-roar."
This wish was, at length, to be gratified ; and so eager was
he to be away, that, accompanied by Asa, he started for Wells
by daybreak, on the morning after receiving the letter, intend-
ing, if possible, to get a passage in a coaster, from thence to
Boston.

3  'di ;.  1       '

/

TIIE TWO FRIGATES.            57.


I

58

THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

CHAPTER XIII.
THE INVINcIBLE-A TOUGH YARN-SAIL, HO.

T HE broad, red sun had just begun to dip in the western
wave, and.tinge the glassy bosom of the deep with gorgeous
hues of crimson -and gold, as the United States' frigate, the
invincible, slowly and majestically glided past Point Shirley,
and entered on the long-rolling billows of. Massachusetts Bay.
The breeze, which in her passage down Boston harbor, had
been little else than a series of cat's-paws, now freshened up
into a brisk gale ; and, as the studden-sails were all set both
alow and aloft on either side, the gallant frigate now sped
merrily over the waves to the tune of some eight or nine knots
an hour.
"The sun set-and uprose the yellow moon ;"-
and sweetly the lamps of heaven now came forth, one by one,
and took their silent stations in the vault of heaven; while
beneath their tremulous and pensive beams, the stately Invin-
cible proudly and bravely careened over the broad; blue bosom
of the mighty deep.
Eight bells were struck, and the watch was set; and as our
hero, Harry Weston, had 'the command of the forward star-
board watch, he now came on deck snugly buttoned-up in his
"grego," for Harry had four long hours to walk on that deck,
and the night was bitter cold.
The first night out of port is one that is always fraught with
sad remembrances to the sailors; and is apt to impress even

THE TWO FRIGATES.

59

the most callous and hardened, with emotions of tender melan-
choly. All have had some'sad. leave-takings that are yet recent,
and vivid in their thoughts: husbands-have parted from their
wives and little ones-sons from their aged an4 venerable
parents-and lovers from their weeping mistresses ; and, though
our hero had not, indeed, at the moment of starting from Bos-
ton, had such to throw'a gloom Over his feelings, nevertheless,
now that the bustle and excitement of getting ready for sea
and leaving port, was over, his thoughts, despite his efforts to
the contrary, would call up from the dark abyss of the past
sweet visions,;
"And fancied wanderings with a fair-haired maid."
To get rid, if possible, of these to him now unwelcome
thoughts, our hero drew near to three of the forward watch,
who he saw were engaged in that favorite occupation of "Old
Salts,"-yarn-spinning. One--the grey-haired, weather-beaten
captain of one of the forward starboard carronades-was seat-
ed on the breech of the piece he commanded; while the other
two-wh9 were old sheet-anchor veterans-each occupied
the end of a shot-box. On our hero's approach, old Martin,
the gunner, stopped in his yarn, but Harry bade him "forge
a-head" again, as he wanted to hear it.
"I may as well start over again," began old Martin, "as Mr.
Weston wants to hear, it all. As I said before, then, it was in
April, 1804, that 'I shipped on board the-Dido, a stout whaler,
belonging to Nantucket, aid bound for a cruise to the South
Sea stations. We started from Nantucket with a brisk, fair
wind, on the. first Friday--mark that messmates-on the Fri-
day in the month.
"Our, captain,;who was also half owner of the ship,,was a
young man ; and tho'f he was an awful hand at iggers, taking
the sun, and all that, and besides could work the ship pretty
well, was not fit to command a whaler. Why, messmates, he
pretended-to laugh at, as old- wimmen's tales, all sich things, as

' 4a
^.r r
7t
.  y
u al°
t
3
I
f
4
,{  1
k
1
ft

//
w 1


6O-             THE VA1EE MIDD1 OR,
it being unlucky to sail on a Friday, whistle atsa; er for
landsman to be the first man:to go aloft after getting ot o
port; things which old sailors, who have ploughedi the sear
from being mere babies, as I mray say, know for sartin are real
facts.
"Among our crew there was one chap who went by the name
of Langton, upon whom Y had no sooner clapped eyes, than I'
knew surnmut was not all right with him. He had shipped the
very day before we started, and though he was rigged as. a
sailor, it was very plain to them as know a marlinspike from a_
butcher's skewer, that he'd never been on salt water afore.
His hands weie.as soft and nearly as small as those ofa woman,
and his face quite as pale as a lass's that has outgrown herself.
I told the captain this, but he said the chap had told him he'd
been sick, and that was the reason he looked so pale. Well,
for the first week or so all went right aboard the Dido : we had
fair winds and fine weather, and the ship being a pretty good
sea-craft, we bladed away at a spanking rate, I tell ye; but r
knew that this wouldn't last forever ; I knew that never yet
did a ship sail on Friday, without falling in with misfortins, and
so it turned out with us at last.
After we got to sea, it was soon seen who was right about
that chap I mentioned, for the very first job he was set to do,
he knew no.more how to begin ship-shape with'it than a wais-
ter; and when the captain overhauled him abdut deceiving
him, he never answered; but gave him a look that made my
blood freeze in my veins, for I was standing near them at the
time ; and, messrpates, you may believe me or not, but damme
if that look didn't hinder me from sleeping that night.
"After this circumstance, I noticed that the chap got kinder
melancholy like ; he would sit for hours in his bunk, with his
eyes fixed gn the planks, and never open his lips to any one;
and if any of the men tried to rouse him up to make him talk
he would give them one of his "Devil's looks," as I called then,
that very soon made them' let him alone again. AbOut this

4i,

ri Two FRUGATEs.

t  !

tirme too, often when I laid awake in ;my hammock, I used to
}hear him talking=away to himself (for his hammock was slung
text to mine,) about some 4  villain that had wrecked his peace
ofimind, and robbed him of the flower that shed a parftitne
over his path. 'through life' -and Xll sich play-acting stuff as
that ; and once or twice he started up in his hammock, and
seizing his jack-knife, jabbed it two or three times into his bed-
clothes, hissing thro' his, teeth as he did it, " there, villain ! thus,
thus, let me repay my debt of vengeance."
"It was about noon on the second FRIDAY afterleaving port,
that the weather, began to give symptoms of a change. - The
wind chopped round to-S. S. E., and began to blow great guns
I tell ye.; and at last, old Nep got his dander up, and sent his
waves sweeping over the Dido, as though he meant to wash us
all overboard; and we were at last obliged to stave -in all the
starboard bulwarks, in order to allow the water to run off the
decks. As the sun set, the wind increased ; and a little before
eight bells struck, crack went the fore and main top-gallant
masts; while, the close reefed main topsail and fore-topmast'
staysail, that we had on her at the time, split into shreds with
the report of a cannon.. The thunder peals,'too, were quite
awful; and I expected nothing less than the ship to be in a
blaze every minute, from the "bright, dazzling flashes of light-
ning that followed each other in quick succession.
.'As the weather grew worse, that'infernal'.fellow, Langton,
seemed to become perfectly changed ; from being gloomy and
taciturn, he now began to 'grow chatty, and burst out every
now and then into fits of laughter ; and such laughter-it rade
the very flesh creep on our bones to hear it.' At length, when
it grew dark, and the lightning began to flash so fearful, damme
if the fellow didn't start to dance and..sing= on the forecastle,
like a madman. The first natenow came forward and'ordered
him to knock off going on that way, when, without speaking
he seized hold of one of the windless bars, and let drive v ih
t' at- the ate's head, killing him -as dead asa  heirint'ii the

s',
,.,.i
b
-    ,-,
4}
aY
1
"i.
4 r1
5
}
S,
3
j
H
5

.


THE TWO FRIGATEs.               3

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

spot! We all sprang upon the murderer directly, and tried to
pinion him down, but it was no go ; what could flesh arid blood
do agairist the Devil himself?  He hurled us from him'as
though we had been babies, and giving a loud, shrill laugh, that
I think I can hear now, he sprang over the bows and disap-
peared forever!
In a few minutes after Langton, or the Devil-for he was as
much one as the other-had sprung overboard, the storm began
to abate; and about a quarter of an hour after, it was a dead
calm, while the moon shone brightly down upon us, like some
bonny little wench ashore, greeting with a smile her "dear
Jack," as he steps on shore all safe from the perils of the deep.
After the vije, which was a pretty successful one, was over,
and we got back to Nantucket, I left the ship ; and about a year
after that, happening ohe day to be sauntering down Long
Wharf in Boston, I heard somebody hail me, and turning
round to see who it was, found it to be the captain of the Dido.
After asking me how I got along, and sich like, he said,-
"Martin, you recollect that fellow, named Langton, that used
to bother you so aboard the old Dido ? Well, I have found out
all about him: he was at one time a gentleman of pretty good
standing in society, but being crossed in love, his intellects be-
cme deranged, and he had to be placed in a private lunatic
asylum, from which place he at last escaped; .and coming to
Nantucket, with that deep cunning peculiar to madmen at times,
he disguised himself as a sailor, and-you know the rest."
"Of course I pretended' to swallow all this ; but I put it to
you now-"
"Sail ho !" shouted the look-out, on the fore top gallant cross-
trees.
" Where away ?" bawled our hero.
"Three points on the weather bow."
harry now walked aft, and informed the first lieutenantdf
the fact,;adding that the ship was yet too far off, either to dis-
tinguish what tack she:was on, or what description of vessel
she was.

"Vara weel, sir," answered his superior, who was a genuine
son of " auld Scotia :" "ye can go forward and tell the men to
keep a sharp look-out, and acquaint me when ye mak her out
clearer."
"Ay, ay,sir," answered Harry, touching his cap and walking
forward again.
The Invincible, however, though she was accounted the
swiftest.keel in the American Navy, could get no nigher to
the sail in view ; on the contrary, when at last eight bells were
again struck, and our hero had to leave the deck, she was less
distinctly seen than when at first discovered.
Y e a          f                 -
S     t                st


04

THE.YANKEE MIDD'' OR,

CHAPTER XIV.

"When Yankee meets the Briton,
Whose blood cohgenial flows,
By Heaven created to be friends,
By fortune rendered foes
Hard then must be the battle fray,
Ere well the fight is o'er,
How they ride, side by side,
While the bell'wing cannon roar,
While the cannon's fire is flashing fast,
And the bell'wing thunders roar."
By sunrise, on the morning after she had left Boston, the In-
vincible was nearly abreast the Isle of Shoals ; but though the
atmosphere was quite clear, enabling the look-outs to command
both a wide and extensive sweep of the -horizon, the sail, seen
on the previous evening, was not visible. This circumstance
caused a general feeling of dissatisfaction to be felt throughout
the frigate ; for, from the little powder-monkeys up to the cap-
tain, there was not one aboard but what was eager for a brush
with John Bull, it having been supposed that she was one of
the English squadron, which, for several months, bad been en-
deavoring to keep Massachusetts Bay in a state of blockade.
The breeze still continuing from the S. S. E., by eight bells,
A. M., the long, low headland of Cape Porpoise was seen at the
distance of some three miles on their lee bow ; and, as the In-
vincible was going free before the wind, and under a heavy
press of canvas, she soon left it considerably astern.
"Sail ho !" suddenly sung out one of the men aloft.
"Where away ?" shouted the officer of the watch.
"About two miles off, sir, and just rounding the south cheek
of Saco Bay."

F
;
,'t
j ,
't.
1uP
- 5';
t -
k;  ,,. _

THE ASSASSINATION.

/


4'     ax .;
lar4 r}  '°  ^ t"  'K
+  t  s[  j°i  i t  ~-  : k1-?  r.,. r

"Either a large frigate or seventy-four, sir."
" M r .   W e s e n , ~ ,s a id ;  th e ,   ...ir iJ e g ,  :.h F a t e
wuvas t ,ndi g ea'r the 'ferc r "  '   ;  i :"     k4  ads e    y la  t+ount
they fore-rigging,;' an,see what ' tYt  manie f the. s, r~ger"'
:Touchiig  his :O  P  H arry   took  he:glss' a ndir j  r wad
and after carefully  erutinizir~t  va  ;aihe 4esendd
}saptai iMauly,.the sail: in! sight 1take to he al frigate, about
our own size and weight of metal; asnd, oreqer,That*he'is
the newi'h whoei we were nigh. hv ng        whu h   n irti 'the
, ohawk"           :
"A.' e    amdtecptijt~ig; ish              _is n: great
glee;,"that is, good lnews,41 hope to Jove it will, prove }true."
Then turning to the first.lieutenant he 'epn~inued,.'tr.J  -
.Gregor, gets the  ship prepared for action. Mr,,Weston ',thirk
strangere, aAt Old acquaintane 4of the Jest ship I ou nled,
the Mohawk; 'and. ift"sQ,; there, is aen aeout to   exJ 'h~tween
us,' that, will. make itn a~iee' :play, ~:e5814:e ;you?
."Had we not hetter get, S were ::eared' befpxre, W.ee  h
decks,?"~ suggested the ,eautius ,eptc ma.
"Weil, perhaps_ we had ; the ba teries,..howeirerenalb
got ready,:arid. th e i in earned "  r. E,  .
~This. was accordingly done ; and a she: atr "g, ytisi
had approached within less than a mile, one , the bow, guns
was.~hoted ad fredasa :species ;ofi defiant challenge, whilc at
the :same  time,. the proud banns U ~hat4iad ofi late sQosucssfull
disptuted then ewrenfthe i&amp;-w"tbr
"'Ph fagfhti ~rda 'ousuitd sylb , '
,  !  .; The bat  ll uithe zre ze, '  i ;  F .
now opened its Ior~qufembl~~ro      tr      .tj~   r~
the mst.Iiadof  thy; Ipvinc~hle~f., cartel-~ad ,the smoke
cl+ar d  way befpr , Fthe st; jr . anser'd, thecblienge by
lieie, flzjng o e of is      wb l   tahe same moment

rt  - et        2   9       i"         '
{  a    v«a i
r,    ,i 4if       5    - i}, r3'Si'..%xFrt
.       b                  -

--  . q.  - '?'.:

.. .s .  "    \ e    '. ." in r. Y
- '  4   ~ ;  i4  ~    ",.° "y    r.' ''" "A'r s"  3.  ,;b  , r^""  .
,   -         d : "  ' L4/     °  tm

Y  t ',
r '
+;
1   j     '!
'
i

F1 1 r TWO : 'R; Q A L ESQ

67

--_           -   _ _       ..
hk ti. pia _T-  xWa  ' aT. Y ..k
~                 .J  ; .. 4.s ;t


THE YANKEE MIDDY 'OR,

69

no less than three ensigns were seen ascending different parts
of his rigging.,
SWe:'wilf help him take some of that bunting'down again be-
fore we've dong with him," said Captain Manly, as he witnessed
this exhibition on tie part of his opponent.': " Boatswain," he
continued, addressing that all important functionary, '  pipe the
men aft---I kantto say afew words to them."
In a few minutes-after, the whole crew were drawn up be-
tween the mainmast and the foot of the quarter deck. Captain
Manly now advancing, said--
"My lads, you see there one o' John- Bull's cruisers; he is
about our own size, or may be, has a little the advantage in
that respect, but that is no matter;-now what I've called you
aft'for, is to say this, that as long as two planks of this ship
remain together, or while I' have strength to wield my sword,
that flag (pointing to the one&amp;at the masthead of the Invinci-
ble) shall never b' struck!1 and--" but his further words were
now drowned in the loud huzzas of 'the 'sailors, and it was some
minutes ere he could agairnmake himself heard. "My-lads,".he
at'length continued, "I think I know what those cheers mean:
they mean, do they not? that you are of 'the same 'mind as
myself; and that sooner than yOn bidody cross;should wave
over the stars and stripes of Inble Sam, you will fight to the
lass ganp td prove that'the name'of the-gallant vINVINiBLEwas
not given invain? '
After they had greeted 'this'address with three loud and
deafening hurras, the meh separated to their several stations,
and set about preparing the' hip for the forthcomimg combat.
All the light sails had been 't keiP in on both vessels ; and
under three topsails, foresail and jib,, they now rapidly neared
each other. The sun was shining brilliantly ; and not a single
cloud 'dimmed the clear empyrean. The cool, freshening breeze
swept oer the waves, breaking as if in sport 'their. summits
irto sai l patches'of 'foan; which, in the bright +iyaof the
morning suh, glittered like so many clusters of diamonds.-All

was 'fair and lovely lb look upon ; all save those' twice five
hundred men who were now intently efeing eadh' other'With
grim looks of defiance Sand hatred.
The two frigates had now approached within little more than
a hundred yards of each other: but without-with the excep-
tion of hoisting their respective national colors-having exhibited
the slightest signs of hostility; and"a spectator who had thus
beheld them so silently and quietly' nearing each other, rightt
have supposed that the 'captains of 'each were tnerely about' to
inquire after one another's welfare.
Suddenly the 'bows of the English frigate were hauledup
closely to the wind; he by this manouvre intending if possible
to obtain the weather-gage of his opponent; but, as at the
same moment the like movement for the same purse had'beeri'
made aboard the Invincible, t-he Englishman's intention was
defeated; and instead of having obtained a position on the.
weather-bow of the Irivincible,'from which he could with telling
effect have raked heir, when the bows of;both ships swung round,
he found himself, on the contrary, laid broadside on with her,
and within less than musket-shot distance.          - E
Both ships discharged their batteries at the same moment
and with pretty nearly the same effeet'; anid then for upwards
of ten minutes did they' continue thus 'hurling their iron missiles
in quick and successive showers into each other ; and though
thro' the dense'columns of smoke resting between them, the
two frigates were quite invisible to each' other, the gnners of
both ships were directed in their aiming by the flashes from their
opponent's guns.
The fire of the Americans was much more destructive' in its
effects than that of'the English. For, while the Invincible,' with the
exception of some of her braces' and' rigging being cut, and a
few splinters torn from her buhwvrks, had received little or no
damage; the Englishman, on the contrary, 'had 'his fEro-top-
gallant-mast, and mizzen topmast shot away ; his foresyai'ds in
the slings, and 'the greater' part of his 'rigging sO cut, that, being

mx  Two FIttc ATr .

b


70              THE YANKEE MIDPY; .,
unable te work:his sails;. he had now .drifted so nigh to the
Invincible, that Captain Manly gave orders for the boarders
to be got ready to board him as: soon as he came a little
nearer.,
"You, Mr. McGyegor," said .the captain, addressing the first
lieutenant, "will takehalf of;the marines, and twenty of the
boards and board him' in the main-chains, while you, Mr:'
Phillips," continued he, to the second lieutenant, "at the head
of the remainder of the .marines and boarders, will enter him
at the bows ; and I will follow myself with a third party."
The lieutepants left the quarter-deck, and hastened to the
differeiosts assigned them. Having drawn tp'theiz respe tive
companies in the. waist, they now stood impatiently waiting for
theironeny p drftnear enough for there toiboard.
Sudd,   y lhe. 'intopmast yar1arm'qf 'the Eaglish frigate
was seen omin  through the. smoke, and\=within but afew
inches of that of'the{ Invincible ; and as CaptainManly'bsheld'
this wishedfor sighthe placed his trumpet to This lips,:and in a
voice that sounded high above the din of the carnage,.called
out-
"What, ho, there, maintopmen! lash the. enemy's yard' to
our owp cheerly, cheerly, 'ien; never mind his mgrksmen !,
And now,, boarders," "he continued, addressing his impatient
crew, "away, my lads! board him, you may?.."
The men needed no second bidding ; : and the words' had
scarcely passed the captain's lipsiere, headed by their respective
leaders, tlhey scrambled over the' bulwarks and sprang on the
enemy's deck.
"Stand firm, men !" shouted the first lieutenant of the Eng-
lish frigate;,addressing the large body of marines and boarders.
drawn up in the waist,--" stand firm, and receive the rebels on
the points of -your bayonets. and pikes. 'Give no quarter;! send'
them to hell atonee.!",
"Forward   Gregalich exclaimedimed the gallant McGregor,-as
waving his;cutlass, ie shouted the War Slogariof his family,

,yfi
p
.
n
.1
f } 7
t

THiE 'Tt4O 1itI ATES.

'/

and without Waiting to see whether he was' followed' or not,
sprang on the'brittling phalanx of bafontes and pikes.
'With brie sweep of 'his cutlass he dashed aside some half'
dozen ot'the pikes  but, "alas! at they next'omant; hepi
of a bayohet ehtered his breast, 'and the' alant'but unfotu'ate
lieutenant fell 'a victim to his ow'n rash valor!
UJttering a ltnd eshot of. vengeance! 'the Ame'iodias 'rushed
forward to avenge the death of their leader; but as some huge
rook presents ititnniOvrtble adrk! lugged "ftrt to'nthe baffled
fury ofthe'waves;so did th&amp;eEnglish rec iv the chare of thei'
opponents The'.Americans; after three rigorous 'ildeie
minldchi ges,'were' t last" '&amp;bliged t r vitirwiihdutThaving'
broken the;frontof there enemy. " "''"
At this critibatiddoetit,'our herd; 'at the h'eadof snedzen
men, 'lenied on the deck of 'the Eiiglish fiidte'Point ng with
his sword to the unbroken front of the English, heexclaimed-Z
For shame, men; lome'back, and show fourselvs\orthy
the name ye bear ! None but towards teti-'at.,
4timulted by his voice' and' example;' 'the disoidered and
retreating Americans rallied; and rushing On their fdes;'ifke'
some vast torrent breaking through all i'restraiht&amp;t 'compelled
their hitheito'itnmmbvable. front ranks 'to w then b'rtaklin ,ie
andffinally 'toretreat several yards.  '
"'Stndd fir, rien !" shouted the English lieutenant. "  -id!
the man that retreats a foot further, I'll run him through'
m yself!'?:'          "     ' 1    j"aF','
' " Ah-!'cowardly' villain !" exclaimhed our hero, as 'iin the'person
of the:speaker, he recognized 'his quondam rial, Marstoti'Spn  0
cer. "Do we meet again ?     Have at thee, villain !' and,
spring on his foe,he attacked him with 'such impetuosity;
that,  veryfew moments would 'hae decided the combat in
his favor. But Fate had otherwise ordained it. -'
At the motnent oui hero commenced' hid attack on Spencer,"
the gang of boarders,' which, under the command of Lieutenant
Phillips of the Invincible, had landed on the English frigate's''


72y             TnE YANKEE MIDDY; ;OR,

forecastle, having at length compelled the.force.opposing ,them
to give way, now came, rushing, aft. Gaining their; cpmrades
who were fighting in the waist, they sop. drove the English
pell mell to the foot of they quarter-deck,; while at:the same
moment, captain Marnly,,after considerable: resistance, having
at length succeeded in landing on the quarter-deck with a
fourth company of boarders, vigorouslyattacked . them  in
the, rear.,
For a short time the English fought with the valor of
desperation; but. situated as they were, it was very soon
apparent on which side the coy nymph Victory wouldescend;.
and tle captain of the British frigate seeing what folly it was
to prolong the struggle, at length, called out that he had
surrendered; and, being but a shorts distance from Captain
Manly at the- time, he made his way up to him and tendered
his sword.     ,
'Captain Rogers," shouted Marston Spencer, or rather Vis-
count Seaha~n, as we must now call him, as at the head of the
boarders he. yet fought with desperate fury, "you have not
surrendered the ship, have you ?"
",Yes, Viscount, I havee,. shouted Rogers in reply. "It is
only sacrificing the poor fellowvs' lives to resist longer."
"You may do as you like, Captain Rogers," exclaimed Sea-
ham ; "but as long as I can' wield a sword, I will never
yield."
"Captain Manly," said our hero, approaching his commander,
"there is an old quarrel standing unsettled between me and
that man. Will you permit me to serve both the States and
myself by disarming him?"
Whether something really did or did not attract Ca:ptainv
Manly's attention on board the Invincible at that moment we'
know not, but certain it is when Harry Weston spoke to him,
he turned his head and gazed that way  Our- hero, therefore,
acting on the well known adage, "silence :gives: consent,"

sprang forward sword in hand to where his former opponent
was still obstinately fighting against opposing odds.
"Back, men," shouted Harry-to the boarders of the Invincible,
who were pressing Spencer hard. "Stand back ! this scoun-
drel belongs to me !" Crossing his opponent's blade, blows, "fast
and furious" were soon passing between them.
Suddenly, by a dexterous blow, Harry sent his adversary's
sword flying through the air, thus leaving him completely at
his mercy.
/ "Strike !" shouted Seaham, maddened at his discomfiture.
"Strike! I would do so I
"No !" said our hero, casting a glance of contemptuous scorn
upon him; "it is only COWARDS and AssAssrNs who strike an
unarmed enemy."

,+I

Th E.TWO IFRIGATES.


74             THE YA;N1ICE MIDDY ; OR,

CHAPTER XV.
"And now the fight is over,
And we're again on shore;
With laurels on our brows, boys,
And shiners quite a store!
We'll dance and sing right merrily,
And kiss the girls so free
But at Honor's call we're ready-
Aye, ready for the Sea !
To brave the winds and waves, my boys,
We'll go right cheerfully."
OLD SEA SONG.
TIE sun had just begun to dip on the western verge of the
horizon, as the Invincible, accompanied by her prize, hove in
sight of Portsmouth.
So severely had the English frigate suffered in the late
engagement, that her captor had to take her in tow; her masts
not being secure enough to bear any canvas, even had the
necessary rigging been left whole to manage them. Nor was
it in her spars and rigging alone that she had suffered. Her
hull was completely riddled with the balls of her enemy; while
in one or two instances, three of her port holes were smashed
into one; thus affording another striking proof of that superiority
in gunnery, which in the cases of the Constitution and Guer-
riere, the Essex and the Alert, the Wasp and the Frolic, had
earned for American seaman, a world-wide reputation. The
killed and wounded on both sides had been considerable and
very nearly equal. But with the exception of Hector McGregor
and Charles King, the first and third lieutenants of the Invincible,
and the second lieutenant and quarter-master of the St. George,

(for such was the name of the Etiglish frigate,) no fficersof dote
had fallen.
As for the Invincible-with the exception of sons&amp;rent s i
her sails, and asplinter or tW6 knocked from her bulwarks anid"
deck spars-through the active' exertions-of her cr'ew, sheiot
presented but very few tokens of the late'ngagehient"fok ht
decks had been washed clean of the human gore that at the
conclusion of. the light had given. them  such .a horriblel.
" shambles" like appearance; the: wounded{had ,allibeen
removed below to the cockpit and hospital cots ;s and the-dead,
friends and:foes, consigned to their last resting 'place in the,
" deep, deep sea."
About an hour after first coming in sight of land; the Ivrvipcible
and her prize arrived abreast of Continental' Island in Ports.
mouth harbor; and after returning in gallant style: the salute
which they received in passing the:Navy Yard,,proceeded up
the harbor, until at last, When within a few rodsr distance from
the pier; they finally dropped anchor.
That night, a splendid ball and entertainment were got up by
the principal inhabitants ofi Portsmouth, in. honor of. the new
"leaf"that had been added to the glorious' naval wreath;which
Decatur, Bainbridge, Hull, La4rrence and others, had plucked
so gallantly' from the haughty brows of Brittania! .That night,
Captain Manly and his officers were the cynosures of. alleyes;
and as the glance}of :many a fair maiden rested admiringlyon
their manly forms; while she at the same time recalled to mind'
their more manly deeds, her little heart would flutter with new-
born andbthrilling emotions of love and tenderness for those
brave defenders of theiricountry's rights,- s That night was.one
that the -officers of the Invincible long spoke of with.'rapturous
delight; for the entertainment got up for their especialhonorp
was. indeed:a gorgeous and recherche affair--..
"The lamps shone O'er fair women and brave men,
Athousand herts boat happily ; and when
Music arose with its voluptuous swell,
Soft eyes looked love to eyes which'spake again,
And all went merry as a marriage bell."

'T8E 'PWO rRYGATJI           75

,~
,
E


4

7;'

THE YANKEE; MIP1Y OR,

That night, had our hero had aheart to dispose of, he would
not have had the slightest difficulty in finding more than one
Fairee lady,'' wllo would: gladly have taken charge thereof;
giying.s a guarantee Qf its safekeeping, her own in return ; but
Ihrry. had not been able to forget Bhnche Wilton yet; and
though on this night, he did
"Whisper sweet nothingsin many an ear-"
he never crossed the boundaries of the realms of Flirtation.
;Early nekt morning, Captain Manly 'dispatched an official
statement of his engagement with, and capture of the British
frigate, to thd Secretary of the Navy Department at Washington;
and in mentioning the names of the officers who had principally
distinguished themselves in the action, that of our Middy, Harry
Weston, was far from being overlooked.
In the afternoon, the crews of both frigates tvere oi-dered on
shore, where ofl arriving, they were drawn up, four abreast.
on the pier. The bodies of Lieuts. McGregor and King, with
the lieutenant and quarter-master of the St. George, having
been brought ashore'and placed on separate hearses,'the whole
cavalcade, accompanied by the marine band, playing the Dead
March in Saul, set forth, and shortly after halted at the ceme-
tery of St. John's church;' and here, with all naval honors, the,
remains of the four brave officers were consigned to their graves.
"Requiescant in pace."
On the same evening, the commander and officers of the St.
George, were suffered to depart whither they thought proper,
on their giving their words of honor, that they would not,
attempt to escape, or serve against the Americans, during the.
continuance of the war. The sailors were marched off to one
of the interior garrisons to await until they were exchanged for'
an equally number of American seamen.
New sails having been bent, and everything made sea trim
again on board the Invincible, early on. the.second morning
after her arrival at Portsmouth, her anchor Was once more

THE TWO FRIGA'tES

77

weighed, and the gallant frigate, under the influence of a brisk
eight-knot bre'ee, once more left poft to continue hei- cruise:
A little before sunset one evening, about a week after' the
departii e of the Invincible from Portsfnobth,'two nen,'tnoited
on fleet horses, left the town of Wells, in Maine ; and takiz
the road which for some distance ran parallel with, the coast,
they cantered 1 l6hg for nearly half an hour in complete
silence.     f_
At length, slackening his pace a little, one of them cdcled'out
to his companion-
"Gently, Brown, pull up: we must not get there toe soon.
Like Jack Falstaff, and his merry companions-'
"We must o by the moon and seven stars ;
And not by Phaibus,--'.
pull up, I say; we have plenty of time'; it is only four or fiv'e
inile from here."
" YouHordship knows best," said the'party addressed, pulling
up and -waiting until he was joined by his companion.  F .  O
"Broom," ejaculated the first spe ker,'as henbWirode up, is
that the wood you escaped into ?" and the s eaker pointed
with his hand to an immense ;rove' of pines on' the right hand
side of the road.'-"
' No, my lord," replied Broom, 'the ci-devant lieutenant of
the Mohawk; "the place where I escaped was about'three
miles to the south of York, t rhen, as I told you before, the
infernal Yankees were taking 'me to Portmouth.' 'But let us
change the subject, for the very recolleciin' of the 'narrow
escape I had from being strungnp, makes me even tow feel
unpleasant about tie 'jugular, Do' you eally' think; my lord;
that you ill be able to iidee' Agnes 'Weston tb leave the
farm' ''
Yges," replied his companion , who;'as otr readers vill hiive
already suspected, was Marsto hSpe cdt,' alias Yiscount Sea.

.


78       ~~TIH~ tANKEE -MWDY4 . OS,Til0 'R(TE.7

hm-" Yes,    certainn as.that the other rusge rose;bud,
Bl1a    e41n,'j vll, co ppny  Xe," ,\Why, map;  Angjthe
time I was stopping at the old Yankee farmer's, both the
wenches were like a pair of Kilkenny cats ready to eat one
another. on my acgopt."                   i
" ogr lordship w sysevez as sooegsf i in love a. war,'
served ,the obsegluipus room.t
" I think I haive no cse t complin," replied the gratified
Yiscoupt ; " fordwhat with my person attraction ot he one
hand, and my father's influence in 'the lords,' on the othgr,as
yqi say, .Jha hitherto heef as successful under thehanners
of Venus, as those of Bellona ; and it will be strange, if ix this
present affair my usual luck doesn't ttend me, but what.do
you intend to, do, with, your prize, irem ?  supp9sihg we
succeed in getting off with the lovely Yankees."
"What a question, my lord !" exclaimed Broom. "Why,
'oYe, honer ad obey, to lie sure,'. he added with a diaboljca1
leer on his countenance.    "Will your lordship pardon
n, if I return the compliment?  What do you intend to do
with your charmner? carry herihome to Old  Engjand,,shoulg
we ever get there, as the Viscountess Seaham ?"
" The gods forbid!" exclaimed the Viscount, rolling his eyes
with mock gravity upward. "The very idea wuld le the
death of my mother, the Duchess. A yankee hoyden the
Visegntess S aham. 'Angels and ministers ofgrace ,de-
"I tI bought that ypurlordshp's intentions and mine were
pretty ptnch alkg," obseryed groom.
i':Yes;sbe will be a nice.companion for myleisure hours,
duringthe time I haye to stop.injthis cgrsed country; but as
o ma,lpg  her my wifethat is out. of the question altogether!
Eut J say,,Brogm, 4n't you run a treendous risk by remain
ing in the States after the affair of the Mohawk ?"
Ygs' answer         oog, b    1 hope ,inbout a rMeek
fJ) nW,,pybe *pp bpyd of one of his majesty's ships; nd I

think, it is not pre unptpous in me to expect that a post, at
least equal in rank to the one I hel on b rdthe  hawk, will
be offered. reasa reward.fgrmy services; .9r,  th o rAmy
plns were not so successfully caried out as I expected them
to le, 1 the dangers and difficulties ,I had to, encounter w ethe
same.
"They were, indeed," responded the Viscount; "and if I
can do anything towards helping you, depend upon it I will;
but you need not fear ; King George is not one who forgets
those that have rendered him any service."
About a quarter of an hour after this conversation had taken
place, on arriving at the summit of a small acclivity in the
road, the tall chimneys of Elm Farm were seen peering through
the trees surrounding it, apparently about a mile or so from
the spot where they then were.
"There is the residence of your charmer!" exclaimed the
Viscount, pointing out the farm to his companion; "and away
to the left there, a short distance from the edge of the cliff, is
the nest of mine."t
"Your lordship forgets that I have been to Elm Farm my-
self," said Broom ; "though it was by another route that Young
Weston and I went."
"True; I had forgot."
" How shall we get down to the farm? I see no road which
leads from this towards it. Shall we-have to adopt the English
steeple-chase style--leap fences and ditches ?"
"No," replied the Viscount; "a quarter of a mile or so further
on, there is a road that leads from this onie to within a few
hundred yards of the farm. We can place our nags in the
grove, where, as I told you, I pricked Weston. You have not
forgotten the gags, I hope ?"
"I have them all right."
"I am glad of that ; for if they happen to turn obstreperous,
their screams would very soon bring a great giant of a Yan-
kee after us, who would annihilate a dozen such as you or me.

7
:

TUB Two   t ATES.

79

I.
k     i
kfi
1      '
l
Y ,fu
j
1
E


$jT~iE YAN~E MIDDY               OR,
ur       t   ri:."o  lit  siu nt ' 'teJof yours= and let dt see
what. metfe the paifhave in them."
luging tieir "spurs in the flanks of their horses, the well
tehed pair of scoundrels again dashed fdrward ,and having
ia few niiies Afteri reached The i-od whih led do'n to
the farm, they turned their horses into it, and galloped rapidly
do wn.

T(f/7       '
It 1.

r~ i   .  h _  4  '   '" ~ t  r !'  . t~ !
S,

A   S (

g' j  °  . i  .  t tr T    %Y  #  i       l t~  J  r_  , tt #i
' i-  Sa     '.yi F  J      3R  1  r  .
'Sr              , ' .  x t '
ci''             '

TIHE -TWO RIGATES.

1f
i'I
'a

a¢
fn
eI
a 1,
P
I
'r
t
4

81

CHAPTER XVI.
THE RIVALS.-,-A DUEL.--TUE LETTER.
"In love,
Who respects friends ?"
ABOUT the same time that Viscount Seaham and his com-
panion drew up their horses to reconnoitre the end of their
journey, three individuals might have been seen entering a
small shrubbery a short distance from the residence of Mark-
ham  Sinclair, the recluse. Two of these individuals have
already figured conspicuously in our tale, being no other than
Asa Brown, and the negro, Marc Antony, but the third one, as
yet, is a stranger to the reader.
He was apparently about the same age as Marc, and like
him, a descendant of Cush. His name was Caesar Augustus,
and was in the employ of the recluse.
Having advanced a short distance into, the grove, our trio
arrived at a place, where, some of the trees having been felled,
there was a clearing a few rods in extent. Here they halted;
and Asa Brown, seating himself on the trunk of one of the
fallen trees, thus addressed his two sable companions :
"Naow jest look here, the pair of ye; yew have axed me tew
see fair play atween ye, and by Jerusalem I will. Yew'd bet-
ter fight slick up and down, then, or spite my picter if I don't
lici the pair of ye myself. Naow fall tew, and the chap that
holds out longest shall hey the gal."
Having delivered himself to this effect, Asa took outhis jack-
knife, and conmaienced "notching" the tree he sat on.
6

w            i

.  '                                       ._
a
r
_              1            a d    J

r
I
t                          +         1        E
i.Y    t )                                         +    t

. ~
i'zV
I~
CFR' t,

t        +             ' j

,

y                            e v           v.
v                   t
t
.,     "4                                                      i
}}  ((  A                   4j  ir                         55
tdttf      iii        .e. Pf.k     'L.e          " 51+          Sc              }j "Y


82             THE YANKEE MIDDY ;OR,

"Now Marc Antony," said Cesar, addressing his rival as
they stood up front to front, "you dat hab been my bussum
fren for long time, I axes you as a genelum, and for de last
time, will you gib up all your 'tentions to de 'fections ob
Julet ?"
"Duz de chile's mammy know he's out ?" said Marc, show-
ing his "ivories."
"No genelum talk dat way, sah I" exclaimed Cesar, indig-
nantly ; for, having formerly been the property of an officer in
the south, he had, during his stay with him,imbibed many aris-
tocratical notions, to which the more plebeian reared Marc was
a complete stranger.
"Ki! he call hissef genelun'1!" shouted Marc, in .derision,
"Why yer daddy was a nigger, so am his son.".
"I scorns de 'sinewation, sah! and e f-.r'
"Stop that ar jaw work, will yew !" exclaimed Asa,,suddenly
pausing in his notching process, and addressing the bellige,
rents. "Jest shet up, I say, and go tew  work. I'm   not
agoing to sit here all night, listening to your infernal lingo, I
tell yew."
"iHe call hissef a genelum," shouted Marc, as with a broad
grin of derision, he turned towards Asa.  s
"I behabe like one, sah; an' you dont," sai4,Cedar:
"If yew wont} fall tev, I will," exclaimed iAsai rising from
his seat, and turning up the cuffs of his coat.  ;
"Cum on, you bugger," shouted Marc to his rival, as soon as
he witnessed this movement of Asa's.
"You strike me of you dare, sah !" retorted Cesar,.placing
himself in a defensive posture.
"You hab to strike fust ; yougib de challenge," said Marc.
"No, sah ! de challenged hab de fust blow,"replied Cesar.
Marc was 'about to reply to this, when hip eye. caught a
glimpse of Asa moving towards them; and knowing;from xpe-
rience that a blow from Asa's fist was~ a iciroumstance to be
remembered for some time afterwards' he wisely chose the
lesser evil of the two---that of a fight with his rival.

'THE STwo FIGATFs.
'Though the combatbe'gan with a consideabIle show soffspe
rn~ aid'ra'ndom hitting' orboth sides it'was'notIons b'%bd
they relinquished that mode of "assault id ba'ry;, and
resorted to'one more cohun ly pratised 'anohg thei casti--
that of "buttig" dne'anotheer with'their heads.'
Asa, diringthe fray, both by his bfidhknad words, evinced
the utmost mipartiality'in"his conduct' a  tn iet no  da ir-
ng with his voide,' andan admonitor trap'p=his companion
Marc, and thenagi'at 'the' next4 mr det, "dietin g sn
where to place 'a 'good hit, or to nake a 'tellin "ha g .
At length, however, Cesai' began to'show'evident signs th t
he had "endig~h ;"for though he still " cameu'ltA tirA   1is
"charges" Wre madv with considerable less foi-b than inthe
beginning'of the fight.
Seeing this, his opponent collected his whole strengh for a
final effort; and taking a short run, to give more effect'to his
hrre, he bumpedhin head with such force jatdCesar'sstom-
ach, that the latter was" sent sprawiig aaint the trunk df
tree, several feet off where he lay for so-e time, mpletel
stunned.
The victorious Marc 'exhibited but ver' littlegererosit r
towards his vanquished enemy . lie capped "houteo ind
yelled, 'and fairly rolled himself On the ground, i hhi'urotrol-
able 'delight at the vidor yand it was nct ntiV Asa had, by
a pretty hard rap on there o sconce, brought hiri oice hiorre i
reason; 'that he stopped 'in his violent gesticulations
' " Stop 'that darn'd noise, wil sr!" exb' ed Asa, or
btie me if .I dont'give 'ew th ail-firecale Aa   er
had; and now, old fellow," he added, add         discom
rtei desar, who had' now  isen to his 'feet, "if eve I hearof
yd     mng fip to that di'e gal agin, 'ev'' better keep clero''
me, that's all. Come along, Marc, let's git to hum afore dark'
bok   a ear, you riigg ,', 'said' Mard, "athe' sametime
shting' his 'sjthritenrly'in dos: proximty to''Cesar's
nose, «ef dis chile ketch you tryin' to buss Julet'agin 'dis 'fi


$4             THE YANKEE , MIDDY-;, OR,

HIV

wi~lpile yer cocoanut ;" and having delivered himself thus,
,Me left his crestfallen; rival, and. hastened'. after Asa, who
was already farahead.-
They had nearly got within sight of the farm, on their return,
when, on turning a corner in the: road, they were. suddenly
confrpntedby. a man closely enveloped in a horseman's cloak,
which he. kept mufed over the lower part of his face.F
"You belong to that house over there, don't you.?" said the
stranger,,poimping to Elm Farm as he addressed Asa. ,
"Wal, naow dew tell! that is news," exclaimed Asa ; "and
whar might yew hail from, stranger ?"
,' That is of no consequence, at present," answered the
stranger  "Here is a .letter," he continued, taking one from
his vest pocket, "which I wish placed in the hands of Miss
fgnes Weston; it is from her brother !"
"What, Harry !" exclaimed Asa.
"Yes," replied the man ; "he gave it to me to deliver to her
when he was in Portsmouth there about a week ago."
"And yew know Harry, then, stranger ?" queriedAsa.
"Oh, yes, very well," was the answer ; but Lieut. Broom-
for it was, he who was now addressing Asa-did not acquaint
the querist now he came to know Harry so well.
".Give us yer fist," said Asa, at, the same time seizing the
stranger's hand with such a grip, that he soon; roared out with
rain under the infliction.
"Gently, gently,;my good friend," he exclaimed, ",my hand
is not made of iron. But about this letter. You must put it
into her hands, without either her father or mother seeing it;
for such, were the words of Henry when he gave me the let-
ter. I believe it .is something about his connection with Miss
Wilton, which he don't want any one to know about but his
sister."
Asa gave a loud whistle, and nodded his head several times
in a peculiar manner, as he took the letter and put it carefully
in his pocket.

"Now you will be sure to let no one see it but Agnes her-
self," said the disguised Broom, as he turned to leave them.
"All right, stranger," answered Asa, with a nod of acqui-
escence.
"Massa Brown," said Marc, when Lieut. Broom had left
the spot, "what you tink of dat man? Seem to me I hab seen
him 'fore."
"Whar ?" asked Asa.
"Don't know," answered Marc; "me can't 'member dat
no how."
" Then jest shut up, and come along," said Asa.'

THE TWO FRI'GATES.i


THE Y NKEE MIDDY    OR,                                                                  W      G,

87

1             )

CHAPTER XVII.

MU#1NGS-Ti1E OAPTURP   :-E. -.'
AGNES WESTON is sitting alone in .her own little room, and
gazing out on the calm blue vault of heaven. But though the
patient stars were trembling and glittering brightly on high;
though the fair pale moon, having now risen over a distant
hummock, was shedding over all the mild refulgence of her sil-
ver beams, to Agnes, everything looked cold, dark, and cheer-
less. Poor Agnes! she had striven, but striven in vain, to root
out from her heart the love which she bore to Marston Spen-
cer. She had endeavored, by recalling to her mind his double
dealing with her and Blanche Wilton, his ingratitude to her
parents for their hospitality, and above all, his attempt to mur-
der her brother, to eradicate her love by the counteracting feel-
ing of detestation. But it would not do. For every fault he
had committed, there welled up from the depths of her woman's
heart a palliative. Had not her jealousy led her to color too
highly his conduct towards Blanche Wilton?  Had. she not
made mountains where there were only mole-heaps? And was
it not in self-defence that he smote her brother nigh unto death?
Had she not herself heard Harry declare he meant to seek
Marston, and force him to a quarrel?
" Oh, yes ! she had wronged him by her unjust suspicions !
Could he have had time and an opportunity, he would no
doubt have been able to explain everything to her complete
satisfaction ; but circumstances had compelled him to leave the
farm as he did without bidding her good bye.

E

.  F 1
kr
,3
: F

"Ih E TWO FRIG ATES.

How was it possible that HIS eagle-like glance could emanate
from a soul that was rnean and dishonorable ? or, that a heart
of guile could give utterance to such fervent, such soul thrilling
language as his?   Ah, no. Marston had been wronged, cru-
elly wronged by the unjust suspicions of all.
Such were the thoughts, and such the train of reasoning,
that was passing through the mind of Blanche Wilton, as she
sat and gdzed from the window of her little room on the calm,
clear sky.
And, as she still sat gazing and musing on her many sorrows,
and her ill-starred love, the words of an old melody, then popu-
lar in New-England, came .with vivid distinctness into her
mind, as has been wonderfully expressive of'the then sad state
of her feelings ; and at last, as though some wandering breeze
had evoked from the strings of a wind-harp, 'a tremulous and
tnlooked for melody, her-lips opened, and there gushed on the
still ear of night, the following--
OANZONET.
Oh ! who can tell the bitter pangs
The linely heart must feel,
Which' loves; but ah'! from all around
That feeling must conceal?,;
Even as doth the gentle dove,
When wounded by some swain,
Fdld o'er-the wsuhd her shelt'ring wings,'
And silent bear the pain!
So must my heart conceal its pangs
From each:unfeeling eye;
- o must I'patient bear the smart,
:,And ,unnoiplaining die.
But gladly shall I welcome death !
For oh! he'll bring tome,
A blest release from all roy woes,
Bliss ! bliss ! eternally !
She had scarcely finished this song, ere she heard a slight
noise, as. though some one was stealthily advancing towards

x
"v
r4^
xF
K'
1
(' t
'rte
,C=
y
zE
k n+
I
I
M


88

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

her, in the very room where she was. Turning hastily pound,
she beheld, looming through the gloom, a foot or.two from her,
the talk form, of As, Browp. Vie was standing in the middle
of the room, and was gazipg intently upon her.f
"Asa, how you startled me," exclaimed Agnes; "I never
heard ybu come in."
"Why, yew see, Miss. Agnes," said Asa, whispering ; "I
took off my boots, apd came in as softly as.I could, and yew
were singin. Guess that's why yew didn't hear me."
" But what is the matter, Asa? What cause is there for this
stealthiness ?"'
"I didn't want to let the old man or yer mother hear me.
Here is a letter from Harry."
"From Henry ?" ejaculated Agnes; "when did it come?
where did you get it ?",
"Speak lower, Miss Agnes, will yer ? the old folks musn't
know anything about your gitting it. As I was cummin' from
Dummy's tew night, just after sundown, I met a.feller near tew
long-acre field, and he guy it ie, and said I was tew let no
one see it but yew-Harry had told him to say so. He said
he guessed it was something 'bout Blanche Wilton. Shall I
get yew a light ?"
" No," said Agnes. "I have a tinder-box, with flint and
steel. Thank you, Asa, for bringing me the letter so carefully;
and when I see you in the morning, I will tell you if there is
anything particular in it."
After a whispered good night, Asa left the room.
Agnes soon procured a light. Then, tearing open the letter,
her surprise may well be conjectured, when, instead of a letter
from her brother, she found it to be one from him, who, but a
few minutes before had been the paramount object of her
thoughts.
The letter ran as follows:

4

THE TwO FRIGATES.                 8$
"To Miss AGNES WESTON:
"A wretched and heart-broken penitent, bowed down
with the knowledge of his own unworthiness,.craves but: five
minutes conversations with her who has ever been the load-star
of his thoughts:and feelings. He Will-be found ivaiting in the'
little grdve-where his unfortunate duel with her; brother took
place--any hour fron:sunset to niidnight; when, if he has not
by then, had an opportunity of clearing his conduct of its seem.
ing culpability, to her who alone has a right to: demand it, he
will place.a pistol to his head, pull the trigger, and so at once
put an end to his cares and sorrows on earth.
It was well that Asa Brown was not there when Agnes read
this epistle. For, the emotion which she exhibited during its
perusal, and for a long time after she had finished it, would cer-
tainly have caused him to ask questions which Agnes, we
rather suspect, would not have very well liked, to answer.
Could it be possible that he, who, for months past had been
"her thought's idol," was now within less than a:quarter:lof a
mile from the spot'where she was?  It could not be-'.-she was
surely dreaming! But no! is there not the letter itself laid
open before her ; THAT is real:
Severe was the struggle which took placein, the :mind of
Agnes after she had perused the letter; for, while on the one
hand her powerful love, for the writer would fain have tri.
umphed over all obstacles, and induced her to meet him; on
the other, the "still small voice" of prudence and propriety
prayed her to refrain. "Is it safe," said : prudence, "to trust
yourself in a lone,: secluded grove, with one who on the very
spot attempted the:life of your brother.?"  " Is it not a snare,
think you," whispered propriety, "to entrap, your unsuspecting,
innocence, and plunge you still deeper and more. profoundly
into the 'dark waters?'" . And;what will your parents say;or
think, supposing they should' get knowledge of your going.
Pause, Agnes,pause, while yet .pure and spotless; leave not the

f

.ii
[  U6
.
i)
4
y F
_'
s
r _


90"            THB:-YAN1E MIDDY ;'OR,

blessed shelter of HOME, for the sake'of that "vanity of 'vani-
ties"-a man's loge !
Long did she continue thus, a prey to the most agonising and
conflicting thoughts; and unable to make up her mind to go or
not. 'At length,.however, she hastily arose frotn hersseat, and
blew, out her light'; then opening her room'door, she advanced
a little into the passage, ahd listened :attentively. -All was
still.
Re4entering the room, she proceeded to don her bonnet and
shawl;- and having again listened to hear:that all was still, she
stole stealthily down stairs, and passing through the back
kitchen; 'softly unlocked the door, and emerged in the rear of
the farm;           a.'                  '
Love:had conquered.'
'As Agnes:Was on the point of closing the door after -her,'
Neptune, a huge black and white.Newfoundlander, having been
roused by her passage through the'kitchen, thrust out his head,,
as= though wishful of accompanying :her.; Thinking that he
would be some. little protection for her, she suffered him to
come t.out ; then; closing the' door softly to, she started on her
journey.'.
In about ten minutes after, Agnes; accompanied by Nep,
stepped.timidly into the little' glade of the Elm Grove,' which
has already played such.a oonspibuous-part in our tale:: and
gazing' anxiouslfaround 'her eye at last settled on the forn of
a man, as he slowly advanced from the deep 'shadow of the isur-
rounding trees.
Just at'this momentythe moon, which fobthe last'few min-,
utes had been hidden behind a cloud, shone. brightly down upon
the' quiet little glade, revealing every object init with'the clear
distinctness of day. What was the surprise and':emotion of
Agnes, when, instead of the features of Marston Spencer, her,
eyes rested on those of one whom she she had just cause to
regard with horror and detestation!.
Agnes turned -to leave the'-spot ; but in an instant Broom

THE TWO FRIGATEs.                 91
ha  sprung to her side and seized,her handy whiletat the same
time, n a pleading tone of voice, he besought her o listen to
him.                                         Y
"Unhand me, sir," cried Agnes, en4eavorng, bct in vain to
release her hand from his grasp, ",Unhand me, I:say,' before, I
bid the dog to spring upon you"       .o
"Miss Weston, nay Agnes, dear Agnes," said the villin ;
" will you n ot listen to nime for one minute ?"
Instead ofreplying, Agnes siddenIy snatched her hang from
him, and darted from the spot with the fleetnessof a, deer.
Vttteringa curse, "not loud but deep," Broom sprang forward
to detairiher.Je had scarcely advanced two yard, hpvever,
ere Neptune turned, and springing upon him, bore him heavily
to the;ground.
It wasa fierce struggle; for Neptune had got afim Bold,
and what was more, he seemed determined .on. eeping it.
Over, and over,nand over ,hey rolled ; Neptune burying his
fangs deeper, and Broom throttling him tighter, at every turn.
&amp;t length Broom began to feel the; b' od gge  owly down
his breast aid back, from his right shoulder, fpr Nep had seized
him just-between the neck and shoulder, while from the exqui-
site torture he felt, he began to think that, the enget best
was about to bring his mouthful of flesh altogether,
kingone of' his lnds fro   thie idg'sythroat, he now
strove to get his clasp nife from his pocket, and atlast suo-
ceeded. With the aid of his teeth 1e opengc itsT.laingsthe
point to the breast of Neptune,,with. a vigorous thrust he ent
it completely through to his heart and the brute fell, heavily,
a corpse on the "degraded, mass of aninatd,.dust," beneath
him.                         =  yedoof' i
Pushing the dogg  his breast, Brom now strove to rise to
ifeet;bt his shoulder caused hia: such exquisitetpain, 'nd
he pelt sofaint through his tremendous exertions and 9s8 gi
blod, that he sank back. again his whole lengthont round
y d,3 thftt:1,                             t  e  ii;  :

,
R
' a
r
-,
' x
'h
'
_
N°
map
.i
;
.
i
t
="t
"f


THE YANKIE MIDDY; OR,
and it was not until after he' had made severe 'atempts, that
he did at last succeed in rising to his feet. '
Supporting himself by the trees, he at last reached the spot
where the Viscount's horse and his own were fastened, aid
takii the riding cloaks that were thrown over the backs of,
each, he wrapped himself in them, and sat down at the f'ot of
a tree, to await the coming of his companion in villany.
For some time the pain of his wound was so excruciating,
that he could not rest two minutes together' in one' posture;
but, after a while, a dull, numbing, drowsy species of sensadoin,
which he could in no wise shake off, began to steal over him.
He seemed to .grow weaker and weaker, while at the same
time his brain whirled and burned in his head as though he 'was
under the influence of strong potations of the "ardent." 'The
extremities of his limbs, too, began to graw cold 'and stiff, nor
was he able to stoop to chafe them.
Gradually his head sank down on his breast; his body
drooped forward and swayed to and fro for a few times ; a
convulsive shiver shook his whole frame, while with a' sudden
jerk his limbs stretched themselves out rigidly stiff-a deep
groan burst from his lips, and with it, came forth the guilty
spirit that ha'd for twenty-two years sojourned in 'the body of
Augustus Broom.
-When Agnes Weston, panting heavily through her unwoited
exertions, once more arrived'at the farm, she stood for sazie-
time before she entered, awaiting the return of Neptune. She
doubted not but that after he had held her would-be-abductor
for a short time, that he would leave him and hasten after her.
But, as after waiting for nearly a quarter of an hour, he did riot
make his appearance, she at last entered the house, and pro-
ceeded softly up stairs to her own little room.
- Fastening the door, she 'flung herself on the;bed'and cave
full vent to the pent-up emotions of her soul, in an impassioned
and copious flood of tears. How cruelly had she been de-
ceived ! How rudely had her hopes been blighted, and her

THE TWO FRIGATES.               98

fond, confiding, loving heart, trampled on with contemptuous
scorn?, And by whom? One, who, by every feeling of grati-
tude and respect, was bound to love and cherish her. One, for
whom she would have left home, parents,-"brother, all; to follow
him in fair weather or foul, in sorrow or in joy, in prosperity or
in disgrace!
Truly hath it been said, there is n9 fathoming the depths of
woman's love: and then, let her but'once place her affections
on any particular object, nothing but the stern conqueror of
all--Death-will compel. her to relinquish them. We be-
lieve it.
"The heart that hath truly loved never forgets,
But hs-truly loveson to the close,"
faith the poet, ahd poor Agnes Weston was now adding one
more instance to the truth of his words.
Cruelly as he had deceived her, the infatuated girl bore to
Marston Spencer aS devoted a love as ever ; and had he even.
now stood before her, and in his soul-thrilling tones besought
her to pardon him, gladly, oh, how gladly ! would she have
done it, and gone with him anywhere.
ii

irtt
;s5
y
i
J'
1
1


V .

94

THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

I',;

CHAPTER 'XVIII.
f     " Who would read in this form
The big soul.of the son of. a long line ?
Who, in this sunken, sickly eye, the pride
Of rank and ancestry ?"
AFTER Marston Spencer, or rather Viscount' Seaham had
parted from his companion, Lieutenant Broom, in the, Eln
Grove, he proceeded at a leisure pace, for it Was yet almost
too soon to attempt putting his guilty, project into;action,
towards the residence of Markham Sinclair, the recluses and
having at length arrived there, he proceeded to cautiously
reconnoitre all around, so as to commence his operations with
a greater chance of success.
As he was thus loitering about, and gazing up ever and
anon at the house, he suddenly beheld a light stream from
the bed-room window of Blanche, while at 'the same time her
shadow passed and repassed several times behind the window
curtain.
"Now is the time," said the Viscount to himself, when the
light met his eye; and stealing softly forward, he at last
reached the garden gate, and essayed to open it. It was
locked.
This unlooked for circumstance at once seemed to annihi-
late every chance of succeeding in his enterprise ; for the gar-
den was surrounded by a stone-wall of some eight or nine feet
in height, and whose straight, smooth face offered not the
slightest foothold whereby he could scale it.
"Necessity is the mother of invention," says an old saw; an
axiom, the truth of which, Seaham now proceeded to illustrate

}r
E;y't
f
. ;yS
-" C:.
Y
. Y,
,  ,   'yy((
}    : h'Y
t ,
s f
.'  ;
1+:
h  F
:4
6 =   4L
a ( !
.}
_f  ~  ^
F
'
1   ,
r
6    %
i
;i t
_ F,
yr1WY
_" rC'
j
' 4
!i Yl

THE TWO FRIGATES. +              95
practically. Seeing a horse grazing in the pasture near:himr
the idea had struck him, that if he could catch it, he might
easily from its back climb-over the wall. :ie Was successful
in the attempt ; and'in another minute :was stealthily threading
his way through the garden 'towards the'house.- tAt length he
stood directly beneath the window of Blanche's bed-room,.and
taking up a small pebble, he threw it up gently against it.
The window was almost immediately opened, and the face of
Blanche presented itself, as she peered anxiously-aboutt, in order
to discover who had thrown the pebble.
"Blanche," exclaimed' the Viscount in a softly modulated
voice.
Blanche bent her gaze fixedly down in the direction' the
sound seemed to proceed; 6ut she could see no one; for at
that moment the moon was hidden by' a cloud, and Seaham
stood within the shadow of a magnificent lilac that grew 'near
the house.
"Blanche !" he exclaimed again in the same soft tone.
"Who isit ?" asked Blanche, bending downwards
"Marston Spencer," was the reply. "Can you not. come
down to me,:dear Blanche," he added, "I have something of
importance for your ear."
"Yes," answered Blanche, "I will be with you directly."
The maiden no sooner made. hei appearance in tie garden,
than Spencer sprang forward and caught her in his arms 'and
for several minutes the happy pair rerbained locked, in one
fond, passionate embrace. Blanche at length-raised her head
from its' resting place-his breast--and gazing in his face,
with eyes, that spoke volumes of. fond, trusting, and devoted
love, she said:-
"Dear Marston, I had begun to think I' was riot going-to see
you any more. Where ha've-you been since you were here
last?" '
"Le t us retire further down the garden, love," said Spen-
cer, as with his arm around her waist he drew her gently


06             THE YANKEE MIDDY; ioR,

forward ;-" your uncle may. perhaps overhear us where we
are now."
S"After I had s'o abruptly parted from you the last  night,I
was here," began Spencer, as they seated themselves on ;one
'of the rustic seats at the lower end of' the garden, "I made the
best of my way to' Halifax, expecting there to find an English
mat-o'-war4 I was not disappointed in my expectations.
The St. George, a first class frigate, belonging to his Britannic
Majesty, had put in there a day or two previous to my arrival.
She had lost her first lieutenant, he having been killed 'in a
slight brush which they had with a, Yankee,, previous to putting
into Halifax. My position, as one of the peers of Englan.,
and the fact of having held the post of first lieutenant on board
the: Amphitryton, were recommendations that at once had their
proper weight with the English captain. I was promoted to
the post. It will be needless for me to relate our operations at
sea; suffice it to say, that at last we fell in with an American
frigate, greatly our superior in size, weight of metal, and nu-
merical force of 'men ; but we heeded not that ; we only saw
the enemies of our king; we at once attacked them, and but
for the conduct of some traitors on board, would have captured
them, despite their superiority in force. It was not to be.
After doing all that men could do, we were at last compelled
to surret der. We were brought into Portsmouth, and then
suffered to depart on parole. Dear Blanche," continued the
speaker, " may I not hope that your sweet smiles will make
less cheerless my sojourn in a strange land ?"
Blanche hid her face on his breast, but did not reply.
"My own sweet Blanche," exclaimed Spencer, in low, trem-
ulous tones, that thrilled to the inmost depth of his companion's
soul, "by the love that you profess to feel for me, and by the
vows that we have plighted to each other, I beseech you to
answer me. I have a horse, and everything necessary for our
journey, close at hand. Speak love, say, will you not be 'mine,
dear Blanche?"_

w=
a
o
t  1s
k
k='r
}d
'+4
}
I
I
"l
a'
a
5
v
r.
t

'THE TWO FRIGATES.                97
'The speaker's -face had gradually bent down until his lips
rested on the pale,:chiselled brow of the.maiden 'reclining in
his arms; and as-'the last words-..-uttered in' -, 'tone scarely
above that of a whisper- -'fell from his lips; Blanche raised her
eyes for an instant to his:'face, ;then immediately "dropt them
again. But in that one furtive glance, had Spencer read more
than an answer to his most sang uina' wishes., ,.
"Come, love," at last exclaimed Spencer, after they had sat
thut fot several minutes Without'speakin  'let us be  oin
before your absence from the house is notbd' 1,
he'rose to 'her feet and 'passively' suffered her corm-
pt nion to lead her forward towards the 'garden gate. Scarcely,
however; had they proceeded two rods,'er-dSpencer uttered a
loud exclamation, that to the ears of his companion sounded
marvelobisly like that'of animprecation'; and when Blanche
iased her 'eyes from the: ground in'wondering surpise. at its
cause, her glance fell upon the tall, upright form of hei' uncle,
who, with his arms folded over his 'breast, stood sternly ;regard-
ing them a few feet in advance.
" Follow me," at length exclaimed the recluse, ih strong,
de" tohes,'to the tretnb'ling' and embarrassed 'couple. before
him; and turning on his- heel, her strode hastily forward tolthe,
house.i'         °   1    7        ',
"" thought'your uncle had' lost the'rpower of speech," said
Spencer to his companion, in a whispei, as 'they followed the
recluse up}the garden.
"I always thought so,"'arisiered Blanche, in the same tone;
"I never heard hine peak before'in ny life." '
On entering the parlor, Blanche sank down on the' sofa,'and
buryiig her face in her hands, gave vent to her excessive emo-
tions in sobs and tears. Spencer, on the contrary, 'with ia bold,
unabashed' brow, remained standing near the' door, resolutely
eyeing the recluse.
"Foolish, inconsiderate girl," at length said the latter, pausing
in his hurried walk before the weeping Blanche ; "did I not
7


98             THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

THE' TWO FRIGATES.

peremptorily forbid you to hold further intercourse with this
man, or even to think of him as a lover, again ?"
The only reply of Blanche was a deep, convulsive sob.
"And you, presumptuous boy," continued Sinclair, turning
round to Spencer, "I should have thought the reception you
met with when you were last here, would have been sufficient
to deter you from ever again attempting a like outrage. Is it
consistent, think you, with the character' of a gentleman or a
man of honor, to steal thus like a thief into a man's dwelling,
and endeavor to rob him of his most cherished treasure ?"
"Sir 1" exclaimed Spencer, with a flushed face, and eyes
flashing with anger, "this is a style of language, I allow no
man' to use when addressing me. Do you know to whom you
are speaking, sir ?"
"Yes," answered Sinclair, calmly, "I do know. I believe
I now address Charles Henry Seaham, Viscount Seaham and
Dudley."
"You do, sir," said Seaham, drawing himself up proudly.
"And is the attempt to seduce a young and innocent girl
from her home, a fit occupation for one of England's peers ?"
asked Sinclair, fixing on the Viscount a look that made him
bend rhis eyed in confusion on the floor.
"By what right, sir, do you presume to address me thus?"'
suddenly exclaimed Seaham, with an assumption of boldness
he was far from feeling.^
"By that of a father's, in respect to this girl, and that of an
uncle, as applied to you," answered Sinclair.
"Father !" exclaimed Blanche,. springing from the sofa in
bewildered surprise.
" Uncle 1" cried, the Viscount, 'bending on him a look of
putzled inquiry.
" Yes," replied Sinclair, "both. But refrain your astonish-
ment, and sit down," he continued, "for I have that to tell you
which will cause you far more surprise than this.'
Blanche and the Visco nt, with feelings wrought to a painful

:i
r
I
d
t
1
i±t
{
t
1  y9
S
,f
.y,
r
5
'F.

intenseness,, seated themselves again on the sofa; and the Re-
cluse, having at length seemingly composed his thoughts to the
task, sat down before them, and thus began the narrative of
his crimes and woes:-
"As you are no doubt aware," said he, addressing his speech
to the Viscount, "your grandfather, the last Duke of Durham,
had two sons-your father, the present duke, and myself. I
was born just one year after Charles; and, though we always
had the same tutors, were always treated the same, and had
everything in common, it would have been impossible to have
found two youths more dissimilat in habits and dispositions,
than he and I. He resembled our mother--being gentle, timid,
studious, and retiring. I, on the contrary, took after father---
being impulsive, violent, and a slave to the most nngovernable
passions. On returning from college, after completing our
education, we stayed for some time at Castle Seaham, before
starting on the continental tour-then, as now, considered the
finishing touch to a gentleman's education. It was during this
time that the seeds were sown which afterwards produced such
bitter, bitter fruit. About two miles from Castle'Sdaham,
stood a large mansion, or manor house, the residence of a Sir
Thomas Dacres, the descendant of a family, which, though less
ennobled than our own, was as ancient, and could boast of as
many quarterings on the family shield.
"Sir Thomas had been a widower for several years; but the
loss of his wife was more than supplied by the presence and
gentle ministering of his only daughter, Marion. It will be
needless for me to describe the various attractions of Marion
Dacres. Suflice it to say, that the graces of her mind were
every way commensurate with those of her person, and that,
in both respects, the heart had nothing to wish for more. Sir
Thomas and his daughter were constant visitors at Castle Sea-
ham; and being thus thrown continually into the presence of
Marion, it was not long 'ere I learned to look upon bet' with
other eyes than those of friendship. I loved her-purely,

99


100            THE YANKEE MIDDY . OR'

deeply, and devotedly loved her; and I soon discovered, by
signs which lovers can alone perceive, that I was far from being
an object of dislike to her. At last I told my love, and was
made happy, if ever man was, by receiving in return the sweet
assurance that I was as dear to her, as she to me. Shortly
after this, my brother and I departed on our tour; but, although
we very rarely, 'if ever, had secrets with which both were not
acquainted, in this instance I refrained from telling him of my
attachment to Marion Dacres; a circumstance that I have
since bitterly regretted-for had I done so, it might have saved
me from being the miserable and  heart-broken wretch that I
am now. After remaining on the:continent for little more
than a year, we returned to England, and I resumed, once
more, my delightful intercourse with the too faithful Marion.
But it seemed as if Fate had predestinated that our love should
be crossed.
"I had not been at home two months, ere my father-inform-
ed me that he had procured me a captaincy in a-regiment then
just on the point of starting for India ; adding, moreover, that
as Charles was the heir of the dukedom, and consequently
would be kept at home as much as possible, on my actions
alone, the honor of adorning the family name with fresh laurels,
depended. I distinguished myself in India, and gradually rose
to the rank of colonel; but at last, during a skirmish with a
large body of Affghans, being separated from my own men,
I was taken prisoner, and carried to one of their mountain
strongholds. I remained there for nearly five years; and was
at last released on the cessation of hostilities between Affghan-
istan and England.
"On arriving once more in England, about the first news
that I heard was that Marion Dacres was now the wife of my
brother Charles! I leave you to imagine my feelings on hear-
ing this intelligence.
"For some time I resolutely refrained from visiting my bro-
ther's residence, which was situated some miles from Castle

a
r-
kr
{ GYP
y. F
[;5e
%f
n
I
1
{yF
.1
yam..
J 1
r tTfT
. k
.'F
a-
S
i
i
n p
h
r}

0

Seaham; but at last the influence of my evil star prevailed,
and I went. Luckily, my brother was away in London, at the
time I first paid my respects to his wife, or our mutual and
uncontrollable emotions would, have at once shown him that
the feelings of other days were yet as powerful as ever in our
breasts.
"Marion informed  ne that it was .about a year after my
departure to India ;that my brother first became a suitor for
her hand; and though--as she assured me, with tears in her
eyes-she had repulsed his addresses for upwards of a year,
she had at last, through the threats and entreaties of her father,
been compelled to accept him  as a husband ; nor would she
.have succumbed then, but that ,a report of my death had ap-
peared in the news from India.
"-After this, my visits to Elmwood, my brother's residence,
were made with daily regularity.. Would that I could say
they were of guiltless intent ; but alas! they were not., Even
in my first visit, I had'perceived that, despite her four years of
wedded life, or the fact of being the mother of a fine little boy,
the heart of Marion was yet as: much mine, as ever it was:
and on-this structure I reared the structure of my guilty hopes
and wishes.
"At.length, in an unguarded hour, Marion forgot her mar-
riage-vow, and yielded :to= my guilty desires. Frqm that mo-
ment, happiness fled for ever from our breasts ; for even when
clasped in each other's arms, stealthily stealing 'a fearful plea-
sure,' the still, Small voice of conscience would whisper in our
ears,--' Tremble, ye: guilty ones ! the day' of retribution is at
hand P
'Through the treachery of ,the only person (the waiting-
maid of Marion) whom We had trusted with our guilty secret,
my brother was at length informed of the infidelity of his.wife.
A meeting with me was the consequence: we fought with pis-
tol, and, at the first' shot, 'he; fell-not, however, as I at the
time imagined; mortally wounded.

I01

TUE TWO FRIG ATES.

4 '

{
4
c3
1*
Y
r
Y
k
r
a
s
A
S   '
f   y
([
"
f
0
1
v°,
1'
'.
s
'
e
i
i
S, k
i
A
1
A

0


102              THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR
"Marion was on the point of becoming a mother when the
duel took place ; and having, despite all efforts made to hinder,
her, become aware of what had taken place, she was seized
with the pangs of premature labor, and died in giving birth to
a daughter.
"The remainder of my sad tale may be summed up in a
few words. Having, through a large bribe, obtained possession
of Marion's infant, I immediately embarked with it to America,
where, under my present assumed name, I have since resided.
Since then, until the present night, I have never spoken to
man or woman.
"Even when I first beheld you," continued the Recluse,
addressing the Viscount, "as you lay apparently dead among
the rocks where the waves had thrown you, there was a some-
thing in your countenance that strongly reminded me of a face
I had seen before ; but, on the afternoon that I met you as I
was entering the garden, your likeness to my brother was so
palpably distinct, that for a moment I thought it was he him-
self who stood before me.
"«Through the medium of a letter, I informed this foolish girl
that a union with you was impossible ; but with what salutary
effect, the adventure of the following night may best answer.
On that occasion, I own I let my passions overpower my rea-
son ; but I need not tell you now, that we are not at all times
masters of ourselves."
For some time after the Recluse had finished the sad recital
of his woes, a profound silence reigned in the room, which
was only broken at intervals by the deep, convulsive sobs of
Blanche; as she sat crouching, as though to shrink from her
very self, at one end of the sofa. At length the Viscount arose,
and, advancing to the grief-stricken Blanche, he took her hand,
and said :
"Dear Blanche, whatever may have been the misfortunes
and crimes of our parents, believe me when I say, that I shall
ever bear towards you, no other feelings than those of the ten-

V,

n
r
rk
x ,AY
Cu%
t
3'rr
, 47
' fiff
y  5?1
y
/"R
4 '
h
i
1
h.
t
i

R +
s
'y'; F_

10:

derest regard and love. Dear sister-though such at the cost
of my mother's honor-let me clasp you once more in my arms
before I bid you an adieu for ever."
Blanche flung herself wildly into his arms, where for some
time she clung, weeping as though her heart would break.
She could not, for worlds, have uttered a word-her emotions
were too powerful for that. At length the Viscount gently dis-
engaged her arms from his neck, and placed her on the sofa ;
then turning to where his uncle was pacing backwards and
forwards in moody silence, he said :
"As for you, uncle, God may forgive you, but I never can l"
and turning on his heel, he abruptly left the room.
On arriving at the glade, where, under the care of Broom,
the horses had been left, the Viscount found them still tethered
there, and quietly browsing the herbage around; while stretch-
ed at full length at the foot of a tree, lay Broom, apparently
asleep.
Stooping down, the Viscount shook him roughly, and de-
manded what had become of Agnes. Receiving no answer,
he bent his face closely to that of the supposed sleeper; then
uttering a loud exclamation of horror and surprise, he sprang
to his feet, and hastily mounting his horse, he drove his spur
deep into its flanks, and without so much as looking behind
him, fled swiftly from the spot.

r
'
a
v ,
1 ,
e
s
t.
1
c
7
t      J
i
a.'
r
4
ry
sj
p//Y
" rSf{
I
T' t
t
4
y!
f 4  .
1
y ,
r
t
t
j
Jt
rs
R
.e
i ^
jS
x
h
t+
j.
A
i

THE' Two FRIGATES.


THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

CHAPTER XIX.
TAKING AN ENEMY AT CLOSE QUARTERS.
A LITTLE more than a month hath elapsed since the events
last narrated took place. And now, when we again proceed
with the thread of our narrative, we will once more conduct
the reader 'on board the Invincible, as, held by a single hawser,
she is lying within less than half a mile of the port of Lunen-
burg, Nova-Scotia.
It is a dark and cloudy night, moonless and starless; and
the wind, with that strange, moaning, whistling sound, which'
generally prognosticates its rising to a tempest, is sweeping in
heavy gusts Over the black, pitchy-like sturface off the sea-
ever and anon breaking the summit of some huge wave, into
a mass of snowy foam.
Despitetthe threatening aspect of the weather, however,j/four
of the Invincible's boats have : been lowered over her sides,
and are now being rapidly filled with men; and while they are
busily engaged embarking, and handing down into the boats,
boarding-pikes, cutlasses, muskets, hand-grenades, and other
necessaries for making "an impression" on an enemy, we will
take the opportunity of informing the reader of their desti-
nation.
As the Invincible, a little after sunrise, was cruising some
leagues from Cape Sable, she had sighted a sail, and imme-
diately given chase ; but though during the continuance of the
chase, she had gradually lessened the distance between her
and the stranger, the latter had been able to reach Lunenburg
before her pursuer had come within shot-range; and as she

"+I
i
A
"4
r4

lay directly under the guns of the fort. Captaii Manly had
not deemed it advisable,wiuring daylight, to make any further
attempt to capture her.:
No sooner, however, had the shades of night, descended,
wrapping all in a mantle of impenetrable darkness, than the
Invincible Was run closely in shore, and the boats manned;
for Captain Manly had determined, if possible, to capture or
destroy the Englishman where he lay.
"Are you all ready, men ?" said the Captain, as he now
descended into the largest cutter, and took his seat in:.the
stern-sheets.
"Yes, sir, all ready," was the answer from each of the lieu-
tenants in command of the other three cutters.
"Then give way with a will, my lads," exclaimed the cap-
tain ; and simultaneous with the order, the sweeps ;sank in the
water, and the four boats, like impatient racers, shot forwards
from the side of the Invincible. As they thus silently and
swiftly approached the corvette, (for to that class, did the Eng-
lish ship belong), Captain Manly made a signal for the other
boats to draw near his own; and when this was done, he
proceeded to give the following orders to each of their com-
manders:
"You, Mr. Philips, and you, Mr. Morrill, with your respect.
tive crews, will board him on the weather side; whilst I and
Mr. Weston here, in the pinnace, will attack him on the larr
board quarter. I think I need scarcely rentind you,' that our
success in a great nieasure depends on the silence and seereey
of our' first approach; your own good sense will tell yoi, that
in attacking an enemy's ship under cover of xiight, and beneath
the guns of a shore battery, DIsCRETION will be the better part
of valOr. No fire-arms must be used, if possible; but if:that
'  cannot be done, our only alternative will 'be to make as short
work of it as possible-blow her up, and get safely off again:
and now, men, give way, steadily, altogether, and with. a will-
pull, men, pull'!"

104

THE TWO FRIGATES.

305

1t
x + ;
i!
r t
1
r
i
M
F  .
i Q
t
w
t '
a
i
/C1F   i
(x+    1
M
ex
## r
t:
A
i
N
j
M


1o

THE YANKEE MIDDY ; OR,

Their close proximity to the enemy hindered the crews
from;expressing their enthusiasm ; but, bending again to their,
oars, they sent the boats speeding over the billows with incredi-
ble celerity.
The oars of each boat had been muffed, and the night being
of tomb-like darkness, they succeeded in getting within a few
yards of the corvette, when suddenly the words- Who goes ?"
saluted their ears.
"Who goes ?-or I fire 1" again shouted the sentinels, with
startling emphasis, as no answer was returned to their first
summons; but, on the contrary, the advancing boats only
seeming to double their exertions to reach the ship. Still-no
answer; and both of the sentinels raising their muskets, fired
at the same moment--the flashes of their pieces showing to
their astonished gaze, four boats filled with men, all armed to
the teeth, and close alongside of the ship. In another minute
the Americans, with their cutlasses held between their teeth,
were scrambling, with the activity of monkeys, up the sides of
the Englishman.
So secure had the British commander deemed himself-thus
laid, as it were, under the very mouths of the cannon of the
fort, that, accompanied by his first lieutenant and a barge-crew,
he had gone on shore to spend the evening in conviviality with
the commandant of the fort, leaving the ship under the care of
the second lieutenant, a mere youth. This circumstance at
once told. powerfully in favor of the Americans; and, adding
to this the fact that the greatest part of the crew were sound
asleep in their hammocks at the moment of the attack, the
'esistaide which they no. meet with was of such little moment,
and was 'so easily overcome, that in less than ten minutes
after they wvere first hailed by the sentinels, they were com'-
plete masters of the: ship; and the Princess Charlotte-- cor-
vette of twenty-four twelve-pound' carronades-had passed
from the hands of the minions of King George, to those of
Captain Manly and his gallant YAcKEE TARS.

THE TWO FRIGATES.

107

Short as the conflict was, however, the fortunate stars of our
hero afforded him an opportunity of rendering his commander
a debtor to him for his life. The circumstance was thus.
Drawn up around the foot of the' foremast, a body-of the
English sailors fought for some time' like lions at bay ; 'and
Captain Manly, having made himself'master of the' after-part
of the ship, coming forward and seeing them thus obstinately
refusing to give way, or cry for quarter, cutlass in hand, leaped
forward into the midst of the melee. At the moment, however,
of his springing, his foot slipped, having trod in a pool of blood
on the deck, and he fell just as one of the Englishmen had
made a blow at his head with his cutlass. Our hero was close
at the captain's elbow at the time, and, seeing the imminent
risk of his commander, at the peril of his own life, sprang on
the Briton, and seizing him by the throat, compressed his
windpipe with such a vice-like grip, that, on leaving loose about
a minute after, the man dropped on the deck a livid' and dis-
torted corpse. Shortly after this, seeing the rest of their com.
rades prisoners, the British threw down their arms and called
quarter. it was granted; and they were 'sent below, and the
hatches fastened down upon them.
Captain Manly had given orders shortly after he had leached
the deck of the corvette, that both her hawsers should be cut.
This having been done, and the topsails loosened and 'braced
to the wind, and two of the Invincible's boats sent ahead 'to
tow, the Princess Charlotte began now to 'head slowly toward
the sea ; and gathering headway as she proceeded, it was not
long before the battle-lantern at the stern of the Invincible was
seen gleaming through the gloom like 'a star, a little' on 'their
weather bow.
The report and' flash of the sentinel's muskets had acquainted
the garrison in the fort that something unusual was taking
place on board the corvette ; but what it was they were un-
able for some time to make out. At length, however, by
means of a rocket sent in the direction of the ship, they were

I

1
X
A
g$
xK
r
S             i
4     '
f     i
d}
Y
r
S
7
Y       #
fey


108             TIHE YANKEE MIDDY  OR,
enabled by its momentary glare :to .form a shrewd guess at
what was going ori, and immediately proceeded to act accord-
ingly.
A body of men from the fort, with two carronades, the barge
crew of the Princess Charlotte and their two officers, were
instantly embarked onboard ,a small coaster then lying in the
harbor ; and crowding all sail on her that they could, endeav-
ored to reach the corvette in time to prevent her diminished
crew from being overpowered.
The attempt proved fruitless. .. The rincess~ Charlotte had
already left her anchorage, and was heading away at a swift
rate out to sea, where they knew it would only be running into
an American prison to followj her, The English commander,
therefore, half mad through vexation, had toreturn once more
to his boon companion, the commandant of the fort, a disap-
pointed. and sHIIPLEss marl. But,;however through the aid of
a couple of bottles of "old Port with a crust,".he soon forgot
the tarnish his laurels had sustained;, and his last, toast, given
a few minutes ere he went "down among the dead men," was,
"long life and health to. King George and his family, and one
of the warmest corners in all Tartarus, and for every rebel of
a Yankee that ever had been, or was to ,be born !'"
After landing the 'English prisoners at Portsn outh, and
obtaining a crew .for the paptwed. corvette,.to the;command
of Which, with the rank .of second lieutenant, our hero was pro-
moted, the Invincible accompanied; by his prize,:once: more
departed to her cruising grounds,, where,. beforegher time of
absence had- expired,; she: had -added two mererprizes to the
already large list which Uncle Samuel had borrowed from Don
Johannes Bullorum.

THE Two FRIGATES.

-        fO5,

CHAPTER XX.
COME HASTE TO THE WEDDING.
ONE afternoon, about two months after Peace had been
declared between the United States of America and Great
Britain, a "solitary horseman" might have been seen riding
leisurely down the road which led close by Elm Farm.
The horseman was dressed in a suit of what once had been
"clerkly black," but which now exhibited unmistakable evi-
dence of having sadly "run to seed."  He seemed to be about
forty, while from the meek, placii expression of his face, and
his calm, dignified movements, an observer would at once
have set him down as a minister of the gospel, and such he
was.
As the reverend gentleman was thus riding leisurely onward,
on turning an.angle in the lane about half way drven, he sud-'
denly encountered a tall, burly looking man, who was advanc-
ing up the road at a running pace.
"I say, parson," exclaimed the new comer, stopping as soon
as he beheld the horseman, "I'll be gawl darned if it aint tew
bad, keepin' us waitin' most o' tew hours for you. What on
airth has kept yew so all-fired long ?"
"I am very sorry, Mr. Brown, to have' kept your young
master waiting, and-"
"Me and Sal, and the niggers, tow," exclaimed our old
friend Asa, interrupting without ceremony the reverend gen-
tleman.
"Yes, Mr. Brown," meekly continued the man of God, "I

i'
t
,t'
+ a
4Ft
.
s
i
fi
1
S r
i
t
1


THE YANKEE MIDDY; OR,

am very sorry to have kept you all waiting, but really I could
not help it. As I was on the point of setting forth on my jour-
ney hitherward, I was called upon to administer the consolation
of religion to a man who had been suddenly taken ill, as he was
on the point of leaving Wells, whither he had been on some
business of importance. He told me that his dwelling.place
was nigh unto Elm Farm, and gave me this packet,"-and the
reverend gentleman showed' Asa a sealed letter-" to give to a
maiden named Blanche Wilton, whom he said I should find at
Elm Farm."
"What kinder chap was he ?" eagerly demanded Asa.
"A tall, black-haired, sallow-complexioned man, with a mole
on his left temple," was the reply.
"It's him, gawl darn my eyes ef it aint," exclaimed Asa,
bringing the palm of his hand on his thigh, and producing a
sound nearly as loud as that of a musket. "I thought so, by
Jerewsalem, when yew first spoke of him. I say, parson,"
continued. Asa, laying his hand on the reverend gentleman's
saddle, and looking at him with an earnest expression on his
facet "jest say nothing about this until after yew hey married
us ; for yew see, that chap what has just kicked the bucket,
was the father of Harry's intended bride. So, ef yew tell them
before yew begin tew splice us, there'll be an all-fired flare up,
and nobody married. So jest say nothin at all, until arter."
The clergyman, seeing how intensely in earnest the intended
Benedick before him was, at last consented to postpone the
delivery of his sad npews until after, as Asa expressed it, he had
"spliced" the three couple ; and this arrangement having been
amicably. settled between them, the parson and Asa set for-
ward at a quickened pace to Elm Farm. As he had been both
long and anxiously expected by the various candidates for the
fetters of Hymen, the reverend gentleman had no sooner
arrived at the farm, than he had to proceed "  to business" at
once. Our hero and the blushing Blanche were the first couple
united. Then followed Asa and Sal, who by the bye, was a

110

t

stout buxom young lass, who had come to Elm Farm a few
months before in the capacity of servant ; and having by her
charms smitten our friend:Asa with "Love's sore paine," as
old Spencer hath it, Asa had found thatnothing but taking her
"for better or for worse" would cure him; he had therefore
popped the question, and been accepted.
The third couple were Marc Anthony and his sable inamo-
rato Juliet ; for the sake of whose smiles, as already known to
the reader, Marc had on a former occasion perilled life and
limb, a passage of ARngr with the namesake of the illustrious
Roman, Caesar Augustus.
We will leave to the reader, the task of imagining the festivi-
ties and merriment that closed this eventful day at Elm Farm ;
and will merely add in conclusion, that old Dame Weston de-
clared on her honor, "that, never since she was a girl about
fifteen, at which time she was married to Farmer Weston,
had the old roof-tree of Elm Farm seen anything of the like
before."
Agnes Weston was never married ; for, although she had
two or three "very good offers," she refused them all, and
clung with as much tenacity to the memory of her love for this
unworthy object, as the grape-vine clings to the trunks of trees
in some of the primeval woods of America. She lived about
five years after the marriage of her brother; then sank quietly
and calmly into the peaceful and everlasting sleep of death.
On the conclusion of the war between England and the
States, Viscount Seaham returned home; but he had not been
in England three months, ere quarreling with an officer belong-
ing to the army, a duel was the consequence, and the Viscount,
at the first fire, received his adversary's ball in his heart; thus
closing a life of dissipation and crime, in a violent death,
caused through his own ungovernable passions.
After attaining to the rank of captain, on his father's death,
our hero, like Epammonidas, in the days of yore, turned his
sword into a pruning-hook, and his spear, to a garden rod ; or,

I
i
ft
pr

THE TWO FRIGATES.

1I"


GET TIIIS BOOK, AND READ IT!
THE SOLDIER'S WIFE; or, Scenes in Canteen and on th
SBY G. W. M. REYNOLDS.
112                     THE YANKEE MIDDY.                                                                    Complete in one volume, Illustrated.    Price 50 cents
H. LONG &amp; BROTHER, 43 Ann
in other words, instead of Ploughing Neptune's domain, he took
,'ta                         osiuCdhsON                  n                                oPIES IMAILED on receipt f5       et.Ades(otpi
to ploughing the good land        that constituted    his OWN.     And,
blessed with the only woman whom he had ever truly loved,
and   surrounded with     a happy     and  smiling   family, his days
passed calmly and quietly away, unmarred by a single regret;TIH                                          E       80       L
or thought of care.
CHAPTER I.                   who was also the best looking.
V                                                                   off from the " doctor's" was the
TIHE RECRUITING-SERGEANT.         diAh Jates, the village-barber
painted in a very straggling fi
WE are about to introduce the reader to one of his dingy, dirty, poverty-s
of those picturesque little villages which are ment, magnificenty described
chiefly to be found in our agricultural distnts, dresser, perfumer, and wig-ma
andi without which no English landscape would ofquestionable-looking unguent
be complete. As the following tale is to a con- superfine hear's-grease," constit
siderable extent founded upon facts, We are stock-in-trade ; and a placardl
compelled for reasons that will develop them- was "real genuine bear's-greas
j                                    T HE END.                                                    selves in the coup e of the narrative, to bestow  spot from line hears expiessly
names of our own choice upon the leading char- ratess for the purpose:"-altho
acters, in order to avoid that identification of the memory of the oldest inhab
persons which would arise from  maintaining had such a thing as a bear bee
their real games. For a similar reason are we andi except on one occasion w
led to substitute an imaginary name for that of menagerie stopped for a da
the little village to which we have alluded and However, no one disputed Mr
we will therefore denominate it Oakleigh. This relative to the genuine and ho
dypellation occurs not from any motiveless ca- of his hear's grease ; and so the
price, but is suggested by the circumstance that in the window.
in the village and its neighborhood there were Next to the barber's establish
some majestic oaks of four centuries' growth,- the baker's shop, where there w
some of them stillflourishing nobly-others hold- quarters, half a-dozen dough
ing up aloft a whitened crown of leafless branches couple of bags (f flour, and a
above the mass of verdure which covered all gerbread nuts, always to be se
their lower and larger outspreading arms. In Next door was the btcher's
great respect and.veneration were these trees little shop indeed, in which it
held by the villagers; and to any new-comer inconvenient for the porty b
were they shown as the " lion'' of the place.  move about if there were 11o
Thej1 village, which was situated in a midland hanging there at a time; but,
county, did not contain above a hundred houses; ing, (one0 ser-g of mutton pen
and these for the most part were the humbleb some b~its of beef upon a hoar
dwellings of agricultural laborers. The shops stock which greeted the eye f
were few in number, and chiefly grouped to- five days out of the six. Nex
gether in the central part of the one straggling was the chandler's, or general
street which constituted the place. There was the collection was most mi
the apothecary's shop, with its three bottles of uprising red herrings and halls
colored waters, its half-dozen poppy-heads, and coffee, sugar and cheese, (a
its "poor man's plaister," all duly displayed in sweetstutf and hog's-lard, fir
the window ; and as Dr. Colycinth enjoyed an ing-bottles, snuff and clears,
extensive practice amongst all the surrounding ter, eggs and soap, heath-st
hamlets and farms, hte wais enabled to keep a masses of salt, together with
holrse and gig. On the strength of the equiipilge, eles requisite for dlomestic purl
which they occasionally spoke of as " thie car- a tailor's shop and1( a cobler's tti
riage," Mrs. Ctolycinth and her three daughters a lIttle place kept by a Ion
considered themselves very fine people indes-d ; somehow ori other managed
and they dressed uncoammonly smart-especially the sale of a few aipphlv, ging(
Mhiss Kitty, the second of the three sihters, anid lollipops, .all displayed in he

'I
e Battle-Field,
street, N, Y.
as above.
IFE.
A couple of doors
shop of Mi. Cba-
but the letters
orn on the fac-ie
tricken establlish-
1 him ns "hair-
rer."  A few pots
,labelled "JBates's
uted his principal
announced that it
e, made upon the
itlorted by Mr.
(ugh never within
itant of the place
n seen there, save
vhen a travelling
y in the villa e.
". ates's assertion
me-inade qualities
placard remained
ishment appeared
re7 at least three
y-looking rolls, a
sinall pile of gin-
!en in the window.
-a very compact
would have 1een
butcher hiimsel1 to
e than (one0 sheep
generally splak-
ut to a hook, and
d, constituted the
r tlie pa5ser-by On
tt to the butcher's
baler's: and there
scellaneous-coma-
of twine, tea and
tndles and bacon,
-wood ani black-
mesh and salt bit-
(ones and craggy
various other at ti-
p4hs. There was
all; and there wits
e old widow who
o get a living by
erbread cakes, and
r- window so as to

.3;


'.1

4

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

i
"i

be made the most of, though it would be a dear ing the somewimt sloping road that led to the
bargain if half-a-crown were given for the whole village. Beneath the shade of those immense
stock in trade.                             yews did the forefathers of the present occupants
Near this last-mentioned emporium of delica- of the village sleep; and many a curious inserip-
cies for the juvenile palate, was a small open tion, rudely or quaintly recording their virtues,
space whereon stood the blackened remams of might he traced upon the grave-stones. At one
a cottage that had been burnt some few years extremity of the churchyard stood a house of
previously to the date at which our tale opens, larger size, bujt not of more modern structure
rand where an old woman had perished im the than any other in the village. A grape-vine
conflagration. But to this occurrence we shall nearly covered the front, encroaching upon the
have to allude more particularly hereafter. space occupied by the windows ; while com-
Meanwhile we will proceed to observe that in- mingling clematis and roses covered the little
asmuch as the village of Oakleigh had its shops, portico with their verdure and their flowers.
so it likewise possessed its little public-house ; We need hardly say that this was the clergy- '
and this wts distinguished by the sign of the man's residence: but we may here observe
Royal Oak. For as there were such venerable that it suits us to denominate him the Rev. Mr
oak-trees in the place, and as the worthy it- Arden.
dividual who originally founded  the public-  One more feature of the scene must we notice,
house had some vague idea of a Kingh aving ere we regularly enter upon the thread of our
once concoaleol himself it an oak, these associa- narrative : for any stranger visiting Oakleigh for
tiotis acting upon uhis loyalty, had led him to be- the first time, would not fail to inquire whose
stow utipon the house the name above specified. mansion it was that stood upon the brow of the
It stood back from the road, and also apart from hill about a couple of miles distant. This man-
the other dwellings, and had a little bowling- sion was a fine old country-seat, situated in the
green in the rear. It was kept by an elderly midst of a spacious park where there were many
-couple named Bushell; and they were reputed of the tune-honored oaks appearing i clumps,
to draw the best ile in all the district. In the and thus dotting with their different and darker
evening there would be no lack of company hues the bright verdure of the well-kept grounds-
either in the tap-room, or in the little parlor Numbers of tame deer roved about the park,-
with its clean sanded floor: but the Bushells sometimes emerging with a sudden twinkling of
were inot people to encourage drunkenness, and their horns from behind the groups of najestia
therefiore their establishment was considered to trees-sometimes drinking at the margin of the
be a very respectable one. Besides, the public- sleeping lake in which the bordering reeds or
iuse hid become the property of the Lord of overhanging trees were reflectedas m a mirror.
the Manor, vhio was hiself a justice-of-the- The mansion itself was a large and irregularly
peice; td so the Bushells were compelled to built structure, with numerous out-houses, beau-
be on the- guard.                         tiful gardens, and every indication 4 wealth anti
The time to see the picturesque village in the prosperity on the part of its possessor. This
perfectiou of its simple beauty, was in the gay was Sir Archibald Redburn, who boasted of
Spring season, when frosts having taken their being descended from  the oldest family in the
light, every day developed some new feature county.  He possessed a large estate -and
or loveliness in the rural scene. Then, when the indeed the whole of the village of Oakleigh and
trues were covered with verdure, and myriads all the surrounding farms belonged to him. He
of blossoms werecluistering on plant ar.d bough was one of those men who believe that th poor
--when the note of the thrush was heard in the were created to be the slaves of the rich ; and
hedgerows, anl the carol of the lark thrilled he always insisted upon having his own way in
-overhead i the joyous sunshine-when the bab- everything, - which his wealth andinflueuce
ruling rivulet flashed in those same gladdening generally enabled him to enjoy: but if thwarted,
beams anI was lost in   miniature cascades it was whispered that Sir Archuy, as the villagers
aamongst thie depths of the adjacent wood-when called him, could be overhearing and tyrannical
the stifling heat of summer was yet too fir off enough. He was about fifty years of age-was
to dry up speedily the morning dew upon leaves married--and had one son, a young man nearly
and flowers, or to prevent the breeze from fan- twenty-one at the time when our tale opens
mainog the cheek with its cool and grateful fresh- Sir Archibald also had a sister living with him
ness-when the pure snow-drops in the little - a lady some" ten or eleven years younger
gardens seemed like ice-memorials left by the than himself, and who had remained unmar-
 recently departed Winter-and whe4 the modest IIried.
violets shrank imto half concealment beneath the t  Having laid all these particulars before the.
hedges. while the primrose decked with theirlreader, we may, without farther preface, enter
bolder charms and more obtrusive presence the upon our narrative. It was, then, on a beautiful
-mossy banks,-then was the seasonin which evening im the month of May, 1828, that thie
the village of Oakleigh presented its most pictu- carriers van, which plying between two towns
resane appearance.                        m different directions, passed through the village
'Ve must not forget to observe that close by of Onkleigh, drew up at the door of the Royal
;stood the little church, almost enibowered in Oak. Some minutes before it stopped was its
the immense yew-trees, which, like the oaks approached heralded by the ringing of a little
were also of patriarchal respectability mi the bell by the carrier himself, to give due notice of
'vegetable kingdom and from the midst of which his presence ; so that the hostler of the Royal
the tapering spire was the first object that Oak might be ready with the water and hay
.caught thme view of the traveller when descend- for die refreshument of the anmiimal which caume

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.
along at a sober jog-trot pace. The arrival of  "Yes-and if you would take my advice,"
the carrier's van was one of the most important said the carrier, who having now brought out
incidents alike of the morning and of the the parcels, had leisure for a few moments' chat,
evening: for when   passing  through -in the 'you would tell all your young men at Oak-
morning, he received the various cenmissions leigh to be on their guard agin that feller. It
which were to be executed at Middleton-the isn't for me to speak disrespectful of any one
town to which he was repairing - and the wot wears his Majesty's uniform: besides which,
fulfilment of which commissions might he he paid me his fare and I had sununut to drink
expected on his return in the evening. Therefore, on the road at his expense : but still people wild
when his tinkling bell rang, those vilhgeis who have their own opinions-and I don't know of
were expecting parcels came forth from their any law that's to perwent one from  uttering
houses and repaired to the Royal Oak, where them. So I says that you folks had better tell
the carrier delivered whatsoever was thus your young men to be on the look-out : for if
awaited,                                   that soger-chap hasn't come to hoist at Oakleigh
On the present occasion the van brought a the same colors he has been a-wearing for a
passenger-an actual live passenger--and one, week past at Middleton, then my name isn't
too, whose appearance was somewhat calculated painted in yaller letters on that there brick-red
to alarm and amaze the peaceful denizens of ground :"-aand he pointed to the side of his
Oakleigh. For the individual alluded to wore covered van where the blazonry of which hie
a military uniform--a scarlet coat turned up spoke duly existed.
with white on the tails and blue on the cuffs  " What colors does he mean 1" said one of the
and collar. lie had a sword and  i sash ; and villagers to the barber, when the carrier himself
being tall, stout, and of a certain stately pompos- had passed into the public-house to take his
ity of appearance, was at once set down as some wonted glass of ale erc he pursued his way.
officer of very high rank. Those villagers who  " What colors:" ejaculated Mr. Bates, who w
had followed the van to the public-house to a thin, spare man, with a wizen-face, a starv.
,obtain their parcels, bowed most respectfully to ling look, a very dirty apron, and a bustling x..
the military  gentleman, which courtesy he citement of manner : " what'colors ? Why, they
returned by carrying his right hand with a sweep are the same to the sergeant who wears 'eti as
of the arm to the front of his cap. Then, stiff the three balls are to a patwnbroker, the sign to
and rigid as if there were no elasticity in his an inn, or the pole to my shop. For as these
body, and looking as if a poker were litheness in indicate places, so do colors indicate the iain."
comparison, this important personage paid his  " Ah, I understandt " observed the butcher,
fare from Middleton (amounting to eighteen- who had hurried from his shop with his lkiiti in
S; ad ordering         his " luggage" to he one hand and his steel in the other, and who now
brought into the public-house, he faced to the gave the former a couple of rubs upon the'latter
right-about and marched with nieasured steps as if he Inent to sharpen it in ominous forebod-
and straight as a line up to the door of the ing of a mischievous intent against the new-
establishment, which he entered.           coiner in the scarlet coat.  I understand now -"
The wondering, gaping villagers looked after then, with awful solemnity of look, he.added,
him until lie disappeared from their view: and "It'b a recruiting-sergeant
then they cast their eyes up the street almost  This announcement produced the effect of
expecting to see an entire regiment, of which consternation upon the assembled villagers: for
this might be the colonel, winding its slow the group had considerably increased within the
length into the police. But they saw nothing of last few  minutes, the report having already
the kind ; and' grouping themselves together, spread from house to house that some veinno-
began expressing their whispered wonder who portait petrsonage in a military uniform h  I s-
ie was, and what he could want at Oakleigh. rived at the public-house. Few whose ears that
But when the "luggage," which in so formal a announcement iet, had not either relatives or
manner the great man lad ordered to be brought friends in whom they were interested, and for
in to him, was handed to the hostler in the whom their fears were at once excited lest they
shape of a brown paper parcel of very moderate should be inveigled into the trammels of thio
dimensions, the villagers, finding that this was recruiting-sergeant; and this feeling was ftI-
all, and that ro half-dozen trunks amd boxes loved by a simultaneous desire on the part of
were to follow, began to entertain a somewhat those wilo had not as yet seeti i m, to catch it
diminished opinion of the new arrival; and the glimpse of the formidable persopjage. Those
carrier being appealed to, set all doubts at rest, who had seen him, wished to see him asin; and
by informing them  that the object of their there was a general move across the little open
interest was a sergent, properly belonging to space in front of the Royal Oak. towards the
a depot stationed at Coventry, but who had window of its parlor. A dozen glances were at
lately been sojourning at Mi dleton, at which once plunged into the room : and there the
latter place lie had this day secured a seat in stately sergeant was seen, sitting bolt upright in
the van as far as Oakleigh. It is true that the a Windsor chair, with a long clay pipe in his
bake-r insisted that a sergeant was higher than month, and a quart pot of the landlord's primQ
a general, anid that the cobbler placed Is rank ale on the table before him.
next to a captain : but Mr. Bates, the' village-  With "eyes right"the sergeantpecidth
barer, who knew everything, and -who came group gt the windowv: but,hle pretended not to
up at thie itue, speedily set them to rights upon take thn slightest notice of the circumstance
thme subject and made thuem comprehend what that lie was thus the object of so much atten-
a sergeant really was,                     tion. Prim, rigid, iind sternly sedate, lie sat im-


THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

n
c
f
1
s
t
r
I

-

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

movable, smoking his pipe ; and when at the lously clean.  It is true that on leaving the
-x)irati)n of two or three minutes he did relax fields he had hastened to his abode to cleanse
rom his automaton position, it was merely to away the traces of his labor ere ho set out
ift the quart pot to his bps and imbibe a long again on his walk along the streamlet's bank
draught.                                    but at all times, and under all circumstances,
" Vell," said the butcher, " if he 'tucks in there was an air of cleanliness and respectability
teeks as well as he takes down beer, he will be about Frederick Loosdale that seemed to invest
a pretty good customer to me as long as lie's in him with a sort of superiority above his fellows.
he' village. Perhaps he mayn't be a bad chap He was decidedly handsome ; and there was no-
rter all  "                                thing coarse nor vulgar in his features nor the ex-
" And if he eats steaks, he is sure to want pression of his countenance. Browned it was with
olls," said the baker, likewise having an eye to the sun : but this contributed to the manly honesty
business : " so I think I shall come up presently, of look characterizing the individual who earned
as usual, and take my four-penn'orth in the par- his breigd by his own toil. ie had dark hair
or."                                        and eyes, good whiskers, and a set of teeth
A man who wears the King's uniform, must which any aristocrat might have envied. W hen
have a clean chin," chimed in the barber; "and he spoke, it was with no peculiar accent nor
those fellows that are good at handling swords, rustic drawl; and his language was marked by
can't wield razors. After all, it would be better a singular accuracy for one in his position. There
not to show him the cold shoulder just because was a certain mystery attending his birth, of
lie is what he is. Peace and good will. Them's which we shall have to speak presently : but
mty maximss.-And perhaps he uses bear's- there was no mystery as to the way which he
grease," added Mr. Bates, in an under-tone.-  had been'brought up-for he had lived from his
" Who knowsI"                              infancy in the village. A widow, named Grant,
Several others, who now saw that the arrival had reared him. She kept a little shop which
*the recruiting-sergeant might give a certain could barely4avo supported herlf : but friiu
briskness to trade--for with the presence of some other source, tint known to the villagers,
such an individual was associated the idea of she had for a time received a little addit ional
plenty of money to fling about,-likewise ex- succor. She had therefore put the boy to the
pressed themselves in favor of conciliatory po- day-school of the village-pediagogue, who, taking
licy ; and they accwaichgly dispersed with the a liking to him  on account of his intelligence
agreement ethat they would come up to the and docility, had thought it no trouble to bestow
lkoyal Oak presently to formi the acquaintance unusual pains upon him. As Frederick Lons-
of the important character who had just arrived dale grew up, lie greedily devoured all the books
in the village. The ('atmet's an proceeded on that tie could possibly obtain in the circumcribed
its jogt inig way ; and the rumlblhng sounds of world of that village : and thus had he materially
it  wheels ioon died in tie distance. 'then all added to the store of knowledge derived from
was still once more ii tie village of Oakleigh, the scltohniaster's slender stock. In this matter
gave aid except inStiO the hailer's shop, where had he reidlied the age of eighteen, old Mrs.
this fnteliotary was holding firthi to three or Grant loving him as affectionately as if he were
fur of his nei. hbt ors who topped in to hear lis her own son  but still no future plans appeared,
'pinifint: for Mr. Bates w as a aiifect oracle at i to be chalked out for the young nmati. The
(iakleih                                   schoolmaster lad thought of taking him for an
asiistaint : death however ititerfered with this
arrangenmett--ani the pedagogue was gathered
to his fathers beneath thie shade of the yew-trees
Ch APTER II,                 inm the churchyard.  Soiti afterwards a fire
broke out in Mts. Grant'se cottage one night,
'ItL LOVERS.                Wihei Frederick Lonsdale wits absent at Middle-
ton ott sottie cotission for his aged benefietiess.
Wt:t this scene hail been pa sing in front 'hie place wase hrmnt to the grounl, she herself
of the village 1tblichotoe, tothiter  f equal perishing in the ruins : for ste was beth-tidden
importance to the thread of oui'  ory, and of at the tice, atid thie habitation being of wood,
sotii etwat more rottiaimic iitnkr st, was taking with a straw thatch, was cottsumid before the
place at tmo great ditance. Fori t the v'ety slightest assistance could be rendered her. Thus
itme that the' cartit's hell tad beglun to tinkle whatever secret this woman migthit have cheris-
in the ca's of the worthy letizens of Gtakleigh; ed in respect to Frederick's bin th, apphieared to
a Young man iii a labourr's garb was wending have died with her . and on his return to he
way tlotni tie baik f tie little scitimleit vilge he foind hitself deprived of lis only
i wards the wood through which it ilowed.1 ie -fnd-hmeles mid petiiless. As a matter'
wai ab cOat two and twenty ears of age-tall, I of course he experienced sympathy anti teipo-
itma kal l'upright, and wiit nothing of the rary as'istatnce on the partt of the kitd-heatrted
rolling slouchitg gait that generally characterizes villagers : but they weme too poor to help himit
the 1ieasait  Ther  was a certain elaticity  for any length of time; aind his spirit was too
viihle in all his nations ; and though hits pace r ut-oud to permit him to remriain a burthen upon
was now slow, his    m:tt' er dejected l, and hii their kindtess. He therefore at once resolved
looks desp'onding,,yet was that tiatural lithuenes to work for his own living. Aniotter school-
of lub still apparent. Tlho.gh. his gai  1as if toaster hind sticceeded his own decea-ed pecpt-
thn humblest mat-enals, atid tho ugh lie hadl jus-t or ; aind cotisequietly thtete wsii no~ openting tor
cime friom his work, y et wams his 'petrson rcruu bhe execir e if liederick's .taletits ini this epheite.

There were plainly two alternatives before him:
one was to go and seek his fortune elsewhere-
the other was to remain in the village and
become a farm-laborer. He would have done
the former, had not there been a certain tie
which bound him to Oakleigh: and so lie
adopted the latter alternative. He had since
the death of his benefactress occupied a lodging
-that is to say, one small room at the little
house of Mr. Bates the barber; and he had
worked for Sir Archibald Redburn,'of Redburn
Manor. He bore a most excellent character it
the village, alttoughi he was generally considered
to be his own enemy it one respect : namely,
that lie had a spiit somewhat iupatient of control,
and never crimged nor played a fawning part
towards the baronet or the clergyman, both of
whom were such high and mighty people in
the eyes of those humble villagers. We may
add that the blackened rumis alluded to at the
opemnig of our tale were the remains of the
unfortunate Mrs. Grant's cottage.
The reader has now learnt as much as it is
necessaryy fmr us to tell hiit in respect to Fred-
erick Lonsdale, whom we must accordingly ac-
company in his walk along the bank of the little
river. He soon reached the wood ; and still
following the course of the stream beneath the
shade of the over-arching trees, ie in a few
nuiutes reached tie rude bridge which spanned
the stream. ''here he was very shortly joined
by a young wonma  of whom we must say soie-
thimg. Lucy Davis was the daughter of Sir
Archibald ledburn's bailiff. She was twenty
years of age, and exceedmngly beautiful. Tall
and well made, there was a certain air of
geitility about Lucy which raised her above the
ordinary average of the rustic maidens, as F'red-
erick himself was superior to the peasant youths
of the district. She had dark brown hair of
singular ichness and luxuriance: her eyes were
of the deepest blue, and the brows handsomely
arched.  ''he hues of health were upon her
cheeks ; and the smiles of innocent happiness
were generally upon her lips.  Sweeter lips
were never seet ; and when parting, they dis-
played a faultless set of teeth. She was dressed
wit h the utmost neatness, but plaimly aiid simply :
yet did her apparel set off the adorable cuitours
of her shape more attractively than the richest
rannent could have (done. Though what may
be termed a well-grown young woman, her
synunetry was perfect,-the slope of the shioul-
ders, the fullness of the bust, the slenderness of
the waist, antd the sweeping length of limb, all
comlining torender her a model for a sculptor's
study.
Such was Lucy Davis. And now the reader
can be no longer at a loss to understand the
nature of that secret tie which had bound Fred-
erick Lonsdale to the village. He and Lucy
had long loved each other. In childhood they
were frequently playmates ; and as they grew
up, the friendship of earlier years ripened into a
smicere and profound -attachment. But where-
fore have we spoken of the tie binding Frederick
to Oakleigh as a secret ote?  Because he had
never avowed his love for Lucy to her father.
Mr. Davi-s, being comparatively in goodh circunm-
6tanices. had loftier views ott behalf of his !

I

6

daughter: indeed his ambition had soared so
high that he had flattered himself her exceeding
beauty might even captivate Gerald Redburn,
the Baronet's only son and heir. Of course, in
making this calculation, Mr. Davis knew perfect-
ly well that Sir Archibald would never willingly
consent to such a match: but the estates were
entailed, and when young Gerald should come
of age, he might do as he liked and snap his
fingers at his father. So thought the bailiff:
and from these simple facts the reader may at
once gather th at lie was an unprincipled and
an unscrupulous man. Such indeed ie was ;
and being of so designing a character, was not
without a consummate dissimulation to conceal
it. He was a widower-Lucy was his only
child--and he hoped that by seeing her become
"a lady," he might, with a sort of borrowed
reflection of the lustre of rank, come to dub
himself "a gentleman."
On the evening in question, Frederick Lons-
dale and Lucy Davis met at the bridge a little
before the sunset hour-that hour which exer-
cises a two-fold influence upon the minds of
lovers, either lulling them into a serenity of bliss
when their loves are prosperous, or else weighiing
upon them with a saddening despondency when
the course of their affection runs not smooth.
Yes--they met at that bridge where they had
often and often met before, and at that same
hoar which had likewise so frequently marked
these past meetingsI. it was with a light elastic
step and with smiles upon her beauteous counte-
nantc-, that Lucy tripped across the bridge to
joim her lover ; and in the first gush of pleasure
at the meeting, she did not perceive the sadness
which sat upon his brow. Perhaps, too, his
countenance suddenly brightened up as he folded
her to his arms: but the transient sense of joy at
thus straining his well-beloved to his heart, was
quickly succeeded by a feeling of bitterness int
consequence of what was lying heavy upou his
soul.
Hand in hand they walked along the baik of
the river, proceeding deeper into the wood ; atnd
any one who had beheld them then, would have
at once arrived at the conclusion that there was
ai admirable fitness in the union of this hand-
some couple. rT'he coarse garments of Frederick
would have been lost sight of in the contempla-
tion of his fine form, his upright gait, his manly
walk, and his intellectual countetnmttce tnd in-
deed, if he had found time to put on his Sunday
garb ere comlring to this appointment, there would
have been no circumstance, so far as thie out-
ward appearance of the two lovers went, to
raise a suspicion that there was an inequality of
social grades which appeared to present an in--
superable bar to their union.
They had not proceeded very far, when Lucy,
im making soie observation, bent her beautiful
eyes upon Frederick, and was struck by the sad-
nes of hi. looks. She suddenly stoppethomrt
im what she was saying,--stopped short also on
the bank of the stream; And gazing upon him in-
silent earnestness for nearly a niinute, said in
tones as liquid as the musical flow of the crystal
watersthemselves, "Frederick-dear Frederick,
something line occurred I You ame unhappy I"
"'I cannot conceal it from you, be ved Lucy,n


THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

9

A
1
i
t
k
C
i
E
I
s
t
i
E
i
f
i
It

answered the young man. " II have been in- lions poor that the few may be rich ;--and be-
sulted-cruelly insulted--almost trampled upon cause I have been heard to say so, I have been
by one whom the accident of birth has made accused, as you know, by Sir Archibald and Mr.
what the world calls my superior."         Arden, of disseminating seditious ideas amongst
"Who has done this 1' inquired Lucy, sud- the villagers. Yet, heaven knows how seldom I
denly becoming painfully excited; and the tears have obtruded my opinions upon others; and
started out upon the long' dark lashes which not frequenting 'the public-house, I have no op-
shaded her deep blue eyes.  \             portunity, nor do I seek it, of interfering with
"Gerald Redburn," returned Frederick,.'When the sentiments of my fellow-villagers. How-
I think of what took place I am surprised that ever, it is known; that I have once or twice
I restrained my hand from tearing him off his spoken in that sense ; and it has struck me for
horse and spurnirg him at my feet. I should at least two years past that the baronet and the
have done so perhaps; but, miserable enfeebled parson would be very glad to get me out of the
strippliiig as he is, it would have been a cow- village,"
ard's blow on my part. And yet I was bitterly  ' But you are such a general favorite, my dear
provoked I"                               Frederick," said -Lucy, gazing up fondly and ad-
" Yes, dear Frederick, you must have been- miringly in her lover's countenance, " that they
you must have been-to talk thus and to feel so would not dare outrage general opinion by any
deeply too. Oh !" exclaimed the generous-hearted open and unprovoked act of tyranny."
and devoted girl, "what can I say-what can I  "'That is the exact truth of the case, dear
do to console you ?  Ah i methinks that if I had Lucy," exclaimed Frederick. " But now, I fear
been ever so much provoked, yet that in your me, the opportunity does present itself, and the
society I should experience a soothing solace :"- tyranny will be exercised. I will however como
then, as if she had said too much for maiden to the point. This afternoon I was working in
modesty, bhe bent down her eyes, blushing the field up by the plantation yonder, when Mr.
deeply. '                                  Redburn rode by on horseback. 1 touched my
"'Oh! a thousand thanks, dearest Lucy, for hat as a matter of course: but he took no no-
this spontaneous assurance of the extent of your tice of me. Ever since his return hone from
love 1"-and Frederick Lonsdale pressed her Oxford he treated me in this haughty manner
hand to his lips. " Yes, dearest, I also should but I can assure you it gave me not much coa-
feel every possible consolation in your sweet cern-for I was resolved to avoid as far as pus-
company.-your sympathy would pour a bahn sible affording the slightest opportunity for the
into the heart to heal the wounds of any depth visitation of the tyranny which I nevertheless
and poignancy. But it is not the mere sense of apprehended. Well, Gerald Redburn, who was
terrible insult which now oppresses me.: it is also riding unattended, passed along. the lane ; and
the fear of a sad, sad change in my circuni- presently I heard him crying out in his weak
stances, poor as they already are !"      sickly voice, 'I say, you fellow Lonsdale, come
" What mean you, dear Frederick I" inquired here '-My first thought was to disobey a corn-
Lucy, with a startled look of fresh apprehension,t manid so imiperiously given ; but curbing my
"I mean, beloved girl," was Loisdale's excited annoyance, and true to my resolve not to suffer
reply, " that the insolent Gerald, not contented myself to be easily provoked, I hurried to the
with flinging at me the bitterest taunts, has spot where he had halted. Pointing with his
threatened to deprive me of my bread. He has kid gloved finger upon the ground, Gyerald Red-
vowed that I shall work for his father no longer, hurn said, 'Pick up that riding-whip.'-If I had
and that he will take sufficient measures to pre- been the vilest of dogs, he could not have ad-
vent me from   obtaining employment at the dressed me in a more brutal over bearing man-
hands of any tenant of Sir Archibald's. Such a tner. I felt the color mounting to my fice ; and
cruelty, if carried out, would amount, (lear Lucy, I recollect that I threw upon him a look of ir-
to a sentence of exile from the village : and that repressible indignation. He saw it at once, and
it will be carried out, I have, alas ! the too pain- flying into a l age, exclaimed, ' You beggarly
ful conviction."                          clod hopper, make haste and do as I tell you.
The excitement of anxiety dying away from Pick tip that whip, I say, or 1 shall jump off and
Lucy's countenance, was succeeded by a look of lay it about your shoulders.'-'- . Redburn,'
deep dejecti(Pi ; and for uLwards of a minute said I, mastering my feelings as well as I pos-
there was a pause, during which the lovers sibly could, ' I would do anything I can t serve
walked with the slow pace of sadness along-the you if you only speak civilly.'-h'l'ereupon lie
baik of the stream. At length Lucy again levelled a bitter imiiprecation at me-an impre-
stopped short, sayin somewhat abruptly, " You cation which sounded shocking indeed when
have not told me, dear Frederick, the iiattire of coming from the lips of a young gentleman -
this quarrel between yourself and Nr. Redburn." and lie renewed his command that I should pick
"You know, dear Lucy-for we have fe- up the whip instantaneously. Lucy, 1 could no
quctitly spoken on the subject before-that I longer control myself--"
alt fe very great favorite with Sir Archibaid or  "No, Fredeu ick," said the young damsel, her
his yon--nor yet with the Rev. Mr. Arden ; and cheeks now flushed with the crimson glow off
I think it is because I have been decently cdi- indignation at the bare idea of the treatment
cated, and have added as well as I could to iy which her lover had experienced : "1 can well
little stock of knowledge. People in high life understand that you lost all patience then ; and
don't like humble persons, such as I am, to have it would even have shown a lack of spirit if you
mcl learning: they think it opens oureyes to had tamely submitted. But proceed. What
the injustice of the system which keeps the mil- followed I"

M

"Mr. Redburn's rage grew ungovernable : his few words-but the strength of her emotions
pale sickly countenance became livid, his lips choked her utterance and she could not,
turned ashy white, and he poured forth a volley  " Do not weep, dear Lucy-do not weep,'
of abuse, to repeat which would shock your ears. said Lonsdale: and yet he himself swept his
Suffice it to say that he taunted me with my manly hand over his eyes. " I feel that there
ignorance respecting my parentage--said that is a time coming when we shall have need of
liehad no doubt I was some beggar's brat who all o-ur fortitude: indeed the time is come, Lucy
had been abandoned at Widow Grant's door- --and we must look our position calmly and re-
and that instead of beiig inflated with pride solutely in the face. I am a man almost with-
because I was able to read and write and had out hope-poor and self-dependent-perhaps
got a smattering of learning, I ought to be ready marked out as a victim to be crushed. Think
to1fall upon my knees anl kiss the ground upon you then, dearest, that I will in any way drng
which my betters walked. I listened until be you dowrl into the vortex with me I No-not
hiad finished his tirade ; and then I remonstrated for worlds 1 By the immensity of my love may
with hm ihoil the impropriety of his conduct. you estimate the immnensity of the sacrifice that
But still I idlowedl his,riding-whip to remain on it prompts ime to make. For my love is not all
the ground where lie had dropped it. My words, selfishness: it is of a nature which leads me to
and ny demeanor too, 1 suppose, almost mad- place your happiness high above my own, and
leied hiim; aund finding that I would not stooptt consult your welfare first of all."
to picl5 up his whip lie gave vent to the threats  " What ,do you  mean, Frelerick I  Your
"wbich I have before described. Therefore, dear words terrify me I"-and Lucy gazed upon him
Lucy, I suppose I insist expect to be sunmnarily with a half-frightened half-deprecating regard.
hsimissed from my employment; and it will be  " I mean, beloved girl, that it is wrong---it is
your father, mypoor giul, who will have to pro- even wicked for en to keep you entangled by
ounce miy disharge."                    vows and pledges which im your affection you
dAlas 1 Frederick, these tre indeed ill tidings," have given, but which must lead to naught. In
said Lucy. " What is to be done i   Shall I a word, Lucy, it were better that we should
throw myself at may fathers feet, confess that I part-that you should study to forget me-that
love you and beseech hiu if he would not plunge you should learn to think of me no more----"
tme imto wretchedness, to listen to my prayer i"  " Enough, Frederick-enough-I cannot bear
Not for worlds, dearest Lucy," responded this I" and the poor girl wrung her hands in a
her lover, "would I have you draw down upon sort of frenzy: but almost instantaneously re-
your iwaol the explosion of your father's wrath. covering her fortitude, she fixed her earnest gaze
No, no-I will keep all my calamities unto my- upon hin ; and with the flush of a proud tri-
self: they shall not redound upon you, sweet uiuph upon her cheeks-the reflection of ani in-
Lucy," lie continued im a deeper and more so- ward glow of satisfaction at what she was about
lomn tone, but with a lok that was far more to say-she added in a voice that was calm and
eloquent t hn is yards " I have this day clear,, ' I will not iwmult you, Frederick, with the
awakened frouim a dream mof bliss. hitherto I suspicion that you are seeking a release from
have cheished the hope that fortune would do- the vows which we have mutually pledged. We
velop some turn m my favor, so that I might have known each other from chddhood; and I
acquire a position that would enable me to claim am too well acquainted with the truthfulness df
your hand. I have been mad-yes, absolutely your heart and the nobility of your nature, to
inad, to harbor such an idea : andyet it was be- entertain so injurious a thought. Listen then,
cause I loved you so fondly-and love itself is while 1 call heaven to witness that happen what
hope 1 Ah I Lucy 1 you know not the extent may--no matter how far your enemies may
of ny love for you. You never have known, succeed in persecuting you-no matter to what
because my lips could mot speak all that my distance circumstances may separate you from
heart feels or that my soul thinks. thiss streami mie-no matter what views my father may hiavo
at the spot where we are now standing, makes im store for me-and uno matter who may seek
noise: it does iot even ripple here : yet this my hand,-my love for you will remaisnu-
is its deepest part for all its stilless--and may ehanged-my consttncy shall continue firm urt-
hudve is like it. It is thus love which has ch'er. to de'-th-NovFrederick, I hmve said it; and
ed mae in my daily toils, and has been a sufi- my heart feels as if relieved of a weight which
cieut companion for nme im the evening when miy for.half-an-hour past, had sat heavily upon it."
work was over. If ever I have bei tempted   "Dearest Lucy, what can I say-what words
to go to the ale-house it has kept me back ; amd can I find to express all the fervor of that grati-
when at titmies I have thought of the hardness tuide which I feel for such a proof of undying
of umy lot, and that there was some secret con- affection as this?$ No, Lucy-I will not reject the
niected with miy birth which if known, would hope which has hitherto inspired me-I will not
not perhaps leave me poor and obscure as I am, suffer my spirit to sink beneath the weight of
-your aimlige has arisen before me and I have despondency. Oh ! there must indeed be some-
felt consoled and even cheered. Such, Lucy, thig dlivimie in woman's love if it can shed upon
has been my love; and such too has been the the soul such cheering influences as those which
'gool imfluemce your image has shied over your words have shied uponmine 1 Lucy, 1 ae-
me.                                         cept this holy troth-and I respond to it in'- a
The damsel seas now weeping bitterly, as she vow of equal sanctity."
clung to her hover's arm; and gaziig up fondly  The lovers appeared suddenly to have forgot-
thirough the dimniuess of hier tears into his cotin- temn all their cares; amid with their alrmls thmrowmi
tenance, she endeavored to give utteratice to a round each other's neck, they inid&amp;imi oed

8B

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

i


10                  THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

embrace. At that instant an ejaculation ofI
mingled astonishment and rage fell upon their
ears: and starting asunder, they stood in a kind
of guilty confusion in the presence of the indi-
vidual who had just emerged from the depths
of the wood. This was Mr. Davis, Lucy's fa-
ther,
"Vile deceitful girl !" he exclaimed: "is it for
this that those frequent evening walks of your's
have been taken? But you, villain," lie added,
now turning his wratlhfal looks upon Lonsdale,.
"how dare you thus seek to rob me of my daugh-
ter t"v
"Mr. Davis," was the immediate auswergiven
by Frederick, who quickly recovered his pres-
ence of mind, "it is an honest love I bear your
daughter-a love which, mutually felt, has ri-
pened from our childhood's years--"
"No more !"ejaculated the bailiff, the naturally
harsh tones of his voice sounding more sternly
harsh than ever: "not another word upon the
subject 1 Come hither, girl :"-and clutching
his daughter violently by the arm, he drew her
towards him. " You will come home with me,
and I will take care to put an end to your rain-
bles. As for you, Lonsdale, I have but a few
words to say. I was proceeding to your lodg-
ing for the purpose of telling you that by Sir
Archibald Redburn's coniunaud you are to seek
employment elsewhere. Here is a fortnight's
wages for you; and the sooner you get out of
the village, the better."
As line thus spoke, the bailiff tossed some sil-
ver in half-crowns at the feet of Frederick, who
was standing about three yards distant : and
then suddenly turning round, he dragged his
daughter away with him. She threw a look
upon Frederick which more eloquently than
words could have done, seemed to remind him
of the vow that had so solemnly passed her
lips ; and ere she turned her head again, shie
caught in mute response the dimness of his part-
ing smile.
He remained rivetted to the spot, gazing after
the retreating forms of the bailiff and his daugh-
ter : then, as they speedily disappeared from
his view, he turned abruptly round and plunged
into the thickest of the wood, there to give way
to the auugni-ih that filled hus heart. But the
moitey which Davis haid so countemuptuously
ilung dowui, was left unheeded upon ithe bauk.
CHAPTER     III.
TinE ALE-HOUSE PARLOL
TI was nine o'clock--the blind was drawn
down in the parlor of the Royal Oak-the can-
dies were lighted upon the table-and there
was a much larger attendance of guests than
usual. At least a dozen persons were seated
around the room, pufling their pipes, andc enjoy-
ing Mr. Bushell's good ale. This individual
himself sat on one side of the fire-place-his ac-
eustomted coriier( luring the twenty years he hd
bceen landlord of the Roval Oak ; and although
there was no fire in t'he grate in that warm
-rinr' ser#, "  -a  host" nevertheless re

mained faithful to his wonted location. Oppo-
site to him, in the other corner, sat Sergeant
Langley-the object of all interest and the
cynosare of attraction. Prim and stately after
his own fashion, the sergeant could not possibly
unbend in respect to his body, however much
he might in the gravity of his looks or the
pompous severity of his speech. We have al-
ready said he was a tall and somewhat stoutly
built man: we may add that he had a red
face-hair cropped quite short, and deficient on
the upper part of the forehead-and   snall
twinkling gray eyes, which, if closely looked
into, had a cunning, disagreeable, and even rep-
tile-like expression. He had very little whis-
kers: and being an infantry soldier, word no
inoustache. His age appeared to be about five-
and-forty : but it might very well have been
three or four years nore,-for lie was a man
who evidently wore well.
The sergeant was smoking his pipe, but all
the time holding forth with so little internis-
sion, that the volatile and bustling barber, Mr.
Bates, could scarcely manage to get in a word
edgeways. There was something supremely
ludicrous in the attitude and look of the little
shaver, as lie sat bending forward on the edge
of his chair, with eyes as keenly fixed upon
Sergeant Langley as if'it were a cat watching -
a mouse: but Mr. Bates was watching for the
slightest pause in the soldier's discourse that
might atford him an opportunity of giving ut-
terance to his own opinion. Indeed, so excru-
ciating was the anxiety of Barber Bates to get
in a word, that his half-smoked pipe had been
suffered to go out and remain idle in his hand,
while his pint of ale stood also untouched on
the table before him. It was evident too, that
Sergeant Langley was quite aware of his new
friend's intention of pouncing as it were upon
the conversation, and the tomnent he got a fair
gripe, monopolizing it all to himself: fur the
wily soldier studiously avoided giving the bar-
ber any such chance.
The butcher, the baker, the general-dealer,
the tailor, the shoemaker, the parish clerk, the
sexton, and the other leading men of the village,
were all assembled on the occasion ; and the
greater portion of them were listening with
wide-open eyes and pricked-up ears to the
muarvllc-us stories that the sergeant was telling
them. Of course Mr. Langley had a particular
object to serve;- and he managed matters with
wonderful tact and astuteness. He had to beat
down the prejudices that existed against a
soldier's life-to make the sense of its dangers
merge into a feeling of patriotic enthusiasm--to
gloss over its privatitns, its vicissitudes, and its
degiading punishments--and in short, toc reate
a paradise where the previous impression was
that a dreary desert existed. Of course the
sergeant could not deal in truths while thus
expatiating; and to say that his imagiination
- was largely' drawn upon, would only be to tell
the reader something already suspected. There
is a comnno phrase about  shooting with the
long bow ;" but certainly Sergeant Langley
nt mionly shot with one of the longest bows over
put into retiuisition, but 'handled it likewvise
. without the least clumsimness or want of dex.-

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.                                  11
terity. It was not that he expected to obtain as clock-work : and who ever heard of a soldier
any recruits amongst the company now present: with a bad digestion ?" Shov me such a thing,
and even if he so expected, none of them would gentlemen-and I will have him labelled and
have suited,-for the butcher was too stout, the put into a museum as a curiosity.  There's
barber too thin, the baker too short, the sexton nothing like regularity of meals : all doctors
too tall, the clerk too old, the general-dealer too will tell you that. In respect tb exercise, what
bandy-legged, the tailor too humpbacked, the can be more agreeable than the l1arade-ground,
shoemaker too bow-legged, and the rest equally where all your steps are measured and you
incapacitated in a physical sense from passing don't go either too fast or too slow, That's the
muster. 'Therefore the wily sergeant had not sort o exercise for me, gentlemen ! Then the
his eye upon any of the guests now present : barraftlk-room-what a leene of delight 1 Theri
but he had their prejudices to disarm, so that is true comfort without the encumbrances of
their influence might not be used to prevent any fashion-true enjoyment withotit being afraid.
of the athletic, healthy, strong built young rustics to spoil the furniture.  Always plenty of
on whom he dsid have an eye (though there were compaions-sprightly conversaion going on-
now none of them present) from accepting the and everything, gentlemen, to contribute to the
King's money and pinning the various colored tranquil and easy flow of the spirits. As for
ribands to their caps.                     the officers-a nicer, kinder set of men can't
"'Talk of the hardships of a soldier's life !' exist-hail fellow well-met with all the privates
said Mr. Langley, as if in contemptuous (lepre- private, though reserved and distant in public.
cation of a besotted prejudice: "why it's the Now look at me, gentlemen. You see me well
most l)eauttful state of existence than can possibly --I have the honor to be an officer in the King's
be conceived. Here you have your great lords service  "
and wealthy gentlemen paying large .uims of  " A non-commissioned officer 1" vociferated
money out of their own pockets to travel on the the little barber, determined to edge in a word
Continent and see the fine things there ; but this ime and show that he understood the dis-
the soldier travels to the most distant parts of tinction of ranks.
the earth at no expense of his own. hiis Sov-  1es, sir,-a non tomnissioned ofhcer," echo-
ereigni pys for him. ''hiink of that, gentlemen ed the sergeant, with stately pomposity ; " and
-nly think of that, I say ! What an honor to though lpeiiaps not quite so high as the colonel,
have your Sovereign take such an interest as to yet not very far off. Well, gent lemon, such as
Pay yur travt Ut  expen e .   I eel you, yeu tse ise, 1 a nt proud-l1 never give my-
gentlemen, I am blowed up with pride when I self airs to the privates-l encourage them,
think that for thirty years of my life-for I gentlemen-I patronize their, gentlemen-I
entered the service young, gentlemen, as a cheer them on, gentleimen ; and if they want a
drummer-I have seen all parts of the world friend, gentlemen, they know whom to apply to.
at the expense of my King and my epuutry. What can be more beautiful than this I We are
It's a great thing to say, gentlemen-a great like a community of brothels. Al, 1 know very
thing : and if any body has a word to urge well what thought strikes you now : you know
against it, I tell him he doesn't know what an there is such a tiing as flogging I Well, let me
honor is, gentlemen-and lie may put that in tell you, gentlemen, struge though it inty seem,
his pipe and smoke it !"                    that it's a very delightful process : its an excite-
Here the sergeant paused for a moment and nent, gentlemien-produces an agreeable change
looked uncotmnonly pierce, while the little barber -gives a healthy action to the circulation--
rushed fratically in to the temporary void in causes an issue for all humors that would otlier-
the discourse, with " But I say, though-"  wise corrode the whole vital system-and leaves
Yes, gentlemen," continued Mr. Langley, beliind it such a glow that one feels just as if
making a majestic motion with his pipe to the one had come out of a vapor-bathi. But that is
unfortunate village shaver to enjoin him to not all, gentlemen," added Sergeant Langley ;
silence, " it is all truth that coiies from my lips. and now he suffered his voice to snk imto a
A man, gentlemen, who wears a coat of this grave solemnity -  it purities the heart--it
color, ever tells a lie. But about the hard- chastdns the soul-it reinds the soldier that
ships of a soldier's life-I should just like to great though he is, he is but a mortal after all;
ask one question. Is not the soldier adored and I am mure that you, gentlemen, as good cit-
by the fair sex I don't vomen's smiles and their izens-as fathers of families-as htusbauds--
bright eyes beam upon him I  bWhy,'gentlemen, and as moral mien, will admit that these are
there's never a female heart that doesn't go pit truly beneficial effects. But let ie tell you one
a-pat at the sight of a iunifor'n. Take care, thing, gentlemen : I never knew a nma uwho
gentlemen-you have got wives and daughters, when tie had been flogged once, didn't come
aunts and grandmothers-and they will have back to the triangle to be flogged a dozen ties
an eye upon me. But if any of you do ask me again: and if that don't prove, gentlemen, that
to take pot-luck with you, I shan't abue cionfi- the men themselves know it to be good for their,
deunce : a soldier's honor, gentlemnau, is paramount then I am done and won't say another wi'ord."
Well then, as I was saying, the soldier travels  " But,"ejaculated the barber, bounding on his
for nothing-and his loves cost him nothing, chair in his excited eage ess to speak : but-"
Then his clothes--the wiching raimment that  " One moment, sir-nu  you shall have your
conniits such havoc among the fair sex-it's aill. say, which I have no doubt will be a very clever
paid for. The soldier, gentlemen, is like the oncie when do yott get it. I think, gentlemten,
Itly'of the field : hue toils not, neither does hoe you will confess that I have made out a stritg
epiti As for his meals, lhe las then as regular case. We must hiear ino mre of the hardships


vz                     -       THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.
of atsoldier's life. Why, it's like sailing through why he doesn't blow himself out with any of
existence upon a river of rose-water, with only these'delicious fruitsI at which he will turn up
just the trouble of plucking the fruits that grow his nose, make a horrid grimace, and tell you he
upon the bank. And consider, gentlemen, the is so surfeited with fruit that he would rather
glory of the thing ! Why, this hand, gentlemen, die than eat any moi-e. Those are countries to
which now holds this bakker-pipe, has done its live in, gentlemen !"--and the sergeant looked
work ; and though I say it, which shouldn't say slowly round upon his amazed and delighted
it at have slain the ruthless femen, gentlemen, audience.
that would have invaded our shores-would     "But, my dear sir, pray permit me," now in-
have marei d into the peaceful village of Oak- teijected the barber : "just one word- "
leigl-ould have pillaged your houses-Acarri-  "I know what you are going to say, my
ed o your wives-devoured your substance- friend," at once observed the sergeant: " you are
and taken away everything you have in your going to ask me about the fruits in other parts of
shops. I, therefore, gentlemen--humble an in- the world  Perhaps you are all fond of cocoa-
dividual as I am-by slaying with my own hand nuts : but what you get in England are nothing
sixty-seven of your mortal enemies at Waterloo, compared to those you find abroad. They would
and disabling ninety-five more, contributed to be mere wood-nuts there. 1 have seen cocoa-
the salvation of all your goods and chattels."  nuts as large as the big drum of the regiment;
elien we come to reflect of what might be and the kernel is all solid and comes out like an
the probable value of the scrag of mutton at enormous Chiristmas plum-pudding, so that you
the butcher s, the cheese and blacking-bottles at cut out large slices and eat it. As for vegeta-
the chandler's, the pots of bear's-grease at the bles, you never saw anything in England equal
barber's, and the rolls and gingerbread-nuts at to the vegetables that grow in foreign countries.
the baker's, it must certaindy appear that if all There's the cabbage tree, for instance, all covered
that blood was shed just for the special protec- with beautiful summer-cabbages; and by a cu-
tion of the little village of Oakleigh, as the rious lispensation of nature, the same country
worthy sergeant sought to make it appear, the that produces these cabbage-trees, also abounds
cost of bunion life was considerably above that ii the finest pigs, quite tame, and which by con-
of the commodities thus saved from the ruthless stantly bathing in the sea get a salt flavor-so
hands of an enemy bent on projects of invasion that you have nothing to do but to kill a pig,
and pillage. But the village tradesmen, there cut off the part you fancy, then cut a cabbage
and then assembled, did not milute to mtake any from the trees, put it all into a pot, and in due
such calculations, hut looked deeply grateful, time you have a delicious dinner of pickled pork
the barber not excepted, for the services render- and greens with not a farthing to pay. I don't
ed by the migity arm of the heroic sergeant.  think you can beat this in England, genrtlenmen."
t'alk of ti hardships of a soldier's life," he There was a simultaneous shako of the head,
went on to say,-" let me tell some of its plea- as much as to say, " We should think not:''-and
cures. What is there like seeing the world I the barber again  -ideavored to  a  i
and who sees more of it than the soldier? Why, but could not quite succeed,  get  hearing,
gentlemen, I have been in countries the beauties  " These little trifles I have been telling you,
and the wonders of which you, perhaps, intelli- gentlemen," resumed Sergeant Langley, " are
gent though you all are, don't dream of. Perhaps, just the recollections that come iuppermost in
you have heard of the cow-tree, that has only to my mind at the moment : but if seeing and en-
be tapped and it yields a delicious milk.   'ell, joyiag such things as these, are hardships, then
getlemen, in that same island there's another a soldier's lifig is a very hard one indeed. Do
kind of treetwhich when tapped yields a beer, you know, fiend landlord," continued the ser-
just for all the world like this ale that we are geant, touring to old Bushell, "what first gave the
driikiig kow ; and the beauty of it is, it doesn't idea of milk-punch in England I I will tell you.
make you (frunk, so that you may enjoy your- It's that cow-tree I was speaking of just now. In
self as much as you like. And now another very hot weather the milk in the upper branches
thing, gentlemen. Of course you know that the all ferments and turns into alcohol: so that the
Alderimen of the City of London are very fond spirit, mixing with the milk that keeps fresh in
of turtle-soup, and that it's a great luxury $ the trunk of the tree, make the most delicious
'hy, gentlemen, I have en in countries were milk-punch, you ever tasted. 'That does get up
the turtles tire so um-erous that t     -Ibeach mnd into your head-I believe you, it does! Tihe
tle sea-shore are composed entirely of them im- first (lay my regiment landed in that island, we
stead of stones, and the whole regiment at last every one of us, from the colonel down to the
gote s sicke f turtle so p i csat they were coin- drummer-boys, tapped tthe cow-trees ; and, it
yelled td eat parrots,and peacocks, aid cocka- being ii the height of the hot season, the trees
tot', andhnumming-birds by way of a change. all yielded milk-puch. So the whole regiment
'hat's what 1 call living, gentlemen! Do you got blind drunk, and lay stretched upon the
mean to tell me that any City Aldermaif can ground for twelve hours, fast asleep, till the ef-
beat thisI Well, but there's another ting. I tects wore off, . of course there was no coum t
dare say youbare all very fond of fine fruit I martial, because we were all in the saute mess
ow  a  iave been in c  utries where the hedges but it's anstoiehing how soon we all got well-
aue all grape-vimnesd covered with the most for close by there was a fountain, and when we
is   apes t  amb al the tree by the ri'a- came to drimk, it proved to be time most delicious
sisae aculy breakimig down with frumit. soda-water we ever tasted im all our lives. 'The
Wel l, perhaps you meet a beggar, amid he tells fact wvas that the fountain gushed upfro  the
ou he is auavig. You ask him ii wonder heart of a chalky soil, amid the confined air made

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.                                    18
it beautifully effervescent. So you see, gentle- Busiell hastened away joyously to execute an
men, the wise provision of nature-that if it order of such unwonted magnitude at the Royal
produces trees which make you drunlk, it pro- Oak. The instant he had quitted the room, Mr.
vides soda-water close at band to make you Langley, turning round to the barber, said,
sober again."                                " Pardon me, sir, for not having given you an
Here the sergeant, although his lungs were opportunity to ask your other questions: but
almost of leathern durability, was compelled to permit me first to put cne to you. have 1 the
pause for a few minutes, to recover breath aud honor of addressing the village hairdresser and
slake his thirst with the remants of the ale in perfumer "
his quart pot. The village-barber therefore at  ' "Them's may calling," replied Bates, hugely
length found the long-wished for and eagerly- delighted at this hearing himself denoumimiated
sought opportunity of making himself heard.  by the magnificent titles which were scrawled
"My friends," he said, with the air of a' man over his shop-fmiont ;-" and I tltitter myself that
who had fully made up his mind for a set speech, for keen razors, hot water, good lathring stap,
" I do think we ought to be grateful to our new  clean  towels, business-likb tdespatch, psrimue
companion for the interesting information he has home-made bear's-g'ease, amnd all other accomn-
given us. But when he speaks of the beauties iodations, my establishment stands unrivaled.
of a soldier's life, (and tells us how the soldier I don't care where the other is."
travels, eats, drinks, sleeps, and has clothes for  " No doubt of it," responded the sergeant
nothing, I should like to ask what is meaiit by " your appearance bespeaks your fitness for the
sto)pei/e, and how much he gets in the shape important position iin societywhich you hold. I
of hiu d cash for his own use and benefit I  I shall have the pleasure of putting your tints
would farther ask, gentlemen   "             to the test in respect to my chim every morning
One question at a time," interrupted the as long as I remain in your beautiful little vii-
sergeant, now fully refieshed and prepared for lage. I use bear's-grease, too--and must try
another (amp1)aignm in the fields of discourse. " I your's. By the bye, it's singular though--isn't
am  asked, geutlemen, about the soldier's pay : it ? that the imiomueit I get a icernit, always
and I beau' something about stoppagyes. I should take him right off to the barber-beg pardon,
as soon of thought of hearing about ghosts and hairdresser  and get Lium well shiaved and his
hob-goblins. 'There is no such thing as stoppa. hair cut at once : aid out of the King's monney,
ges. It's a weak device of the enemy to ire. I always pay half-a-crowi for each job- when
vent the aspiring and patriotic youth of Eng- the recruit hiappeus to have been r'coltmleihed1 to
lanmd from entering in this most glorious service. join by the bpit( dresser bimoself. But hea'e's the ale."
Stoppages indeed 1 it's a vulgar prejudice. The  We may suppose that Mr. Bates was so over-
British soldier, sir," added Sergeant Langley, whelined by this anniouncemiieiit of the maiignifi-
drawing himself up to the very fullest of his cent way iii which the sergeant treated his re-
.ortleyheight and assuming the stateliest of emits, that he totally lost sight of the other
Miens, as he fIxC his efes upon the barber,- questions he had pio'posed to put. Very cer-
"the British soldier, sir, receives his thirteen tam it is that he did iot put them  at all, and
pence a-day, which he ias all to himself for that throughout the rest of the evemnig, instead
beer and bakker. Money, gentlemen, is not of attempting to interrupt Mr. Langley, he was
wanting in the army. We don't know how to one of the miosit 'espectfully attentive of his
speimd lour money : we have too tmucih of it. It's listeners. Mr. Langley therefore had it all his
my opinion our Sovereign is too liberal ; and I own whey ; and what with the satisfactory as-
di' think, gentlemen, you have a right to con- pect of affairs, the complete empire he had oh-
lain of the taxes when so much goes into the tained over the credulous village tradesmen,
pockets of your soldiers. Look here, for in- and the effects of the ale, he gave such a rein
stance, gentlemen:"-and Mr; Langley pulled to his inuagination that the wonders he had ipre-
out a handful of silver, with a few sovei eigns viously related were, as Sancho Panza would
and a still greater number of hailf-pence inter- say, " mere cakes and ginger-bread" in compaii-
mixed. " But this is nothing," he added, shovel- son with the maitrvels which he now proceeded
ling the coin back into his pocket with a care- to launch forth. It was actually midnight be-
less, contemptuous air. " We have   plenty of fore the party thought of breaking up ; and
money, anud we spend it freely.  Landlord, ano- never within the memory of the oldest imuiabi-
ther pot of ale and another screw of bakker 1" taut of Oakleigh, had a light been seep so late
'This order was given with a pomposity which in the parlor-viudows of the public-house. Even
was as much as to say, " Look for instance, how- then the company would not perhaps have made
I spend   y money !"-.-thenu pei ceiving that lie a move, had it not been that Mrs. Mummuery,
had produced a great effect, the wily sergeant the bakeris wife-entertaimig sone vague minus-
suddenly decided upon following up the blow giving that perhaps the formidable warrior who
with another brilliant stroke of policy ; and that evening arrived in the village, had beu  ~
uglancinug quickly around, hue cried, "Stop, lanil- making a massacre of soume of the inhabitants,
- lord I There's a dozen gentlumtten here present, her husband amongst them-suddenly made her
vhose acquaintance I am very proud to form; appearance at the Royal Oak to ascoitaim the
amid I amt resolved they shlimul dij uk the King's truth of the matte. The omipatny then  'oke
health at my expense. Instead of a pot of ale up-the sergeant most patronizingly and affa-
for miy particular ise, bring in two gallos of bly shiaking hands with all tf them et they de-
ale-and luok sharp I" parted, and hoping that they should nteet again
:Therue was armound of applause at thus spirted ii the some conivvial manner' on tme following
ebehauvior on the part oif the sergeant; aind mld eventimng. - - - - p


14                    THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

CHAPTER IV.
RATHER AND DAUGHTER.
PETER Davis, the father of the beautiful
Lucy, was a man of about fifty-five years of
age-of middle stature, not stout, but very
strongly built-and possessed of great physical
strerniglh. He had coarse features, and a pair of
exceedingly large ears, which even if his courie
narnce had been the handsomest in the world
wcotl have been a frightful disfigurement to
his head. His hair, once dark, was now of an
iron gray : it was quite straight, very thick, and
was brushed upright above his forehead. He
had dark whiskers, very shaggyeye-brows, and
small eyes of a (heel) greenish cilor. There were
many hard lines across his forehead andi about
his mouth, which to the skilful physiognmionst
denoted strong passions as well as a severe na-
ture ;umd a resolute firmniess of purpose inu re-
spect to whatever he undertook. His voice was
harsh and disagreeable : his manner was usually
cold, reserved, and conveying the impression of
a stern, implacable disposition.
It has already been said that he was a
widower; but we may here observe that only
four or five years had elapsed since his first wife
died, and thus Lucy had enjoyed-the benefit of
a mother's care during that period of iufanicy
and girlhood when such tender supervision was
to essentidly necessary. And tender that _sn-
pervisioin had been inl this instance : for Mrs.
Davis was a most amiable, excellent, and kind-
hearted woman, beloved by all who knew her.
She had _belonged to a family which, after seeing
prosperous times, had become reduced in cir-
cumstances ; and thus she had received a good
education. 'The poverty to which her relatives
were brought down, had compelled her to"ac-
cept the offer of Peter Davis, who was already
a well-to-do person; and though the heart's at-
fectioi had nothing to do with this marriage, yet
the young woman accepted her destiny with re-
signation, if not with cheerfulness, and made a
most exemplary wife. Lucy received all her
education f'rothis excellent mother ; and hence
the superiority of our heroine's acquirements,
manners, and tastes over the genetahity of the
rustic nmaidens of the district.
Peter Davis hiad not made either a bad hus-
band, nor as yet a bad father. He was utterly
incapable of any feeling so noble as a warmth af-
fection: but at the same time lie was iot a man
whino showed the natural severity of his disposi-
tion or the harshness of his temper without a
cause. ie was not malignant unless provoked,
and would not actually travel out of his way
to exemplify his tyranmical character. Forbear-
ance with such a mant is a sort of negative vir
tue; and thus his home was not rendered mum-
happy through huiself. His wife, having well
understood his character, had yielded to hint m
all things; so that there had been little to
trouble their domestic peace. Lucy was like-
wise of an amiable disposition, and simcerely
loving heir father, did her best to make his home
happy. In all things had she proved docile,
-r'' t  ''  tent-save and except im that

one instance, where the most submissive and
tractable of children will at times rebel against
the known wishes or expressed mandates of
their parents.
This instance has ere now become apparent
L to the reader. For a long time past the lovers
hhad snatched moments of an evening to meet
in secret; and so prudent and cautious had }een
1 their proceedings, that though it was occasional-
ly whispered in the village that an attachment
- did subsist between them, and that they were
, now and then seen together, yet the frequency
1 of their interviews had remained unsuspected,
especially by Peter Davis himself, Now, how-
I ever, the whole truth was known to him : he
had not merely encountered them in the silent
1 shades of the wood, but had beheld them clasp-
ed in each other's arms ; and therefore he was
instantaneously enabled to account for the fr--
quent rambles which Lucy had been accustom-
ed to take alone.
Wvhen he conducted her away from the spot
where the scene with Frederick Lonsdale haid
taken place, he maintained a stern silence for at
least teniminutes. During this interval the cx-
treinity of the wood farthest from  the village
was reached ; and the father and da ughter a
ceeded to thread a path-which lay throughlithe
fields to the neat little dwelling which, midway
between *Oakkeigh and the Manor House,5 o1-
cupied a sweetly pituresque position. It stood
in the midst of a little garden, where the flow-
ers exhibited the tasteful care bestowed upon
them by Lucy herself; while the internal ar-
rangements of the cottage denoted an equally
sedulous female supervision.          aly
And so, Lucy," said her father, at length
breaking silence, as emerging from the wood
they proceeded through the fields. " you have
held clandestine meetings with this Frederick
Lonsdale, and have given him  evidently the
utmost encouragement that a young lady cant
possibly give under such circumstances I Doubt
less the usual lovers' vows have passed between
you?"
Father," replied Lucy with a firmness of
voice that was inspired by the candor of ie
nature and the artless purity of her thoughts,
"not-for a moment longer will I seek to disguise
from you the truth, that I lo love Frederick
Lonsdale--love him with all lmy heart and with
all my soul, and can never love another I It
is true also that I have pledged my faith to
him"
" Ah, I feared as much i" observed l)avis;
and he bit his lip to keep down a sudden out-
burst of rage: but immediately on perceiving
that im order to carry out his own designs, he
must proceed misidiously and craftily, not violent-
ly and passionately, lie said, " Lucy, have I
deserved this of you 1 Wherefore such deceitful
conduct? wherefore such hypdcrisy I Am    I
not your father I and have I not done a father's
duty towards you I"
"Yes-and heaven knows that I have endea-
vored, to prove an obedient daughter," mur-
mured the poor girl, the tears now trickling
down her cheeks. " But it is impossible te
control flue feelings of thie heart. No humao
being, dear fathm', has this power In"

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.                                  15
"But every wise and prudent young woman," and as your father I am proud of you. If you
rejoined the bailiff, :"exercises a proper restraint formed a low ConneXion like this, it would drive
over her feelings. Lucy, you cannot for a moment me mad : I would cast you off for ever. But I
defend your conduct."                      feel sure that your own good sense will prevail.
"I do not seek to justify it," she answered,- Instead of looking downward, you should look
: merely to extenuate it. That I was wrong to upward. It is the greatest misfortune that can
meet Frederick clandestinely, I will not deny: hefall a young woman, to marry beneath her-
but, Oh I father, 1 knew-alas ! I knew too self. Lucy, my dear girl-I have formed hopes
' well, that situated as he is, it were useless to in your behalf, the realization of which is very
beseech your assent to our love. And yet, often possible : and at all events they must not be
and often, have 1 thought of throwing myself frustrated by you."
at your feet and imploring you, as you valued  Lucy scarcely heard what her father said:
my happiness, to yield that assent."       she had fallen into a desponding reverie, and
"Lucy, this is little short of sheer madness- her heart was a prey to the deepest grief. Per-
and it is sufficient to provoke my severest anger haps if her father had burst forth into a furious
to perceive that you have entertained the idea passion against her, her own reflections would,
cf flinging yourself away upon this man."   have been less self-reproachful: but the general
"Father !" exclaimed the young damsel, "you tenor of his discourse was so calm, and even
mre well acquainted with Frederick Losdale- conciliatory-so mildly remonstrative, all con-
you have known him from his childhood-and sidered-that she could not help feeling he had
you mett confess that his conduct is unuimpeach- a perfect right thus to address her--that accord-
able, tl tt his nature is most generous, and that iog to the conceived notions of the world there
he is in every respect an exemplary young was much truth in his observations-aid that
man"                                        she had done wrong itl holding clandestine
" Lucy," responded Mr. Davis, now with interviews with Frederick. Not for an instant
severity in his tone, " all this is very fine for was her love diminished-not for a moment did
the pages of a novel and for imaginary heroes; she repent of the solemn troth she had plighted:
but we are real peoe    and these are real but she could not help feeling that her father
circumstances. You know as well as I can tell was only pursuing the prudential course of a
you, that it would be sheer madnoes for you to parent anxious for .his child's welfare ; and it
thro w yourself away upon a poor peniless tilled her with remorse to think that she could,
aboroer, who at this very moment is out of not yield implicit obedience to his wishes. lence
work."                                     the gloom which had settled upon her soul
" And why is he out of work I" exclaimed hence the mournful abstraction of her thoughts
ILucy warmly, " Do you know the cirquinstances ?  By this time they had reached their fiabita-
F'ather, I conjure you, if you have a generous tion; and Martha, the servant-girl whom they
feeling in your soul, that you will exert your kept-the daughter of poor peasants in the vii-
iifluence with Sir Archibald Redburu to obtain lage-opened the door.  Lucy hurried up to
justice for' Frederick."                    her chamber, threw aside her bonnet and shawl,
You are taximg my patience to a degree that ail sitting down, gave vent to her feelings in t
is beconing mitolerable," returned her father. " 1flood of tears. ''his outburst- of anguish to at
intended to reason calmly with you upon this un- certain extent relieved her: and im a fow mo
fortunate afdr ; and you are makeig it much ments Martha tapped at the door to mn.imate
worse. Now, Lucy, once for all 1 tell you that you that her father was waiting for her to descend
S\uust renounce this foolish prefe'rence of your's for to supper. Lucy hastily bathed her eyes to re-
fhat nn. I ant your father, and it is my duty move the traces of weeping ; and composnig
o see that you are well provided for iii life. I hmr feelings as well as she was able, went down
have been proud of you-do not let mte have to the neat little parlor where the evening repast
to ei aihanted of you."                   was sp'ea. It was now dark-the curtain was
No, father - ever I" exclaimed the girl closed-and lights were upon the board. 'Jhe
firmly : al fior a moment the glow of imdigna- father and daughter sat down together : but
tion flushed her cheeks.                    the former ate not, with his wouted appetite-
S lint you do not understand inc. Not for a and the latter partook sif. nothing.
moment do I doubt the innocence of your soul  " It is necessary," said Mr. 'Davis, when Mar-
-and the proof of it is that this Lonsdale has tha had removed the tray, " that we should re-
coutrived to teal away your affections.     turt to the subject of our recent discourse, evei
Father, say nothing mijurious to Frederick's though it is an unpleasant one. But while it is
ehi nactii':he is incapable of selfish or treach- still fresh i iiour minds, we had better talk .it
etous et u(uet :"---and again did the crimson glow out to the end. I was saying, Lucy, that there
ulOiilhIrmcheeks,                          were certain hopes which I cntertamed on your
A  pretty specimen of his integrity and account-hopes definitely chalked out  "
honor,"'said Davis, now unable to subdue a sneer,  " Indeed, father !" said the damsel, now gfz'
to entice you into clandestine meetigs and ing upon her parent with the curiosity of sis
render you a disobedient daughter. But still I pense.
do not wish to reproach you, Lucy. Remember,  " Yes, my child," lie responded: "and tlie
girl, your mother belonged to a genteel family, time has come when it is necessary toexplaii
and ried you iin a way that imght properly dihem to you. Listen calmly amnd atitentively. £
lad yuto aspire to a good alliance. It its mio must repeat what I said just nowv-thmat to yonr.
coplmet to tell you that you mare the hanid- dhecetased mother yout are imndebted for certain
comienyung woman iin thme neighiboihuod; advantages nt possessed by amuy othar vouug

11


16                            THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.
woman of the same rank in the whole neigh- drive them out of you. He at least is disposed
borhood-I might even say in the whole county ; of: he will get no work from any tenant of the
and nature has been most bountiful to you. Baronet's-and so he must tramp away from
You have a right, then, to raise your looks high: the village, I don't think you will be disobe-
and in a word, you may aspire to a splendid dient enough to maintain any clandestine cor-
position  t respondence with him; and I should be sorry to.
I do not understand you, father," said Lucy, have to say that I will keep a watch upon you.
trembling and shuddering : for the thought But this I do tell you-that you must follow the
struck her that her parent had perhaps already course I point -out. By heaven, girl ! the proud-
fixed upon a husband to whom he purposed to eet position is within your reach: I know it-I
sacrifice her.                            have calculated all the chances--I have planned
"I wish that I could see you as any other all that must be done-I have set my heart upon
young woman would be, if placed in such favor- it--it has become the whole and sole aim of my
able circumstances-anxious to make a gdtod life-and if now that the time is at hand when
match-determined to avail yourself of oppor- the scheme is to be carried out, I an to be
tunities-playing your cards well, in short  thwarted by any maudlin nonsense on your part,
Now do you comprehend me I"               it will be a bitter day for you that you thus fly
No, father--most certainly I do not :"-and in your father's face."
Lucy spoke the honest truth ; for she was be-  An ejaculation almost amounting to a shriek,
wildered and amazed at this language, so novel burst from Lucy's lips, as Mr. Davis thus cou'
from her father's lips, and so ominous in respect cluded his speech. The veil had indeed dropped
to her own cherished ideas of happiness,  from  her father's character: she suddenly b®-
"Then I must be explicit," observed Davis held him in his true light--a thorough worldly-
quickly : " for after what has occurred this even- nlinded, unscrupulous man, bent upon carrying
ing it is useless to conceal my views any longer. out his ambitious, aims by any means and at
Lucy," he added, bending forward and looking any sacrifice of his child's happiness. Oh I it is
his daughter full in the face, " which would you a terrible moment wheq a (aughter who has
rather (10-become the wife of a wretched la- hitherto looked upon hi r'father as a thoroughly
borer and dwell in a beggarly lodging, or es- honest and strictly conscientious individual find
pouse a young gentleman of rank, with a cer- her belief so abruptly shattered, and the source
tainty of possessing a fine fortune, and living in of filial veneration dried up in a moment, like a
a mansion I                              spring that disappears in the bosom of the soil
The answer which the girl's heart prompted, whence it has been accustomed to well forth.
was an affirmative reply to the first portion of  "Now, Lucy, I have spoken out plainly," said
his question: but she was too much overwhelm- Mr. Davis, no longer affecting any studied ca-
ed with mingled consternation and amazement jolery of language, but speaking with the stern
to be able to give utterance to any response at bluntness of one who has developed a pr&amp;sect
all. A suspicion of her father's mening-hut and means to be obeyed by the instrument no-
still dim and vague--had arisen in her mind: cessary for carrying it out: "I have spoken
and yet while on the one hand she fancied it plainly, I say-and I am glad that I have made
must be impossible, yet on the other did a a clean breast of it. You at length know what
secret voice whisper that it was really as she I mean; and it is for you to obey. I am sure
suspected.                                that when you1come to think calmly upon the
"Now, Lucy," continued Davis, scarcely able affair, you will fall into my views. You would
to suppress an ejaculation of impatience at not be mad if you did not. But it is impossible that
being at once understood, "you are a girl of good von have no ambition : every handsome and in-
sense and you must understand my meaning. telligent young woman has. You will get over
Do you wish me to speak it out plain Y Well, this sentimental love fit of your's mtich sooner
I will. In a word then, I am convinced that if than you expect--paticularly when you sect
-on choose, you may become a lady-a real that my scheme begins to work well anid that
ady at once by marrmge-and a lady too the fisi nibbles at the bait."
by title in due course."                    " Father, no more-no more I" almost shrieked
Still did Lucy gaze upon her father in vacant forth Lucy, as she started from her seat. " Even
bewilderment.  Her suspicions seemed con- if my heart were not pledged to another, I
firmed : she fancied that she comprehended would not lend myself to such a scheme as this.
him--and yet she dared not say to herself that No, I would not."
it was so. If she did, her father would suddenly  "But I say that you shall I" ejaculated her
appear to her in a new light-as a bold in- father fiercely; and seizing her by the wrist
triguer-an unscrupulous manceuvrer; and her with a sudden wrench, almost brutal in its vie-
pure soul recoiled from the idea of regarding lence, he compelled her to sit down again.
him as such. She felt as if she were in a dream, " There has been too much nonsense already,
with her thoughts in confusion, yet a strange and I will put up with it no longer. Instead of
sinister 1glt penetrating their cloudless. The covering you with reproaches for your secret
color had forsaken her cheeks-she sat still and meetings with that fellow Lonsdale, I spoke to
motionless, in a sort of fright that was subdued you kindly : but if kindness will not do, I shall
bhdismay.                              shw you that I know how to use harshness. I
Lucy, won't you understand mch exclaimed tell you that it is in your power to ensnare the
hefather, with anger in his tone. "Tis is too heart oif that half idiot boy Gerald Redburn, in
~ul  falyour thoughts are h~ent upon that so in'extricable a maze that to possess you, he
- hingf'ellow, I shall know how tolI will consent to any thing. Of course I mean

THE SOLDIER'S WIFE.

narriage-and nothing else. Leave it to me
to bring about opportunities and to throw you
together: but it will then be for you to play
your part-and by heaven ! it shll be played,
and well too-or I will show you that I am of
a disposition not to be trifled with. So now you
understand me."
"Yes-too well, father," replied Lucy, with a
deep mournfulness of tone and a despairing
look: then again rising from her seat, she took
up a candle and hurried from the room.
That was the first time since her earliest
years, that she had ever sought her chamber
without bidding her sire good night and kissing'
his cheek : but on this occasion, she could not
do it no, she could not
CHAPTER V.
TlE REDBURtN FAMILY.
WE must now, upon the same evening, intro-
duce our readers to the drawing-room of Red-
burn Manor, so that we may have an opportu-
nity of affording some farther insight into the
diaracters of the Baronet and his family. It
has already been said that Sir Archibald him-
self was a man of about fifty years of age: we
may add that he was a tall, fine-looking lman,
with a florid complexion, a portly form, and an
upright gait. He loved to dress in what he
called "the good old style of an English gentle-
man :namely a blue coat with brass buttons, a
bull waistcoat, black small-clothes, and hessian
boots reaching to the middle of the calf of the
leg, and with a little black tassel in the front of
each.
Lady Redburn was about ten years his junior,
and was an exceedingly handsome woman-
now in the full erbonpoiut of forty, and though
thus somewhat exuberant in figure, with her
charms but little impaired by the hand of time.
Her dark hair had not the slightest thread of
silver to destroy the uniformity of its raven sur-
face. Her eyes still retained much of their
youthful fire; and her teeth were excellently
preserved. It is true that art now supplied the
lace of the natural roses which had once
bloomed upon her cheeks: but the rouge was so
skilfully laid on by a clever lady's-maid, that
amongst country people it passed for a natural
bloom, and every body at Oakleigh expressed
admiration at the'freauty of her ladyship's com-
plexion. Her mind was not however equal to
her person: it was narrow, shallow, and frivolous
to a degree-at the same time that her pride
was inordinate, and she had the most sovereign
contempt for "everything vulgar." Lady ited-
burn, as well as her husband, considered that
the working-classes were born for the mere pur-
pose of fulfilling the part of serfs and bondsmen
to the higher orders; and therefore any one
who dared entertain a different opinion, was at
once set down as a wicked, seditious, and evil-
disposed person. We need hardly add that Sir
Archibald was an inveterate Tory of the old
-chool, devotedly attached to the British Consti-
tution, firmly believing that society would

crumble to pieces if the Established Church fell
and that the 'industrious millions ought to-go
down upon their knees and bless heaven that
they were ruled by an Hereditary Aristocracy.
Miss Redburn, the Baronet's sister, was a hy
of very nearly the same age as her sister-in-law,
Lady Redburn: or to speak with the closest ao-
curacy, she was thirty-nine. But very different
was she in personal appearance. Of tall stature,
her figure was thin, even to emaciation: she ap-
peared to be all skin and bone ; and not even
the artifices of the toilet could bestow upon her
shape the semblance of contours to conceal its
leanness. Her face was equally thin, and of a
death-like paleness. Her eyes were of a glassy
azure-not the serene pure hue of heaven, but
the light bluish shaje which has a dead dull
look when seen in the human eye. Her lips
were thin, and usually held compressed-not for
the purpose of hiding -the teeth, because these
constituted her only good feature-but through
a habit which she had contracted. Her look
was altogether disagreeable-almost repulsive:
yet it was not an old maidish primness that chil-
racterized her, but an universal acerbity of tem-
per and bitterness of disposition legible in every
feature,-and shining through her as it were with
its sinister light. She was habitually reserved
and   taciturn; but when she spoke, it was ge-
nerally to say sour and unpleasant things. She
dressed with some degree of care, and evidently
studied to diminiish the impression of her shrivel-
led form as much as possible. Yet she detested
society-and very seldom crossed the threshold
of the mansion, except on Sunday when she
regularly visited Oakleigh Church at the two
services, no matter what might be the state of
the weather. She had no favorite cats, nor
French poodle, nor even a parrot~.--nothing that
elderly spinsters usually adopt as the objects of
their affection for want of that which they have
failed to obtain-namely, a husband. She
seemed to have no liking for any living thing,
and to feast as it were inwardly upon the poison
of her own morbid and ill-conditioned mind.
And yet those who had known her many
years back, represented her to have been a very
different being from what those who saw her
now might imagine. It was even said that she
was once beautiful, and also that she was a gay,
laughing, joyous creature with sunny smiles
upon her lips, when a girl in her teens. The
change which had led her on to be what we have
described her alikelin looks and temper, hack been
gradual, as if some insidious poison had been im-
fused into her and had imperceptibly but surely
done its all but fatal work, corroding the whole
some essence of physical life, and envenoming
all her feelings at the heart's fountain. What
was the cause thereof l No one knew. As a
matter of course the reader will instantaneously
suspect that it was disappointed love: but those
who had known her from her infancy, would
confidently declare that such was not the case,
It appeared, therefore, to be one of those i$f
stances of physical blight which are not to be -
accounted for, and which involvethe warping of
some feelings and the deadening of others i tha
premature lecay of the whole being. -
Geraldl Redhuru wvan 'n--


wilt ifutaur
or th ai
;heap L. r
Ibrane than
t3. L. &amp; B
eating of mi
tates. The
dewns, tog
tthe business
re., wilicl
REY~
!ysteriesC
Price 50 ct
nose Foster
oF LoNso
Jaroline o l
per vol.
renitia Tr
per vol.5co
Eysteresc
vol., paper
lary price
iAo. 2'
tening 416
nneth :
traded. Ci
ord Saxol
ARUITOUI
CO
Lhe Stewa'
fully illustt
Ihe Bisters
traded. 1
I)
Three Guat
ewent'Ye
eragelonnu
'orty-iveI
[ron Mand
memoirs o
'Br
Prnk Fai
PRIVATIC
5o cts5
;Lewis Arui
the atli
vol, paper:
he Marry
the author
e Colvill
Arundel,"
arry°Cov
IT. lthy t4
"Stcent-.
?ortuxesf
Eeap gr:
8n brace
Mhlarryett'a
uerilla C
1 vo4l.,pri
Mervyn 0
Price-50e
drc   c
ateu hd

IL LONG &amp; BROTIIER,,
would respedflly inform their Friends in the Trade and the Public, that their
ABZSH1VIENT, 43 ANN ST. N.Y.
arpreen*t greatly increased facilities for Publishing, selling at wholesale and retail, and especially
important department of their business, supplying athe orders, of Booksellers, Dealers in
ature, Agents, Postmasters, &amp;c., with promptitude and dispatch, and upon auore liberal
any other house in the United States.
. wish to call the particular attention of every branch of the Trade to their own publications, con-
any of the most popular works of history, Biography, Fiction, &amp;c., ever published in the United
se wprks, now selling rapidly and in large editions, we will furnish on the suost favorable   r
etherwithlall other wor- ,at Publishers' prices, a portion of which will be found in our Catalogue.
of ailing tihe orders of correspondents in the trade, and supplying Agents, Pedlars,
aim, as heretofore, our chief attention, and no pains will be spared to give continued satisfaction.
IST OF' BO8 LATELY                               S3SD                             U
NOL)S' GREAT ROMANCES.          i       Mrs. Hale's Great National Work.                 r.
of the Court of London. 2vols.,paper. Northwood: OR, LIFE NORTH AND SouTm. By Mrs.
s. per vol.                            Sarah J. hale. 23 Editions of this popular work
r, oR, THE SheON  ERIEs OF T~ECOURT    haivebeen sold, and the demand stili continues.
N. In 3 vols     RSO3  TE      R     Beautifully llustrated, in 1 vol., paper covers, 30 V
cts. bound in cloth, Cl.
Brunswick. 2 vols., paper, price 50 ets. The Greatest Plague of Life; oR, THE ADvEN-
TURIES OF A LADY IN SEAReh OF A SERVANT. 11-
elawney.2 vols., paper, price 50 e.    lustrted. 1 vol., paper, price 50 ets.
taning 16 pages.                 .  Tom Racquet and his Three Maiden Aunts.           .
of the CourtBof Naples, Blustrted. 1   Beautitily tilustrated. 1 vol., paper, price 5t ets.
OR TIE ADVcenTURES .'  ASERVANT    The Diary of a Pawnbroker. With nine Illustra-
vols., paper, price 50 ets. per vol., col-  .iois. 23 ts.             C'
pages.                              The American Joe Miller. With over 100 Illus-
A RtoMANCE OF THIE  IHIAN~sIHus-    tratlons. 25 ets.
omIplete in 1 vol., 75 cs.          Portfolios of the Young 'Un. A humorous book.     v
dale: OR, LIFE AMONO TE LONDON       Illustrated. Price 25 ets, containing 150 pages.
Auv. In 2 vols. Price 50 ets. per vol.  Wau-nan-gee, OR, 'rHE IIsSACRR AT Cn IcAno.   C
T s ST WORKiS.A                 iRoianee of the'War of 1812. By the Author of  -
CKTN'       S T                       &amp;Tecumseh,"&amp;e. Price 25 cis.
rd: A roiMANiS OF REAL LE.l BeaUti-
rated from the English ad. 1 vol., 51 cts. The Seven Brothers of Wyoming, on, TilE RI- 1
(iAN i)5OF 'til AIMERIOAN, tEvotiTloN. 1.ya
: On, TII FATAL MARIAGES.    llus-  Member of the New York Press. Price 25 cts.
v5l. paper, price 50 cts.            Jack Arid, or, LIFE ON BoAID AN F'AST INI)IA-
UMAS' \ItREAT IVORKS.                  IAN. A tiril ng Sea Story. 20 cts.
rdsmen. 50 (as.                      Gallet Tomn: oiR, 'tE PEaRis Iso TIE OCEAN.25 ets.
ars After. 75 ets.                   Yankee Jack: on TiE 'RiILS OF A PRIVATEERas-    - -
, 75 es.                              MAN. Price 25 cents.
Guardsmen. 50 eta                    The Three Pirates : on, THE CRUIsa OF TIHE Tor-
50 cis.                             SA. Price 25 (ets.
a Marquis. 2vols.,illlustrated,price t T, T Brigand: on, TE MOUNTAIN CHIIE'F. Prico
ST NOVELS OF THE AGE.            -   The Plying artnilerist: A TALE OF MEXICAN
riegh: on, SCENES IN Tilil LIFE OF A   TREACIERY. Price 25 cis.
triL.   With nunerotds illustrations. The Plying Dutchman. A sea Tale. Price 25 ets.  m
nell  , iu'as.    u rartFE'.      andLie of J e A.iur  i   mt, the  reat Western
ordl "1', I riiiik F ircgh."  Isrle.  Lunld Pirate, W'tith Illnltiiis11. 25 Ci'.tH
r, price 50 cts.                     Life of Joseph T. Hare   Illustrated. 25 cIa.
ing Man. A Tale founded on fact. By  Life of Col. Monroe Edwards.   With niunerous
r  Frank Fairlegh," &amp;c. Price 12% ets.  illustrations. 25 cs.
le Pamil. fly the author of "Lewis   Life of Ellen Jewett. illustrated. 25 ct.
&amp;c., price,50 oi-                   Life of Jack Rann. Illustrated. Price 23 ets., con-
erdale's Courtship. AN wHATAcAstE OF  tuning 114 pages.
c author of -Fratk lairtegh," &amp;c.,pJrice  Lives of the Felons: Illustrated  Price 25 ct.
.ar  Rce     Life of Alexander Tardy, the Pirate, a Taletoe
and Misfortunes of Harry Racket        $t. Doningo. Illustrated. Price 25 ets.
ace. 1 al., illustrated, prcc 50 ets.  Ryan's Mysteries of Marriage. 1 vol., Iustra-
:  Nastex   O RoMANCN. Equal to Capt.  tid. 25 cis.
best. 1 vol., illustrated, 51 ci.
ief. A nOMIANCE OF WAR. Illustrated. Mrs. Hale's New Cook Book; a practical system
forpr lo tannhe los aol m oiotv, woth direcoos f o t
ce 5p1 ets.                            io. arranug hs lt r i rpoe, sad madntig ,thom -
litheroe. By W. rrrison Asinsworth.      sf    sPilso  l    o.13Sira. S. J. O, wi
tS.                                    nunioros, Engravings, pieo 1, bouo in cloth.
castle. ly W. II. Ainsworth. With eight                  -   --
Entgravinlgs. From the London edition-  Best Collection of Negro Melodies publlahed.
s of Paul Periwinkle. Illustrated. 1 White's iMelodeon       long rook.     2%ets.      t
S.                                    White's Plantation     'Itelodies. 12%i ets.
Sorniig, By Eugene Sue. Beau. White's Ethiopian ilong Rook. 15%4 ets.              r
istraed, 2 vols., paper, price SL1  White's tSerenadera' Song Book. 1eX ets.

r
9

i   t
' .
.   "

;  ,


                                                                  
             
         
       
   
