
    ----CITATION----
        Cook, Capt.. A History of the Great Narraticon Exploring Expedition of 1866 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6140 wright2-0610
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            
               
            
         
         
         
            
               A HISTORY OF THE GREAT NARRATICON EXPLORING EXPEDITION OF
                  1866.
            
            BY CAPT. COOK
            
            
               ACCOMPANIED BY A MAGNIFICENT MAP, An Extended and Exhaustive
                  INDEX, A CAREFULLY PREPARED AND VALUABLE APPENDIX, AND ILLUSTRATED WITH
                  TWENTY-FIVE CHOICE ENGRAVINGS.
            
            
               SWEDESBORO' N. J.
               Published by the Expedition.
            
            1867.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, A. D, 1867, by THE PUBLISHERS, In the
                  Department of Extended Surveys of the Great Narraticon Exploring
                  Expedition.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            The publishers of the following work feel assured that its great scientific
               importance will excuse the lack of an extended introduction.
            The Great Narraticon Exploring Expedition was an undertaking of such magnitude, that
               the public cannot fail to be impressed with a deep sense of its immense value. It was
               subject to the reverses that attend all vast enterprises; but, these once surmounted,
               a brilliant success crowned its efforts. That any one should doubt the veracity of
               its details, or smile at the toils and misfortunes of the lavigators, is painful, no
               less than incredible.
            Attention is called to the copious and valuable index which has been laboriously
               prepared
            The engravings are believed to be executed in the highest style of art. No expense
               was spared in their production.
            An apology is, perhaps, necessary for the typographical execution of the work.
               Impressed with the necessity of encouraging home manufactures, native, rather than
               foreign talent, was engaged. The result is not what we were led to expect, and we
               crave pardon for the errors that exist.
            
               THE PUBLISHERS.
            
         
         
         

            CORRESPONDENCE.
            
               
                  Swedesboro' Jan. 20th 1807
                  
                     CAPT. COOK,
                  
                  SIR:—
               
               An intense wish to perpetuate a chronicle of perhaps the most important
                  achievement of the age,—the Great Narraticon Exploring Expedition, impels us to
                  beg of you the performance of a service that would forever make the world your
                  debtor. No other pen is worthy this; no other man could have sustained the toils,
                  the perils, the adversities; no other mind could have surmounted the difficulties
                  that beset the Narraticon Explorers. We feel, therefore, a deep sense of what we
                  already owe to you as the projector of the noble work, in thus earnestly
                  requesting you to write a History of the Expedition.
               
                  Your Very Obedient Servants.
                  [Signed] L. S. Allen, Capt. &c.
                  Lieut. M. T. Puddles.
                  And Twenty-seven Others.
               
            
            
               
                  
                     Capt. L. S. Allen, Lieut. Puddles, Alphonso Spooney, James Bunko, and many others,
                  
                  RESPECTED SIRS:—
               
               It is, indeed, with emotions to which this bosom has seldom been subjected, that I
                  scan your highly flattering and intelligent note. I feel myself unfit for the
                  great duty which you wish me to undertake; and were it not that I am animated with
                  the desire to leave to a perhaps ungrateful posterity, an account of the
                  privations, sufferings and perseverance of the brave men who explored the
                  Narraticon, I would indeed decline. But, influenced by such feelings, it seems my
                  duty; and, however humbly I may perform the task, I hope it may, in part,
                  accomplish the purpose I desire.
               To L. S. Allen, whose guidance, wisdom and energy carried the Expedition through
                  so many difficulties, despite obstacles that never before confronted human skill;
                  To Lieut. Puddles, A. Spooney and the gallant command who so heroically followed
                  the great Allen, these pages are inscribed.
               
                  By their friend and companion,
                  THE AUTHOR.
                  Witherspoon Terrace, March 2nd, '67.
               
            
         
      
      
         
            A history of the great Narraticon Exploring Expedition of 1866
            
            HISTORY.
            
               
                  THE NARRATICON—LOOKING UP.
               
            
            
               
                  
                     
                        I stood, methought, betwixt earth, seas and skies;
                        The whole creation open to my eyes:
                        In air, self-balanced, hung the globe below,
                        Where mountains rise, and circling oceans flow;
                        Here naked rocks and empty wastes were seen,
                        There, tow'ry cities, and the forests green:
                        Here sailing ships delight the wand'ring eyes;
                        There trees and intermingled temples rise:
                        Now a clear sun the shining scene displays,
                        Finds NARRATICON brightest 'neath his rays.
                     
                  
                  —Pope.
               
            
            
               CHAP. I.
               
                  GIVES some description of the country lying about, and bordering upon the
                     NARRATICON.—Character of the Natives.—Their condition before the Great
                     Exploring Expedition of 1866.
               
               IN THE heart of the great State of Jersey, far remote from the noise and bustle of
                  Commerce, where the tasseled corn plays gently in the Southern breeze, and the
                     purple fox-grape grows luscious 'neath a
                  southern sun, sparkles the NARRATICON.
               Its golden water ripples over graveled beaches; kisses meekly the feet of the cold
                  gray bluffs; runs laughingly beneath the overhanging larches; plays gentle music
                  on the grassy slopes; darkens beneath the shadows of the wooded hills; and hides
                  its sparkles in the cool, deep coves.
               Its banks are green with life. The placid lake lends health and vigor to the noble
                  trees that seem to bend their arms to softly touch its silver surface. Its waters
                  teem with merry members of the finny tribe; for, 'midst the clustering lilies,
                  sports the minnow; here and there the sun-fish darts, and then his sides flash
                  crystal in the noon-day sun; while, lord of all, the solemn old Pahdunkie, 'neath
                  a stone, lies watching with a jealous eye, the lazy polly-wog. (a)
               
                  
               
               The sky-lark, shrilly pipng out his morning song, is mirrored in its depths. The
                  blackbird, at the scorching noon, comes chirping to the cool shade of its wooded
                  bank; and when the hovering shadows of the night creep down upon its peaceful
                  surface, then the heron's mournful note is echoed from the deep, dark coves, where
                  he has made his home.
               How many suns have smiled on Narraticon, none can tell. (b)
               Years before the white man's tread was heard within its forests, the mild-eyed
                  deer has waded in its cooling streams. Oft has the Indian maiden, pensive, gazed
                  as if to penetrate its depths, and seen her own sweet face reflected back. The
                  growling bear has lapped a cooling draught; and grim old braves have laved their
                  feet in Narraticon's waters.
               Prior to the Great Exploring Expedition of 1866, the condition of the natives, was
                  truly distressing. They lived principally upon fish and berries, roaming up and
                  down its banks, in clans, and acknowledging neither law nor restraint.
               Sometimes they were peacefully inclined; and then, at other periods, they would
                  break out in a lawless warfare against all civilization. [c]
               Their ignorance was pitiable indeed. One of the prominent aborigines was known to
                  ask $20. for a leaky old canoe, and still despite all opposing arguments,
                  persisted in his idea that a solid gold watch, could be bought for Fifty
                  Cents!!
               Many were seen with beards descending far below their waists, while some were
                  clothed in merely a jacket and a cap.
               Their mode of warfare was curious, original and effective. [d] Their
                  toes were armed with sharp, strong nails, and screaming out a loud "U-HALL!" they
                  would button their jackets tightly about their breasts, balance themselves upon
                  their heads, and dash their toes, violently, into their opponent; who, if
                  unluckily standing on his feet, would receive the murderous attack in his
                  face.
               
                  
                     DENIZENS OF THE DEEP.
                  
               
               Their mode of fishing was truly ingenious. A glow-worm impaled upon a sharp stick,
                  entices the stately Pahdunkie from his bed among the reeds; and as he opens his
                  wide jaws, to take in the delicious morsel, the fisherman's toe is thrust within
                  his mouth, and in an instant, the mighty fish lies on the green sward, gasping his
                  life away.
               Their fire they procured by the primitive method of ignition by friction; and,
                  after rubbing two sticks together for the space of two hours, obtained the desired
                  spark. For the benefit of their weaker-armed brethren, an enterprising tribe kept
                  one hundred captives rubbing, night and day, two large trees together; and, from
                  the sparks produced by the abrasion, any one was privileged to light his pipe, on
                  the payment of a Pahdunkie's eye,—a shilling among these curious people.
               Among the most famous of their dishes, may be mentioned a sort of minced-meat of
                  bull-frogs' beads and turtles' legs, saturated with snakes' blood, and stuffed in
                  an old cel-skin. It is then buried in a moist soil for two weeks; when baked it is
                  eaten with raspberries, and pronounced extremely good, having a flavor like strong
                  cheese, or asafœtida.
               Another, far more common than this, and one which the Author will long remember as
                  most grateful to the palate, was broiled Pahdunkie, stuffed with a salad of nicely
                  prepared Jamestown weed, (provincially "jimson,") grasshoppers, robins' ergs, and
                  mud. [e[
               
               Thus these wonderful people lived, when the Great Expedition of 1866 broke in upon
                  their barbarous habits, and caused them to scatter into the surrounding country.
                  [f]
            
            
               CHAP. II.
               
                  An account of the first attempt to explore the Lake, in the early part of
                     August, 1866.—Difficulties that met the effort.—Its failure.—All that
                     transpired up to August 8th.
               
               IN the early part of August, 1866, the arrival, in Swedesboro', of Messrs. Allen
                  and Cook, revived the flagging interest, felt by the citizens, to know something
                  about the people inhabiting the shores of the mysterious sheet of water, that lay
                  so near their town Emboldened by the encouraging promises of the citizens, Messrs.
                  Allen and Cook conceived the bold project of an exploration. Their determination
                  was no sooner made public, than they were the recipients of the most flattering
                  offers of aid.
               Mrs. Ira Allen generously donated provisions for a two-day's cruise.
               Mr Ira Allen loaned implements for digging. [g]
               Mr. C. S. Westcott, of Phila, furnished valuable suggestions for navigating.
               
                  
               
               Mr. William Black nullified his EDICT against trespassing, so far as to allow the
                  Expedition to pass through his possessions.
               Mr Charles Paulus offered his services as scout.
               A. Grizzly Esq. kindly furnished a craft, suitable for navigating; while to Mr. J.
                  Keen, of Swedesboro, the explorers were greatly indebted for data, and traditional
                  lore.
               After careful preparation, early on the morning of the 8th of August, every detail
                  had been looked to, most carefully, and all was announced as ready for the
                  start.
               The beautiful craft, the "Jolly Polly," gaily dressed in flags, and manned by
                  Lieut. Puddles with a stalwart crew, lay bathed in the morning sun, upon the bosom
                  of the heauteous Narraticon.
               At 10 min. past 7 A. M., the word was given to dip oars; and amid the loud huzzas
                  of the citizens, and the soul-inspiring strain of "Hail Columbia," these
                  brave-hearted men started out upon their perilous mission.
               
                  
                     THE START.
                  
               
               They crept slowly up the western bank, and beheld, for the first time, the varied
                  scenery of wood and dell, cove and beach, for which Narraticon is so noted.
               Absorbed in contemplating the beauties of the scene about them, they were startled
                  from their  dream of happiness by the sudden snapping of a thole-pin,
                  which threw Capt. Cook into the bottom of the boat, and the whole crew into
                  consternation.
               This accident occurred near the THREE BUTTES. Finding it impossible to remedy the
                  unlooked-for mishap, they landed; and, on discovering a spring, proceeded to
                  encamp, [h]
               All hopes of going further, on this day, were at once abandoned. Moreover, the
                  crew becoming dissatisfied with the division of the provisions, the officers
                  thought it best to retrace their course; and, shortly after 10 o'clock, they
                  embarked for home. [i]
               Thus was the first effort to explore Narraticon, frustrated, and the Expedition,
                  that had started under the most favorable auspices at 7 o'clock, returned, the
                  same day, in time for dinner.
            
            
               CHAP. III.
               
                  THE period after the failure of the 1st Expedition, to the 2nd.—The 2nd
                     Expedition.—Discoveric made.—Explocation of Battenton Branch.—Serious
                     accident.—Return of Expedition.
               
               THE failure of the Expedition of August 8th caused a feeling of
                     gloom to spread over the whole scientific community. So much
                  had been expected from the explorations that its failure could hardly be credited.
                  Both Allen and Cook were subjected to much
                  undeserved censure; while the crew and Lieut. Puddles were openly accused of
                  mutiny. Such was the condition of affairs until Aug. 22nd, when these
                  brave-hearted men, despite public opinion and their past failure, determined to
                  again visit the mysterious Narraticon. [j]
               About noon on the 22nd, without any demonstrations from the citizens, they set
                  sail, following nearly the same course as before. They passed the First and Second
                  Willows, skirting close beside the Three Buttes,—the scene of their former
                  mishap,—and silently proceeded up the coast.
               They soon arrived at Doctor's Point, and, landing, held a council upon its bold
                  promontory.
               It was here decided to proceed up the Northern Coast of Battentown Branch, and
                  explore the hidden wonders of its upper waters.
               Embarking, they proceeded slowly along the shore; watching closely for hidden
                  snags, and the fierce natives, who were said to roam the bleak summits of Doctor's
                  Bluffs. [k]
               Meeting with no accident, and perceiving no natives, they soon reached the head of
                  the Brauch. Here, a party under Allen landed, and moved cautiously inland.
               They discovered Davidson's Creek, which empties into the Branch, near their
                  landing; along its moist shores the first traces of the natives were
                  discovered.
               
                  
                     TRACES OF THE NATIVES
                  
               
               Being unprepared to meet them in any force, and finding the traces increasing in
                  number, Allen concluded to retreat to the boat. [l]
               Setting sail, they skirted the head of the Branch to the Southern shore, and
                  turning eastward, proceeded to follow its beautiful windings.
               
                  
               
               They had already left the wooded tops of Jimmie's Hills behind them, and were
                  rapidly nearing the mouth of the Branch, when the sudden careening of the boat
                  threw overboard a valuable and very important Hatchet, belonging to Ira Allen Esq.
                  of Swedesboro. (m)
               This sudden occurrence for the moment, paralyzed the crew. A hurried consultation
                  was held and it was determined that, under the circumstances, the farther
                  exploration on that day would, indeed, be unadvisable. With saddened faces, the
                  crew turned the prow of the "Jolly Polly" homeward.
               
                  
               
               Thus was the Second, like the First attempt, ruined by a sudden freak of fortune.
                  The hidden mysteries of the Upper Narraticon were still concealed from
                  civilization and mankind.
               Virtually, the Second Expedition was not a failure. A large sweep of coast had
                  been explored, traces of the natives were discovered, the mouth of Davidson's
                  Creek was undeniably located and the exact position of Jimmie's Hills was
                  defined.
               Still, in the face of all these triumphs, we are sorry here to record that the
                  citizens refused farther aid to these intrepid explorers. And they were obliged,
                  under the force of this difficulty, to curb their impatience to reach the
                  head-waters of the Narraticon, and remain inactive.
            
            
               CHAP. IV.
               
                  DETERMINATION of Allen and Cook to explore the NARRATICON alone.—Protest of the
                     crew and Lieut. Puddles.—The Departure.—Success of the project.—Discoveries
                     made.—Safe return.
               
               THIS was the condition of affairs up to Aug. 23rd, when, influenced by the earnest
                  wishes of a few true and trusted friends, Messrs Allen and Cook conceived the bold
                  project of an exploration alone.
               This proposition was met with one universal cry of disapprobation from their
                  gallant command. Lieut. Puddles shed tears of vexation at the resolution of his beloved commanders, and asked but a chance
                  to share the perils of the Expedition.
               Alike deaf to the entreaties of their devoted crew, and the scoffs of the
                  citizens, these intrepid explorers spent their time in careful preparation for
                  their meditated voyage. On the morning of the 23rd all was announced as ready for
                  the start Accompanied to the water's edge by the crew, a few friends and Lieut.
                  Puddles, they embarked.
               
                  
               
               Proceeding slowly up the western coast, they passed, for the third time, the Three
                  Buttes, steering thence for Doctor's Point. This, after some time, they reached,
                  and landing, crected a flag.
               Embarking again, they pushed off, and going to the head of the Branch, landed and
                  crected another station, near the mouth of Davidson's Creek. They then started
                  down the southern coast, passed Jimmie's Hills, and neared, with thoughtful
                  hearts, the spot where the Hatchet had been lost. Landing, they proceeded to crect
                  a Monument. (n) At this point too, a station was fixed; and from it,
                  across the Branch, might be descried the bleak summits of Doctor's Bluffs.
               
                  
                     THE MONUMENT.
                  
               
               Setting sail, they rounded the Point into the main waters of the NARRATICON, and
                  with stout hearts ventured to explore that wide expanse of mysterious waste.
               Suddenly passing the bold promontory of Kingfisher's Roost, they beheld, for the
                  first time, the sweep of Swedesboro' Bay.
               Rapidly crossing its wide mouth and following the windings of the shore beyond its
                  southern boundary, they plunged quickly into the overhanging shadows of Perch
                  Nook.
               Leaving its cosy precincts behind them, and rounding the jutting headland beyond,
                  the explorers glided silently into the still waters of Pocket Bay. [o.]
               Here a scene of tranquil nature met their view. The struggling sunbeams scarce
                  could force a passage through the thick foliage of the overhanging willows. Gentle
                  breezes drew rustling music from the quivering leaves, but scarcely rippled the
                  glassy surface of the cool, deep cove.
               Nourished by the pearly waters of a murmuring brook, the grass grew tall and green
                  above the treacherous quicksands on its shores.
               The brush and undergrowth was thick and strong, and served a screen to hide from
                  day the still, deep pools, extending inland, that are the homes of frogs and
                  tender polly-wogs.
               With noiseless oars our navigators cautiously stole away from its drowsy limits,
                  and weathering Nelladnakooc Point, bore straight across the wide sweep of water
                  between them and a jutting headland far beyond. Gaining this, they landed;
                  crecting a tall flagstaff, they called the spot Range Station.
               Embarking, they struck boldly out for the middle of the Lake, passing Cape Lookout
                  far to the westward, and proceeding rapidly forward, until, arriving nearly
                  opposite Heron's Perch, the navigation became, suddenly, very
                  dangerous.
               Hidden snags seemed to threaten the destruction of their noble craft, and frequent
                  shoals proclaimed to the hardy explorers that they were rapidly nearing the goal
                  of their ambition—the HEAD OF THE NARRATICON.
               Before them lay a low, sandy island; while, far beyond, arose the wooded hills of
                  Meley's Possessions. To the eastward was a thick, impenetrable forest: in the west
                  a meandering creek lost itself in the green meadows.
               Landing on the island, our explorers looked about them and discovered many very
                  interesting relies of antiquity.
               
                  
                     DISCOVERY OF THE RELICS.
                  
               
               Among the most valuable of these, may be noticed a sapling, placed horizontally
                  upon two uprights, along the bank of the creek. Upon this, no doubt, long ago the
                  Indian braves have sat, while washing their war 
                   the cool waters that flow beneath it.
                  [p.]
               After making these investigations they proceeded to crect a huge Tripod, upon
                  which they unfurled their flag.
               
                  
               
               Its symbol so inspired them that they determined to explore the creek. For this
                  purpose a  channel across the island was cut; but it being late in the
                  afternoon, upon its completion they determined to abandon the enterprise for the
                  present.
               They then took formal possession of the land, under the name of Tripod Island, and
                  called the channel they had made, Allen's Cut.
               Embarking, they steered for the eastern coast, striking it in the immediate
                  vicinity of Buzzard's Delight. Keeping close in shore, they passed Grizzly's
                  Retreat at about 3. P. M.
               For some distance the coast was low and undulating. Then the steep sides of Shaky
                  Hills arose to view, and from it to Noodles' Beach the land is singularly
                  precipitous (q.)
               Skirting close Point Puddles, they were gently wafted round it to where an abrupt
                  receding of the coast formed a beautiful bay, protected on the north by a jutting
                  headland.
               Landing here, they partook of  the delicate fox-grape, pendent in
                  luxuriant clusters a mid the thick-entangled branches.
               After the repast they named the bay, Cook's Cove; calling the highland, Allen's
                  Point. Again setting sail, they soon passed the snug limits of Catfish Hollow.
               Suddenly rounding Cape Charlie, they caught but a passing glance of Mike's Cove
                  Sailing beneath the shadow of a majestic sweet gum tree, they struck holdly across
                  the noble sweep of Expanse Bay (r.)
               A few minutes' sail, and the glistening scintillations of Gill's Gravel struck
                  their eyes. A few moments more and they stood upon the bold promontory known as
                  Garwood's Point.
               What a beautiful vision burst upon the view of these two weary navigators!
               Far to the westward stretched the endless waters of the Branch; along its southern
                  shore arose the dizzy heights of Jimmie's Hills. Still farther to the south ran
                  the receding shores of Swedesboro' Bay. Here were the purple waters of the
                  Expanse; while there, before them, flashed the glittering wave of glorious
                  Narraticon! Across it rose the gray fronts of Doctor's Bluffs.
               Gazing in speechless admiration, how difficult to tear themselves from the scene!
                  At length they embarked, and proceeding rapidly homeward, landed at the Maple at
                  about 4 P. M (s.)
               Their arrival was immediately made known throughout the village, and a deputation
                  of the most influential citizens, headed by Lieut. Puddles, received our careworn
                  navigators.
               
                  
                     THE GLORIOUS RETURN.
                  
               
               Thus was the great Narraticon explored; and the men, who in the morning had
                  departed amid the jeers of the populace, returned to be welcomed by their very
                  scoffers. [t.]
            
            
               CHAP. V.
               
                  EXPEDITION of Lieutenant Slasher.—The natives destroy the signals—Survey by
                     Allen of Cook in November.
               
               NO attempt was made to extend the advantages afforded by the discoveries of the
                  Great Expedition of 1866, until the middle of September, when Lieut. Slasher, at
                  the instance of Messrs. Allen and Cook,
                  started with a party inland, towards the Branch.
               His report upon the condition of affairs was exceedingly gloomy. He stated that
                  all the stations had been demolished by the natives, as far up as Doctor's Point.
                  The navigators feared that this cruel fate had extended to them all, yet they were
                  still unprepared to credit Slasher's statement, that he had penetrated the forest
                  to the head-waters, and found Tripod Station demolished.
               
                  
               
               This state of uncertainty continued until the 29th of November when our two
                  Commanders, proceeding to survey the Lake, found evidences of the realization of
                  their worst fears.
               Every station had been destroyed. Even the tall flag-staff at Range Station was
                  gone; and the huge Tripod had been wrenched from its fastenings, and thrown upon
                  the ground
               Despite these great inconveniences, a careful survey was made, correct soundings
                  taken, and a map drawn, which may be relied upon, by navigators, as perfectly
                  accurate, and the only correct delineation of Narraticon's windings extant. A copy
                  accompanies this volume.
               The Author now finds his task completed. In conclusion, he can only express his
                  kindest thanks to those who have aided him in his work; with the trust that the
                  Great Narraticon may never lack admirers, and that their shadows may never grow
                  less.
               
                  
                     In Memoriam.
                  
               
            
         
      
      
         
            APPENDIX.
            
               
                  a.Pahdunkie.
               
              The Pahdunkie is a curious fish, discovered and classified by the
               Expedition. It is, undoubtedly, the connecting link between the animal and vegetable
               kingdoms. Fishermen seldom care to capture them, and their long, black, slimy bodies
               are not often brought above the water.
               
                
            
               
               
                  b.Weather.
               
               The absence of all meteorological records prevents a decision upon
               this important topic. There is, absolutely, no means of ascertaining how many suns
               have shone on Narraticon.
            
               
               
                  c.History.
               
               A chronicle of the wars of the Narraticonese would read so very like
               a work of fiction, that the publishers decline presenting it, lest the works of other
               standard authors should fall into disfavor.
            
               
               
                  d.Facts.
               
               Many of the facts related of the Narraticonoux are not the result of
               observation, They come, however, from a no less authentic source. Had there but been
               among them a Homer, the heroic deeds of the Narraticon braves would still
               live,—famous in immortal verse.
            
               
               
                  e.Very French
               
               The reader must see new proofs of the wonderful powers of the
               Narraticonists, knowing they could-convert such shocking substances into agreeable
               food. They were certainly very French.
            
               
               
                  f.Flight.
               
                  The aborigines fled, probably, to Russian America.
            
               
               
                  g.Not for Oil.
               
             These implements were for crecting earth works and fortifications,
                  and not to dig for oil, as has been reported.
            
               
               
                  h.The Hermit.
               
               The Three Buttes is becoming a favorite watering place. The Hermit
                  of the Lake lives in the neighborhood.
            
               
            
            
               
               
                  i.The Hat.
               
               Lieut, Spooney has stated that the loss of Com. Cook's Hat,—a loss
                  that was irreparable, was a weighty reason in favor of their return.
            
               
            
            
               
               
                  j.Activity.
               
              The determination of again exploring the Lake was formed even when
                  returning from the first attempt.
            
            
               
            
            
               
               
                  k.The supposed Boots.
               
               On Doctor's Bluffs a number of interesting relies of the ancient
               Narraticonites have been found. The cut represents what are believed to have been a
               pair of boots.
            
               
            
            
              
               
                  l.Peaceful nature of the Expedition.
               
               The explorists were civicists, rather than militists, and the course
               of Com. Allen, in avoiding any unnecessary affray, has been sustained. Unfortunately,
               one of the party became separated from the command, and fell in, (or fell out,) with
               a party of natives by whom he was fiercely attacked. He reached the boat by strenuous
               exertions, just as it pushed off, pursued to the water's edge.
            
               
               
                  m.The Hatchet.
               
               Arduous efforts have since been made, to recover this Very Important
               Hatchet, but without success.
            
               
               
                  n.Omission of Relics from Monument.
               
               The Monument was cut from gray sandstone, and was crected with
               imposing ceremonies. It had been expected to enclose various valuable mementoes of
               the Great Expedition, but it was found, when too late, that they had been
               omitted.
            
               
               o.Pocket Bay.
               
               The tourist, after leaving Perch Nook, should not fail to visit that
               place of beauty, POCKET BAY Beside the admiration it must always claim because of its
               romantic and picturesque scenery, it will be sought with additional interest, as the
               landing-place for visitors to the famous Falls of Nelladnakooe.
            
               Route to the Falls.
                Through the munificent liberality of citizens of Swedesboro', a winding path
               has been made, leading from the grassy shores, over the mountains, to the Falls; and
               accommodating guides await the arrival of every boat to conduct tourists safely
               through the forests on the steep sides of Rainy Mountain, to the spot. For some
               distance the path leads along the brow of the hill, and the traveler, looking down
               between the fluttering leaves, sees the placid Narraticon far below. Further on, the
               path begins to descend, and for the first time, the listening ear catches the distant
               splashing of the cataract. The path then
                              
               The Famous Falls of Nelladnakooe.
               grows winding and circuitous, leading at last into a long, shady avenue,
               above which the interlacing branches of the maples form an arch of graceful rudeness.
               A few steps down a steep defile, and the enraptured gazer emerges from the forest
               into a cozy, nestlike clearing on the mountain side, while, just before him, noisy
               Nelladnakooe tumbles from its dizzy height, full five feet, upon the boiling sands
               below.
            
                  Rapids.
               The foaming waters plunge madly down the Boiling Rapids, and then the clear, cool
               current glides, swift and silent, between the mossy shores of Pocket Run.
            
               
            
            
               
               
                  p.Search for the mammal.
               
               On Tripod Island, the discovery of a claw or nail was believed to
               indicate the existence of the remains of some antediluvian mammoth. An application
               was made to the eminent geologists, Messrs. Cadger and Hunck to prosecute a search
               for the fossils; and such was the acuteness of these scientific
               gentlemen that they immediately recognized the monster as a mammal, hitherto unknown,
               Order Pachydermata, Class Solidungula,—similar to the Mastodon, yet smaller, more
               symmetrical, more graceful.
            
               
            
               Discovery.
                Excavations were at once begun and a bright hope formed of a great discovery
               that would add a new lustre to the fame of the Narraticon, and spread still wider the
               reputation of Profs. Cadger and Hunck. Variously disposed strata were penetrated, and
               after an untiring toil, the efforts were crowned with success. A number of bones, in
                 
               Verification of the scientists' words.
               precisely what the learned gentlemen had at first pronounced them,—a triumph
               exceedingly gratifying to Messrs. Cadger and Hunck. A close investigation of the nail
               has since shown it to be of iron, similar to those in common use by blacksmiths.
               
            
            
            
            
            
               
               
                  
                  q.Contents of the Marl.
               
               The hills about the Narraticon abound in marl. Interesting organic
               remains are frequently discovered. The marl has been described as containing bivalves
               and quantities of belemites; and the calcareous beds of the county countain gryphæa,
               teredo, alcyonium, sparangus, and several species of Linuæan madrepores. It is said
               that marine orgatic remains, such as orthocerites, madrepores, tubipores,
                  pectenites, terebratulas, encrenites, bilabites, serpelites,
               &c., generally in an argillaceous base have been found. The explorers, however,
               are not aware that they, personally, have met with any of these.
            
               
               
                  
                  r.Expanse Bay.
               Careful soundings show that the bed of Expanse Pay is a vast, gently
                  sloping, sandy plain.
            
               
               
                  
                  s.Welcome.
               
               The welcome was warm and sincere; and the fame of the glorious
               achievement traveled far and wide.
            
            
              
               
                  
                  t.Success.
               
               The reader need not be reminded that other Expeditions have created
               the same changes of sentiment. This was particularly the case with Columbus. Irving
               says:—One can hardly recognize in the individual thus made the companion of princes,
               and the theme of general wonder and admiration, the same obscure stranger, who, but a
               short time before had been a scoff and a jest in this very court, derided by some as
               an adventurer, and pointed at by others, as a madman.
            
              Misfortune.
               
               The glories of the Narraticon, are, like all things earthly, peculiarly
               susceptible to the depressing influences of a bad spell of weather. Returning
               sunshine brings back its charms, and gloomy fogs, enshrouding, are dispelled. A
               darker cloud than usual has obscured its beauties. The Lake withstood the storms of
               an indefinite period, as mentioned in Note b, but on the 15th of
               August, 1867, with tempestuous rains descending from above, and raging torrents
               pouring in from every side, its banks gave way, and the imprisoned waters rushed
               wildly to the sea, leaving the Narraticon desolate,—a muddy waste. Its glory was no
               more!
               
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               Allen, Mrs. Ira. 4
               
               Allen, Mr. Ira. 4
               
               Allen's Cut. 10
               
               Appendix. 13
               
               Battentown Franch. 6
               
               Black, Mr William. 4
               
               Boots, The, 14
               
               Breaking of the Thole-Pin. 5
               
               Buzzard's Delight. 10
               
               Cape Charlie, 10
               
               Cape Lookout, 9
               
               Catfish Hollow, 11
               
               Columbus, 16
               
               Correspondence, iii
               
               Davidson's Creek, 6, 8
               
               Denizens of the Deep, 3
               
               Doctor's Bluffs, 6
               
               Edict, The Black, 4
               
               Expanse Bay. 16
               
               First Expedition, 4
               
               Flag, The, 10
               
               Garwood's Point, 11
               
               Gill's Gravel, 11
               
               Grizzly, A., Esq. 4
               
               Grizzly's Retreat, 10
               
               Hat, The, 13
               
               Hatchet, Loss of the, 6
                  
                     Fac simile of the, 7
                     
                  
               
               Heron's Perch, 9
               
               In Memoriam, 12
               
               Jimmie's Hills, 6
               
               Jolly Polly, The, 4
               
               Keen, Mr. J., 4
               
               Kingfisher's Roost, 8
               
               Map, Frontispiece
               
               Marl, Analysis of, 16
               
               Mike's Cove, 11
               
               Monument, The, 8
               
               Narraticon, The, 2
                  
                     Looking Up, 1
                     
                     Looking Down, 18
                     
                     Head of, 9
                     
                     Hermit of, 13
                     
                     Misfortunes of, 16
                     
                  
               
               
               Natives, The, 2
                  
                     Character of, 2
                     
                     Habits of, 3
                     
                     Curious food, 3
                     
                  
               
               Nelladnakooc Point, 9
               
               Noodles' Beach, 10
               
               Pahdunkie, The, 2
               
               Paulus, Mr. Chas, 4
               
               Perch Nook, 8
               
               Pocket Bay, 9, 14
               
               Point Puddles, 10
               
               Preface, i
               
               Puddles, Lieutenant, 
                     Grief of, 7
                     
                     Praying to he taken. 8
                     
                  
               
               Range Station, 9
               
               Relies, Discovery of. 9
               
               Return, The Glorious, 11
               
               Second Expedition, 6
               
               Shaky Hills, 10
               
               Skeleton, The, 15
               
               Slasher, Lieut. 
                     Expedition of, 12
                     
                     Viewing the desolation, 12
                     
                  
               
               Start, The, 5
               
               Swedesboro' Bay, 8
               
               Survey, The Final, 12
               
               Third Expedition, 7
               
               Three Buttes, 5
               
               Traces of the Natives, 6
               
               Tripod Station, 10
               
               Tripod Island, 10
               
               Westcott, Mr. C. S., 4
               
            
            
               
                  THE NARRATICON—LOOKING DOWN.
               
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
