
    ----CITATION----
        Fitch, Anna M.. Bound Down, or, Life and Its Possibilities .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6437
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            Bound down, or, Life and its possibilities
             
                  BOUND-DOWN, OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. BY. J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO     Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1870, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO., In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.   BOTUND DOWN. CHAPTER I. "OH, I protest, Harry! Not Prospect Place, if you love me." "And, if you love me, why not Prospect Place, I ask?' And the husband stared down into the soft dark eyes of the brunette before him, who stood mechanicallyladjust- ing a newly-fitted glove to a thoroughly patrician hand. The wife hesitated for a moment, when a demure little girl of about eight years camle forward, dressed for' a Walk, and, taking the ungloved fingers of the lady, said,- Shall, I tell Uncle Hal why not Prospect Place, Aunty?" "'I doubt if you know, Cora," was the rather indiffer- ent reply. Children are sanguine, and, if left to themselves, always incline to interpret a doubtful question afrmatively; so the child wisely begari,- "I will tell you what Aunty thinks,'Uncle Hal. She thinks that scarcely anything is really as it seems to be u?-dn the outside, and "--  "What has that to do with. the choice of a place to live in?" interrupted the impetuous gentleman. " - have the keys to the huse--go and see-if you like it." " Let me say the rest-and that because it is named (3)     4 O  BOQND DOOW,  Prospect Place, she is doubtful if she will find any view  from there, and you know it is a view with a house upon it that Aunty is looking for." And having thus delivered herself, the child slipped her little, thin, cold fingers be tween the soft palms of the nian ap:logeticaly  "Tha t child is an imp," commen{tedl the husband.  s: "We call her an angel," remarkeI tthe wife.  , "She is a saucy little girl, and can't seem to help it, X was Cora's reflection, walking away to the window.  "Cora is right after all," remalrked the lady; I do instinctively shrink from all phases of insincerity The feeling has grown to be morbid witt me, I believe. . Somebody told me that people shiver when they walk over the place where their graves are to be made, -bab- bled the child, as, with her slight figure poised upon the window-sill, she gazed dreatmily down into the street at the passers-by. Neither one nor th other see ed to heed the remark of Cora, nor was she herself scar('ely conscious that she had spolken.         '. "I confess it was from Cora's Standpoint that, I sur- mised that my view of this beautiful bay, with its inex- haustible resources for observatio and thought,might be shut out. It is so common for a' Lake View' to be for- ever swaddled! in a mist, and a' Ple asant Valley' to lie just  half the year submerged in wate ," the lady concluded, by way of explanation. "I am glad Aunty likes true Things, -and don't care what names they are called by, b cause that is like me. '" 'And the little egotist prepared for g spring into the strong arms Outheld for her.  The three passed into the narro passage, on their way ,to the street, when Cora, thrustin her head back through the door, spoke gravely,--    OR LIFE AN.   ITS POSSIBIL ITIES.   5 "Goodby, thoughts; we are going house-hunting, and maybe smne of you nice ones won't be here whbn we come bacdk-you must come when we are moyed.!  "Why,  ora, who are you talking to?" "I was just playing that thoughts were people, Uncle." There was one single and inelegant ejaculation-it sounded like " Bah!"  u            .  ' . . C  A?T E   ' I         *, THE personal or external attributes of an individual are really of little consequence to one who would observe the inner life. Indeed, a regard for such attributes too often misguides the apprehension, leading it, through pre- 'conceived ideas, directly'away from the true elements of the spirit twhich they emibody. So incongruous are the material ran, which is the matn  as he seems, and his essence, tie soul, which is the man as he is. Therefore since these persons seem much as other men and women seem, let them describe themselves as the story pro- gresses-t us the fancy of the reader may be preserved from prejuaice. C  The physical and material parts of man are but the accidents fnature. His moral and intellectual parts are the realities of nature's God. Those qualities of being which add] ess themselves to the perceptions, and which we are accastomed. to interpret through the actions, de- scribe rathor the impossibilities than the possibilities of a life, impe rfectness being preponderant; but when these fetters of flish shall be put off there will be no more need    f X  1     6  '    . BBOUND DO. IA, ,              ,. to write a book defining the limits of possible achieve- ment.         . ^  'But-a word of explanation seems'necessary here, touch-. ing the immediate conditiong of this man and woman. .After a married life for a period of three years or more, Harry Haywood had pressed his wife to his bosom for a brief adieu, and, with most virtuous intent, set his sails to catch' the breeze which should waft him westward. His worldly condition, like that of most young men newly entered upon the legal profession in New York City, seemed highly im- provable. His temper twas as florid as his face, and his ambi- i tion more florid than either; and yet, underlying all his im- petuosity, existed a resoluteness of purpose-whether for : good or evil-weighing down, even to stubbornness. This rare combination was overtopped by a manner: of cheer- fulness and a habit of levity which inaugurated a reign of'favoritism for him wherever be went. Such, briefly, ' is'the character we find as instigator to the conduct and' career of lHarry Haywood. Who shall declare himself judge of this man? The matrimonial problem scarcely reached -the dignity of a calculation with him'; he es- teemed it only an accident, and as such, a fickle sentiment syllabled at long intervals, gradually subsided, and at length all demonstration seemed to grow irksome. So s the whole- idea with him fell into a state of demorali- zation and only half-disguised ridicule. At this crisis separation came, but still too soon for Jane Haywood to have learned that truth which must, come to her in the I bitter hereafter, and which cannot eome alone, but always  attended and borne down by an invisible host called con-  sequences. Still fewer words will be required in laying  bare the mainspring of this woman's life. It was affec- tion. In itself simple, it is yet a mighty power, able to tell out in melodious numbers the harmonies possible to *' , wi *      E!       OR LILFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     7 the human heart, or to warp and distort and shiver the -great purpose of tan existence; As is not infrequent, the i intellect of this woman acted as. her counterpoise-for she was not wholly." spiritual-minded." Left to herself, her. affectional nature predominated; left to others unan. swering to her great needs, her materiality uprose in de. fiance; and let him whom it must most concern beware of the trust which should never have passed from his own keeping. CHAPTER     III. *IT was an unpromising day, this fifteenth of March which came to Mrs. Haywood just one month after her husband bad steered for the golden fields of California;- but, true to womanly perverseness, this was the day of all others  a  shopping excursion, simply because some trifling feminine delinquencv this day made itself manifest. Accordiigly she get forth under a  sullen, frowning sky; with the wind fierce fro North River; armed with a zeal worthy  of, if not a better, at least a more apparent motive.  Having dispatched all the real and imaginary errands upon her memorandum, she turned her face homeward. A  blinding army of sleet was driving down the street, and little white globules were gathering in drills upon the sidewallk, or huddling in squads along the lines of the curb-stones. Still she pressed on, half shielding her face with her nuff from the fierce assault of the feathered host, remembering that she had deliberately challenged all the old-time  signs of weather, and calmly abiding the con- sequences.     8        BOUND DOWN, Thus-absorbed, she did not heed the patter of two little feet plying rapidly along the line of her own footsteps, nor hear the stifled :breathings which bore down the feeble voice, and choked back the weary cry with which the tiny traveler would have arrested the attention of the lady. Arrived at her own door, she hastily opened, and had almost closed it upon the little soft outline of a figure, which ran up the steps after her, eager as if in appre- hension that the great mahogany door might close her out, and with her, som'e\half-defined but wholly desired object. "Please, ma'anm, have you got a little boy?"  Just so abrupt:, and leaving no clue to motive. To tell the truth, it was not the first time such a sugges- tion had come to Jane Harwopd, though from a less scrutinizing source, and she was not startled. Still, quick as thought, sprang up one of those many-colored visions, which sometimes come unbidden, but which always leave ! j the heart soft and impressible, like the rain-which falls in spring-time upon the waiting earth. "No, my child; I have no little boy." 'And the sound of the voice was slightly hollow and dreary, while she gently shook the snow from her mantle, and wiped the dampness from her long lashes. "Maybe you might find one," was the odd suggestion. This was urging the matter, and the sharp, quick glance darted into t he questioning eyes of the child was half of amazement and half of rebuke. She sought the truth ,through its natural channels, and her woman's heart was quick to say, "Come this way, little girl, and tell me why you talk to me, 'a strange lady, in this manner." She-led the way to the diawing-room: the child follow- ing closely after, her little bare feet falling noiselessly upon   OR LIFE  ND ITS POSIBILITIE.     9 the velvet carpets s the snow-flakes had fallen but a moment ago upon bhe soft cheek of the lovely woman before her.    / Upon a low seat close by the grate, her little crisp curling toes responding gratefully to the glow of the embers, sat the little stranger, while'Mrs. Haywood kindly questioned her, whose eyes were turned, not after the fashion com- mon to childhood, upon the strange and pleasing objects about her, but searchingly into the depths of her own, as if she there found warmer tints and mellower beams than lay in external surroundings. "Now, tell me, why you ask me these questions; be- cause I see that you are a very little girl." This was said rather patronizingly. "I was sorry that ve'ry minute," broke forth the child vehemently. "I knew I had not said it right." "Ah I somebody told you what to say! I thought so." And the lady looked the chagrin which she felt. "Oh, no, indeed, ma'am  I said it myself; nobody told me-that is, I spoke it myself,', bhe added, in a lower tone.                 . "And what was your motive-that is, why did you ask me if I had a little boy?" urged Mrs. Haywood. The child dropped her eyes, and fidgeted uneasily with the package: upon her lap. "I don't like to tell," she replied, at length , looking even whiter than before , and turning her great blue eyes full upon Mrs. Haywood. ' 'But then I must," ste continued, after a pause, " or you will think-oh, I dou',t know what! I wish I had not come out to try and sell ny hats, then I should not have'seen you--but I thought you looked as if you might have a little boy, and without thinking rmuch  I ran after you, andTfollowing you up the steps I hal too say something;. and I must say truly, you know, and  10      B BOUND DOWN,  when I asked youand you said ' No,' why then I ght how many little boys there are with no homes at all, and no one to love them either, and some of them just as nice as people's own little boys; and they might-just fit my little hats." And at this point of the long harangue she broke down flatly, and halted in confusion. "But," sh continued, rallying, t I don't care so much about selling my hats as I did before I saw you'; not so much as I ought to, I suppose, for Unle Joe will give me no more straws till I sell those I tave braided, and- that is all I know," she concluded, shortly, gathering her little stores beneath her ragged shawl, and rising to go. "Stop a moment," said Mrs. Haywood, taking the little  cold, slender fingers as she was making her way to the door.  And they looked steadily into each other's eyes-that childless woman and the more than motherless child- with that mutual longing of soul too subtle for words. To the casual observer, this child must have appeared positively homely. Her hair was thin, uneven, and faded, growing low upon the brow, and defining its limits by a thick undergrowth, short, white, and unsightly. The nose was strongly Roman, and strangely out of proportion with the delicate outlines of the face. The mouth was wide, the lips thin and firm, and the whole face white almost as snow. But the eyes held the depths of destiny itself. Large and deep blue, they Seemed far-reaching as a beam of light in the darkness. The brows and lashes, almost black, were thick, long, and lustrous. The figure was very slight; the hands long and thin, and of a cool, clammy texture.  "I want to tell you to come and see me again some time," said Mrs. Haywood, still holding the passive fingers.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    li "Maybe I will," returned the child; but a certain re- serve marked the gentle compliance of manner. Mrs. Haywood thought she absorbed the full meaning in a glance. "So you don't like me very well after all, do you?" "If I did not like you so much, I believe Hshould not have such bad thoughts," spoke the girl candidly. "Such as what? Tell me what they are like." ".Oh! when I see people like yourself, nice and crumby inside, like 'Uncle Joe's cakes, I feel, oh I Ifeel as if I had shoes and stockings on, when i have none; and as if I could paint pictures like the pale man upstairs in -  , our street, and sometimes as if I could make up pictures out of my own thoughts, and as if I coild tell people just what they want to know, if they would only ask me, and a great many more things than these too. But you know I am only a poor, little, ragged girl, with a poor mother, and she a good deal old, and I must sell my hats, and I feel pretty sorry for what I have said, but I guess these feelings will go away by and by; it is better not to have them-than to have them," she wound up, evidently rather unexpectedly, even to herself. Ah, what a comment upon human aspiration is por- trayed, ever so crudely, through those infantile lips I Upon every life there are momentary gleams of possibility, like splinters of daylight thrust through a cleft in the cloud of circumstances, which so enthralls mortals: Sometimes we catch the inspiration and hold it close to the heart till it yields up the practical result, and then a new thought is born to earth, and a new idea! is brought within the grasp of human comprehension; and sometimes they float off in mist and doubt, and we feebly follow them away to the cloud and the sunset, where images and projects rise and disappear, and then, losing sight of the phantom,     12        BOUND DO WN,  we wander wearily back to real life, restless, dissatisfied, and disappointed. Poet, philosopher, schemer, are the vague aspirations, of this child's fancy anything less than a miniature type of your own? And so take heart, little 'pilgrim; light has' begun to dapple the eastern horizon of your life at a very early day. There is a broad cloud-hung world before you,. and plenty of work to do. Stifle back no aspiration, for it is dual, and each one,. ever so .humble, is met half-way by its counterpart, inspiration. "How old as  you? can you tell me- that?"Mrs. Haywood asked, still holding the little hand, her ab-l, stracted eyes returning from the embers whence they  had wandered, and resting again on the little white face. "Yes, ma'am; I was six years 'old,-there!  I've forgotten again!" replied the child, evidently'dismayed. "Haven't a good remember at all. ' Mrs. Haywood smiled and answered,- " No matter, you are almost a baby. What is your name?"  "Cora." And there was the slightest possible curve of the thin lip, but the eye was unflinching. Trhen the woman said,-  "I could wish I had a little girl just like yourself."l As the shuttle with the filling thread slides away, leav- ing the half-finished woof with its bright tints and flowers but partly developed, this strange, weird creature broke the clasp of the warm fingers from her own, and fled through the halls and into the street, before Mrs. Hay- / wood could summon voice or utterance. The woman sat wonderstruck. Was it a dream? Why had she come, and whither had she fled like a terrified thing? Then she recalled all she had said, and found a deeper meaning than appeared upon the surface. She , ,   OR LI-FE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     13 read a text in every one of those lisping accents, because when the soul is listening it translates eloquently; and just then Jane Haywood was waiting for something to love. It was a vague and undefined 'kind of search she instituted, but just such a search as half the world are making continually, and never confessing it even to their own souls, any more than she had done. But the great work of self-lifting and self-poising is well begun when we are able to read sermons in stones. Such a work is impossible to the perceptions of the Wholly material man- to the soul of man it is the perfection of human attain- ment. The hieroglyphics were spread out before this woman, although upon a page as humble as the stones. What the combinations were, through the aid or the re- strictions of circutlmstances, which she should be able to spell; out, are yet in the future. We follow this life- as we find it; its flowings and its fluctuations are all fashioned according to its opportuni- ties. CHAPTER    II.  THE day following the simple occurrences just recited, a series of feeble and, uneven taps upon the drawing- room door introduced Cora- again into the presence of Mrs. Haywood. She entered the room with an air of the most' praticed self-possession, and, depositing a little bundle. upoL the sofa, walked deliberately toward Mrs. Haywood, 1er face wearing the same placid, though earnest, expression, explaining ii this way,- "There are my clothes. I've come to stay., 2      "       BOUND DOWN, The woman looked amazed. ' You said you wished you had a little girl just like me," she went on, "and when I ran home and told my mother, she said if you were a kind lady she wished you had me; and she came with me, and stayed down in the kitchen while I came up and told you." An appreciation of the infantile simplicity so natural to those few years on the one side, with the promptness and self-reliance so unusual to this condition of life on the other, so captured the colnv[ctions of Jane Haywood, that the suggestion which rose in reply to her lips silently receded, leaving only a quiet smile. So she drew the little white, shiny face newly washed for the mo- mentous occasion-gently toward her, and laid a soft kiss upoi the cheek. "If I err, let it be on the side of mercy," she said slowly, and went out. For a long while she stood with clasped fingers, thinking, before going into the presence of Cora's mother. But her resolution was taken. Meanwhile the child, instead of following after, seated herself with great complacency in the easy-chair just vacated by the lady, and fell into a reverie, in which vision one Cora, of humble birth but of rapid promotion, figured with a breadth and scope amazing to any other imagination than her own. "What anomaly is this?" was Mrs. Haywood's first thought, as her eyes fell upon the quaint figure seated before the fire. "Surely' she cannot be the child's mother."  '  But she was the child's mother s Through the wis- dom of a higher than human idea, this feeble, ignorant woman had been chosen as a means of possessing earth of one of those human oracles which undeniably do come, and Which come through means as incongruous and as   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     15 varied as the motives which impel them. Shakespeare was of thlem; Milton was 6f them; Angelo, and Calvin, and Wesley, and Joan d'Are, and an unnamed host of others we:e, and are, of them. Perhaps you have a child at your own hearthstone, born of your flesh, not an inheritor of your spirit. One who is a perpetual wonder, holding aloft a shining spark, which you see, but cannot reach; ever lifting the keys, but never quite admitting you to the'mystery; always surggest ing ideas which call upon your demand for a more prac- tical realization of that child's identity. So far off does it seem, self-ve ,Vrning and self-lifted-" lone, wandering, but not lost."  There she sat, mutely waiting-that poor, bewildered, lowly'won-an--wondering whither that strange child had led her, anT what would be the end. As Mrs. Haywood entered the room the thin, sallow, furrowed visage lifted into interrogation rather than in- telligence; and the small, dull eyes filmed all over with tears. Mrs. Haywood's questioning was answered with- out the aid of words.. The woman instinct read the bitter lesson which the poor creature was conning ver with whispering lips, and she was quick to offer a word of encouragement. "Good-morning," she spoke kindly. "I suppose this is Cora's mother."  "Yes'm," the woman replied, dropping her e es in con- fusion. "I thought I oughtn't to come, maybe; but Cora coaxed me, and somehow I've got in the way of following her notions." "How many clildren have you?" asked Jane. "  Oh I no more'n her-that's Cora," replied th woman. "I ha'nt never a no more'n her, and I suppose that's why she makes  ch-a fool of me." And the little l               16      .  BOUND DOWN,  shrunken figure rocked to and fro, like an old bough  swayed by the storm. "And am I to understand that you are willing to give this child to me?" asked Mrs. Haywood, thinking it better to attack the point directly. But here the poor woman broke into a series of con- vulsive sobs. "Why, I'll tell you, ma'am," she said, gasping for utterance, and evading the pang of a direct affirmation; "Cora is so queer that I don't know what to do withther. She says the wildest things, not natural to a child at all, and when I go to scold her, she sort o' winds me up like-- not cross, but solemn. The neighbors say she is too old for her years, and that some o' these days she'll get the best o' me ; and Mrs. Grannice says she's raised a heap o' children herself, and knows all about it, and that Cora's bewitched, as sure as I'm born, and she'd whip it out of Iher, But if it comes to that-oh, ma'am!. how could I? how could I?"? "You should not permit persons to talk to you in that way," was Jane's indignant reply. "Why, no; you see she don't do nothing to be whipped for," said the mother, temporarily consoled, and brushing away the tears; "only she always was like a grown-up person." "Where is the father of this child?" "Oh 1 bless you, lady, he's in heaven 'now, and don't know nothing about his dear Cora. He died before she was quite three weeks old. Oh I if he'd only lived! But then he was a great deal older't me, and I guess she'd a dazed'him too: Dear, dear!" she continued, resuming her tears, "I'm poor, and Cora's some help to me, little as she is; 'but if you could only study her out, I wouldn't mind-giving her up so much." And she settled back in her seat, waiting an answer.   R LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES     17 "Very well!" said Jane Haywood, calmly; "I think I can understand Cora, and that we shall be very good friends. So if you decide to leave her, I will send for her."  "Yes'ml I'll leave her, I guess," a little irresolutely. "You see I didn't mean to be worrit with the dear child, but she puzzles me so, and they say she'll find that out and take advantage of it some time; but that don't seem like the way Cora would do, either." . At this juncture Cora came in, and, gravely walking to the side of the woman, laid her slender hand upon the grizzled head, and patted it in a manner unquestionably patronizing.  "She's a dear child," said the woman, looking up fondly. Then catching with a mother's instinct the distant glimpse of the oncoming emotion, which begun ever so faintly to define itself in an ominous quiver df the delicate lip of the child, she said hurriedly, "God bless you, lady; be a good girl, Cora, and help the lady to study you but ;" and with this parting injunction, coupled with the desire that Cora should come every day to see her, till she ' got kind o' used to it," she left the house, with tottering steps and half-blinded eyes. Poor wounded heart!. What had she done that the possibilities of her life should, by their too narrow limits shut out even the little comfort which her child might bring her? But mercy has a greater work to do, and cannot be stayed. The inadequateness of one soul to rise may not fetter the wing that would brush the cloud in its upward flight. The woman hurried back to her humble home, but bear- ing "at each remove a lengthening chain." Although day after day she pursued her humble avo- cations as usual, yet the nervous grasp gradually relaxed, 2*     18     .  BOU2ND DOW,  and the fingers grew feebler. The dull blue eye was oftener closed, as if to shut out earthly cares, and when Cora came khe grasped at her childish though quaint philosophy with' an entirely unusual avidity, peering into' the clear deep eyes, as if some dim speculation had seized her own soul. But'the silver cord was loosened; the magnet was gone; the electric spark withdrawn; and life itself, with all its imperfections, was fast ebbing away. One day Cora came trudging up the shaky stairs which led into the poor tenement, carrying the little basket which Mrs. Haywood never forgot to fill from her own stores, and pausing at the threshold of the open door, she waited for the usual glance of recognition, but without the usual result. There sat the woman, swaying back and forth in her creaky chair, as she was long accustomed to do, her eyes fixed upon a distant chimney-top which seemed leaning its crumbling remains against the sky. The gray hair was flitting .constantly before her eyes, yet never seeming to interrupt the ceaseless stare which had possession of her features. "It seems as if she sees--" was Cora's whispered surmise; but a hush came to her lips before she had finished the remark, for then the dim, upturned eyes gradually closed, and a sigh, not unmixed with a groan, startled the child forward, and she clasped the dry, bony hand convulsively. "Who were you waiting for?-for Cora?" "Who told you I was waiting, child?" and the wonman feebly drew her sleeve across her eyes, as if to clear the dews away. "What time is it, Cora? You wan't here when I went off to sleep. Oh I I have had, such a long dream i And such a queer one. I can't tell you half of it, d-eam I '1 you half of it,   - OR IFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    19 only it was just as, if I was young again, and your father was alive, and he called out to me, and I followed him, and he took me through the most beautiful country, where I'd never been before! Oh, Cora 1 it was so splendid I My eyes are dazzled yet with the awful shininess, and your father explained it all. He was always a heap siharter'n I was, do you know, Cora? But my feet felt dreadful clumsy, and I didn't seem to get on so light-like as he did, and I told him so, and he said, 'You will after a little.' And then be said, ' Wait here till I come back. I'll send Cora to stay with you.' And I did wait and wait, till, little by little, I began to lose sight of it all, and I was so afeard that it would turn out a dream, that I dursn't wink my eyes, last it should slip away; and it did slip away, Cora, and wasn't anything but a dream arter all." "Oh, my Il" said the child, struck by a new thought. "I do believe you are growing to be like me. I've bad that kind of dreams again and again, and queerer ones, too "  "Yes, Cora," and a spasmodic flicker lit up the eyes for a moment; "! do believe if I always felt so bright- like'as I do this afternoon it wouldn't :be so hard for me th puzzle you out. I can remember .a heap o' things I aint thought of for years and years. Aint this, a soft, nice wind? it makes one sleepy;" and the dying woman resteid her heqd on the back of her old crazy chair. I believe I'll get to finish my dream arteri all. Rub nmy hands, Coia; they feel as if they was asleep. There I Now lay your head, in my lap, and sleep a little, while the soft breeze is going., When I wake up I am going to try and puzzle you out, Cora." 'The child laid her head upon the faded gown across her mother's knee, and both fell asleep. To one the waking shall be eternal. In a land of green valleys. and I .     20        BOUND DOWN, still waters light shall dawn upon the vexed vision, an  the perceptions shall be equal to every need. To the other--ah! here is a difficulty. To me, the life of this child is an untrodden path. Many such have lain along- side, but cautious should be the steps that would walk in those footprints to the end. Let the purpose of this little life not withdraw the feeble spark which, day by day, gleams above these pages, else this book shall fail. Let us follow whithersoever it lead us, through faith, in mercy and justice to all. The possibilities of such a life may not be defined in single set sentences. In the physical world, all nysteri- ous processes, insoluble to the mind of man, are conven- iently thrust undr ththe motherly wing of "Nature " and such disposition, however unphilosophical, is gener- ally satisfactory. We can scarcely see why the new blade starts fron the old seed, except that it fulfills the order of nature. But a little higher in the scale of organism, as in this mother and child, we see that the purposes of a single life are inadequate to the final design, and that a life 'n exchange for a life can only subserve the end. Doubtless this mother's life was the price of the child's developnent. Advanced in years, feeble in body ar d mind, she drew on the youthful vigor for material where- with to feed the vital flame. The source withdrawn, it wavered and went out. It was a life for a life, in the true course of nature, according to a law which knows no variableness. Late in the afternoon, Mrs. Haywood, in company with a friend, walked rapidly out in search of Cora. Making their way through by-streets and across alleys and tun- sightly places, they at length reached the tenement of the widow. It was almost dark, and a glance among the   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     21 shadows which had already begun to gather in the room failed at once to reveal all there was there of ghastly presence-Cora asleep upon the mother's lap, andt the woman's hand upon her head. Only as they approached they found the poor, with- ered ha d cold and nerveless, and tthe balf-opened eyes had no/welcome in them. There were no shrieks, nor cries for help. Cora, her moist warm face half hidden in the lap of death, was sleeping as sweetly upon this monument of stricken clay as she had slept upon her little downy pillows in Mrs. Haywood's fresh and airy chambers. Both women instinctively murmured, "Thank Heaven, shei sleeps!" as they lifted the tiny figure of the still,up- conscious child to the wretched settee near by, and quietly summoned the neighbors to their aid. "There is no need to wake her, James," Mrs. Hav- wood said to her servant, as she tucked the wrappings more closely about the child's throat, preparatory to her return home, after her duties were finished over the dead; "there will be tears enough for her to-morrow, when she learns the melancholy story." But, strange as it may appear, there were no tears for the morrowl The little, sensitive, weird creature stood again and again, poised upon her toes, reaching to kiss the cold cheek of her dead mothtr, her white, wonder- stricken face growing whiter and more unfathomable in its changes of expression, but no tears came up from the depth of those thrilling eyes; and even when the earth fell upon the coffin, only a strange fascination seemed to seize them, and that was all. In after-years, Mrs. Haywood pondered over this recol- lection of Cora's bereavement, and wondered, but never questioned the child.             k     22        B O UND DOWN O  Thus it happened that this really earnest woman was able to hold the little mystery so close to her heart in their walk of life. CHAPTER V. IT was one of those indescribably lovely days in early spring which will be the more readily recognized under the old-time title of "weather prophet.". The morning sun, instead of penetrating and permeating a thin, trans- parent atmosphere, seemed swooping and gathering in rich and heavy volumes near the earth, making the shadows so dense as to seem almost tangible in their bold and severe outline. The soft, balmy wind, jusj a trffie too well defined to be called air, fell upon the cheek with rather more assurance than the strictly poetic idea would warrant, and seemed to woo the senses from in- door employment as naturally as fundamental discords resolve themselves into harmonious strains of music. It was one of those days, throbbing, pulsating, and alive with some undefined suggestion-one, the exact counterpart of which you seeni to have lived over in some time gone-and all the while, with every reiaps3 of the soft breeze, you are just ready to catch and evolve the half-memoried story, when lo I it is gone by. 'Pre- cisely such a morning was this, when a handsome eq- u- page halted in front of Mrs. Haywood's residence, and a footman, dismounting, ran up the broad steps and rang the bell. The carriage had but one occupant, and she inclining her superbly poised head, spoke quietly,  "And, John, tell her not to fdrget to bring Cora."    , OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     23 Hat in hand, the boy bowed a respectful "Yes, ma'am," and turned to the servant waiting. "Is Mrs. Haywood in? Miss Gray's compliments, and  ould she go to drive this morning and bring Miss Cora with her? The carriage is at the door."  Of course Mrs. Haywood would ride, and so would Cora; and they drove away in the direction of the Harlem road, aiming for the broad expanse of country beyond, with all its wealth of sun, and shadow, and shrub, and turf, and shimmering stream, and flower and leaf. But who is Mildred Gray? Ah I the wealth and fashion of Fifth Avenue life are clamorous in response. She was the reigning queen of their circles; their pride and their envy. Physically, she was absolutely perfect.. 'Of little more than medium height, the figure Was so exquisitely and harmoniously proportioned as to leave no points of con- trast whereby to determine her size accurately, and the marvelous loveliness of her face left little to-ask, except an opportunity for contemplating its perfectness. But, endowed by nature, as this woman' was, by more than regal gifts, one single attribute outweighed them all. It was a spirit of independent, self-reliant, conscientious purpose, greatly at variance with her educatioh, which had been indulgent to the point of imbecility. Other high qualities of character, pos essed in an emi- nent degree by this charming woman, nust prove them- selves. Every truth shpuld bear its own weight. "How delicious the air is this morni g!"Mildred re- marked, after they had broken away fron the city limits, and went flying over the smooth road banked up, on either side, by the fresh, bright greens ard, only a few days old. "I think I should like to junp down and dig awhile in the ground, and catch the scent of the real live earth.        e     24        BO UNDD O DOWN, "You should have been a farmer's daughter," was Jane's retort. ' I fancy a very charming milkmaid spoiled in a very charming city belle." "Seriously, it is the most independent and noble of all mechanical pursuits," returned the young lady; " still, if, by accident, I had been born to grace the sphere you name, I should have discovered, or fancied, at a very early stage, no doubt, that I might have been, or done, some- thing else; so capricious are We, and so wholly dissatisfied with .our lot in life, always shambling and shifting in our places to look after that gorgeous phantom 'Might have been.'  A; the conclusion of this remark, Cora, who had been silently absorbing tl e raptures afforded by the occasion, cast a quick, searching glance into the face of Mildred Gray, and then looked abstractedly away over the hills, where the sky and the land seemed to meet together. Bat there was an anxious look behind that glance, and she wondered-what? Poor Cora I whether she was not, after all, born to braid hats, and by what possible right she sat there, in her pretty, soft clothes, between those two wonderful women. B-t there are no means of evading the melancholy end to which this morning drive is tending, and, after a little light, womanly interchange of thought, one of those long inter- vals of silence ensued, never awkward to those who under- stand each other as well as those women undoubtedly did, who had been first schoolmates, and ever since devoted friends. Presently Cora drew a long sigh, and. shuddered per- ceptibly. "You' are cold, Cora. Why did you not mention it before?" said Mrs. Haywood, drawing the ermine robe closer.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    25 "I am not cold, Aunty,"-a term she had herself chosen for addressing Mrs. Haywood,-" but I think it will rain." "Oh, no," spoke Mildred in surprise. "Look, there is not a cloud to be, seen. Why do you think so, little prophet?' " "Because I felt the air very damp and chilly a moment ago; it has gone now," replied the child, while a slight tremor shook her voice. At this moment a sharp angle in the road opened abruptly upon a small group of buildings, and suddenly, as if he had issued from the depths of the earth, a fierce dog sprang at the leads of the horses, and with a frantic bound they leaped forward; unconscious of, or unheeding alike the reins or the shouts of the driver. It was a moment of awful terror to all. On rushed the maddened steeds, blind to every obstacle, the vehicle careening from side to side, wildly swaying against fences and wayside trees, till-crash! the axle was shivered by a dash against a bridge, and Mildred Gray and the coach- man were precipitated among the stones and debris upon the banks of a stream.  Up to this moment, Mrs. Haywood, clinging wildly to the crazy vehicle with one hand, had succeeded in securing Cora with the other; but, losing her hold, the child was thrown forward against the dash-board. Quick as instinct Cora grasped the reins which the driver, in his last effort to retain his seat, had abandoned, and with one shrill, startling cry-a cry so shrill that it seemed to upheave the very powers of utterance-she shouted a single, quick, ejaculative demand I What magic was in that baby voice, or in that feeble, puny pull at- the reins to arrest the mad plunge of those infuriated beasts? But it did arrest them. As if a wall had been let down from heaven, the animals, with a sudden backward jerk of their heads, stood, 3     BOUND DOWN, with reeking coats and distended nostrils, quivering in their tracks. But, alasl the beautiful, peerless Mildred Gray w s borne back to her home unconscious. And after all that science, and wealth, and devotion could accomplish, the appalling truth dawned slowly but surely upon loving, anxious friends that their treasured idol was an invalid for life. Two years later Mildred Gray brought consternation to the hearts of her friends, by undertaking the journey to the Pacific coast, where her father, to, whom: she was devotedly attached, was recuperating his broken fortunes, and where Jane Haywood Was going to join her husbartd, taking with her the child Cora. And it is here that cur story begins. CHAPTER VI. EHTE  years ago the city of San Francisco was little more than a Bedouin camping-ground. Temporary sheds of wood an d more temporary tents of cloth generally filled the places of comfortable hotels and respectable dwellings. Every building site was a sand-hill and every public street a reeking, miry slough, where donkey and driver, man and beast, floundered together in the same hopeless abyss. of filth. Only the places of pollution-the halls of riot and the numerous gambling-saloons-were really sightly and attractive. And they were magnificent, dazzli g! lit by the gleam of a 'hundred costly lamps, the walls it- tered with the varied and voluptuous effects of a Mosaic temple, or a fairy palace; throbbing and swaying be ore the giddy eyes of the enchanted beholder. The bewitch- ing notes of music, too, lent a magic charm, as in th rob-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     27 ing peals or in subdued strains it discoursed eloquent sounds, just as the hearts of men discourse their impulses or their emotions.  Of the state of society in San Francisco at this early period in her history, it would be difficult to furnish an adequate idea. Unlike that of most frontier communi- ties, it sprung, like the lotus-flower, full-blown to the system. It had indeed no infancy of civilization; maturity was stamped upon every crowd and upon almost every creature. Scarcely an aged man to be found, there were few youths or striplings, and still fewer children. Like the war of the rebellion, this fearful gold-frenzy had ! smitten the ambitious, the adventurous, the stalwart, and the brave. A spirit of unresting speculation and lmost wanton recklessness possessed the powers ordi- narily capable of the most entire self-control. FeW men ere beyond the baleful influence of this passion for :  wealth, this insatiable appetite. for excitement. Beyond the restraints of family, removed from the advantages of moral example, outside the' influence of pure-minded women, surrounded by the giants of temptation and seduction, virtue and self-restraint were the rare excep- tions. Here were met together, upon. common ground, the sober scholar and the swaggering sailor; the high-bred man of society and, the lowly laborer; the stupid, long- cued, almond-eyed Celestial and the theatrical French- man; the shrewd, bustling Yankee and the shiftless, ease-loving Mexican; the pompous, self-satisfied English- man and the leering, reticent New Zealander; while the confusion of colors and costumes was only equaled by the Babel of tongues and the variety of characters and motives. But the grandest tournaments were held within the halls of the gambling-houses. Alas for those Nwho entered the fatal lists only to turn away ruined and     28        BOUND DOWYN, desperate I The lucky miner, with fabulous heaps of gold, left penniless in an hour; the princely fortune swept away with the turn of a card; the vaspiring l:ut sensitive man, with speculatiqn in his brain and suicide in his heart, awaiting the fate of his all, now lying upon the green cloth before him-these were eve'y-day Fic- tures. Of women there were a few honest and earnest, indeed; there were many frivolous and pleasure-lovixng; but far the greater proportion were of the false and fallen, here gathered together, sporting beneath the garish flame, wanderers from every country under -he light of the sun. There were no educational institutions-public spirit was otherwise engaged ; there were 'no organized churcLes, for a man generally left his religion 'at home with his broadcloth and beaver. It would "not pay." To the logic of the gold-seeker there was but one proposition, viz., "How much will it pan out?"And the result in this case never having been quite satisfactorily shown, all immediate purpose was turned in another channel. Such, briefly, were the external conditions that gov- erned the future lives which concern this story. Let only him who is not without charity follow to the eni. CHAPTER    VYII. RECLINING upon a rude lounge, in a small, scantily fur- nished apartment, yet one of the best which San Fran- cisco could afford at that early period, we find the invalid Mildred Gray. Two years of suffering had left scarcely a sign of their reckless march, except such as appeared ,V   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    2 in a certain subdued and resigned expression of face suggestive of a familiarity with those uncompromisin( ? i  guests of weariness and pain. Still the fire in the browr eye remained unquenched, and Upon the fair brow nc line was even faintly visible. Near aw small table at her head sat Captain Gray, the father of Mildred, a medi- tative and rather stern-looking gentleman of about forty- five years. It was apparent at a glance that Mildred's uncommon beauty was an i  eritance. Presently he broke the silence between them. "Mil- dred," he said, "I am not rec nciled to this move; gr ti- ii  fled as I must feel at having you with and near me, I cannot forget the price of my happiness. Certainly you were not ignorant of the privations you must endure; and, poor child," taking her beautiful hand, ",Heaven knows how illy you are fitted to endure thel'm. -"Heaven knows how well I am able to bear them, dear father; for Heaven has had greatly more to do than ybu even know in preparing me to bear the ills and besetmnents of this life." "You permit your heroic spirit to misguide your reason, I fear," was the suggestion. "Do you regret that I came?" she asked simply. Ask me at some future time. I have no courage to "And I shall; but do not think 'me self-willed or childish. I can understand that to your practical view my action may seem inconsistent indeed, and I cannot mar- gel at your-disapproval.1, l"My disapproval is in this case only another name for my apprehensioh for the future of my child," Captain Gray said with feeling. "You cannot know what a chal- lengeyou offer fate in this. Your bodily infirmities alone should have restrained you." : iv:3*     30        BOUND DO0WN, "'Thank you for so much solicitude, dearest; b t believe me, thus far my bodily infirmities have never once crossed the line of my'duty." I  "4Have the goodness to define to me what you cn ceive-to be the line of your duty, Mistress Missionary " Annd a skeptical play of the fine lip bespoke the spi it xWithin. "Women always generalize. Do you mean tat you come as a reformer among us? A large field, and a feeble reaper, verily." "I mean nothing expressly. I leave specification to the future. Events are too irregular to admit of caldu- lation."'" "Too transcendental by half, my child," Captain Gray said a little impatiently, compassing the distance to the window with twVo or three immense strides. "You tUlk about the irregularity of events, as if it might one dy transpire that this should become a Christian land. Vaporings, Mildred." And he stood up firmly before h r. A smile broke over the features of the: invalid as he raised herself upon her pillows.  Pardon me, dear father, but is it thus you as a peo le propose to redeem your fallen estate? You complain of disaffection and riot and recklessness and crime on he one hand, while with the other you beat back all hum n- izing and harmonizing elements. The fever which c n- sumes this people is ever clamorous, and so, with nothing purer at hand, they drink deep at the fatal fountain; for the joys of the fireside the gambling-ta le is substituted, and the allurements of the cyprian flit before eyes that gaze down the future dreaming only of the millennial reign of pure womanhood." Mild 'ed paused and Captain Gray broke out, "Poor little egotist What can you hope to acc m- plish here with your Utopian philosophy?" ^       .    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    31 "If ever so little, still am I blessed in that." And she fell back upon her pillows wearily. Had she but been conscious of the truth, she had already accomplished :that little, for, whether in fruitful or in barren places, the seed had surely fallen, and perchance somewhere in the hidden recesses of that stern, satirical nature there were green places and fruitful soil. X? -  "I shall send Dr. Marston to you at once," he said presently, rising to go. 1.t "I have no need of medical attendance whateylr," Mildred urged. ' But I say I shall sen Dr. Marston." Mildred knew she hat no need to combat the will of her father, so she asked simply,  "The same who sailed in your clipper when you came?" "Yes, the same gentleman; a voyage around Cape Horn proved him. I trust but few men, Mildred." "And yet nothing so inspires honesty in another as your manifest faith in him," the daughter spoke, warmly. "More Quixotism." And the father took the slender fingers a little awkwardly, remarking, "I should crush that hand if I were not cautious," at the same time ex- hibiting it upon his own. "Good-by; lay aside your theories,-Mildred; mine have well-nigh ruined me." And he ros tog  "Our riends will soon return," Mildred said; "wait and see them." ' No; I shall drop in at intervals during the day, and meanwhile will look for more comfortable quarters.' And he passed out as Jane Haywood passed in, while Cora flitted past both and ran to tell Miss Mildred the result of the house-hunting expedition. 3 ,. 4     32        BOUND DOWiN, CHAPTER    VIII. "OH, Miss MildredJ" cried Cora, in her eagerness, half breaking away from Mrs. Haywood, who was busy dismantling the little figure, "you never saw,v you never thought about, so; funny a city, as this, I am sure; almost like 'Five Points,' only the nice people and all are mixed up together. Nobody begs; Uncl6Hal says so; and, oh, how he laughed at the pennies I had saved out to give the street-sweepers; none of them either, Miss Mildred----" "There are no streets, are there, CoSa?"'interruptel her listener. Having no time for metaphysics, or the discussion' of causels and effects, the excited' young lady rattled on, "And, Miss-Mildred, I know you would just stare at the people--couldn't help it. Queer Umph "' AnI she closed her lips with a desperate spring, highly ex- pressive of her opinion of the inadequateness of words. i'he ladies exchanged amused glances, while the chill continued, "I never knew till this morning that,JI hai seen real Indians; but I have seen them somewhere- oh, I believe I dreamed about them--not exactlylike theses, maybe, but a little nicer; these haven't good clothes at all. Some of them-," and she lowered her voice to a confidential whisper, " haven't much-of any it, all, M!liss Mildred. And then there were Chinamen with' 'long braids of hair down to their feet, and Chinawonmen with very red lips and' cheeks, and 'hair parted out like spread wings on their heads; and then we saw some   OR LIFE AXD IzTS POSSIBILITIES. very dark-complexioned ladies, with real pretty bla eyes, and loose, lazy-looking clothes, shawls, and scar and all that, but no bonnets on; and then there we ladies like you and Aunty, only they would drag the handsome dresses in the mud, and didn't seem to car( and there were nicely-dressed gentlemen with plenty  !r   jewelry, and a great many with shabby-looking hats an blue shirts, and a great many with red on the tops c their boots; and then"--here she took a long breatl 1 - and then rushed along-" there were houses, not nice !   plooking at all outside-no stone fronts, nor anything- but they must have been beautiful inside, for there wer bands of music; in there, and pretty ladies with evenini dresses on, laughing'as if they were very happy, an, some of the men were ringing, and some of them in a] angry temper, and nobody seemed to care at all for the police. Miss Mildred, it is just as if there were a grea fire in the city, and some of the people did know whern it waS and were hurrying, and'others did not know, anc others ,did not care." And the little narrator drew  E breath of relief and settled into a seat to rest. "And all this while you have told me  nothing what. i   ever of your prospects for a home," said Mildred, appro. priating the first hint of an interval in this ecstatic ':IiH harangue. "I am  more like other people than I thought," com- 'tQ   l:lenated Cora, slowly, apparently intent upon the bit of, ]:! thread which she twisted nervously between her fingers; "they all seem to be doing one thing and meaning to do *iii another, just as I began to tell you of the house and :i   ended by telling you of everything beside." i:]  "We must judge of people, then, by their motives, and not by the accidents which impel them in a contrary direction," gently suggested Mildred. "Is that it, Cora?" ,        ', fB  bv ISs;U t;U     BOUND DOWN, 34 ' ]t"f replied Cora drowsily, "I t ink that would be right, replied Co drowsily with a alf sup essed ya wn "iGo and get an hour of sleep before dinner," Mildred said, a d Mrs. Haywood proceeded to adjust a shawl about he child, who had appropriated Mildred's bed withou. the slightest demur or apology.  Isaid oIrsawood, drawing her chair closer , 'rI  "*am, ha'  to Mildred, let me detail to ou that which Cora has faoMildred, do O ern .lifg our morning excursion. FirSt, failed o. do concerngou let me onfess I am in despair. Alemeady?" And Mildre1 d lifted her fine brows into ' here she  And Mildred, rlifto an interrogation point. en    failed to find a house?" "Or' might almost better .have done," said Jane, It O rAight  alasost mournfullye Mildred only laughed. "My distress is for you, Mildred," she explained; "too many months I have looked forward to this hour to bear philosophicaPy the prospect of' discomfitures and privations such as I see in store for you." "My dear' friend," said the invalid, consolingly, "lIt us not exaggerate the evils of life; our actual wants are simple and few, by far the greater proportion are wholly imaginary; and not real." ,' Miss Mildred!" called out Cora from the corner where she lay, trying to sleep, "do you like beans?" 'Mrs. Haywood looked horrified; but Mildred, recog- nizing the child's prompter through the suggestion of herown sensitive olfactories, greatly assisted by the me- dium of cloth and paper partitions, made ready answer, "At your age, Cora, I should have said very promptly, 'I do like beans,' my plebeian taste having been, I re- member, a subject of suppressed sorrow in the house- hold, but our late steamship experience has, 1 confes, somlewhat abated my relish for that edible." somewh, t abated juy re'    i    .OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    3 "'But you would rather eat beans,than be hungry I she urged.  "-I think I should." "Because you say that so many tastes are only imat inary, and perhaps if I think I like beans, I really sha like them," Cora said, with a little jerk of the head. "You might try," Mildred said, greatly amused. :   i "And I certainly have noticed," Cora went on wit !B grenewed vehemence, lifting her head quite from the pi  low, "that when I think very hard and tight-and sur that I can do a thing, I almost always can do it." :!  Both ladies laughed outright, and Jane interposed suggestion. I   -       . -  "Be pleased to think hard and tight and sure that yo can go to sleep and rest your tired limbs." E  "I will." And the little fair head nestled down quietly and very soon she was fast asleep. (?iE  "Do you observe how forceful and irresistible in appl 1 cation are the suggestions of that strange child?" wa Mildred's query. 'l' 'If I think hard and tight and sure another way of expressing the power of the human will. "Do you think she will outgrow these idiosyncrasies? was Jane's query. :"I trust not," returned Mildred, frankly. "But I think they annoy Harry a little," the wife sai with some hesitation.  Mildred looked up quickly.  "Harry, you know," Mrs. Haywood went on rapidlJ "is light of speech, and Cora is observing and outspoker I somehow fear the too frequent contact of such 'element of character." Woman-like, an apology for both. "And more than equal to Cora's observation is he habit of reflection-two qualities of mind forming i themselves a mighty intellectual power," said Mildrec }i     361   .   -  OBOUND DOWN, e4ading the main suggestion touching Harry. "But to 'eturn to our mutton,' for we have wandered from our sa rting-point." "Oh, I embrace your philosophy, share your faith, d concede that six rooms with cloth and paper walls, erched upon a sand-hill, with a cup of cold water and a dsh of Cora's beans, are, if we only think so, but another elsio of Arcadian groves, with nectar and ambrosia to be taken to the strains of soft music, keeping time to the leat of angel^ ' wins-not:original." And Jane laughed she rose and opened the door for her husband. Good-morning, Miss Gray; I trust this is no intru- sion. I do but follow Mrs. Haywood," setting his hat Apon a table and taking a low seat, with elbows upon is knees. "For which I should have said, until this very morn- i g, that you had scriptural precedence; but, upon turning to the place, I find that the beautiful sentiment expressed in the text, 'Whither thou goest I will go, thy eople shall be my people, and thy God my God,' applies t a daughter and not to a husband; only another error verthrown; so we go through life, Mr. Haywood, mak- ing mistakes and correcting them." B But a a rule, making more than we correct, eh? but what a squandering of sentiment between two women? Ad Haywood gave one of those thin, high-keyed, ejacu- l tive laughs which always mean insincerity or nothing at 'all; and, passing his fingers through his fair, bushy hair asked-quickly, ' "Where is that young elf, Jane?" "you mean Cora? Yonder asleep," pointing to the bed. "Taking a siesta, eh? Well, never disturb witches." "Harry I' testily. I tell oou. she, is nothing short of it; and I recom-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    31 mend you, as a precautionary measure, to make your - [   first investment in horseshoes. Order them nailed over the doors, and I'll wear one on my boot." "Something is going to come," cried Cora at this mo- ment, as she sprang from the pillow, pale and trembling as if shaken by an ague fit.     "Something generally comes when you open your mouth." And Harry Haywood lifted the little tottering figure, and placed it steadily on the floor.  "Come to me, darling, and tell me what naughty dream :; has been terrifying you." And Mildred gave place upon the sofa. Men are naturally less superstitious than women; and as Mrs. Haywood followed her husband to her own room, ] her mind was filled with a vague dread, the result ol i!  Cora's hasty prediction.. "Miss Mildred," began Cqra, as the door closed and left them alone, " what is a witch?" J   "My dear Cora, if I were to attempt to define the meaning of a witch, I should hardly expect you to under. stand me," and Mildred showed perplexity in her face. "But if I am one myself, I ought to understand," urged the philosophical Cora. "Wise men have 'said, 'Last of all we come to know ourselves,"' evidently dodging the answer. "You mean I am one, and don't know it?" pursued the child. "By no means; but leaving Cora out of the question for-the. moment," and Mildred smiled graciously, "if the word have any meaning at all, it is a deeper one thar that popularly given; and when you have grown a little older and just a little wiser, remember and ask me, and'] will give you my theory of a witch." -     38   BOUND DOWN, "I don't now that I can waits, Miss Mildred; please tell me wha is just a little witch." Mildred laughed, while great tears'stood in her eyes. "Well, Cora, if you were habitually influenced to do and say things for which you could give no reason, and  "Then I in one," broke in the child, and she set her thin lips firmly, and her deep eyes blazed as with the dawning of an awful truth. "You did not hear me through; but first tell me why you   u so ded re yourself." "Becaus I know things for which I can give no reason, Cora promptly replied nether do I know how I know them," she said artlessly. Mildred was silent, and Cora continued, "I'll tell you what I knew before it happened aloud -that something unhappy was coming the day, you were thrown from the carriage, and injured for all your poor life ;" and she laid her own hot, flushed cheek against that of the invalid softly. "Why did you not tell us so?" asked Mildred seri ously. "You would have laughed ;" half rebukingly. "Perhaps so, but we might have taken precautions." "What if I were to warn you again, dear Miss Mil dred?" "Of what?" "Of some danger, I do not know what."  "I should say, 'And why do you think so, dear Cora?' " replied the lady. "And Cora would say she could give no good reason and then you might say, 'Ah, Miss Cora is a witch!"  "Could she not give some reason good to herself?' suggested the questioner.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     39 "Oh, yes! but witch reasoning is not real reasoning," Cora replied dejectedly.  "Let me hear and decide," spoke Mildred, closing her eyes pensively, desiring to lead her on. "Well, then, 'and she spoke low now," I felt the wind blow, and guessed something was coming." Mildred unclosed her eyes and smiled despite herself. "That is all," said Cora, with a shadow of pique; " only I knew the wind was .not blowing, and that it only pretended to; because there was no wind." "Ah, that alters the case," said Mildred, with growing interest. "And it was that which woke me a little while ago." She spoke timidly, with downcast eyes. "Probably a draught of air from the open door." "Miss Mildred, don't I know it was not a draught of air from the open door, nor from anywhere at all It feels like ice, and it feels like steam, and-oh, Miss Mil- dred! I can't seem to know what it is." Mildred did not combat the caprice further, and the child continued, "It blew round me in the tenement-house where she died. I never want to feel it any more. It is not pleasant to know things one's self, unless everybody knows them, too; one is scarcely ever believed!" The diversion caused by that delicate thread of sarcasm in no respect dampened the eloquence of that great truth so simply spoken, and in her fancy- Mildred listened to the majestic tramp of that martyred and unpanoplied host of new ideas, and remembered the crimson crosses which strewed the way all along from Mount. Calvary, whither the derided Son of God went to prove his faith and his i fervor; or the leaning tower of Pisa, where Galileo sat amid the starry wonders of wandering worlds; down to I-      40        BOUND DO WN, the canvas walls where the infant dreamed and wondered. And more and more the conviction grew, that the low- born child was one of those unhappy chosen, one of those elect-'ic messengers from the mysterious realms o thought aLd inspiration, only come to eUrth to suffer for the truth. 'Verily, it is riot pleasant to know things one' self, unless everybody knows them, too; one is scarcelr ever believed. The world, like aged and infirm humanity, illy bears a shock, and woe to him who dares to startle it, though he reveal mysteries as deep as the human soul. The day passed by, and evening brought Captain Gray and his friend Dr. Marston. Mildred received the latter as she had been accustomed to receive those who, through some superior qualities of mind or character, recom- mended themselvesto the favor of Captain Gray with suf- ficient emphasis to warrant presentation to his daughter. But Captain Gray was one only among thousands whose faith in both men and women had received its paralytic shock among the revolting scenes of that unre- hearsed drama of life in California in its earlier, days. After tLe gentlemen were seated, Cora slipped by the servant who had opened the, door in reply to a summons for Mrs. Haywood, and, approaching Mildred, offered her usual goo4-night. "One moment, Cora," said she, handing the servant a message for No. 14, and dismissing him. "Permit me to present my young friend and compan- ion-Miss Cora Haywood, Captain Gray, Dr. Marston." The little maiden advanced, and, placing a hand in each outheld for her, bestowed her smiles with that im- perial gaze popularly supposed only to belong to rank and title.  Then gliding back to Mildred, she whispered softly in   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. her ear, clinging to her neck while she extorted soi promise, to which Mildred gently acceded, and the chi went back to her own room. Presently, agreeable Mildred's request, Mrs. Haywood came in, remaining pass an animated evening, with the ihvalid and h guests. After the geenflemen had retired and the inev table womanly conversation and gossip were ended, Jarn looked at her watch and began to wonder why larr did not return. 'He has been gonesince two o'clocl but he tells me he is so much pressed with business, an I must be patient." Then promising to send the maii Susan to assist in preparing her friend for the night, shl rose, to go.  "Not just yet," laughed Mildred; "at least not til you have taken a peep at Cora, to ascertain if she ik asleep." "What caprice is this?" said Jane, quizzically. "One of Cora's," and the answer, as usual, closed comment. "I think there is little doubt of her state at this hour of the night." And Mrs. Haywood took a candle and went out. Opening the door of her room, the first object which met her eyes was the white-clad figure of Cora, sitting "bolt upright" in her cot. Her attitude, it must be con- ceded, was neither classical nor even lady-like, but one wholly natural for the queer little creature whom it accommodated. With her knees drawn up till they served as a support for her chin, she sat with her fingers locked together around them, her blue eves glowering out upon vacancy, and her whole face perfectly white and still. The little dainty gown, with its soft ruffles and lace; contrasted strangely enough; with the coarse blue blankets and the rough linen of the bed, but the child 4*     V 42       BOUND DOWN, was manifestly oblivious to all external surroundings, fo" she looked full into Jane Haywood's face without at- tempting to speak. "How nervous you are, Cora!"Mrs. Haywood said, for the want of something better; and drawing the cov- ering up atout the neck of the child. "I supposed yo l were asleer. Is anything the matter?" Still the child gazed vacantly, and Mrs. Haywood grew more alarmed.             .  "Cora!" and the word was spokeinsharply.  The-child started, and looking up with a pitifu. ex- pression of face, as if grieved and terrified, if two such emotions may hold possession at once, only said, "Where is Uncle Hal?" Now comes the answer to Cora's question.   .  CHAPTER    IX. "COME and take some terrapin with me, to-day, Mr. Haywood," said Captain Barton, turning to walk away, after a few moments' conversation upon the street. "All right, Captain; whom shall I meet?" "Only a few of our mutual friends-Governor Smith, and Judge Hughes, and Hare, and two or three others." "But you know I've sworn off fighting the tiger, Cap- tain; his claws are too long for me." "A wise resolve, sir, a wise resolve; but that makes noi-difference; always glad to see you, Mr. Haywocd, njst the same. Sharp seven, if you please. Good-day." :And Captain Barton, the genial and popular faro-dealer, stalked magnificently out of Kearney into Washington   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. Street, placing his gold-headed cane firmly and wit resonant thump upon the hollow wooden pavement, bowing, now gravely and now beamingly, to ban merchant, and idler, as he went, some of whom retur his salutation with a covert smile and shrinking nod, others with a hearty and outspoken "How are you, C ain?" according to their different characters and incli tions.       -  Captain Barton earned his military title legitimate as an officer in the Mexican war. He was six feet a more than two, inches in height, and handsomen Adonis, with, his beardless face crowned by snowy tel ples, his eyes black as night and bright as a basilisk while, with his snowy neckcloth and dignified demean( he might have passed anywhere for a divine or a chur deacon--least of all for the proprietor of the fashionab gambling-hell of San Francisco. Atfive minutes before seven Harry Eaywood whirl( ' out of Kearney into Washington Street, and rushing u a pair of stairs covered with thick matting, he tinkled silver bell which hung at a rosewood door, andi wa speedily ushered into a suit of lqfty rooms. elvet carpets, doors and panel* of rosewood an, ,mahogany, luxurious fauteuils, brocatelle curtains, me] lowed with clustering lace, frescoed ceilings, walls hunt with paintings from the old masters, marble and ebon] sideboards laden with rare vintages gleaming in rub3 and amethyst splendor, decanters of crystal with frost ings of silver and- gold, tables of curious forn, covered with the latest papers and periodicals by steamer, formed some of the attractions of the place. ,Here, at his hospitable board or around his splendid saloons, nightly gathered the wits, and politicians, and adventurers of the Pacific coast; here fortunes had been     f4 ,    3.DVUI LV .LI Y LV,  made and unmade in an hour; here came judges, and senators, and lawyers, and doctors, and officials, to eat choice viands, chat -over Green Seal, and risk fortune, fame, position, prospect, hope, and all in life worth living for, or olsej to laugh at the infatuation of those who did so. Here came fierce gamesters, in the vain hope of "breaking the baik."- Captain Barton, the ubiquitous captain, was always smiling, always glad to welcome :o his board any gentleman distinguished or likely to be- come so, aild never hinted that those who partook of! his dinners or his wines should play. Nay, he would even advise bright young men, whose fortunes were yet to be made, and wily old men, too shrewd and cool-headed -o be in danger of infatuation, not to play. Haywobol, without stopping to enjoy the familiar sights, walked lightly into the farthest room, where Captain Barton had just taken his seat at the head of a long table, around which were ,gathered some twenty gentlemen, behind whose chairs flitted a dozen colored waiters. The diiner was, as usual; incomparable. Captain Barton was his own-caterer, and never questioned prices. Oysters, from Oregon, of acrid flavor; trout from Napa;. terrapin worth their weight in silver; choice meats and games; grapes from Los 'Angelos (the valley of the an- gels); wines from the sunny slopes -of France; there was, indeed, no luxury that did not tempt the caprices of his guests. After dinner the party rose, and sauntered,  and smoked, and lounged into the last room of the suite. In this room the splendor of decoration was not lost. , A dozen chairs were ranged carelessly around three sides  of a large table, the legs of which were as eagles' claws  of bronze the cover of green velvet; a suit of cards enam-  eled on the velvet; an ebony tray filled with round pieces of ivory stained with red and. blue, a drawer filled wi;h  4  \ .       .   '   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIE,.     45 stacks of gold coin; a raised seat in front of it; a square silver box; and over the chair, suspended by bronzed rods arranged to forl brarnches, and adorned with green leaves, was the stuffed skin of a Bengal tiger, with eyes of crystal and gilded claws. The dealer took his place behind the box, and from that hour until the dawn of day no sound. rang so clear in those luminous rooms as the sharp click of ivory checks, the chink of gold, and the purring whistle of the cards, as they slid out of the silver clasp of the box and fell, snow-flakes of fortune or disaster, upon the velvet cover.  Haywood sat at the right of the dealer. He hesitated for ia few moments out of respect to his late resolution to play no more, and then, with a pile of ivoryhecks before him, was again " wrestling with the Egypt an." He lost and won, and lost again. The dealer looked on with a face of stony imperturbability, and eyes as unchanging as the crystal glare of the tiger abcve his head. Occasionally Haywood would rise from the table refresh himself at the glittering sideboard, go to a conven- ient desk, and, with nervous fingers, write a checm-and pass it,to the dealer, and he, in turn, would pass it over to Captain Barton; the bland captain would smile an as- sent, and pass out files of checks, for he knew the state of Harry's account at the bank. So he played for three hours or more, recklessly des perately, fatally. The crowd around the table gazed on in breathlesssilence; there were three rapid turns of the cards, a long-drawn breath from the spectators, the ace cane out on the losing side again, and Harry Hayood was a  beggar. Sone men would have blown their brains out, or walked off the wharf many have done so under like            -     i                ir "        BOUND DO WN,  circumstances he did neither; he sat for a few mo- ments resting liis head upon his hand, without looking up, then silently detaching a splendid watch from the guard, he placed it upon the treacherous ace. Another turn of the cards  Lost again, and the dealer picked up Harry's chronometer. "Tempus fugit," remarked Harry, lightly, and, taking up hts hat, started toward the door. "Hold on, Mr. Haywood; here is your watch-pray accept it.  "Thank you, Captain Barton I'll remember you till time shall be no more," said Harry, as he walked out into the cool air of midnight.  CHAPTER    X. HAR! a thundering volley of shouts! The streets are frantic, the town has gone 'mad! Ah, the clanging of the fire-bells, and the plunge of the one engine through the streets, wail out, in fearful accents, the pro- logue to that tragedy5 which only closes in ashes and despair., The broad flame, thrusting aside its false vest- ments of smoke, leaps forth untrammeled from the tinder- box, and quivering and fluctuating a moment with fell ;-; purpose, it marks its fatal course, and with crisp and in- cautious steps it takes up its merciless march, alike ver the lives and the hopes, the best and the worst in ents of men, gathering strength as it goes, expanding and growing in awful grandeur, till the eye of the spectator grows fascinated with the glare of the gleaming lade o ,             .   OR LIFE AND ITS POS   ILITIES. leveled, perhaps, at his brother's lifd. Oh,t the power of the demon destrove, whose pleasur human expectation, and whose pur ose is annisu As if to  .   ... ose iit  ose  ' nniiati f to WOO the terrible enemy,rows and blocks buildings had bee-- en   emy , / rows and blocks buildingoseen herected of mate ial as light gs I and combustible almost as Powder and through th and over them the flames leaped blifhel chuckling a crackling with frantic glee, and triu phantly mocking the puny but complacent stream of water, destined curdle away in steam, while the conuering foe sway scarle t banner over the whole, and the mad wo went boldly forward. Among the fated on this fearful nih under which our little party had found temporary sherteo Cora was the first to catch a sound of the distant shou and like a quick shaft from the thunder cloud she spran' from the bed, while Mrs. Saywood still stood beside her and grasping her hand mutely fled to Mildred's room. The invalid sat in an easy-chair, one foot restng upon the Turkish cushion carelessly, the dark curls thrown back upon the snowy "tidy,  ' and mechanically folding the belt about the buckle she had unclasped from her waist, she sat waiting al message from Cora, who had left her with the grave assurance that she had something "important, to tell her. And Mildred waited, partly beeause' like most women, mystery h ad a charm for her; partly because none the' less had Cora. "Great heavens I do you not hear?, said Jane Iay. ood, aghast, as she burst wildly into the room, 'the city' is on fire t', ! Be calm, my dear, and trust in God," said the invalid, with almost tantalizing serenity. "You have already l0st your senses., ," Trust in Go, Mildred? It will require a strong man     ,48        O B o UND DO WN,    r to carrv you down stairs," said the practical Jane, making a daring thrust at Mildred's sentiment of faith, which to her material perceptions, look at it which way she would, seemed ill-timed and misplaced. Now, there were seasons when Jane Haywood en:er- tained a spirit of true religious fervor, but this feeling, not being exactly inherent, called for favorable auspices; being, too, most intolerant of a start or shock, this, least of all, seemed the time for working her mind up to the right focus; while Mildred, on the contrary, had leaned so long upon the Strong Arm that she knew its power, and sought it above human aid.  This was not the first fire in San Francisco by several, and many had learned bitterly the potency, of its' fiencdish fury. As a consequence, an absolute panic ensued. Men and women rushed by one another wildly, with white lips and starting eyes, scarcely recognizing their dear-est friends. It was not strange, therefore, that none came to the rescue of these helpless ones. "In God's name where is Cora!" shrieked Mrs. Hay- wood as she circled round and round the room, in the wildest confusion. If Mildred could- have made reply, a crash came which swallowed the sound of her voice, and the fireman's axe told the awful truth that the building about them- was in flames. Without a word, Mrs. Haywood caught the form of Mil- dred, dragged rather than carried it toward the door, and looking down the stairs discovered; to her utter horror and Mildred's despair, that the whole stairway was in flames And where, indeed, was Cora? Instantly upon the breaking out of the flames in the building, she had fled down the narrow stairs to the street below, and darting her eye with the rapidity of thought along the frantic   OR LIE AND I S POSSIBILIIES.      4 crowd, promptly singled out from among the firemen the most stalwart she saw by the light of the burning build ings. Gliding swiftly in and out among the maddenec shrieking throng, she at last gained the red shirt she sought, and with white and tightly-closed lips, as if she held her resolve between them, she lifted her little, frail arms, and giving one firm, elastic spring, she locked then securely about the fireman's neck. The rough fellom would have shaken her off, but the little fragile figure clad only in her night-frock, appealed too strongly, and besides she had set her lips close to his ear, and in a firm distinct voice was saying this: "Up-stairs in the hotel a sick lady will be burned to death in a minute, if you don't come with me now." The man tossed the child aside, and in one minute more had planted a ladder outside and stood upon the landing above the burning stairs. Tearing the window  away with a single effort, he grasped Mildred, already half suffo- cated with smoke, and bore her to the ground as lightly as if she were an infant, shduting to the frantic woman left behind to mount the casement, which she did, and all were saved. And, Cora? Well too small by more than half to be able to see above the crofd, and too much excited to re- member the direction she' had taken, she was soon lost in the throng, and was swept far away down the street. Now, madam," said Dr. Marston to Jane, after they had watched the carriage drive awav with Captain Gray and his daughter, "if you feel equal to a short promenade after your romantic escapade, we will meet your friends at my office, only two or three blocks away, a s agreed upon; after which, if your renegade husband does not put in an appearance, I  shall take upon myself the responsibility of seeking him out."     50        BOUND DOWN, "Thanks," said Mrs. Haywood, as she took the prof- fered arm; "but I cannot forget my child," and the voice faltered with an unspoken fear. "Oh  I beg your pardon-very obtuse of me, but I pondered that little name I heard you call so often, won- dering'who you meant. Cora! to be sure." "I cann6t think that she remained passively within the burning building," Jane broke in; "and my fears are, that meeting the flames, she fled into still greater danger.' "Is she courageous?" asked the doctor. Jane looked at him with something like contempt, but only answered, "Yes," "And calm?" "Not entirely, but firm and self-possessed, because self- reliant," this time proudly. "Will you wait while I go and make search for her?" "No!" replied the woman, "I would walk through tha, fire to find her. I cannot wait here." Indeed, she was at that moment hurrying Lim down the street as fast as she could encourage him to walk by means of keeping half a pace in advance, clinging close to the manly arm, but only half depending upon her new- made friend to recover the lost ones. An hour of protection extended to a woman really de- fenseless will not unfrequently secure half'a lifetime of gratitude; and at that moment Mrs: Haywood felt as if she would go quite round the world to serve that man, if he would only stay by her till 4ll this was over. Not a very healthy sentiment, conjugally considered, espe- cially in the face of some facts-which facts, in 3eed, com- pel indorsement of the sentiment, by-the-by. Jane paused to look, ,and Dr. Marston stopped too. Flashing in the red light, as far away as the vision could reach unobstructed, a little white figure appeared moving   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     51 above the crowd, like an image in Parian marble, such as the. Italian venders carry about the streets. A little nearer, and the vision proved to be the figure of Cora perched upon'the shoulder of Harry Haywood, he bear- ing her forward as buoyantly as if they were just returning home from a May-day fete. Jane Haywood looked dis- mayed at the utter sang-froid exhibited by her husband upon an occasion so dreadful, and Dr. Marston, with that true delicacy which seeks a felicitous interpretation rather than an awkward or futile evasion, remarked quietly, as if answering her thought,  "I have often wondered if eternity will seem serious to that man." Mrs. Haywoodf secretly adored Dr. Marston for his af- fectation, because it was done for her. and she was about to reply a little more glibly than tie occasion strictly required, when Mr. Haywood, approaching, recognized them.  ' "The devil " was his rather emphatic exclamation. "Well I this is very i" setting Cora upon the ground. "To one at a distance it is very, indeed," was the quick, appreciative, and sarcastic retort, clasping Cora in her arms. To Dr. Marston both the substance and the spirit of these remarks were unintelligible, b it the two under- stood each other, and from this moment, it may be said, the gentleman began to furbish his tactics, preparatory to domestic evolutions. Certainly, though natural enough, this little exhib'tion of temper, more in spirit than demonstration, was for Jane Haywood, the forbearing and patient wife, some- thing unusual; but stung by his manifest neglect on this fearful hight, not more than by his recklessness and levity when a mere accident had at last brought toiem         *        *     52        BOUND DOWN, 52 together, her pride rose in vindication, and a feling such as she had never known before-and such a all wo know must live to regret-took possession o. her, ard she cared little to suppress the feeling-rather enjoyed 't, indeed. Oh I why had he not folded her'in his arms for a ma- ment, thankful for her preservation, even-shall it 'e said?-though no feeling was in it at all. For did sie e not love him? and is not the love of any sincere B oman- certainly a wife--worth the cherishing? Or if he had kissed her ever so lightly, or even looked at her with some point; but he did neither; he only laughed in a high key. Mrs. Haywood soon learned, from Cora the simple details of her adventure, rehearsed at intervals, whle gazing, half in awe, half in admiration, upon the scene before her. And still the flames swept onl The shouts of the ex- cited multitude, the crash of falling timbers, and the rear of the fiery billows were as a far-off echo to the woman's ear; for, poor, selfish heart, she was thinking, not of the ravages of the destroyer abroad, but of the destroyer within, for a terrible conviction had this night seized upon her peace of mind, and all outward signs were overwhelmed in one bitter individual emotion. Mr. Haywood attempted neither explanation nor apol' ogy for his absence or his indifference; it is probable that the necessity for either never once occurred to his mind. Life to him contained little of real earnestness, and, if he looked backward at all, he viewed the dangers gone, through the complacent lens of final results; and since, in this case, the result was satisfactory, he recognized no especial claim upon his very small stock of sentiment. It may as well here be stated that, for the first time in   1OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.  'her life, Jane Haywood did not care one bit about ex- changing that warm, generous, sympathetic arm of Dr. Marston-not even for Harry's. But, in justice to that worthy and really conscientious man, be it also sajd, that he would sooner have cleft that arm away thn she' should have clung there with such a feeling at her ieart-- if he had known. For though the self-love of map is proporti nably greater as he is physically superior to woman, stil1 that j  ' self-love, happily, claims honor in the breast of honest men; and Dr. Marston knew that this womanly dependence belonged not by right to him. And so, without much apology, he released the arm of Mr . Haywood, and di- vesting himself of his overcoat ( very woman feels friendly toward an overcoat), he wJapped, and tucked, and smoothed it about Cora's shivering form, and, tak- ing her in his arms, led the way to I is office, situated in an opposite direction from the burning district, whither Captain Gray and his daughter had dkiven in the doctor's carriage half an hour before. His long and rapid strides, however, hurried him on, while the other two followed at their own more deliberate pace. Jane was gaining time for reaction, though nobody could have found that out from her. "Well," said Harry, tugging at a button-hole never meant to be buttoned, "this night cpoks my goose for "How is that?" after a pause, and! with a great show of indifference.         - "Every dollar in the bank, and the whole institution bursted out two hours ago," and he answered this as un- swervingly as if it was thelmost unimportant occurrence and every bit the truth; but he forgoti to add that it was not the usual depositary but the faro bank, and that the ac- 5*     54        BOUND DOWN, cident of cards, and not the fire, had impoverished them within the, last few hours of that luckless night. And then she tacked round-the worst thing she could have done.  "Oh, my dear husband l" was her first exclamation,  pressing his arm, while her voice half gave way under a feeling of shame and self-reproach, "how have I wronged you 1" and she never thought about the future at all. "Never mind that, Jane; you couldn't understand." "No; but if I could not emulate your philosophy and your fortitude in our misfortunes, I might at least have shown some appreciation of your noble spirit,"'and this time she pressed his arm hard, and sobbed. For once  s consciousness of his deception rose within him, and only half shielding himself under the false mantle of rodesty, he said, a good deal clumsily, and a little impatiently, "Now, don't, Jane; I hate scenes; so don't make a hero of me."  Now Jane had no idea of a "scene," though she did mean to heroize, him in her own ways And it was a piece of self-sacrifice which she consoled herself migh; compensate in part, that she refrained from making a her6of him particularly since she had discovered in ad- dition to his many virtues, one she least ascribed to him2-no less a quality than modesty. "And while you were risking your life to save our for- tune I was secretly denouncing your neglect of your family," was the very least she could say. "Probablly the identical same," the scamp replie  meekly. . But with that sagacity which " leans on" fear "before," this shrewd individual guessed that a prelude to that course of reform she contemplated for herself--a resolu. tion engendered by a growing estimate of his nchle spirit   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     55 I .  and-character-would be, to set him right in the eyes of her friends; so he closed up that loop-hole. "And, Jane!" then he repeated and elaborated the heroic sentiment before expressed about "scenes," and closed mildly with the advice that no allusion be made to the facts for the present, for reasons which he should explain some other time. In her present magnanimous mood Jane Haywiod dis- dained to ask an explanation in detail; so the tide flowed smoothly again, though the rudder was gone, and she drifted, and he floundered frightfully. Mildred had well said that the requirements of happi- ness were incredibly few; for this wo an was happier at the moment, holding .that little atom of faith to her heart, than if possessor of the millions which were then driveling to ashes-without the atom of faith. Arrived at the rooms of their medical friend, they found the little party grouped about the windows, over- looking the scene of conflagration, and quietly specula- ting upon the ruin which the morrow must disclose. Mildred was resting upon a lounge comfortably, and some benevolent hand had substituted a warm-shawl in place of the overcoat, which covered the dabbled gown and the little red feet, one of which was curled under the child after her own quaint fashion, as she sat mutely watching the sheeted flame of the deadly element busy still in its awful work. "Well," said Ilaywood, after a pause unusually long for him, "there is One who takes care of his own," and he pinched Cora's toe. "A very responsible individual, if he takes charge of us all," the doctor remarked dryly; "but as there are those not so provided for, I will go and seeksome of them out;" and he rose to go.      56        BOUND DOWN, "You will offer yourself as a substitute, eh ': cried Haywood. "Where shall we live now?" asked Cora anxiously. "You tell," was the bantering reply. "Do you think the house with the acacia tree at the door is burned, Uncle?"      -      - "O1, no I that fire is too sagacious by half for that. Of course it is not burned; you were there with us, and witches keep off fire," and he laughed at her pique.   I "Mt. Haywood," spoke Mildred, quickly turning the convelsatioh from the perplexed child, " did it occur to you, or to father, I wonder, that our trunks are still in the conmmission house?" Jane gave a little shriek of alarm, but subsided, with the assurance that it was probably the only fire-proof building in the city. The 'commission house" being really an unsigltly old hulk, rocking at the water's edge. This announcement was a great relief to Jane, who,  far too considerate to oppress her husband by an ill- timed suggestion, had yet stared at Cora's inadequate attire with vague speculation and apprehension, alto- gether at a loss how to act without embarrassment to Harry. And' now ensued a series of suggestions, each to be rejected oc adopted into the final plan for future action, according to expediency. So the night went, and morninig looked abroad on a prostrate and devastated city. But from the warm ashes, even, sprang struc- tures one after another in marvelous succession, till a few weeks later scarcely a spot made desolate on that night was left to tell the story. As it proved, Captain Grayiforeseeing difficulties by the li ht of experience, proceeded, without consulta- tion ith any one, to procure the house so long held, as it ere, under protest, and which, two hours after,         .       .     .-    OR LIFE AND ITS'POSSIBILITIES.     57 was the subject of the most extravagant and fabulous bids; for, of course, among the numbers left roofless on that night there had been no distinction shown; they were the rich and poor alike, reduced to a common level in an hour. But here were new difficulties I How was the house to be furnished? Somewhere along the route of sailing round Cape Horn a vessel was lazily answering back to the fluctuating breezes, but nmoths must go by before she should discharge her cargo of household comforts for this perplexed family, and meanwhile there must be substitution. Mrs. Haywood's state of mind was far from the serene. She was not thinking that the market was literally shorn of every vestige of furnishing goods, but only that their financial resources were cut off; land the question again and again arose to her mind, why should she, not explain the source of her perplexity at least to Mildred? And then she remembered that there were "reasons." But the mind of our hero underwent no such process of perplexed questioning. If there is developed any one phase of human char- acter above another by life in California it is that of generosity, which stops little short of absolute lavih- ment or recklessness. This trait, engendered originally by the immense resources of the country, has become as identical a characteristic as that penuriousness which at first, the outgrowth of necessity, has fixed the stanp of nationality upon other countries. ' Harry Haywood had lived in San Francisco too long often sharing the contents of his purse day after day with some friend Whose " luck was against him"- to lack for pecuniary resort at such a time. Money there was in drifts and piles-it must be gotten rid of at some rate,  /SO e5- ;-.      58        BOUND DOWN, they said-and to. thrust it into the empty hand of a'- "chumn who was " strapped". afforded an amount of felicity only pa alleled by a " game".with him. The pursuit of the law was lucrative, litigation healthy, and the practice of his profession would always serve him well when gam-  ing would not serve him better. By this brief explanation somewhat of the immediate prospects of Mr. Haywood, Attorney and Counselor at Law, may be apparent. But the wife was happily unconscious of the true condition of affairs, and hence her anxiety of mind, in which, to her surprise, her husband bore no part. Breakfast, composed of simple French rolls, nutton- chops, and coffee brought from a neighboring restaurant, and served in Dr Marston's private office, with nostrums and science on every side, was shortly dispatched. Then began the detailed plans' for housekeeping, forwarded rather by means of animated discussion anima icin d suggestion  for the first hour or two -than by any really practical movement, but finally resulting in the adoption of prob- ably one out of seven of the theories set forth, "First," Mrs. Haywood said, "there are the carpets '" Mildred's face was sympathetic, Harry laughed, Captain Gray- looked reflective, and Dr. Marston, apparently absorbed with prescriptions at the moment, seer ed not to heed the anguish. Meanwhile, reinforcements in the way of baggage from the storehouse having arrived, Mrs. Haywood set forth, leaving Cora and Mildred for the present. "I shall take a thorough look for Susan this nmorning; that is, if you decide th remain with Mrs. Haywood,?' Captain Gray observed, taking'up his hat. "Undoubtedly, dear papa; and though you make it an objection, I desire it all the more, since that you tell me. She will need a friend, and who knows or loves her so   Ut LIFE AND ITS POSSIBLITiES.    59 much as I?" and the soft eye grew softer as it filled with tears. "Very well, Mildred, to have made you comfortable would, before the accident of last night, have been exceed- ingly difficult. God knows what will become of ou now!" thea father said ruefilly. "But lle careth for the least of His children," Mildred repeated devoutly.  Captain Gray made no reply, but walked away to he window. CHAPTER XI. "WELL, by Jove i" was Haywood's exclamation, as, un- locking the front door of their future residence and enter- ing, his eye fell on a huge roll of carpeting lying in the middle of the -room. "See here, Jane; your friend talks about being fed by the ravens, but was there anything in the contract about carpets?" "Hush, 'arry," said Jane; "if I had a little more of Mildred's childlike faith I should not have wronged yo, by prejudging of your acts as I did."  Whereby it may be seen that this dear little lady had not yet recovered from her attack of self-reproach con- tracted from the occurrences of the preceding evening. "There is some mistake, of oourse," she continued, wit out waiting reply, thinking to checkmate the disappoint ment which was pretty likely to follow. . "'Possession is nine points of the law,' and I should make it exceedingly lively for any man who came to claim this;" and setting his foot against the roll, a pro- fusion of moss and tea rose buds and great white tulips, ---- . a af. * 1- * . - t  . i      BO UND DO WN V, spread upon a ground of very pale sea-green, strewed the rough floor with its broad crevices and unpolished sur- face. Tie carpet was a "Wilton," and the eyes of the wife danced with delight as she studied the beautiful blending of colors, and the exquisite arrangement and grouping of the pattern spread out before her; then walk- ing arourd to view it in a different light, she discovered a card which had evidently fallen to the floor. It was addressee to Mr. and Mrs. Haywood from Dr. Marston, who, miscalculating the requirements of life in California, had imported these carpets, but now had for the first time found use for them, and, expressing his pleasure in being able to serve his friends in their emergency, begged their acceptance, etc. "How very kind in that gentleman, Harry I" said the wife, with a feeling of real gratitude. "I can never return such consideration. What should we have done ?"' "Therb, is no scarcity of fools," was the answer. "Never fear, 'take the goods the gods provide thee,"' thrusting his head into one after another of the vacant rooms; "' you have the goods, never mind about the im- becile gods who provide them-there never has been such a piece cf goods in this market ;" and he ran up stairs, whistling Annie Laurie as blithely as a bird. While Mr. Haywood was delivering himself of. these  sentiments only less selfish because more frivolous, Jane's mind wEs undergoing a series of fluctuations. Harry was reckless--this was a misfortune; but if he were also ,selfish and ungrateful, it was a fault as well. But then ~this migpt be an assumed air of carelessness taken on for the very purpose of setting her mind at ease. "Better not be too fast again," she said to herself standing there alone. And so she suppressed the little speech she had intended to make him when he came down.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.   Next in order of housekeeping, a carpenter came upsn the scene, and under his hand sprung forth numerous little canning conveniences, mainly of Jane's design- ing; such as brackets, embryonic toilet-tables, skeleton lounges, and very unpoetic-looking footstools, and otto- man frames, and "barrel chairs." The finishing pro- cess was of course reserved for those deft and mysterioius touches of feminine art, able to fashion a fairy palace from 'a few yards of pretty chintz, a bit of pink cambric,  dainty overdrapery of white Swiss, and a few yards of ribbon. And thus it was that most magical effects sprang from most apparently indifferent causes. Of car- pets there were enough to cover the whole house, so that source of perplexity was at an end; and a few pieces of paper were found to freshen the walls, harmonizing well with the coverings for the floor. Then a half-worn dress in emerald-green, of reps silk was summoned from the secret depths of one of Mrs. Haywood's trunks, divided into sections, and lined with white linen, and gravely pro moted to the dignity of shades for the windows. Mirrors --always a woman's joy--chanced to be abundant, and with this commodity the house was plentifully supplied. The apartments apportioned Mildred had been selected upon the first floor, opening by means of folding-doors from the little parlor. If Mrs. Haywood had supposed her fund of ingenuity exhausted in devising thus far, she subsequently learned how unfailing and inexhaustible is such resource with wonan, especially when quickened by so apparently uncompromising an alternative as here prel sented itself. She tinted and ornamented the little com- mon bedstead till it resembled a specimen of Mosaic art; she covered the rustic-lounge and the easy-chairs with chintz grounded in Prussian blue; she stood by while the workman, with saw, and auger, and bits of rope, fashioned 6     BOUND DOWN, the plebeian whisky-barrel into a comfortable and elegant lounging-place; she erected in one corner a triangular canopy and 'hangings of blue silk and mull, the fabrics drawn from the same mysterious source as had served so well in other exigencies; and after the mirror, toilet-table, and dressing-chair were arranged with a skill such as might have made the little room the envy of a princess, Mildred was brought. With due pomp and circumstance, she was introduced for the first time into their future place of abode, to her inexpressible delight, for she had been prepared for the worst phase of privation-and dis- comfiture. Miss Cora, too, assumed the dignity of pro- prietorship of, her one room with a most superb air of royal authority. She entered her little bird's nest, open- ing off Mrs. Haywood's chamber, with a manner of im- perial patronage, as if the favor she conferred upon its limited proportions were sufficient to distinguish it for all timf to come. And the little room was indeed signalized, for it be- came the audience chamber of guests strange and weird, as only such a child as Cora could entertain. A complete outfit of dining and tea service in Sevres china was sent in exact time, with the compliments of Captain Gray, he having procured the same of a " party" whose domestic structure had unhappily been reared upon an unsound basis-upon the sand instead of a rock -and who had just learned that all flesh is grass, which cometh forth in the morning, and if not cut down, may be "spirited away." And so through an army of obstacles, and over a clam- oring host of difficulties, our little household had reached the high ground toward which some of them, at least, had looked forward for rest. Rest I Man seeks for its type in rock, and sea, and star,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.         63 invoking that serene repose for the spirit which seems t  have fixed its stilly seal upon some of nature's own works. But the rock is a sepulcher, and within its solemn folds stony fingers are busy, filing away the annals of crea- tion. The depths of the silent sea are swaying and cours- ing with hurrying channels and counter-currents, and the peaceful stars are far-off swinging lights just hinging upon an immutable law,, as the soul of man hinges upon eter- nal decree. If rest were found indeed, then should aspi- ration cease, and the straining perceptions of mortals lose the sound of the distant oar which, while cruising in ur- known seay, sometimes dips in the unfathomable waters of the Great Beyond. But no rest comes either to the waiting or the weary; for when the wave of life is hushed, and the swinging lights have gone out, the feet shall enter upon an endless cycle, growing more and more resplen- dent day by day with light from the eternal throne-and the end is the beginning, and the beginning is the end. And so there is no laying aside of the responsibility, i such it prove; each must work out the possibilities of his own life according to his opportunities and his percer- tions, taking heed of his infirmities tha- he prove no bar- rier to those walking the same path. But withal no rest shall be found, neither on this side ;he vale and the shadow, neither beyond; only growth of knowledge, ana peace, and love. As little children, "for of such is the kingdom of heaven.'      " .BOUND DOWY, CHAPTER    XII.   - THE next morning rose dull and heavy, asif the sun were vainly attempting to lift the burden from off its  i breast. Susan, who had deserted her mistress in the hour of peril, and whom Captain Gray had found on the morning' after the fire sitting upon some steps leading away from the street, deluged ia penitential tears, but not wholly unwilling to be consoled by the half-maudlin harangue of a gallant fireman, now stood before Mildred waiting orders for the morning toilet. "What kind of a morning is this, Susan?" "It's just no kind of a morning at all, Miss; it's warm and it's cold, and it's wet, and it hasn't rained, and when one sees the )sun, maybe it'll .do them good, for I don't believe it's riz at all, at all, though it must be ever so high by this time."           / But obfore breakfast was finished the room began to look more cheery, and Mildred was wheeled to the win- dow just in time to watch the burnished fleece of fog break in shimmering fragments before the rays oT the suIn, and suspending their dewy plumes mid-air, flpat away into the realms of ether.  "Lok, Cora," said Mildred; as the last wave of mist swept high above the waters, and was lost in boundless day; "to what do you liken that in your little world of fancy?"For Mildred was inexpressibly fond of hearing the child talk, and never lost an opportunity for encour- aging her " flights." ( Do you mean those banks of fog?" *    '          I   OR LIF  AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    65 Yes," returned Mildred, "a moment ago they were anchored down here, and we all lay hopelessly in the shadow."  "Bound down-couldn't get out," answered Corai vaguely. ,     !  "Bound by what?" questioned Mrs. Haywood, fro another part of the room. "Oh, I don't know by yThat word -you call it, Aunty, but I know there are people, not wicked people either, who want to say and do things, not wicked things either, and don't--" "Fettered by circumstances?" replied her interlocutor who delighted also to act as interpreter. "And sometimes they are afraid to do things," said Cora, lifting her eyebrows and looking very wise. "Afraid of what?" pursued Mildred, but half appre- hensive of the swamp into which she seemed driving the struggling intellect of the child. "I can't tell you now," said Cora promptlv; "when I go to my room I'll find out, if you like, and then colmel back and tell you." Some conversation in French passed between the ladies, but as Cora had found the English language  in its utmost simplicity adequate to the dissemination of the principles of her philosophy thus far, she feltl no curiosity when occasionally Mrs. Haywood and Mil- dred chose to convey their sentiments in accents incom- prehensible to her; but if they had been aware, as they were in after years, of the marvelous intuitive percep- tions of this child, they need scarcely have taken the trouble of the disguise. Cora started straight for the stairway, and the two women looked hopelessly at each other. Mrs. Haywood's resolution was taken, and she spoke. 6*     "       BOUND DOWN, kindly, but firmly. "Cora, come to meel"The child obeyed. "I want to talk with' you a little," she spokle, trying to smooth down the, little wayward, uneven' locks, and looking earnestly in the blue eyes which seemed de- vouring her every moment. - ,( Yes'm," returned Cora meekly. "Why were you going up-stairs before answering Miss Mildred's question?" "I was going to think," was the simple reply. "You always tell me to think before I speak; and I could not ' think easy or true down here, as I knew I could up there." Mrs. Haywood felt that this was a clear and direct answer, yet in it there was nothing satisfactory. Per- haps she looked for an unfoldment by some remarkable mental process; in any event, she looked despairingly at -Mildred. ' Neither spoke. A; length Cora broke the spell. : "]o you think I'm bad, Aunty?" "o0, Cora; only a little odd; and let me give you a word of advice,'darling, because I love you, and desire that others should love you too: you can talk anything to Miss Mildred and me, but do be a little careful about sayin g,' unusual things to Uncle."   , tAend, not be myself, Aunty; then who am I?" Mrs. Haywood looked exactly as if she didn't know, but-made no reply, and Cora continued, "I do say -unusual things, don't I? and can't seem to help it." i"Yes," said Jane quickly; " and he says he wishes you ' were more like other children, and a good deal else; try and be so, Cora, for his sake."           : " Like little girls who play with dogs, and dolls, and Ai things?" rj' "Yes, and who interest themselves in--"   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.   .t "Little cats?" interrupted the child, eagerly. "I like them." G-lad to extricate herself from the m!ghes of a topic which had rather led her away than toward the light, Mrs; Haywood kissed the little hard, smooth forehead, arid dismissed her. Sauntering up to Mildred, the child laid her cheek against. that of the invalid, after her own. fashion, and taking one of the rich, dark chestnut curls, hung it over her own little white ear, cunningly. "Cora," said Mildred, less willing to abandon the'con- versation without further light than Jane had been, "what did you mean precisely by saying that people were afraid to do things which they desired to do, and which they knew were not wicked?"          I A fresh, childish laugh bubbled up, as Cora sat upon the arm of the chair, stiffly supporting the borrowed culI with a gravity most ludicrous to behold. "Aunty says I may say anything I please to you and to her," said Cora, a little suspiciously. ' Yes."  ' "Well, why did you not wish me to go up-stairs?" "You must not ask me," replied MTildred sagaciously; "you are my teacher now," affecting 'an excuse mos, timely for refusing to answer a question whic ,:-indeed. she knew not how to answer.       ! "Tell you what I think," said the. young lady, with a "quirk" of the eye, "the same that used to make me afraid to go in the dark. I did not know what was there, and did not care about finding out; it might be nice, and it might not-people are always afraid when the dark hides the track of somebody who has been there before." "And why are not you afraid to think 'unusual' things?" asked Mildred, beginning to comprehend some- thing of the meaning. #     , .     68        BOUND DOWN, "Oh, I feel out the way. When I say these thipgs I know they are true, and I say them and -can't seem to help it, and that shows that I am not alone in the dark, because thoughts must come from somebody. Where do they come from, Miss Mildred-?" said she, brightening. "Tey are generally the result of observation, some- times education, and oftener than we could wish, of pre- judice," a little abstrusely, Mildred explained. "Oi'1 that kind of thoughts?" broke in Cora, a little petulantly; "I mean new ones, such as come out of the darkl-that is the kind people are afraid of," and she cast a roguish, sidelong glance at both the ladies. Neither spoke, but Mrs. Haywood, who had affected an indifference which was not justified in truth, rose silently, and bringing Cor:als hat, and deliberately tying it be- neath the little chin, said quietly, "Miss Mildred will excuse you; go and play in the yard, you have had little sunshine of late; it will be a benefit to you ; you are losing your sea-bronze, land begin to loo; too white." "Now'" said Mrs. Haywood, closing the door after Cora, and turning back with moist eyes, "what does possess that child to talk in this way?"   , "I should say that goodr jommon sense possessed her," said Mildred, "if she were not so very an infant in vears."         ' "Do you understand her?" asked Jane despairingly. "Yes; she means that we are fettered by error, and have not the moral courage to strike out for truth, for the reason that it lies in an untrodden path; -A great truth, powerfully spoken, because out of the mouths of babes and sucklings," was the fervid reply. " nd what does she mean by not being 'alone' in the dark '" asked the practical Jane, her distress and per-   OR, LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     69 plexity increasing as she followed in her mind the weird  wanderings of the child's subtle suggestions. "I do not know," and the response came in a low, dry, dreary tone, as if some unwelcome apprehension had seized the mind and tried to crush back the words be- yond the portals of utterance.      . Jane Haywood was appalled-not at the answer, but at Mildred's manner of delivering it-and she instantly spoke, almost impetuously,      ,  - Mildred, let us not encourage this habit in Cora. We do not know where it may lead."  - "People are always afraid when the dark hides the tracks of those who have been there before.' My dear friend, if you have any dislike for the tendency toward this spirit of speculation which this child evinces, I ad7 vise you to do all in your, power to suppress it, and I will assist you so far as may be possible"  did'n"hat seems  unreasonable, too," Jane thought, bul "I think I' appreciate all that you must feel, Jane, with the leading-strings in your hands by which to guide this really remarkable child. 'You cannot be too watch- ful, too prayerful, too earnest." "But who puts these theories into her head?" asked Mrs. Haywood, intent on some practical conclusion. "Ahh, there lies the mystery," Mildred spoke. "Is this mind the work of a freak of nature dependent upon no law: an accident, shorn of wise purpose? So also then the poet, the artist, and the ihniumerable -band who catch at an unfolded glory, and it develops within their grasp, tinting the earth, ever so faintly, with the pregnant colors of inspired thoughts. For me, I dare not hold this capricious child wholly accountable, nor should I  feel surprise at any degree of development of a mind ".     ,        , ?i'     70    I    BOUNDD DOWN, stamped by the finger of Good with a manifest purpose,: and delivered to the children of earth just as surely as the 'Word' came amid the thunders of Mount Sinai; but elo- quent above the clamor with the spirit of immortal truth." While Mildred was speaking, Jane's eyes were riveted upon bhe speaker's face, and a vacant,preoccupied man- ner remained with her lqng into 'the silence which followed an expression of those sentiments which were just then introducing Mrs. Haywood into unexplored re- gion' of thought. But, as the reader has observed, she was not one given to vague questionings; her mind was not like that of her friend-a vast laboratory, where, by a process of analysis, the vast phenomena of human thou ght underwent the different tests of the experiment- alist She took the world as she found it; actual, prac- tical, real, never ascribing motive till it was justified in deed; credulous, self-sacrificing, and generous. 1Her common sense was excellent, and her directness of pur- pose the ballast to her character. The effect of Mil- dre 's " transcendentalism," as Harry had chosen to call it, t en was, first, to bewilder, with its mystic meaning, and  next to resolve her convictions into a state of remorseful con ecture, lest she should have undulv restrained the natural inclination of the child's mind, in order to adjust the little intellect to her own commonplace basis. So- she expressed herself to her friend, and then wiped the moisture from herteyelashes. 'I see," Mildred said in reply, the spring will not always run underground, and sometimes there is danger that in damming up the easy flow of the waters, you divert the stream into a less desirable channel; such natures, my dear Jane, must have vent; and if wi fetter expression we redouble the force of its genera- ting principle, which is thought."   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    7 But the fiat had gone forth; Cora was to be "more careful," and the future will show results. *Presently the. little thing came in, holding between her fingers a little sturdy, coarse-textured flower, which looked as if it might have grown anywhere from Labra- dor to the Cape of Good Hope, so impervious did it seem to climatic influence, soil, or the graces of culture. "Poor little flower," said Mrs. Haywood; "where did you find it? There has been no rain for months." "Growing straight up in the sand," answered Cora "just as if it meant to grow and didn't much care for anybody." "A very enterprising little plant," said Mildred, insin- uating her third fingr delicately between the petals and the stamen; "its perseverance is worthy if not of a better cause, at least abetter soil." "Is this not the most hopelessly desolate country?" Jane said; "not a vestige of foliage or vegetation to be seen, though this is June." "But you see this seed was not lost, though it fell on barren ground," Mildred observed.  Cora's mouth flew open; but instead of the rising com- ment, a sudden bound upon her feet, and a spring back to her seat upon the sofa-a capricious action not unu- sual to restless or impulsive children. ' .           '.-     72 .       BOUND DOWN, CHAPTER    XIII.    , WEEKS went by, and, strange to say, Mildred's health began very sensibly to improve, so much indeed that her friends began to dream faintly of a day-distant, of course, but how welcome, if it come at all-when the beautiful form should stand erect once more, and then they would try and forget that the queenly Mildred had been for years as helpless as an infant. Mrs. Haywood's cheeks were just a hint paler, and her step a little less elastic than formerly. "But Mr. Hay- vrobd's business detained him so late, poor Harry; and if she could even sleep till he came in ;" but she never did; so there was no remark except that Dr.- Marston,  when he came to Mildred, regarded her with a little more attention than usual, and that was all; for he never mentioned the subject of her health. Several times he' had sent her in from the night. air, but that was. a stereo- typed injunction served promiscuously among his friends mnd his patients, and meant but little at any time; and once he had thrown a shawl about her shoulders as they were sitting with the invalid, withpout a fire, upon a foggy night.                   L One day Captain Gray came in to sit for an hour with his daughter, s he was accustomed to do; but his eyes were sunken, his face sallow, and a general manner of weariness was aboutthim. Mildred was at once struck with the conviction that all was not as it should be, and she quickly said,. "Are you ill, dear papa?" I "No," was the only answer.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     73 Then Mildred said no more about it, but sought to divert his mind, surmising that another financial specula- tion had failed, or that some disappointment had come about which he did n'ot care to speak to her, so she read amusing passages from letters just received from home; then she produced some excellent landscape sketches which she had: made from her window, taking in the pur- ple, hazy, mellow hills of Contra Costa, with the beauti- ful bay at their base, gathered under the light of one of those memory-haunting, time-evading sunsets which can- not be merely seen, but must be felt through the medium of sight in order to find full expression. But all her.' efforts were useless, for the cloud lifted in no degree from the care-worn face, and an expression of absolute pain seemed tightening about the lines of the mouth. "I could not relieve, you, if I knew your trouble could I, dear papa?"Mildred ventured at length. "'The serenity with which you propose to bear my misfortunes,' to quote somebody or other, is not confined to yourself. The world is full of people who, by virtue of some affectation of sympathy, institute themselves judges of my conduct, and pass upon my motives with ! the most fiendish complacency-as if anybody knew the limits of the powers at my command-confound their im- pudence!" and he paced the room impatiently. Mildred knew somewhat of her father's irritable tem- per, and although she knew that she had disturbed it, she yet felt that he meant no real unkindness. That word affectation, however, rankled, and, after a brief silence, she said, very earnestly, "You do not think me insincere in the, sympathy I extedls to you?"  t"No, my child,'" he said, more softly, " only the words are stereotyped and trite, and always irritate me; they all say, 'I wish I could relieve you ;' and yet, if my suc- ?     184        BOUND DOWN, cess here 'and my happiness hereafter depended upon their faith in my convictionss and those convictions con- flicted with their notions orr prejudices, they would say with the Archbishop to Gil Bias, ' Go I your perceptions are impaired; you see no longer as I see.' This is only an apology for my ungenerous reply to your extended sympathy, which for you has little significance, at least as I can understand."' Mildred marveled, and questioned, and speculated in her oWn mind, but no query escaped her lips as to what all this pertained. At length,' halting before her chair, he spoke again. "I know that you wonder I am not ch astened by suffering, for Heaven knows how I have suf- fered; but if that were possible, I should long ago have een shorn of every passion of my soul. So much'for t at theory." "Papa," and Mildred spoke a little feebly at first, "t I o not believe that suffering by disappointment in human  nature is productive of anything but bitterness and nmis- nthropy; that: the practical working element of char- acter may become not chastened but stolidified, rendering n individual more passive before the fluctuations of hu- nan events, I concede; but successive failures are no timulants to final success, and disappointment was never yet an incentive to confidence.", "Then you were not surprised upon failing to discern he effect upon my character and temper which the popu- 1ar mind loves to ascribe to the agency of adversity?" said Captain Gray, a little dryly. "By no means. First, I have little reverence for the opular mind; mainlyecause it renders its verdict ignd- antly of real facts, and is too often indifferent to the mec- lives which impel a purpose. And I say this without prejudice, conceding unselfishness aud .disinterestedness   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     75 far above that of mere individual judgment, since the public mind means, no doubt, to be loyal to the highest principle. But objective reasoning is fallible at best, and every man is best judge of himself." Mildred said this, and thought, "H ow tiresome I am growing," hen she heard the halt of carriage wheels before the door, followed quickly by the somewhat abrupt appearance of Dr. Marston. Conferring a much less deliberate recognition of Mil- -dred's presence than was usual for him, he turned hur- riedly' toward Captain Gray, and learning that he wks waiting, the two left the house together. Mildred's womanly curiosity concerning the anxious manner of her father, in connection with the late move- ment on the part of Dr. Marston, which was evidently understood by the former, was, of course, unavailing, and she soon turned her attention to other subjects. Meanwhile, the gentlemen proceeded direct from the residence of Mr. Haywood, and following a heavy suid- road leading over the hills in the direction of Yerba Buena, lying westward from the city, they at length ar- rived at a little wooden dwelling-house, quite unfinished and unprotected by inclosure or surrounding buildings. Entering the place with very little ceremony, the doctor motioned his companion to remain in the outer of the two wretchedly furnished rooms, while he, closing the door behind him, approached the bedside of a man evidently sinking under the heavy hand of death. The sick man turned his head heavily upon his pillow, and, lifting the weary, clammy lids which shut out the light that should dawn for him never more on earth he spoke in a forced whisper, but with something of eagerness in his ghastly face, "Well, why does he not come to me? Did you tell him I was dying, doctor? o .   '          ,f     761i *    BOUND DOWYNi "I gave him your message. How have you been since I ;eft you?" the doctor inquired. "Sinking, as you see," was the reply, and from a low seat at the foot of the bed came a succession of sobs which went straight to the soul of the man who was waiting, just outside, a summons to the death-chamber. Doctor Marston stepped aside, and a pale young w:man, with the old- sign of the hectic glow upon her cheek, disposed her sleeping child upon a pallet near by, and coming forward, silently and tearfully stood b6side her only earthly counselor in this moment of her great grief. "* AHave you observed any symptoms of delirium since emy last visit?" asked the doctor in a low tone. "Oh, no!" returned the wife in a broken voice; " he has talked in the most rational way ever since four o'clock this morning." "Dr. Marston," called the sufferer again, "I cannot die without seeing that man."  Bending kindly over the bed, the doctor said sooth- oingly: "Be as calm as possible; there may be that in - the unhappy matter between you that will be clearer by- and-by. If you can be so quieted in your last hours, cer- tainly Captain Gray will come,')' and ,opening the creaky door, he summoned the unhappy man to the bedside af death. "I thought you would come," said the dying man, without a word of other recognition. "With all yo-r unjustness, you are not dead to-a sentiment of pity or nemorse-a feeling that you may hope to mitigate, but     that you cannot banish, by this interview." "My dear sir," said Captain Gray, with evident agitation, "you think I have bitterly wronged you, and I cannot wonder at such a verdict upon my conduct; bit,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.   0' sir, I am as foully wronged, though it is too late to rehearse in detail now." "What explanation can wipe out your sins?" the dying man spoke huskily. "Only my correctness of purpose," Captain Gray replied shortly. "-You were my friend," the sufferer began, " and I indorsed for you largely, recklessly, ruinously. You failed; my fortune was of course swept away; this was my misfortune; then came your crime; you influenced me to sacrifice my last dollar in order'to join you here, assuring me, with a fiendish affectation of joy, that you had that hour come into the possession of facts which would enable you to treblyr repay me for my loss; I came"-the sick man paused for a moment, and then with a painful effort went on--" and you met me with a look of mock sorrow and disappointment upon your face. Even then I could have sought employment and gained an honest living, but still you held the ignis-fatuus before my weak, deluded eyes, and allythe while the worm of decay was busy at the root of my life. At lastI have sent for you to see the last of your victim, deluded ,and deprived of hope in this world, -but who, if the spirit lives, will haunt you with some of the specters you have raised- for yourself. Look upon my wife and my boy, the inheritors of poverty and want, and promise me, if the last drop of sympathy is not frozen within you, that you will redeem some. of your broken faith by looking out for them when I am beyond your reach." "Believe me, your family shall be provided for so long as they and I shall live," Captain Gray promised. "And you said once before, 'Believe me, I shall lay nay hand upon untold treasures of gold before to-morrow night.' Can you deny this?"     T8        BOUND DOW 0V, "I do not attempt to deny, it. I did so say, and so believed." Then turning to the doctor, Captain Gray put this question, "What is it discreet to do? Isthis the moment for the whole truth, with all its tantalizing mystery and misery?" "It seems to me the: only way by which you can set the matter. right. As it is, your position is painfully false; perhaps, if he understood, he would be more calm. It is my best judgment that, embarrassing as it may be, it is the most judicious thing to be done. It can do no harm now,' the doctor continued, holding his finger upon the quivering pulse of the dying man, and conveying to Captain Gray, in one look from his full, intelligent eye, sone idea of the brief space of time left the suffering mai.                        ! The unhappy gentleman seated himself and began: "I will be as brief as possible; but a few words relating to my experiences, during the time of which you speak, while they are due to myself may not, and, I. trust, will not, be unwelcome to you. I have little faith that you will credit the testimony of any one man in what I am about to relate; if you shall, you have more than my credulity. In the year 1850, immediately upon my arrival on this coast, I assumed command of a vessel running between San Francisco and San Pedro, aloLg the southern coast of California, so called, mhich I helc for a series of months, or more than a year, indeed. Once or twice during my trips I had observed a dark- oer-plexioned, black-whiskered man, whom I presumed /was making the voyage for his health, as he looked feeble, and seemed listless and altogether indifferent to other passengers,'keeping wholly apart, and always apparently absorbed in some private speculation. One day he came  rather abruptly to my state-room door, and, addressing .   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     79 me in broken English-he proved to be a Spaniard- begged a few moments of private conversation. I motioned him to a chair; he sat down. and gave me, voluntarily, the following, which, however, I will not attempt to relate in his own words. He said substan- tially, that he had been an invalid for some months, and had that morning been attacked by a hemorrhage of the lungs, which he believed would ultimately prove fatal. He designed to impart to me a secret, the conditions of which honor must have compelled if he had himself failed to state them, namely, that the information he gave should. only take effect in case of his sudden death-a result he very firmly anticipated. He then took from his pocket a scrap of paper, upon which he drew a hasty but en- tirely perfect map of the surrounding country, and pass- ! ing it over to me, asked if I recognized the locality, which I did very readily. These preliminaries for the sake of accuracy, he made a few rapid lines in the fore- ground, and passing the map to my hand again, he rose  and left me as abruptly as he had come, saying, 'I am  too ill to finish what I had begun to say, but I will see you again.' He walked out of my room, and at about eight bells on' the same afternoon I was called to his side, where the man lay dying. He whispered me, and asked for the sketch he had given me. I laid it id his hand, and placing a finger upon the spots lately described by the odd marks indicating a thick growth of manzanita bushes and chaparral, he said, 'I am dying, but am per- fectly sane, as you will find. Just in there,' pointing to a rough spot of earth, 'there are millions of treasure buried. It-is--not-my-money,' he gasped, at long in- tervals, 'but-it-is-my-secret-and-if..' -:He made one more futile effort to go on, and expired without another word." ,          . .      .  . b          ' S      80       ' BOUND DO WN, At this point of the narrative Captain Gray paused, and the dying man raised his emaciated form upon his elbow, and a bright light came to his cold gray eye. "Go on," said he, hoarsely, and almost fiercely; " if there is more to be said, let it be said quickly." The narrator glanced toward Dr. Marston, and getting a nod of assent, continued : "I at once resigned my command, and in company with a single trustworthy friend procured implements, and set out to search for the buried treasure. So much I delib- erately ventured upon the story of the dying Spaniard, -but I will not stop for details. We arrived at the spot; it was almost dark, but we v set to work in earnest, and about three o'clock in the morning we struck our picks  .upon a hard, smooth surface, which by the light of our lanterns we could see was the lid of an iron box or chest; but at this moment, and before the words of joy had more than escaped our lips, the air was filled with the cries of barn-fowls, the lowing of cattle, and the fero- cious barking of dogs; though we were not aware, nor am I yet, that there was a human dwelling-place within miles of the spot. We were- not yet recovered from:the effects of this mysterious horror when a new one seized us." '"I see!" broke in the dy ing man, springingto a sitting posture, and staring out on vacancy; then, growing still and awfully calm, he spoke feebly: "Go on, I must hear it all. I can wait." Then Captain Gray proceeded rapidly with his story. "It was only an earthquake," he said; " a very frequent occurrence in that latitude and country, but terrible; for standing with both feet upon that chest, I felt it slip away, leaving me standing in a hole in the earth, only a section of which was relieved of some of its horrors by the rays of the moon, now high in the heavens. iA)i '   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     81 "It was upon the morning of that day that I wrote you, with my hopes fixed upon that which I believed to be the key to future affluence for us both, so foolish:y impatient did-I feel that you who had shared my 11l luck should also share my first joy in the new prospects held out to me. After the tragical disappointment came, I wrote again, And by some fateful mistake mailed by the up-going steamer the wrong letter." "I remember the letter well," said the sick man, never moving his eyes from their unearthly fixedness; "and what else?" "The next day," the Captain proceeded, ' we returned  to the scene of our night's adventures, but the shock, though it had left no other visible effect, had thoroughly obliterated all sign of our recent labor." "It was not an earthquake!" and the sepulchral vibra- tion of that voice, so' soon to be sealed with eternal silence, brought a chill to the frame of the narrator as if a fierce wind had seized it, and even Dr. Marston shiv- ered and changed his seat. Once more Captain Gray resumed, with comparative calmness : "Again and again I have attempted a prosecu- tion of my purpose, but the fates are against me; I have lost my chart, and with every step new difficulties arise. Still, with the knowledge that the treasure is there, I am loth to abandon the search; the secret haunts me, and drives me thither, only to come back sick with disappoint- ment. The last time---" "I know, I see it all, all!" the cold lips spoke as he sank back upon his pillow, gasping, as he tried to utter some half-articulated, half-defined idea. "I seem-to get a-glimpse-of thc-powers-unseen-to-you-but not clearly;-all this--has a deeper- significance--than.  you can know. Wait! wait 1 wait!"     B BOUND DO WN, 82- Then suddenly the features relaxed; and fixing his eyes upon the form of his weeping wife for -a moment, with all the old intelligent expression come back again, the re- leased spirit fled the earthly scene, and the eyes were dimmed forever to misery and the world. A few days. of kind solicitude for the dead and' generous provision for -;he living, and nothing was left the qnhappy. gentle- man-the victim' of reproaches such as his delusions had earLed for him--but the meiory of a-wrong, which at last was rather the result of an accident than a purpose. Who, then, shall dare to weigh in the same balance the wrg done anddthe wrong-doer, or to determine from restilts, that cause, too far removed from human. compre- hension to justify a verdict of human judgment? A few weeks and the wife lay beside her husband out amcng the sand-hills overlooking thesea. The babe was cared for by loving relatives in the East, and the foot- prints of father and mother upon the strand of its little ,life were soon filled with the shifting sands of time. o CHAPTER    XIV. N following the conduct of Harry Haywood we shall fin the external life much like that of more honest men. Let none therefore be misled by false analogies; for ap- pearances, artificial at best, are as often the result of a lack of sophistry as of the most matured and deliberate plt ; and if the inexperienced wife, -in glancing at this character in its earlier stages, shall feel inclined to per- sonally apply these indications, or to institute compari- sons--which are necessarily incomplete, because no two   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     83 characters are either in themselves alike, or impelled alike-then, let her challenge the evidence instantly, -ap-, pealing to the supreme tribunal of her own woman's heart, whose throne is within. For the love of every woman of matured and well-regulated mind is either se- cure, or it is not. There is for her no wavering, no ques- tioning suggested by the experience of others. Faith is absolute; it is only self-love which is full of distrust and misgiving and wounded pride, and any woman of delicate perception, or of sagacious instinct, ought to be able to decide without the use of her eyes-almost without ears -whether the passion the man of her heart declares to her is real or but a, pretense. And away down below the fluctuating false flow of the surface there is in every woman's soul an answering tide, but she must fathom it dispassionately, without vanity or unequal presumption, or the test may fail. Autumn was approaching, and the strong pwinds and the dense fogs were giving way to a tinted atmosphere, and a hazy light, rich, but more pure than the Indian summer, began to strew the soft hills, and to hang over- the waters of the bay in "a gauzy glow of luscious sun. light. Jane Hayw'ood looked abroad and listened to the soft voice of Mildred as she summoned, one after another the spirits of beauty and su ggestion that lingered over scenes like.-these, but the old feeling of interest seemed to have died out, and she 'sometimes wondered if all pleasures were not at last the fruit gathered from the en- thusiasm of youth, to decay with on-rolling years, rather than that appreciativeness which is supposed to last all the way down into ripest age. She seemed not nmelan- choly, but listless; she moved about silently as one in a dream, and every effort of Mildred to engage her atten- tion or her fancy failed discouragingly. "Now, surely," *!    ,       -     846 .;      BOUND DOWN, shs said to her father after the arrival of their 'household effects, ' now that her piano is here, she will rally; you know her fondness for music." But Mrs. Haywood did not rally. Once or twice she sat down and ran her fingers abstractedly across the keys, but directly betook her- self to her accustomed occupation of gazing half eagerly, half vacantly down the street. The descent of Mrs. Hay- wood into this condition of mind had been gradual enough, and Mildred knew that some good reason was at the root, and that reason she, with her. womanly instinct and her cleafmind, very shrewdly guessed. Yet never, by worde or action, did she indicate that she sou'ht confidence. In this she differed from Dr. Marston, who plainly de- clared that no woman was ever better, morally, mentally, or physically, for huiiginpg closer the poison which was corroding her life. But Mildred said, "I could not so offend her feeling, if it be,-as I suspect, a domestic trou- ble. I should by means of that which she must naturally interpret as a sentiment of curiosity, array myself in an  tagonism to all she holds most sacred; for a question or suspicion in this direction would be a challenge to her faith, an assault upon the citadel, of her affections." "I honor your delicacy and respect your philosophy, M'ss Gray," Dr. Marston replied, while a heightened color proved at once his discomfiture and his appreciation; "but if I allow a tumor, which is nmerely local, to diffuse itself through the system of my patient before my eyes, I hold myself responsible for the consequences." "But if the tumor affect a vital part?" suggested Mi'- dred. "Then it is fatal in any event," her professional frienI replied.         .  "But the operation hastens the result?"Mildred ven- tured, hesitating with the fear of getting beyond her depths.   - OR LIFE AXNJ ITS POSSIBILITIES.   85 "And that is more merciful than a living death."  "How can you know to a certainty that there is no hope, thus absolving yourself from a charge against. human life?"Mildred asked, with an innocent' thrust at his assumption. "Ah i" and the doctor looked triumphantly. "No mere theory is so absolute as to be productive of practical r3- sults which know no exception, let scientists prate as they will. And the human mind is a greater mystery, you will admit, than the human body. Better make the incision upon purely experimental principles than not at Both these persons felt, when they abandoned this sub- ject, that neither had reached its depth or more than touched upon the real conditions which governed their conduct toward Jane Haywood; but embracing as it did a large field for speculation wherein some injustice might be done the husband, both tacitly agreed to await tie development which was sure to come. Besides, in the breast )of Mildred rose up a feeling of loyalty, a sort of defense for the action of a man under whose roof she found hospitality, which, though it might look like affec;a- tion, she yet naintained under cover of an equally sincere- though another form of argument. And Mr. Haywood--well! upon reflection, it seems probable that this life may best be described by the inci- dents which mark it, for it is not one impelled by apparent motive or purpose. His was one of those irregular characters whose eccentric movements challenge no slir-  prise, the result of whose movements, whether directed for good or for evil, are never wholly'unexpected. Such characters are like the moon, with a bright side and a dark one; half the world views it under one aspect, and the other under another. Hitherto Jane had stood under 8     86        BOUND DOWN, the light. But was the moon shifting its axis, or how was it -hat she was so much in the dark? Yet it does not follow that because the wife was under a momentary clold, the reader should go unenlightened through all the pages of this book. An observation then, taken from such a s and-point as the circumstances seem to justify, may not be ill-timed. It happened, as it is sure to do everywhere, but in heaven, that Mrs. Haywood one morning found herself anc family suddenly without a servant; and desirous of sparing her husband any unnecessary anxiety, especially as he had declared himself hurried to death with office business, she determined quietly to set out herself for the required commodity. Accordingly she laid her plans gra ely before Mildred, and meeting with encouragement, - esp cially from Cora, who was selected for one of the two for ing  n the expedition, they set forth together, quite in- noe nt of any settled design as to locality, or indeed of any fixed purpose whatever. The general aim was a servant; but hether a Chinaman, and where to be found, or whether a Br dget, and where to be found, had not yet entered into their limited sphere of speculation and calculative projects. After wandering, rather vacantly, it is to be feared, up and down the rough sidewalks, and over squares of grou d where there were none at all, glancing in, quite accidentally of course, at every door that looked suggest- ive  an intelligence office, but failing in point of fact, Mrs. Haywood conceived the bright idea of resorting at once to her husband. "' or, Cora," she said confidently, "we shall be sure to find him at the office, and it is almost dark." "hould you be afraid to walk home, Aunty?"Cora said, simply. "I should not; nobody would hurt us. Besides, I don't think we shall fipd Uncle Hal." \   "  ,    .      '      *  .   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    87 Now it will have been observed, that predictions and observations of an ' unchildlike character" had fallen into disgrace among the Haywoods; so at least Cora believed, and instead a certain reserve had assumed a very stiff and formal reign, which Jane had sorely deplored ever since the day the change began. And now this assertion, though it did not best accord with her wishes at th:s moment, struck a chord of something like gratitude in the heart of Jane Haywood, and she proposed to give the old - queerness" a little encouragement by way of welcom, even at some expense to herself. And so Mrs. Haywocd asked upon what was her opinion based. Cora hesitated a moment, and suddenly remembering the injunction once levied upon that penchant of hers, which had been a subject of so much comment concernin g her, and making it a matter of conscience, wherein she had no more moral right to talk " queer" about Mr. Ha- wood's affairs than she had to talk to him concerning t e same, she adroitly assumed to have fallen in with Mr. Haywood's suggestion, and actually urged her forwa d when Jane would again have hesitated. The facts ar , they could have gone home very safely. "You see," said the wife, by way of reconciling an a p pearance of weakness to herself as well as to Cor, "there are a great many very bad people in this city, ard I know Uncle Hal would feel anxious if he knew e were out alone."  "But you know there are ;heaps of things to wat:h after us, Aunty," said the child, more intent upon the id a than the expression. "Won't you tell me the story of the little boy and his guardian angel, when we are up a Uncle Hal's office alcne?" Again the implied prediction, but this time Mrs. Ha- wood took no notice of the little word "alone," or the '4     s 881      BOUND DOWN, ,vd luntary opinion of Cora; indeed, it mattered. little, as she thought, whether the child guessed her husband should chance to be in, or guessed he should chance to be out; and really the fact itself was altogether unim- po:tant, but still she felt uncomfortable and did not ask herself why. But Mr. Haywood was not there, and the dust, a day old upon desk, table, and chairs, had a very ungenial welcome for the ladies. Making a miniature bellows of her lips and cheeks, Cora deliberately blew a spot clean, and seated herself as if she fully intended to see the matter well adjusted before starting again, the present attitude of thpgs looking very unpromising. In the first instance, just what they had accomplished in the way of securing a servant was not quite apparent to her obtuse vision. Then she knew that Mrs. Haywood felt a degree of dis- appointment, even though the expectation of joining her husband, whom she had seen but a few hours before, was no, such as to precipitate great grief though such expecta- tions fail in this instance; and again the bare fact that it was growing dark; and the other fact, the longer they waited the darker it would be, and then what if Mr. Hay- wood should not come at all; so with this confusion of speculations Cora abandoned the whole field, and went off thinking about the story of the little boy and his guardian angel, but without looking into Mrs. Haywood's face at all. She was too discreet to ask for it, for she knew that the woman was not waiting with her presence merely, bu; with her soul, and that she wanted to think. Ard what was' there in these most common occurrences about which this wife should distress herself the reader may ask. Does a man move in a prescribed orbit, like Saturn or Jupiter? Is he not subject to the accidents and inci- der s of every-day affairs which call him hither and thither,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES,     89 according to the varied necessities of his line o. quties? Ay I but a little distrust of her husband's regard for her had come almost imperceptibly, because truth is self-evi- dent, and little effort was required to fashion it into quite a proportionable idea. This idea of distrust; then, was set; aside only to be renewed and kept alive by the testimony rejected at the instance of defendant's great counsel and advocate, her own heart. And a little more of self was to be found in the shaping of this idea than would be readily admitted, except for the purposes of honesty. All the facts, then, bearing upon this side of the case, were, of course, taken ipto account, and just what she was doing at this moment, standing with her face out in te twilight itete--tete with the down-looking stars, was only this: she was summing up the evidence and making still another feeble attempt at making out her verdict. Harry had deceived her many times, wherefore? for she felt worthy of his confidence. If she were exacting-but then, after a deliberate reviewing of the pros and cons, she was convinced she was not-and even he had not hinted it. Since her first attempt had result so ignomin- iously, she had never accused him of an action not em- braced within the express limits of confidence and trust. And what of the present crisis? Only that he had told her specifically that he had office business, and evidently the office had not been disturbed during the day.: Well  he' might have been in court. No I for the term had just closed only three or four days ago. He might have been called out of town very likely, only he should at least have sent her a message. Now, this looks like morbid- ness in Jane Haywood, but morbidness generally comes of some overwrought sentiment, and sentiment had never yet been her besetment.  What then was the great 8*     90        BOUND DOWN, apprehension? Verily I she questioned again and agcin, bu, no answer came. So she walked to a seat, and sat silently waiting while each sound of footfall upon the urncovered stairs vibrated through every nerve of Per qu vering franie. Nine o'clock came, and Cora yawned; first rather e ra- sively, and then unequivocally. - Mrs. Haywood welked to the window and thought about a cab to drive them home, but none was anywhere in sight, of course. Then Cora asked how long they should wait, and Mrs. Hay- wcod expressed the opinion that Mr. Haywood would come for them as soon as he should arrive at home and learn of their absence. The inference was, as Cora drew it, that they should wait all night, though she did not speak. So she threw herself upon a lounge, drew her little feet up, but failing, by means of a short frock, the consolidation she proposed, Jane brought her husband's overcoat, and the child fell asleep. Ten o'clock came; eleven, and soon the moon arose; then twelve o'clock, and Cora sprang from -her bed as, clear-eyed and wakeful as though she had not:slept, and wtlking straight to a window, looked steadily down into the street. "Aunty," she-said abruptly, "would you like to go home?" "I think I should, if my wishes were consulted in the mstter," was the almost tart reply. Cora darted through the door, and down the stairs, be- fore Mrs. Haywood had time to comprehend, the move- ment, and, looking out, she saw Cora flyirig across the street under the light of the moon. Reaching the opl o- site side she grasped the coat of a man, whom, upon turn-, ing toward the full light of the moon, she recognized as Dr. Marston.    OR LIFE AND, 1TS POSSIBILITIES.    91 "What's all this?" he said, stooping to lift the lttle chin with his softly gloved hand. ," Only me," said the child, a little excitedly; "don't be afraid." Dr. Marston laughed in a low, half-musing but musi- cal tone, as if the feeling of perplexity were contesting the claim of the humorous suggestion, ani he asked, with a tone of tender curiosity, "And what is 'me' doing here in these streets at this hour of the night?" taking one little hand. "Please, Dr. Marston,"-said Cora, as she smoothed the nose of her favorite of the two of Dr. Marston's carriage horses; whose hand the animal quickly recognized as one having produced divers crackers, cakes, and sugar on various occasions, and whose attentions, having an ye to the speedy repetition of the performance, he recipro- cated by a well-defined neigh,-" please, won't you take Aunty and me home?" Then followed, in rapid succession,- a series of questions and answers, after Cora's own fashion, the result of which conference was a ride in the doctor's carriage home through the moonlight, followed by a much more speedy Visitation of sleep to Cora, in her little chamber, than came to Jane Haywood. Morning came at last, .and so came Mr. Haywogd. Though it was scarcely more than daylight, the wife was already before the dressing-glass, brushing out her lo]g, cool, brown hair, laying it back in smooth, broad bands, but quite mechanically, for she heard the click of the night-latch and her husband's step upon the stairs, and her fingers trembled, and she let the brush fall more than once, thinking to herself how calm she looked. She hastily reviewed the situation, and deceded to send out scouts. Now Mr. Haywood had a favorite axiom, which, prac-     92      -  OUND DOWN,; ticlly applied, had, in one or two instances, served h;m well; but which, as a general rule, swamped him in the very first .attempt,. as axioms are apt, sooner or later, to do. Well panoplied, then, with his favorite proverb that "tie path of safety lies just upon the brink of danger,  he marched boldly in, and throwing himself very heavily across the bed, said, Good gracious! how tired I am!" The wife felt that an attack just here would be unskill- ful and might lead to U demoraliza'tion of her forces; and she thought to keep them a little under cover till she should at least draw the first fire of the enemy. So she threw out a cunning little decoy, for the first time in her life resorting to strategic plan, and entirely uncertain as, to its effect. In order, therefore, to forward this maneuver, she said, sympathetically, "Poor Harry! I know you must ,be almost exhauste 1. I have been unhappy about you all night." True as holy writ, every word of it. "Put your head upon this pil- low." "Would you believe it, Jane," said the wretch, appro- priating the pillow, but with a little sneaking look aboit his great blue eyes-and here he clutched at the proverb before mentioned--"I have been at work in that odious office for nearly twenty-four hours, only catching a few monlents for dinner at the, nearest restaurant.", "i All night!" repeated the wife, in unaffected dismay. "From dark to daylight," the wretch replied.  Oh! what a clumsy lie I Aside from the unmanliness of a falsehood, under any aspect, see where your vaunted "path of safety" has led you! Courageous are yo l, Harry Haywood? The wife felt her heart drop suddenly, as the quicksilver falls in a barometer on a cold day. She did not attempt   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     93 to speak, but walking directly up to him, she looked stead- ily into his eyes, or more certainly into his soul. What did hvedo? Why, laughed, half nervously, half affectedly, but still outright and persistently. But no smile came to the pale face of the wife; and presently he began to feel very much as if he laughed over his own tombstone. Then he rose, and changed his base of operations. He began to swear, vehemently at the first, and well maintained throughout. He declared, with the usual "clinching clause-" in such emergencies, that he would not be denounced in his own house; that suspicions so illy founded should not obtain, and he should take no pains to convince her of the truth of his s;ate- ment; indicating, in a modulated and somewhat plaiLtive tone, that all his toil and sacrifice had met but poor reward in her merciless upbraidings. The dramatic effect of all this alternating passionate and piteous harangue was greatly heightened by the fact that Jane Haywood had not once opened her lips since the remarkable assevera- tion for which he was setting up his defense. Probably recognizing the ridiculous part he Was playing, or for some other reason which does not appear, he cast a sidelong glance at the face half turned away, and strode, with a tragic air, down the stairs and into the street. Mrs. Haywood's first thought, after the door had closed behind her husband, was not at his attempt at deception, nor of the more remote consequences to him or to herself, but of the little ears only half shut out by the thin parti- tion-ears always awake, and jealous of any encroach- ment upon the privileges or prerogatives of either "Aunny," or "Miss Mildred." Therefore, in order to put an end to her apprehensions, she called "Cora 1"No answer-on y a light, nestling, rustling sound, followed by a sigh, as if     "        BOUND DOWN, slightly disturbed, then a gradual readjustment, and the faiLt breathings were regular again. Very unimportant in themselves; yet, with these trifling evidences of the child's slumbers came a sense of relief to the unhappy woman; for, through this, she knew that the Jetails of this unfortunate affair rested between her- self and her husband, to whom, of all the world, they belonged alone. Of Mildred's inquisitiveness she felt not the slightest apprehension; indeed, so unobtrusive was the character of tiis really lovely woman, that Mrs. Haywood som-e- timss felt oppressed with the weight of questionings, which it were impossible to offer for discussion, except under an absolute and express solicitation on the part of Mil red. Two hours later Mr. .Haywood returned for breakfast, in tie height of spirits, apparently having forgotten that ' anything unpleasant had occurred in the whole course of his life. He made puns and praised the coffee ;b he dis- cussed, after his superficial manner, ethical philosophy with Mildred, and flattered the color in his wife's cheeks, whi h was, indeed, heightened greatly to her advantage by an hour over the stove with toast and salmon. Ke volunteered the promise of bringing a most charmilng visitor to the house for the more special edification of his wife in his hours of absence, and made another to Cora, wherein her tastes touching the color of "small cats" wer very gravely consulted. It is' with such an erratic evas've, volatile character as this that we have to deal. With little malice and less motive, he passed rather for a thoughtless than a really bad man. "But there are two distinct classes of persons," Mil- drec. said in a conversation with her father about M-.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSrBILITIES.     95 Haywood: "one which, in a measure, controls circum- stances, and another, which permits circumstances to con- trol them." The thoughtful, conscientious man never abandons himself to the free tide of events, without, at least, an eye to results. If an individual deliberately set to work to create the conditions which subsequently affect his ca- reer, it is a matter of conscience and judgment whither he direct his will. B-ehind these possibilities, however, we cannot go. Who believes that all men are born with equal percep- tions, or that all are equally responsible for the acts of a life? How far back in the consciousness of this man should we go, in order to find the exact diverging point? Precisely at what moment were his moral perceptions dimmed, or his capacity to resist wrong-doing withdrawn from him? Is not evil an infirmity of the human mind, rather than a law of human existence? Why should not every man establish his religion, not upon popular theo- logical creeds, nor complicated and incongruous theories, often ingeniously devised and ingenuously believed, but upon the verdict of conscientious reasoning, through the testimony of the soul? For, wheresoever there is peace and love of God, and charity stimulating to humane purpose, and high endeavor, and to the elevating and purifying of our common humanity, there, without further outward seeming or demonstration, the vitalizing, eternal principle of Christianity is established. If the groping, doubtirg, but inquiring mind aould but possess himself of the cour- age to accept such a remedy for his moral infirmities, look- ing to the pure life of Christ as his example, rather than to the blood of Christ as his regenerator, there would be inestimably less of infidelity and wickedness in the world. \     96        BOUND DOWN, CHAPTER XV.  THE periodical winds so peculiar to San Francisco cli- nma-e d ring the summer and early autumn months lad long ago ceased, and winter, with its drizzling mists, and pouring rains, and blinding fogs, and days of perfec;ly resplendent brightness, had held its reign, and was fast wearing away. One evening the family of Mr. Haywood, himself of the number for a wonder, sat grouped about the glowing embers of the grate, Mr. Haywood and Mildred absorbed in & game of chess, when a loud report announced the arrival of the mail steamer from the East-an event of great significance in that day, when communication with m the Atlantic States was confined to a semi or tri monthv mail. It was not, therefore, strange that a sensation, almcst amounting to a panic, should ensue, upon such occasions. "Hallo there's the steamer," Mr. Haywood said, newr raising his eyes from the board, however. "Heard she was telegraphed." "Oh, Harry it was by this steamer your Aunt wrcte us she would probably come. How thoughtless of me to have forgotten it! But it is not y#too, late for you to meet her at the wharf." Jane said this, and rose and leaned upon her hus- band's shoulder, above the game. "Heaven forbid 1" returned Harry, with one of. these serio-comic gestures he- knew so, well how to asslume.         .      .   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     97 "I would not go to my grandmother's funeral, under this drizzle; and if Miss Jemima Haywood, spinster, my most estimable, ancient, and maiden relative, expects me at the steamer to-night, I regret to know that there is one m9re victim of misplaced confidence on my account; so excuse me, my dear Mrs. Haywood; I am very well contented, and trust she is-your move, Miss Gray." Cora, who stood at a table, turning over the leaves of some prints, gave a kind of titter or giggle at first, but before the gentleman had finished, evidently thought better of it; and, forgetting her book, looked steadily into the coals, and the room was still-only the click of the pieces upon the' chess-board. Directly Cora rose, and gravely motioning Mrs. Hay- wood, whispered in her ear The communication was strictly in confidence, of course, but the tones of Cora's voice, gradually swelling with the fervor which inspired her, laid bare her entiu- siastic spirit, and so brought her generous-plan of aid to the expected visitor to an inglorious defeat. Not tjat Mrs. Haywood, either, would have favored the insane project of the child to go by herself to the steamer'; well fortified, as it appeared with the little boast of water- proof coat, boots, and courage; only that a well-bred re- treat, growing out of a delicate review of the situation, is so much more satisfactory than one of those provok- ing " routs " resulting from a stupid blunder. Cora felt annoyed that she ha been overheard, and the whole phi- lanthlropic scheme, therefore, with its unhappy-termina. tion, now gave way to an unspoken yet well-grounded conviction, substantially, that Uncle Hal was unmindful of the dependent condition of his maiden relative; and in order to elucidate in her own mind the suggestion, it must be confessed she called him selfish. But holding 9      98        BOUND DOWKN, fast in her troubled little head the memory of Mrs. Haywood's injunction, touching her conduct toward her guardian, she naide no reply to his 'railery; and even whel he called her Joan of Arc, paraphrasing the words of that heroic woman in a tragic voice and manner irre- sistibly ludicrous, the child Cora only smiled with her ]ips, that quivered with unspoken words, and walked away to the window. H' Iden among the folds of the curtains-away from the rich ember-glow of the coals, the soft tint of Mildred's face, and half-anxious, half-expectant expression of Mrs. Haywood's-Cora adjusted the focus of her eyes to. the outward gloom, by the most indecorous means of setting the r ost prominent feature of her little face close against the gass, and in this way looked abroad. The house was-situated in the vicinity of North Beach, that 'jeing at the time the house was built the most habit- able portion of the town. Away across the stretch of sand and shadows which intervened, Cora could discern the feeble flicker of the lights sparsely scattered about the city, but no life was anywhere visible. The long, dull waves flapped ard beat upon the beach, as the weird tones of the fog-bell from afar off wandered along the un- even way like the belated and alarmed echo, straying with ;istrustful step among the mountain gorges. Every moment the wind rose higher, till the friendly sashes which protected the little green-house upon the norh side of the dwelling chatted and gabbled frantically wish the bla;st. Mrs. Haywood laid the slipper she was embroidering for Harry quietly by, and took a seat at the piano. The absorbed and consequently mute condition. of the 'chess- players, together with Cora's reverie among the curtains, silenc ed .all interruption to the elemental strife without, X     He  ?   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     99 and a vague and haunting suggestion crept about ,he heart of the wife as a hoarse moan swept around ,he corner of the house, and died to a whisper under Jhe shelter of the eaves. It was a feeling akin to home-sickness, yet not indeed that; it was a reaching back after aspIra- tions she had lost, rather than any object she had really failed to gain. And so the wife forgot the cheery fire, and the two at t he chess-board, and the little figure at the window, and remembered the nights that were put forever behind her, when the rains beat and the winds blew just the same as now, only then her heart v as filled with a great joy because she believed she was be- loved by one whose devotions she conceived it a high merit to inspire. Partly then this love was self-love, for while she sat there listening to -the voices of the past with' all her yearning soul, she would yet, at that rlo- ment, have received a caress from her husband exactly proportioned to her estimate of his worthiness of her af- fection. The plain truth is, that as their purposes began to divide more perceptibly one from the other, so grad- ually was Mrs. Haywood elevating her standard of mas- culine conjugal excellence, until already we find Ler faintly inclining to indulgence in morbid retrospection, rather than to steadfast faith in the exercise of her own pow6rs upon the future practices of her wayward hus- band. But where shall we go for the remedy? for it is rot among the possibilities of such a nature as his to quicken or purify'the sentiment which is often too much a thins of habit at last, and which necessarily lacks depth. And thus it seems to be likely to prove that he, so In- which God created and left, has only restricted its oppor- tunities. But as there will be still more severe tests ap-     100        BOUND DOWN, plied for the development of this nature, let us follow with charity. Pr sently a succession of brilliant passages, and thbn the fi gers crept softly down -among the minor keys, and the wandering, irregular strains melted,and swelled alter- nately, till a thread of melody, gathering and growing with , an added wealth and luxuriance of sounds, filled:the room. W'len first the leading idea of the composer was evolved, Cora had started nervously forward, but not having been observed, had settled back to her old place agair. Mr. Haywood was first to speak. "You have gone- stark sentimental to-night, haven't you, Jane?" never looking up. To which Mrs. Haywood made no reply, and directly Mildred asked: curiously, "What is that, Jane'? I mean whose composition?. "I am sure I cannot tell," replied Mrs. HJaywood, taking a breath as if she were weary. "A posthumous production," put in Harry. "One I have heard Cora humming," quietly returned - Mildred. "That is scarcely possible, for I am not conscious of ever aaving heard the air before," spoke Jane, just a little sharply. "Indeed, I did not clearly know wfiat I was doing.?" "Those things often occur," remarked Mildred; "the perfo mance of the somnambulist is in no respect a re- sponse to the suggestion of the brain, but entirely inde- pendent of memory.': "You mean,"' said Haywood, "that there is a musical idea lying around loose, and that Mrs. Haywood thus unscrupulously appropriates it.", MiL red, withdrew the delicate fingers which had hung   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    101 half hesitating above the outstanding pickets, and made a bold dash right among the thickest of the forces of the enemy. "You have courage enough for a general," laughed her antagonist. "A mere stroke of policy, sir. I have failed to dis- cover any advantage in hesitating over an inevitable con- clusion, however formidable or distasteful its conditions." "And that's how Miss Mildred dared to say she be- lieved Aunty just now, when she said the piece was one she never heard or knew," piped the shrill voice of Cora from among the curtains, forgetting herself again. "And that's how Miss Mildred dares believe-and thanks Heaven while she does so believe-that sometimes inspiration paves the uneven way to earth, and while ;he human organ stands awed and dumb, reveals the splendor of its own triumphal presence in a heroic deed ; a tongue touched with the fire we call eloquence, or the dash of -he pen, or the stroke of the painter's brush, or a great truth set upon lisping lips." .AXnd as the gleaming eyes sought out the little figure among the soft drapery, the kindl'ngo flush grew radiant, and Mildred Gray's beautiful face seemed set in the midst of a great and wondrous glory. Nor, we might add, do its marvels cease with these. It blazes a shining path for progress, and crowns endeavor with its own beneficent gift. Truth is its handmaiden, and Mercy and Hope sit reverent at its feet. With its magnetic steel it kindles the sullen flint of the human mind, till bv the feverish flame we catch a glimpse of -he Divine Presence itself. 9*     102       BOUND DOWyN, CHAPTER    XVI. HARRY HAYWOOD rose demurely from the chess-board, gave each of his wrist-bands a slight jerk downward, made a little forced cough, which unquestionably meant ridicule, settled his elbow upon the mantel-piece, squinted one eve-the accustomed preface to a siege of badinage- and had just opened his lips, when Cora shouted in a most indecorous manner, and all turned to look,- "There she comes; I knew she would!" though ex- actly in what way the information came does not at this moment appear; the little maiden never having seen nor indeed more than heard casually of the expected visitor. No one of the family party having observed the sound of carriage wheels, each listened with that irresoluteness whici comes of uncertainty, though Cora had made th announcement in accents unmistakable, and presently thb shril, nasal tones of a woman's voice were heard above the w ind.  "I should think that ten cents, money down, ort to -satisfy a boy of your bigness, any way." "idn't you tell me that you'd give me more than I could make in my business, if I'd show you the house? Now I've got my papers on my hands, and the other boys will get all my customers. Why, darn it, there's the 'Bank 'spension' and-' Love in high life,' new-and gooc. for al 'ounce of dust,'any time. (A voice inside, very like Harr Haywood's,' That's so.') And now you want to pay!le off with a bit 1"And the tones of the newsboy   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    103 grew louder and higher. "Ohj you old fraud You're a bilk! You pan out bully, don't you?" "You sassy little heap, you; I'll get my nephew to have you taken up for extortin' money and indecent talk; besides, I'll-" - But the rest of the sentence was lost to the listejners, for at the words "l my nephew," Mr. Haywood had bden taken suddenly ill, and when at last Cora opened the door, in answer to the loud, regular raps, and ushered in the visijor, "my nephew" lay prostrate upon the sofa, the victim of such complaints as find their symptoms in compressed lips, tightly closed eyes, respiration forced painfully through the nasal organ, while the wife stood, according to hasty instructions, bathing his face with her cambric handkerchief, which had been unceremoniously thrust Into a drinking goblet of water. The visitor entered, and slyly dropping her carpet-bag close by the door, advanced and stood smiling compla- cently, as if fully conscious of and yet resigned to the inef- fable delight she was sure to inspire. But instantly catching a view of the situation of her nephew, she sprang forward, asking, in a distressed voice, what was the ma ter, at the same time kneeling before the "sufferer," and assur- ing him again and again, that she had come ; imploring him to speak once more, and rubbing his moist, warm, hands vehemently with her own clammy palm, in order to get up a circulation. And it seems he caught the idea most happily, for just as the sympathetic creature was in the act of again twining her arms about his neck, in many times repeated demon- strations of her right as his father's "oldest sister," the graceless impostor threw his own arms wildly about, shamelessly disfiguring his relative's bonnet, and other- wise producing disorder, hissing between his teeth, "More     104       B BOUND DOWN, air IMore air 1"But the effect was not a marked success, for the lady kept her low seat close by his side. Presently he gasped, "Water!" and the kind woman rose and brought the identical goblet unluckily used for those purposes, not quite legitimate, before mentionei, and had just placed it to his lips, when half unclosing his eyes, he recognized the faux pas, and solemnly closing his lips again, saik back on his pillow.' "His jaws are sot," said Miss Haywood, in the mo t tragical manner; "he must have a mustard plaster on the pit of his stomach!" "Or a doctor," suggested Jane, glancing toward Mil- dred, who, strange to say, had turned her back upon the whole scene, and now sat with her face buried in he r hands. "Oh, that treacherous flush," said the visitor, "almo t like the picture of health," Jane thought so too.  Now let it not be supposed that Jane Haywood wa usually obtuse or unappreciative. But the sudden cha acter of this very absurd proceeding had surprised he into a peculiarly receptive frame of mind,'and credulou naturally, she would have believed anything for the mo ment.  Supposing this illness, then, to be genuine, sh felt already prepared to meet disaster and death, front t front, if the case required it. But the extraordinary con duct of Mildred had touched her as a kind of counter-cur rent, and a little annoyed and a good deal curious, she had yet too much pride and spirit to question, and nothing was therefore left her but resort to a system of rapid deduction from facts within her knowledge, the result o which mental process was a whispered communication in the ear, of the impostor, and a reply also in a whisper. This settled her convictions, and it may be said increased :.    ,     .   '      ,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    105 her contempt. The action of Mr. Haywood only caught the eye of the maiden lady, and she began, anxiously, "He's wandering, aint he?" in a sepulchral whisFer. "I'm sure he is," replied the wife, with unusua- im- pressiveness. "Dear mel" she sighed, rising from her seat. "We must send for a doctor; and do try and compose yourself, child; you are really not half as useful when you are so much affected." This was addressed to Mildred, as she turned and faced the young lady, who, alternately con- vulsed and exhausted with laughter, was now drying her streaming eyes with her handkerchief, thus concealing her swollen face and eyelids. Then, as if a new idea had just overtaken her, Miss Haywood went straight to Jane, and plucking her slheve, mysteriously signified a demand upon her attention; and, taking her aside, began, "Do you think you have Christian fortitude to bear the blow, let it end how it will?"And she produced a-huge snuff-box, from which, after offering to Jane, she helped herself generously. "I trust so," answered Jane, as briefly as possible. "Very well!" said Miss Haywood; "you wont be skairt when I tell you that I think my nephew is attackted with a fit of appopleck 1" Jane kept her gravity of manner well while she asked the usual remedy. "Bleedin'!" was the solemn but prompt answer.  A malicious gleam of triumph broke from the face 6l Jane Haywood for a moment, but escaping unnoticed the anxious relative went on. "But, seein' as he may sink after it, I guess I'll 'rea] the thing to him. One feels better after they're gone, t feel that they did their duty.'- No knowin'; maybe h , t,     106        BOUND DOWN, hainti got his peace madej and then to think what will be his portion!" Jahe said "Yes," and turned her head away to adjust a braid of her heir. The sooner the be tter,': suggested the Aunt, turning toward the sofa and looking back-for Mrs. IIaywood's acquiescence.   , "I am willing to leave him with you,", returned Jane. "Oh!" said Miss Haywood, "nothing but grace could haveqdone all this'for you."  Then to Haywood, "My dear nephew, I have something very serious to say to you." - "Humph!" and the wretch started as if from a heavy sleep: "Have you ever had a change of heart?" fervidly. "Five years ago the fifth of May," mentioning his wedding-day. "I am rejoiced to see that you know your Redeemer." "Which is more than my paper does," said Haywood, appropriating an old and popular conundrum, and speak- ing inri sotto voce, which failed of distinctness in the rela- tive's: ear. "Then you are willing to go from us?" meekly sug- gested the aunt.  "Anxious!" said Harry, with more vehemence than the circumstances seemed to require. "Well!" said Miss Haywood, with solemn but unctuous utterance, "we are not as those without hope. It is a wicked world, and you may backslide; so, if you should be taken off, I shall think it is for the best, and I have reason to believe your dear wife will be resigned." For the first time since the beginning of the farce, Harry's mouth twitched irresistibly, and Mildred, with her face to the wall, was overpowered.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    107 "It seems to me, though, that we ought to be doing something," she continued, turning to Mrs. \Haywood "One feels so much better when they are gone, as I said before, by clearin' their conscience." And silently pro ducing a sullen-looking instrument from her carpet-bag and laying aside her shawl, which she had worn up tV this time, she proceeded to roll and tuck the dressing gown sleeve high up on the passive arm, saying,.as shb touched the vein, wisely, "It's a good while since I le any blood, but----"And she pressed the cold blad against the skin, as if to test the point. "What the hell!" shouted Haywood, springing t his feet and examining his arm, but checking furthe demonstration. "Well, I declare, if he aint gone off again;" muttere the old -lady despairingly. Rubbing -his eyes while he recovered himself, Ha) wood remembered his role, and, determining to rocnd out well, declared innocently that the shock must hav restored him; that his head felt perfectly clear. The reaching his hand to the kind old lady who stood wit her bands folded, divided between admiration and Lsto] ishment at the turn the matter had taken, he said, "Why, how-'d'y-do, Aunt Mimy?--when did you get in ?" Then followed explanations and details on the part ( i   D Miss Haywood, and excuses and lies on the part , "   Mr. Haywood, until Mildred and Jane gazed at ea( other in mute surprise at the appalling temerity of tl unconscionable "sca pegrace." It also came out durin !.    this conversation, that the matter of walking up from tl steamer through the rain, piloted only by the refractor newsboy, had been a measure of conscientious scrup entirely, not desiring, as she explained, to give encourag     108       BOUND DOWlN, ment to the manifestly prevalent practice of "extortion" -a convenient term, as it proved, for all manner of out- lay and expenditure. "You'll spend the remainder of your days with us?" inquired Haywood, with a droll imitation of anxiety upon his face. "Ah, me!" she returned, lugubriously; "my days are nearly numbered." " She expects to live a hundred years," mumbled Harry, who had taken care to seat himself on the deaf side of his aunt;  "This is only a flyin' visit," resumed the lady; "I shall only be with you a year or tw o (groan from H;) Peaksville is my home; I ought to love Peaksville, for I've had a great deal of trouble there, and a'most all my dead are buried there." And the lady wiped her eyes with evident satisfaction. Afteri a cup of tea, the family prepared to retire. Then it was frst remarked, though Jane had observed it all along, that Cora, disposed in the depths of an arm-chair in a distant corner of the room, had sat the whole scene through without speaking a word, and with eyes staring wide open. Indeed, the little waxen face looked fixed and immobile, as if a smile, had it ventured there, must have frozen. Exactly what she thought, in her queer, original way, of the extraordinary performance, she does not here express. After events may be tinged with a reflex of this night.  io  .    OR LIFE AND- ITS POSSIBILITIES.    109 CHAPTER XVII. DAYS and weeks went by, and more than anticipating the most sanguine hopes of her friends, each hour con- tributed its mite toward the final restoration to health of the lovely Mildred Gray. ( Gentle exercise and cheerful surroundings, remember," Dr. Marston added, with his hand upon the door-kLob, having already once said good-night. "And a clear conscience, like mine," interposed Mr. Haywood, tumnbling the molten coals in the grate, "Tril put medical skill, in the case of this invalid for life, to the deepest blush." The doctor, never recognizing in the least Harry's re. mark, closed the door after him, and was gone. ul thrusting his head back, he spoke in a higher key t ar usual: "By the way, I had almost forgotten it again; I de irs to present some friends to these ladies, if it is q it agreeable," and then he stepped back into the parlor n( stood holding his hat, waiting a reply. Haywood, as usual, was the first to speak. "T el will bring certificates of good character, of course?" A look of ineffable scorn mounted at once to the a eyes of the doctor, as this remark, in the worst poss bl taste, being in his own house, greeted his proposit 0o and he said, never turning his head, "And fortunately f( you, will not ask any return of the ceremony." Haywood laughed lightly, as he rolled his mousta c under with his delicate thumb and finger, evidently r     "O        BO UND 'DO WN, garding the retort as witty and nothing more. But Jane, with a woman's quick sense, caught a significance in the remark, which she just as promptly set aside for future ref. erence, and quietly replied, "Any friends you may choose to introduce here, will, I am sure, be very welcome." He glanced at Mildred, whose acquiescence was ex- tended in her own well-bred way, and this time the door closed, and he did not return. Spring-time in San Francisco is only another name for the gyrations of volumes of sand upborne by boisterous sea-gales, and fogs of every consistency, from the faintest sheet of film to that of a healthy blanc-mange. Persons physically sensitive habitually carry about with them a feeling like that produced by a hydropath sponge injudi- ciously applied, or a cold wedge between the shoulders. Babies of delicate constitutions usually die; those of vig-  orous ones grow more robust than almost anywhere; of mediums there are few. The soil, at the time of which we write, was equally unfriendly, and a spontaneous flow- ering shrub, or a voluntary plant, would have seemed as incongruous in these barren sand-banks as a tropical leaf in the foreground of Church's famous reproduction of the iceberg. Nevertheless, Cora, with a faith partly the outgrowth of the desire of her young and nature-craving heart, did devoutly believe that somewhere she might find a nook holding in its lap of spring, verdure and bloom of peren- nial growth. "Because," she protested, "I have noticed all my life that spring lrings flowers sure; and you know, Aunty, what I see I believe, and what If don't see I don't be- lieve-unless," she added, quickly lifting her brows and chin, ".I see something like it, and it is natural." "Ah  a saving clause was that last, Cora," said Mil-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    I dred; "all things, even the creations of the imagination, must have their type in reality. How shall one conceive an idea of an object no likeness of which exists?" Miss Jemima Haywood was one of those few persons possessing the faculty of always making inopportune suggestions, or entering the room at exactly the mos; in- oppoltune moment-; and at the opening of Cora's speech, she had as instantly dropped her arms and her chin as she had set her foot within the door. "There l" was her first exclamation, "I've thought, ever since I come-though it's not me should say it-but as I was saving, I've thought that child would come to no good end. I never did take to these for'ard children; and that one is goin' to be an infidel. I know it; it sticks out all over her. She don't believe anything that she don't see, don't she? What will she do with the 'im maculate conception,' by the time she is grown, I'd like to know?" 'Then crooking her forefinger, and half concealing i be neath the folds of her dress, she stealthily beckoned i ant from the room, herself leading the way, with eyes asl ant glancing toward Cora and then toward Mildred, who verr each alike unconscious of reproach or deep-laid scheme Closing the door securely after them, Miss Haywood be gan in the most confidential and impressive tone of voice "Jane," said she, "I think it my duty to tell you rigt here, and now, what I think-in fact I mean to warn you. "What is coming?" thought Jane. "To tell the truth, I can see a good many things." "For instance?" suggested Jane, after a sufficient paus "Well I some things is as plain as daylight." "Do please tell me what you wish to say," said an a little impatiently. "Well, then," said Miss Jemima, giving a little bitc     "2       BO UND DOWN, ing cough, "I 'spose I may as well come right out plump. I presume to pay you like Miss Mildred, and can't see no harm in her." "You are very correct," said Jane earnestly. "She is proper smooth now, and has a real taking way with her, haint she, now? But' sharp claws under velvet paws,' is a verse of my own making, and it is true. I tell you what, Jane ;" and she sank her voice to its most solemn depths, "that girl is goin' to spile Cora, for she takes her part in everything. What do you think now?" tri- umphantly. "Just as I did before, Aunt Mimy; that Miss Mildred Gray is the only person I have known who thoroughly understands Cora. Is that -all?" "Is that all I as if that haint enough. Well 1 that beats me out," and she dropped into a chair, while Mrs. Hay- wood, only remarking that time was short with her, and she must go, went out, and left the old lady to maiden meditation. "Don't forget my bouquet," laughed Mildred, as Cora danced up to give her parting kiss. "I think Russian Hill looks warm and nice," Cora said, and so it was decided that instead of the violently prob- lematical bouquet, as hypothetically promised, Miss Mil- dred was to be content with a simple sketch made from this point--"Ever so imperfect," Mrs. Haywood added,- and the two set forth. It was one of*those days in early spring, such as Miss Haywood was accustomed to call a drying day, when a light wind blows and the clouds fly high, tumbling into far-off heaps of fleecy foam, as they come together, when the hitherto uncompromising mud in the streets begins to hold forth promise of secureness, not sustained by facts -a day for a walk, and exactly the day for a stroll.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    13 Reaching at length the brow of Russian Hill,!rs. Haywood looked abroad with a good deal of surprise, nd a good deal more of delight. Beyond the flat-tented fields of the Presidio, the Golden Gate-swung back by the beating surf of the Pacific upon the western confines of the American Continent-sat silent, with the promise written upon its rocky portals of geLer- ous harvest and fruitful vintage, of mountains of silvel and sands of gold for the adventurous wealth-seeker, wh( should pass through that grim vestibule and face the risinc sun. Entering the harbor, and leaving behind Lime Poin and Fort Point, the little brave island of Alcatraz, bori of the sea, and for ages washed and cradled by the paren hand, lay flinging back sunlight and wave together, ii shimmering showers of amethyst. And again, eastward the eye caught the faint outline of far-off Mount Diablc its head high in the clouds, as if heaven had hung a ve to shield it from the gaze, and then the beautiful purpl hills of Contra Costa, circling and blending and at oas melting into the warmer hues of San Pablos Bay, an the mellow-tinted'fields of the Mission Dolores. Neither woman nor child spoke for several minu;e! when the latter sank softly down upon the hillside, co, ering her small feet with her hands, and looking musing] on the roofs below them, and on the glistening waters the Bay. "Oh, Aunty," she said presently, "I should never mal a sketch or paint a picture of this scene, because the lig somehow takes away my thoughts, and makes me fk tired." 1i   Mrs. Haywood made no reply, but producing a bi; card-board, laid open her portfolio and spread the fair st face of the paper to the sun. Holding her pencil st pended, she looked down upon the diminutive city, a ci I '10* I      "4        BOUND DOWN, only in embryo, with its awkward streets, its huts, and i tents, and adobes, and then tapped her foot softly to the throbbing din which rose above the scene, from that dis- tance so apparently lifeless. Now with her eye, taking in Telegraph Hill, crowned with its one or two wretched buildings, its sunny slope seaward, and its shadows in the lee, she traced a rapid outline, and then, along with Cora, fell into a reverie. Presently she spread a shawl and laid the child down softly, and watched 1her while she slept.  Ah I A sudden dashing up the hill to its very highest point, and as'sudden a splash of muddy rain upon the dreamers below, and horse and rider paused with dis- tended nostrils and quick-drawn breath, overlooking the same beautiful landscape, with all its wealth of vision. Jane gave a little start, a quick glance, not unmixed with chagrin, at the soiled sheet of drawing-paper upon her lap, and another in the direction indicated by the unwelcome messenger from the miry road. The movement caught his attention, and the half-star- tled, upturned face, with its soft, dark eyes rounded and [ written over with wonder, received the full power of the sharp, magnetic glance of the stranger. If it must be confessed, too, Jane failed at this point in the effort to withdraw. her eyes, as she knew she ought, though one minute before she was perfectly certain of the most com- plete self-possession. She noticed this herself. Recognizing the extent of the accident, the gentleman leaped quickly to the ground, and stood with his hat off, while the light wind drifted through the wealth of dark hair, slightly silvered about the temples, and the apology was eloquently and amply told before the lips had granted it expression. Jane rose in her quiet way, and then wondered why   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    1 she did so, already seized by the embarrassing appreLe sion that the person meant no apology, but had accidei ally dismounted for-a quiet view of the scene, in whi case her movements would require that which she ccu not possibly make-explan'ation. In the midst of h confused and rapid speculations, the stranger spoke: "Madam," he said, "I scarcely know how to ask y to pardon an accident which a proper amount of mode, tion on my part might have prevented altogeth r.'  "Oh, it is not of the slightest consequence;" and M Haywood felt instantly that the remark was not or untrue, but that she was phrasing, she did not knm which was the worst of the two-but altogether it \ not what she meant to say-she would try again. "The untamed temper of the animals so much in i upon this coast ought to furnish excuse for almost a consequence that might occutr.' "Dear me 1" she thought, " that is not much bettel too stilted, a great deal ;" but it had to go so. "Ah! Then you must really pardon me, nmadai the stranger said warmly. "The fault was certgi mine, and I owe it to my noble friend here to aver t his is a prouder boast than the lineage of a plete ' mustang,' and he turned affectionately toward thei mal, who returned the attention by setting his nose i sistently in the palm of his master's hand. Mrs. Haywood, for the first time, glanced toward superb creature, who stood lifting first one foot and t] another daintily from the ground, and secretly wonde whether her mortal stupidity would not some day pr her utder demoralization and overthrow. As if any could fail to see that that horse was of royal blood I "Have the goodness to give me the title of the boc have destroyed for you," he continued, replacing hat.     "6       BOUND DO VN, "It was no book, and only the crude outline of a sketch, which would probably never have been com- pleted," she said honestly; "and if you will oblige me, sir, do not give the matter another thought." "I should be ungrateful not at least to seem to regard your wishes," he said, laughing and half lingering, with his hand holding the bridle firmly as he prepared to mount; then suppressing the words. that might have fol- lowed, he sprang into his saddle, and with one of those courtly gestures of leave-taking so often essayed and so seldom successful, he rode rapidly away. The first feeling that came to Janq Haywood was one of congratulation that the stranger should in no way have learned her name. That was pride; because she thought her words and manner had been less graceful than the occasion demanded, though she might have over-estimated the importance of the occasion--probably did. The after-feeling was slightly tinctured with regret that he did not know her name, and that she did not know his. That last feeling has no name. Let it stand and develop. Now, the reader knows that this woman possessed as little of vanity as her sex and comeliness, not to say beauty, , liwould warrant; and yet the moment the man was gone she passed her hand in review down the front locks of !"her hair, and glanced at her drapery just as she stood,  front and back, and wondered how she must look to a stranger. And now, Cora. She lay just as Mrs. Haywood had placed her, evidently not having moved a muscle, her head resting upon her arm, and her hat shading hgr face from the sun, and breathing regularly as if in a heavy sleep. She took the little, cold hand, and the child awoke; she lay upon the slope of the hill looking calmly ".           * -    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    1 up to the blue sky above, oblivious and still. Mrs. ga wood spoke, and the child only closed her eyes again. No, wait;" a little imperiously, and never uncldsiI her- eyes. "Wait for what? for Uncle Hal?" "No!" shouted the child, almost furiously. "Why, Cora, you surprise and grieye me." Abo the extent of remonstrance offered Cora. "Well, then, Aunty,' the little one said, rising up( her elbow, and looking more than usually meek, "I .or want to go, and, I don't wish to tell you why, I cause-"A  "Well, why? Remember, Cora, you should hav ] secrets from me." "Shouldn't I? but then, if I should tell you, why you would think me queerer than ever." Here Cora lowers her voice, and said, solemnly, "Sometimes I think I am awfully queer myself, not like anybody." "No two' persons are alike," Jane said, hoping to rec oncile the child. "Did you ever see two faces precisely alike?"  "Yes!" said Cora, her eyes kindling with the old li L as if a fire were builded behind them. "I have seen f c with my mind just like those I have seen afterward Ii my real eyes." Mrs. Haywood knew well enough when the chord w touched, and she did not dare to disturb its vibration So she sat silently, and the child went on. "I saw a face to-day, as I sat beside you here, Aunt that must come before my real eyes some time." Describe it, Cora," said Jane. And Cora did describe it--the broad forehead and t] scar among the eyebrows; the rich auburn beard, th rippled like a woman's hair; the silvered temples; al the figure tall and slightly stooping.     "8       B UND DO VN, i i means something when-it comes with her." And Cora came to anchor in somewhat of a fog, as was usual on such occasions. But Jane Haywood recognized the picture. Now, there weie several facts apparent to Jane touch- ing this simplb story and prophecy, which ma-y not be so clear to the reader. First, had Cora been awake, with eyes staring wide open, which she was certainly pot, she could by no means have gained a view of the face she described without changing her position, which the lady was perfectly certain she had not done. The next obser- vation was' biefly that " her " meant the low-born woman who had given immortality to the little mysterious being before her, and who, as if her mission were finished, had yielded up her life, half unsought, glad to make her es- cape. It was not the first time Cora had mentioned "her," always solemnly and confidentially, and that some revelation inevitably followed, Jane had never attempted to deny to herself. For call it by whatever name-supersti- tion, delusion, or anything else-what honest mind. will challenge its own perceptions? What wonder, then, that the little familiar pronoun had grown to have something oracular and ominous, when whispered through the thin, bloodless lips? Far- ther than this, Mrs. Haywood did not care to question the child. Indeed, she shrank from the thought that the little creature she so loved to caress, at twilight, even in fancy, wandered beyond the range of her own mortal vision; and especially that she should snatch glimpses from the realm of the supernatural to weave along the woof of her own real life. So, she said simply, that she had observed a gentleman of that description passing over the hill. And not another word was spoken on the sub-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    119 ject. Soon the restless speculation left the great blue eyes, and the light spirit of the outer child reigned in the temple. CHAPTER     XVII I. IT not infrequently occurs that the existence of a ten- Oerer sentiment than that of nlere friendship is first silg- gested by some one in no way a party to the proceedings, and in no direct way interested in the result, if there be any, because the growth of such a passion is often grad- ual, and always dependent greatly upon circumstances for development. When, therefore, Mr. Haywood signi- fied, in his undignified way, his intention to volunteer advice to Captain Gray, to the effect that Dr. Marston's services be secured at the usual rates, as a measure of economy, Mildred could not at first remember a single visit which had not seemed professional. "And be pleased to mark the improvement' in the patient," as she walked with a quiet grace, and without any apparent inconvenience, to her own room. "That improvement is not to be included under the head 'professional,"' "Haywood shouted after her; then adding, "I never knevt what a magnificent poise that head had before," he quitted the breakfast room for that vague and shadowy entity, "' down town." Alone with her thoughts, Mildred began to catech'se lher own heart. How many hours had she and Dr. Marston spent together without ever having exhausted a single topic! Would not the time have been tedious under other monopoly than this? Why did she remem- I s% I i' I                     \ -     120        BO UND DO WN, ber with the same distinctness every brusque word' and every graceful comment or sentiment? Where had gone her power to firmly decide in her own mind any ques- tion of importance, till she should first know his opirl- ion? Indeed, why was his presence a. pictured, glowing reality, and his absence, or the world without him, only  a driveling accident, without purpose or portent? Other and smaller tests she applied, such as the wearing of colors he most admired, the reading of books which he approved; but, said she to her heart, until these tests approach a sacrifice, they only prove a love of admiration in myselk A practiced novel-writer, if he regard it at all, will doubtless judge of this scene as premature, and perhaps injudicious. But, as M'ildred Gray certainly did submit her heart to an examination before she/knew whether she was loved in return, unmaidenly as it may seem, there is nothing to do but to record it faithfully. If the act need farther explanation, it may be found in that clause of military tactics which asserts that "A good general is never surprised." But you will say, dear reader, she might have spared herself the trouble, for Dr. Marston did not, after all, tell Mildred Gray that he loved her, though she rode with him that day and the next, and saw him for.-oh, it is yet to be seen how long! In the early history of the Bay City, the vicinity of Rincon Hill, or South Park, represented the principal attractions in the way of San Francisco society. Here, fine houses-were first erected and the " first families" gen- erally resided, and it grew to be almost a sufficient boast for-those who had no claim to other, that they owned a residence 'anywhere between Folom Street and South Park.  In one of these stately brown houses. lived the dis-                  , ,   It0 1?OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES        121 tinguished family Montrose. Widely differing from New York "high life," these people yet found it in some re spects desirable, for bold bare fronts, with obstructed outlooks, had given place'to broad and velvety grounds- a result attended with much labor in those days-t( hedges, vines, fountains, and walks, with "prospects" and roses the year round. The word select, as applied to social grades, to which so many persons, and worthy ones, too, often cling 'iti a deathke tenacity, meant simply, at that time, seclu sion. This fact will have been observed in the history of the Haywoods, though less apparent because of their numerical advantages. Of the Montrose family there were but three, an elderly brother and two sisters. They were of good birth and high breeding, with a little more of family pride and a good deal more of social refinement than was necessary for the purposes of personal popularity in a frontier com munity. Diana, the elder of the two sisters, had left behind he in the years that were gone the freshness which belong to a beautiful face, but those years had brought something more charming than mere physical beauty-a softened subdued loveliness, that mellowed the natural hauteur and toned the countenance with a ray of inner life, just evading the line of care, as the' daguerrean artist develops his picture over the highest degree of heat possible, in order to give it tone without " mercurializing" his plate. That the past held the treasures of that life, might be read in the serene but uninspired glance of the eye, with its heavy and habitually downcast lid, or the passive gesture of the folding of the hanls, or the listless droop of the finely-formed shoulders; but, beyond these e3    122        BOUND iOWN, ternals, no morbid sentiment o exhibition of suffering was evinced. And, as these sufferings and experiences have already played their part in thp life of Diana Montrose, let not the ground she has consecrated be profaned by a stranger tread. Happy if through them strength and development shall have come; for not all natures, even of the feW herein dealt with, are thus noble or thus capa- ble, as must appear befote the end. And Helen Montrose tf Like other characters in this book,} hers will best find interpretation through the events which follow. Not so tall as her sister, her figure was full and voluptuous -as her brother declared, "slightly inclined to be dumpy." Her features were highly classic, though the chin was a little too well rounded for perfec- tion of outline. Her hair, unlike that of her sister; was yellow, and rippled -down her pretty pink cheek in soft lines like the waters of the bay just in sight from her window, upon a calm morning. ^Tl was the first of May again, and though Helen Mont- rose was more than eighteen years of age, yet she had never quite escaped those yellow  fields of childhood where the atmosphere is flecked with gold and every pathway is edged about: with some new delight; where Mayv-day is a fairy scene, with queens and thrones and diadems, and all sorts of bewitching delusions cominon to the youthful imagination before entering upon the real- ;- .- ities of life. "Oh, dear!" said the young lady, impetuously crush- ing the petals of a rose which had fallen upon the table till its crimson purpled her delicate fingers, as it lay a mangled mass upon the marble, "I shall go clear distrait of this insufferable ennui. One might as well spend one's -days among the Mountains of the Moon-no resorts, no drives, no theaters, no operas."   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     12 "To the ocean beach," suggested Diana quietly, i a pleasant drive, I think." "Yes; if you bundle yourself in furs in July like al Esquimaux, and smother your face with veils and screen till you shut out every inch of landscape from your sight you may succeed in getting rid of your red nose, Cn make yourself warm again some time within a weei.' This was said ironically and not in a spirit of amiability. "Then there aret parties occasionally, where--" "Now, Di," broke in the petulant beauty, "yotu know that it is as much as one's reputation is worth to be seer out in your own carriage on the same day." Diana, had she been disposed to set up a defense, per- ceived at once that argument would be useless, and, therefore, seeking to turn the topic, said, looking at Ler watch, "It is almost four o'clock; brother will be home directly."  "Yes," retorted Helen, thrusting  one little plump scrap of a foot rather spiritedly before the grate; "and as probably as anything he will either drag some over- dressed, vulgar-minded plebeian, or some horrid seedy newspaper man after him, whom we are expected to dire, and wine, and entertain to our eminent disgust, while re seem to be, and he really is, delighted over another new strike in the mines, or a rise in flour, or exciting news by steamer."  "What is the matter with you to-day, darling?" the elder sister said caressingly. Tears of vexation sprang to the clear blue eyes--tears that might have been kept back but for this little exhi- bition of sisterly sympathy and affection-and they were the only reply. A story brief and simple in itself, but entailing conse-     124       BO UND 'DO WN quences, will explain that which Helen Montrose will not care to relate. Twenty years ago, and before Helen was born, a near and dear friend of the family had died suddenly, leaving an only child, a son, orphaned by her death. This child Mrs. Montrose, Helen's mother, adopted. He grew up side by side with her own family, and being more than usually interesting and amiable, peculiarly attached himself to his adopted parents. When Helen was about ten years of age, the mother sickened, and, filled with the pre- sentiment that this was her last illness, she sent for her boys, who being nearly of an age, were taking their first college course together. They came and stood beside the bed of death, waiting to hear and willing to obey the last will of the bel6ved of the household. Placing her cold arms about the neck of the adopted boy, she whispered, while the death chamber grew still, "Promise me," she said, "before I go from you, that you will love my little Helen; that you will be her pro- tector, her guardian, and finally, Henry,' her husband. Say, my more than son, that you promise me this, and I shall die in peace." This was no time for ingratitude or even hesitation, and the youth earnestly and tearfully gave his word of honor that he would make the baby Helen his wife, after a few years should have gone by. Then calling Helen to her side, she laid the little fat hand in that of Henry Marston, blessed them, and died. It isunfortunate in the interests of worldly affairs, that the mental vision in the case of dying persons should not, as with the spiritual vision, "clear up," making the judgment less instead of more fallible. Years rolled on, and Henry Marston chose his profes- sion and followed it conscientiously, faithfully. Mean-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    12 while the little Helen Montrose was growing beautiful self-willed, and secure in her future. "Good-by," he said stooping down to kiss each of her little dimpled cheek before turning his face toward the Far West. "Be very amiable, and very hopeful, and very happy, just as I could wish my little wife to be." And the next day he set sail with Captain Gray for California, where we first found him plodding along unostentatiously in the line of his duty, soothing complaints, comforting the afflicted, and healing the ills of the flesh. "Diana," said Helen, after a long pause, and in a tone of voice a little lower and a little hoarser than was quite natural. The sister looked up quickly; the tears had dried upo the eyelashes, and the clear eyes were clearer and blue than ever. Nevertheless, there was a look of scorn onl half subdued upon the fine lip while she spoke. "Do you know," she said, low, "that Henry Marsto has never once mentioned or alluded to our engagenment since I met him here?" Diana's lips had already formed an exclamation of sur- prise, but she thought better of it, and only discreetly saic "Well, you have not met often." "' Whose fault is that, I would ask?"' Helen cried. "It is doubtless the fault of no one," said Diana. " know Henry Marston too well to prefer charges hastily his reasons are good, rest assured, my dear." The conversation was here broken off by the appear- ance of the brother, who, as it proved, was no other t ai the knight of, Jane Haywood's adventure on Russia] Hill. "Well, girls," he said, throwing himself into an easy chair, with that air of manly grace so characteristic with some men, and so impossible of achievement with others     126       BOUND DOWN, "well, is anything the matter? You like to see me come, don't you? But you look as contemplative as a Hindoo widow on the eve of a sacrifice."' "That's just what it is, Fred," Helen broke forth, her sense of humor for once triumphant. "I was to be the sacrifice, and Di the executioner; she was just preparing the fagots, disguised under cover of a moral lecture." "Blessed moment l" said the brother,'lifting his eyes with mock reverence; " how grateful you should be to me. Come here, dumpy," and he held out his hand coaxingly. "No, I Won't," said Helen pouting; "you know, you were under promise not to address me by that vulgar title again; you have broken faith, sir." "So I have," be said humbly. "And I wouldn't trust one of your sex out of my e sight; you are all alike." "Wlh-e-w V" was the half-whistled, half-whispered ejacu- ; lation. Then turning to Diana, "Where's my hat? That girl is turning out strong-minded, and I abominate-strong- minded women (which was true); one would take her for a practiced and confirmed coquette, who, after jilting a score or, more every season, turns up 'man-hater,' as if our sex had really done, her some harm. Oh, you baby I what do you know about our sex? I hope, darling, you may never have more cause for complaint.. Come and kiss me," and his manner grew more serious, while Diana sighed softly, and Helen went over and sat upon the arm of his chair, and kissed his handsome forehead. "Now I ought to tell you something for that. Diana, you re- member--  "tI1ere," said the imperious little beauty, sliding the fingers of her little dimpled hand among his magnificent auburn whiskers, and turning his face toward herself, "you were to tell it to me."    -   i        OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     Ir "Jealous! by all that is womanly. Very well," he said, "Diana knows, and you do not, because you were not pld-I beg your pardon-you were away at school during the two seasons of her triumphant reign--and where was I? Oh-Di remembers Miss Mildred Gray?" "Yes, the most brilliant and beautiful woman I ever met; but an invalid, is she not?" "I believe she was supposed to have been so for life, but is recovering--she is in the city-so is Captain Gray, and with your most gracious approval, madam imperi " "-al," cried Helen, laying her hand across his mouth. "--al," repeated he, with a smothered laugh, ant, she released him. "With your approval, then, and under the polite escort of Dr. Henry Marston, we will spend this evening with Miss Gray and her friends, at the earnest request of the medical gentleman aforesaid.' About the etiquette of the first visit I do not stp to inquire. Remember, Helen, Dr. Marston will be here at a quarter before eight." The soft pink in the cheeks grew slightly dappled, and a little of the carmine, the most enterprising, crept be- yond its limits down on to the neck, taking advantage possibly of the preoccupied condition of its owner; but as neither sister nor brother seemed to notice, it does not matter for the present. In any event,-her spirit of ubi- lancy at the prospect of spending an evening out was just as demonstrative, and greatly refreshing'to Fred.  128       BOUND DO WN, CHAPTER XIX. THAT night saw quite a brilliant little assemblage at the house of Mr. Haywood. There were present, by in- vitation, several gentlemen of culture and taste, for San Francisco was in this respect in no way deficient. Even from the date of its earliest history to the present day, this city has been rather remarkable for its superior num- bers of scientific and literary men, notwithstanding the sources of diversion are here, compared with those of other countries, multiplied by scores, producing the usual result of misdirected talent and misapplied motive-power. M"Mrs. Haywood, permit me to present for your better -acquaintance, my old and valued friend, Mr. Montrose," and Dr. Marston paused with Mrs. Haywood before a group of genifemen, apparently confident that her powers of recognition must be adequate to the confusion of faces. With one-of those gracious smiles, only a little too mechanical, the lady glanced rapidly from one face to another, but only for one instant; for Mr. Montrose ap- proachinrg very near, pronounced her name in his clear, ringing voice, before she had caught even a glance of his face. Mrs. Haywood started slightly--he did not-when she gave him, intuitively, as it were, not the fashionable tips of the fingers, but the whole of her beautiful hand, -with a heartiness so frank and unaffected, that she con- vinced herself at once that she had shown no surprise, though at one moment she was fearful she was doing so. To. the observation that may be made upon this exhibi- tion of, Jane Haywood as being inconsistent with the   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     l natural reserve or timidity of her character, there is but one answer, and that is in the future--that which is i m- possible to-day may be easy to-morrow. If time wrought no changes, this would be a most consistentworld; if ad- vancement, and experience, and reflection, and progess should pass for naught, then might we all seem consist- ent, saying the same things and thinking the same thoughts to-day as yesterday. After the usual cerenlonies of presentation, and while Mr. Haywood was reporting, in a rather humorous way, the incidents of a street affray which had just occurred, Mildred entered the room upon the arm of Captain Gray. She was dressed in a tint of delicate peach-blossom, [mnd wore in her hair a simple camellia. By her side glided Cora-half fairy, half statue. Her face as white as the robe she--whre, looked spiritually serene, and the little figure was festooned and wreathed in flowers; for, it will be remembered, this was the first of May. An exclama- tion of delight broke from the company at the pretty surprise, while the thorough self-possesswon of the little maiden, in receiving the congratulations of the guests, was indeed admirable.              I There was probably not more than one pair of eyes present that failed to brighten when Mildred and Cora appeared. Those eyes were ip the keeping of Helen Monjtrose, but unhappily not under her control; for 1;he moment the name of Mildred Gray went round, a russet- film crept across them, and the pupils contracted pain- fully, as she said a little huskily to Dr. Marston, who stood by her side, "I was not aware that we were to be entertained with theatrical effects to-night." But the shaftsfell harmless, so far as its application to Mildred; for the honest man, adapting the-allusion to poor Cora, spoke up quickly,   13       0BUND DOWN, "Oh, you should know her. You would love her in a week as much as I do. A most charming creature, I as- sure you, and her:i mind is an inexhaustible mine of thought and suggestion." Now, this was a little more than human nature, and especially irate maidenly nature, should be expected to bear, surrounded by the circumstances. So the young lady promptly turned her back upon the offender, and, with her face to the wall, gazed, in the idle pretense of examining some paintings, but indeed saw' nothing at all, Dr. Marston observinga, but not construing, the move- ment, took the opportunity of her preoccupation to seek out Mildred, for the purpose of introducing his friends. Finding her already engaged in renewing the acquaint- ance of Miss Diana Montrose,' he passed quietly by, nor did he observe that which Helen saw--that the soft, tremulous eye leaned rather than wandered under its deep satin fringe in the direction he was taking; yet no abstractedness of manner chilled the warm splendor of the smile upon Mildred's lips; of which fact also the unhappy young lady made prompt record under the head, however, of "artifice." Oh, when was ever jealousy known to make a charitable entry? Ices, salads, creams, coffee, and the usual et i-eteras, were served at intervals during the evening, an irregu- larity tending to make rather than to break the links in the chain of conversation, and thus the hours passed on. Now, itis only fair to say that Dr. Marston did watch faithfully for the first occasion of finding both Mildred and Helen disengaged at once, with a view of bringing them together. Accordingly, he dered the latter his arm, for the purpose of escorting her to the drawing-room, where Mildred sat in the midst of a group of animated   l        OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. talkers. But Helen bowed, begged he would excuse her, and hoped to have the pleasure at some other time during the evening, when it would be more convenient for all parties. Now, what could the child mean? Henry Marston very naturally thought. Surely her etiquette was at fault, and he blundered something about her being the guest, and all that, but rather incoherently, which allusion Miss Helen very cleverly ignored; and so tae- matter ended for the present, the little spoiled beauty graciously permitting herself to be led to the piano in- stead. "A very beautiful girl," remarked Mildred to the doc- tor, who had already joined her, having been relieved of his office by virtue of his ignorance respecting the proper time for turning the music. ' My'adopted sister," the doctor returned a little dryly And, for the first time, Mildred was made aware of the character of the intimacy of Dr. Marston with the Mont- rose family.. Helen Montrose was one of those brilliant performers whose fingers accomplish all the work. Her style, though showy, was cold and passionless, and her time severely marked and austerely correct. To a class of listenvers, her performance seemed the very highest attainment of artistic grace and design; to others, the essential element was altogether wanting. She was not endowed wit h those subtle perceptions which enable a musician to translate and reproduce the spirit of a composition. Among those who undprstood, this distinction was Mr. Montrose, for, though ,eadmired and loved his petted and spoiled sister, he *iWas never known to"' asklher to play for him.    '         , "The science of music," he said/during the course of a debate which followed Helen's rendition of a series oi  132        BOUNVD D DO WN, most intricate passages from one of Bellini's famous operas, " is, in the verv term itself, a paradox. If science be certain knowledge systematized, then is music any more a science than poetry? The leading idea of a musi- cal composition is just as much a thing of inspiration and imagination as the leading idea of atpoem. The method used to convey those impressions to our perceptions may, be called art, but certainly not science; for the propfess mav embrace systematized method, but not certain knowl- edge, else should music address) itself to all persons in a like manner, whereas upon some it operates through the senses."  "And if the distinction should seem too subtle," deli- cately suggested Mildred, "might we not extend your illustration,. Mr. Montrose? While theconception of the composer, like that of the poet, is concded to be a crea- tion of the imagination, embodying, of course, real and tangible ideas, is not the mere mechanical compiler of chords and harmonies, according to theory, just that which the artistic versifier is to the genuine poet? And just as the poet must sacrifice many of the finer beauties of his fancy to the inadequateness of words, or to the arbitrarjy edicts of the art of versification, so the musical poet warps and cramps his thoughts to fit the rhythm and ac- cents and measures until the diapasons, adjusted by the- light of fancy, strike upon the ear like the mingling of strange voices." And the listeners thought the woman's face looked a volume of verse and song while she spoke. "Then, why," said Haywood, who was standing near Mildred's chair, and still, lawyer-like, holding on to the main idea suggested in the early part of the discussion, "why is it that so few find it possible to express the idea of the composer?'" "Because so few find it within their capacity' to co m-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     1: prehend, much less to construct a work of the imagina tion. 'It requires a poet, you know, to translate a poem let him adhere never so tenaciously to the text." "Who drives fat oxen should himself be fat," said the recreant over Mildred's shoulder, but fortunately in toe low a tone to be heard. "There is my sister," Mr. Montrose went on; "I be your ladyship's pardon for anything too personal;" and he. smiled kindly over to Helen: " she has heard a greal deal of very good music, is familiar with the works of the masters, and yet she reads Gardner's Music of Nature and throws away the book in disgust, declaring she can. not catch a fragment of its meaning. At the same time she is so completely master of the instrument before her that she is able to touch any fraction of mathematical interval with perfect readiness, even in the dark." "Did you ever know me to overlook a marked dy- namic expression in music, brother?" asked Helen, slightly piqued. "No; only I am always painfully conscious that they are marked, and expressed for you, thus depriving you of the power to convey the proof of your sympathy with the writer." "Your ear is too fastidious, Fred," Dr. Marston re, marked bluntly. "And if he will pardon me," Miss Gray added with. grace, "his appreciation much too refined to be easily reconciled to the positive, emphatic, not to say the arbi- trary qualities of the piano-forte. Such results as you require, are not, under any degree of skill, within the capacities of the instrument; of which we may judge much the same as we judge men and women." This remark on the part of Mildred was prompted by a desire to relieve the manifest discomfiture of Helen, 12 .    1 34      BOUND DOWN, whose little heart did give a sudden start, and then melted jidirectly; for, with her natural shrewdness, she saw the Iintent instantly, and forthwith she drew a little sigh, and said in a very soft voice, as she looked across the room to Miss Gray, "Thank you," and for a moment her pretty face was suffused, and tender, and lovely. "A very clever stroke of generalship," laughed Mont- rose, recognizing the movement. And Dr. Marston just began to understand it too, for -he spoke with- more than his usual readiness. "Try if the fortress she so gallantly erected is im- pregnable."  "I will.- You shall now defend the position you have taken," and the challenge went gayly round. "Very well I you all understand that I am now upon the defensive, and am thus absolved of the seeming of monopoly," Mildred said lightly; then to Montrose-"H did aver, and I here repeat, that abiding by my own ap- preciation of your argument, as well cis a limited under- standing of the instrument under discussion, the effects you so much invoke cannot possibly be produced by the 'piano-forte, being in itself an incomplete-not an imper- fect-organ, and incapable of carrying out the highest con- ceptions of the performer. For instance, you require an intensified or an uncommon refinement of expression for a, passion or a sentiment. Now, the effort to express that sentiment or passion has already exhausted the capacity of the instrument in its dynamic or modulating powers, thereby thrusting all the different shades and varieties of emotion under one head, or, at least, making them a, mere matter of degree. You require a figure or an illus. tration to be conveyed by sound; you have the chromatic scale by which to combine your harmony; but you find even that clumsy and inadequate when applied to the ex-.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     1 quisite shades of meaning you desire to express. And so, with your resources exhausted, you sit complacently with folded hands, .ad hear critics denounce you as being incompetent, or stupid, or unappreciative, or- what is the word?" glancing toward Helen. But Helen was not thinking about words at all, for a new idea had struck her brain, as Miss Gray's disinter- ested act of championship had touched her heart, and shei was wondering vaguely how many of her defects and shortcomings were due to circumstances. "I am amazed that you, Mildred, a lady, should paused for a word," Captain Gray said dryly.  Mildred knew the quality of this remark-that it was half rebuke and half apology for the long speech she had been led into. "Have the goodness to go on," spoke some one. "Yes," said Montrose, glancing toward Mrs. Hay- wood; "let the iconoclast finish her work."' "'My ruin is complete," remarked Jane; " she has de- molished the sweetest delusion I ever held: that the piano-forte was the most complete of all instruments, and that my little mastery over it was an absolute triumphi of genius; whereas I find a piece of knowledge, for which I am indebted to you sir, as well," to Montrose, "that the instrument is a failure, and I am a parrot."  There was just enough of sarcasm in this little speech to give it piquancy, and when it was finished, Montrose looked and saw the creamy, soft face of the brunette rapidly mixing and braiding up a rich vermilion tinge, as delicious as it is rare. "Abandon your aspirations for mastery over the inani- mate and unreciprocatory, and turn them in such a direc- tion as they shall meet with response." Now, it is not claimed for Mr. Montrose, that this re-  136        BO UND DO W, mark, made in a little undertone too, and while looking straight into Mrs. Haywood's eyes, was especially bril- liant, or, in any sense, correct, either as a matter of judg- ment, taste, or ethics, though Mr. Montrose was one of those few men who seldom erred in either respect; but as this gentleman will be responsible for his own indis- cretions and overreachings, throughout the pages of this book no defense will be assumed for him. It may be said in advance, however, that, in company with others, he will need all the charity the reader may have to be- stow, after the weaker are served. "Well, what conies of sitting down with folded hands, and hearing one's self denounced?" asked Haywood, picking up the thread after his usual fashion, just where it had been dropped. "Reflection sometimes," and Mildred's face, to one who ,knew her well, looked slightly quizzical, as she turned it toward the speaker, "Next to the human voice," she said, resuming the subject, "I esteem the violin the king of .ll instruments; the only one, indeed, thoroughly capable of sympathy with the soul, without being its direct and spontaneous agent, as the voice undoubtedly is. Thus, if you find your music arranged in flats, you involuntarily incline to intensify, if possible, without perverting the design; so if an accidental occurs, for the purpose of peculiar effect, yo may incline the tone, so to speak, and thereby greatly heighten the effect. This is only one of its host of supe- rior capacities: it is that to the composer which animal life is to a painting; that which metaphor is to a poem; that gesture is to an orator; that religion is to society; that love is to the human heart;,; and she spoke a little lower, "at once its spiritualizing and its vitalizing power."   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    1 BBut it was not till later in the evening, when Mildred1 Gray sang a duet with Mrs. Haywood, and one or two pieces from manuscript, that either Helen Montrose or her brother clearly comprehended the practical force of this fragmentary discussion. "I should think that Cora had better be put to bed," was Miss Jemimals whispered suggestion, audible, how- ever, to every ear present. The proposition proved a sig- nal for the breaking up of the little assemblage for the night, but not until Helen and Mildred had exchanged pleasant words and mutual promises for future fulfillment. The next day was one of some importance in the history of our young friend. It had been proposed and decided on, without consultation with the young lady herself, that Cora should be placed in school. The proposal, though natural and proper, altogether startled Mrs. Haywood. She had learned to regard Cora as being. already educated by na- ture and intuition; and though her better judgment told her how inadequate and eccentric these gifts must prove among the conventionalities of society, yet she persist- ently held to the theory-which was, indeed, a correct one-that as with respect to her childhood, so with respect to her maturer years, Cora would, by common consent, be, in a measure, exempt from the forms which regulate the standard of individual acquirements. Accordingly, when Dr. Marston, in the kindness ofhis: heart, had consented to announce the plan that was sure to meet with antagonism from the little maiden, and came forward with the suggestion, Mrs. Haywood joined in the request that a few practical questions b6 put, in order to test, as Jane expressed it, the possible resources of Cora's peculiar mental capacities. "Which has very little to do with physical facts," said the doctor, trying, as he had done many times. before, to 12*   138       BOUND DO WN, tuck the little wayward forelocks back behind the tiny white ear. And he began, ".First; how much can you read?" i "Now, Dr. Marston,' said the child, laying her little, cold hand against his mottled cheek, playfully, and at- tempting to turn his face away, "you are not to make me feel ashamed, you know. I can't read very good; jthat is, from books." "What can you read from, then?" he asked, with a sudden expression of real wonder. "From things," replied Cora, turning up the end of the word with a rising inflection, with the manifest view of a complacent abandonment of that branch of questioning. "Bubbles," spoke the doctor, yet looking in the little face with an expression of paternal fondness. Cora demurely closed the lids over the great blue eyes, but an unequivocal smile strayed about the mouth. : "What are you doing?" said the doctor, with an amused look of inquiry, taking her by the shoulders. ' "Getting serious," was the brief reply, never unclosing [the lids. "Now we'll begin again-What is the shape of the ^ earth?" "Round " still with closed eyes. "How do you know that?" "-Because," explained Cora, opening her deep eyes, now blackened all over with the wondrously dilated pupils, "because everything that happens is round, and thoughts are round." "What?" and the puzzled expression of the man's face was almost painful to witness. "Yes! if a thing has no end it has no beginning, has it?" the child asked a little impatiently. No reply. o    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. 'Did you ever think a thought clear to the end? It isn't the way with my thoughts. The more I think, the more they keep coming, and I go round and round where I began/, only higher up ; and every time they get more clear and true, till I almost think I can see where thoughts are made. I guess, when people can't get anyv further with a good intention, that something gets in the way and stops it from growing, and then they run off the track-maybe into the dark-,I don't know; and if they can't help it, they are not much to blame, are they? Ah l I never thought,bow little before." "Well, now, about the things that happen in a circle," suggested the doctor gravely. ' Only that the things that happen once are very apt to happen again," Cora replied; then, as an afterthought, "if they get a good chance." "As history is said to,repeat itself," spoke Mildred. "I suppose," continued Cora, with a logic beyond her power of expression, " that if the same people, or others, do the same things over, the same things must happen again. Aunty," she cried, struck with a new idea, " don't you remember how my black kitten Dinah had a joint in her tail, and so had her mother, and her grandmother?" Mrs. Haywood belibeved that was true. "Hereditary succession," commented the doctor. "Then you suppose because you were born once, you must be born again?" "Yes; that is it." "Charming little orthodox." "Maybe ever and ever so many times," said Cora. "Ah I there you go again!" almost shouted the doctor. "Now, what do you mean by that?" "Tell him, dear Miss Mildred; I have told you ever so often, and you always know what I mean-almont more than I seem to know myself."  "O       BOUND DOWN, "She would say," Mildred spoke, quietly, "that re- generation means progression; and as the soul expands by advancement, new spheres are chosen, and a new round of duties entered upon." "In this life, of course; but what of death?" "This life we esteem, Cora and I, merely as a repre- sentative condition, a state wholly transitionary. But, sir," she spoke, laughing, "you will permit me to retire from the controversy. It is Cora, I believe, who is under examination." "Well, then, Cora," once more resumed Dr. Marston, "how do you know we shall have another life than this?" "Oh, I know," said the child wisely. "And won't tell me," said her tormentor rebukingly. "Won't you tell anybody in the world?"- "No!"  "Hope to die this minute?" "Yes!"  Fortifying his ear with both her little thin hands she whispered some strange things; for gradually, with every pulsation of the heart, the blood deserted the cheek, and the face of the strong man became as white as the hand that held it. Whatever the tale she told, he turned most abruptly from the subject, the moment it was finished, and only said, "We must advance more rapidly, my little girl, or this examination will prove irksome to our audience, for I fancy these ladies have been yawning be- hind their handkerchiefs, for half an hour. Now, tell me how many parts of speech there are." "Two I Yes and no l" The question was little less than a banter, and deserved the answer it received; so there was nothing left to do but to laugh. l   .   1   6   :1 'OOR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES. The reader will not care to linger longer over this scene, as those who knew and loved this strange chld better could well afford to do;, it is enough that the preparations for entering the school were delayed from time to time, till at last a more definite postponement was made; not to exceed, however, the limits of one year. And so Corals agony was over for the present, and a burden was lifted from Mrs, Haywood's heart. But there was one soul in unrest; it was that of Harry Haywood. Although his conduct toward the child was in no way unkind, yet he dreaded and avoided her obser- vations and comments; and, indeed, manifested absolute discomfiture while she remained in his presence; a feel- ing which Dr. Marston defined, but which it might n)t be proper to do here just at this moment. CHAPTER    XX.  ONE day Cora came trudging across the sand waste which lay studded with the chaparral and bound by the sea, struggling with the wind that went waltzing With her hair and ribbons as, in the very face of it, she bent in the direction of home. Buts her uncertain and sham- bling gafi, even at a distance, told of abstractedness o[ preoccupation; for the little figure swayed along the sandy path-regular streets being an innovation of after years--her head bent downward, and' her arms appa- rently folded upon her breast. A little nearer, and it 'was plain enough that she. carried some soft and animate burden in her arms, for the tender, caressing gesture had a significance half maternal, as the little soothing, loving  I                     , "' ,12     B O UND D OWN, iaccents became more audible, and she at lengthl stumbled up the steps of the piazza, and reached the door. "There!" she said, quickly closing it after her,. and hastening to close every entrance to the room, and set- ting the little bundle upon the floor. "Here we are; and this is my Aunty, and this is Miss Mildred." And she circled the room with a series of gestures quite astonish- ing in the demure little maiden. The bundle proved to be only a white kitten, with lovely amber-colored eyes and. a, brindle tail; though the ceremony of introduction suggested a much more august presence. The 'little guest, however, with less regard for ceremony, at once set upon a tour of inspection, pro- ceeding cautiously around the room with tail at half- mast, taking an inventory of every piece of furniture, the appraisal of which seemed vastly assisted by the use of the delicate nostril, which it applied unhesitatingly to 6very object within reach, without a bit of sentiment as to artificial restraints.              \ "Where did you find that, Cora?" "A lady gave it to me, Aunty," said the child, half confidentially, and dropping her voice; "a beautiful lady, only I don't know how to describe her. Isn't it lovely? and it purrs and rubs my dress, and looks at me just as if it always knew me," A- more detailed explanation followed, from which ap- peared the single fact that the adventurous proclivities of the amber-eyed favorite before mentioned, having led it to follow Cora on her way up the street, and Cora hav- ing with due alacrity returned the same to its proper owner, said owner did, by her own free will, and without compulsion, transfer the same, with all its rights, privi- leges, and hereditaments, to the aforesaid Cora, to have and to hold so long as to her seemed fit.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    14 "Well, I do declare for it all " said Miss Haywood entering the room just at the end of the recital, and espying the kitten, still intent upon its little expedition. Who has been bringing sorrow into this house, I'd ask? Cora, I'll warrant that's you. Come cat, come care; but," she added more resignedly, "if them that it's their business don't mind certain signs of trouble, I doq't' know why I should." And she smoothed her black silk .pron with the same serene unction that might have accompa. nied the action had she been quite innocent of the assault just made upon the shade of Lindley Murray. 'But no tale of superstitious horror could quell the rapt- ure felt by Cora at the exhibitions of her dear little play- fellow. It would scamper and hide and climb; it would curve its sides and dance upon its toes, its graceful back and brindle tail high in the air; it would grasp at airy -visions and hugthem frantically, as if it were grappling with substance , it would fly through the room with either the spirit of pursuit or retreat ludicrously depicted in its attitude, and it was only when Cora was absent that the little creature relaxed into a state of quiet consistent with the attributes popularly assigned to its felineship. ' I think the accident that led to the introduction of that kitten into the household was most fortunate for Cora," said Jane Haywood, as the hearty gurgling laugh of the child came bubbling up like the sound of the brook over the stones. "It is an infinite source of amusement, and has taught her to laugh like a child," Mildred returned. "If it should die," suggested Jane quickly. "I should be sorry for the experience," replied her friend; " but it requires no gift of prophecy to see that Cora's is not a common lot; disappointments must come to her--God does not form such natures with.     "4        BOUND DO WN, out purpose, neither can we always see where His work- ings begin. Let us hope that even -her first childish grief is far ahead. Be sure no lesson will be lost on her." At this point of the conversation Miss Haywood appeared. Now this worthy person having seen fit to install herself lady superior over the culinary department, even from the first day she came among the Iaywoods, no amount of expostulatibn could drive, her from her pur- pose. But with all her triumphs over obstacles, there were a few most exasperating details, which, if not dis- astrous in results, were certainly most annoying in them- selves. Chief among these was her management of a long- queued, wooden-shod, almond-eyed, wary Chinese servant. What language she essayed; what grimaces she made; what symbols she employed; what writhings and contor- tions of face and expression ; what shriekings and enuncia- tions, to convey, if onlythe most vague idea of her meaning. But all in vain. Her orders were received with the most benign of expressions, clinched with the most unequivocal assertion to be found in the two simple but comprehensive words "I sabbe" and always fervently uttered. On the present occasion, having directed that two of the fowls imprisoned in a place at some distance from the house should be sacrificed for this day's dinner, she so conveyed to "John." "Oh, yes!" said John, "I sabbe." "I'll bet you don't understand a word I mean," said the lady disdainfully. "I told you to go and bring some chickens and kill them for dinner."  "Heap sabbe, all same Melican man John," replied the intelligent celestial. In the name of common sense, what has that got to do with it?" said the maiden lady despairingly. "See j      t O     OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILTIES.     14 here!" and a new symbol seized her mind. "Look at the kitten! bring white chickens all same as that"-pointin, to the poor little unconscious puss, who. was sleeping i the sun by the window after its "romp"-"and take th hatchet and cut their heads off, so;" and she moved he fingersitheatrically across puss's soft, singing throat. A distant gleam of intelligence, crept across the sallom visage of the Mongolian, which gave hope to the heav: heart of Miss Jemima, and, without a word of " sabbe,' he proceeded to produce the instrument of death, while Miss Haywood took her way to the drawing-room, there to boast of her triumphs over the benighted, not to say the erring, mind. A terrific shriek from Cora startled the three ladies to their feet at once, and crossing the hall, they were met by the little blanched,.horror-stricken face, her white lips tightly drawn, and the little thin hands clasped piteously, while her voice broke into a wail, "Go and see! I cannot tell it! -Oh, I cannot speak it!" And what was it all'about? Why, only that there upon the ground, its head half severed from its bodv, lav the little amber-eyed kitten, its pretty white coat reeking with its own blood, its muscles yet stirring with the life that had so glorified Cora's for a few brief days; and that the dreadful Chinaman had committed the deed under a mis- apprehension of orders. Mrs. Haywood led the slight, staggering figure back to the drawing-room, laid the little head upon her breast and listened silently to the beating of the heart against a her own.  But it was not until Mildred drew near and kissed the hot cheek, whispering soft words of consolation, that tears began slowly to fill the blue eyes, and at length wild sobs gave utterance to that first great grief. Re-     "6       BOUND DO IY, laxatio nl and nervous exhaustion followed, and soon Cora was lying upon the sofa, folded in a deep, refreshing sleep. Half, an hour, an hour, two hours went by, and at last the child started wildly, the alarm upon her, face height- ened by the dilated pupil, and the thin, tightly-drawn nos- tril; but seeing Mrs. Haywood by her side, she burst into a hysterical fit of laughter mingled with sobs, "It is not true I it is not true l" she said convulsively at intervals, and gradually, as the excitement subsided, she gave in broken sentences the dream that had so alarmed and distressed her. ,  "I saw her," the child began, "and you and I, and the lady whoe gave me the poor kitty, were not far from her. There was a crowd of people about us; and-she told me not to get lost from you; and though I held you tightly by the hand, somehow my thoughts went astray, and I wandered off. Directly I saw you floated rather than carried away, and they told me that you were dead; but I could not believe that, and so tried hard to find the way that you had taken; but she came between, and told me you were no more to me in this world. 'They brought me the kitten and tried to comfort me, but I did not mind- my heart was broken, and I wanted to die too.' And when I had grown as wretched as ever I could be, I saw a great white cloud, and instantly guessed you might be in that, because it seemed so full of meaning; and then I woke and found you here," and she laid the palm of her hand upon Mrs. Haywood's, and braided their fingers together, adding, "I feel so happy, that I shall not cry much more about my poor little kitten." Mrs. Haywood knew the end had not come, for the lesson was wanting, and the eyes still held the gleaming spark; so she sat quietly smoothing the little head, looking dreamily into   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     14 her face, while Mildred mechanically rose, closed an open door, at the same time changing a shade, so as to soften the light, and then quietly resumed her seat without speaking. After a long pause, Cora said, "Miss Mildred, does God do everything?" "I think He shapes the end from the beginning, Cora." "Yes; and leaves it to people to fill up," suggested Cora. "I suppose He didn't just make the Chinaman kill my kitten, but --"and here she came to a dead halt. For a full moment neither of the ladies spoke, and then Cora burst out, this time in the old high key, 'as if she were reaching after the idea, " but He let him do it, because He meant me to know how it feels to suffer, and maybe He wants me to get used to it." "Dear child," spoke Mildred, "if afflictions were al- ways thus recognized, and so blessed in their uses, there would be less need of the chastening hand." "And I suppose my dream about Aunty was to make me know how much worse some things might be than other things are; and I do know, and shall try and not cry any more about my poor kitten, but I did like it so much ;" and she began tossing the sofa-cushion tassels vigorously, keeping her eyes steadfastly bent downward, while great drops fell upon her apron. When Mr. Haywood came to dinner that day, and his Aunt:rehearsed the incident of the afternoon, he laughed I a long, ringing laugh that echoed through the house. It subsided for awhile, and then he laughed again, till the air seemed alive with his shouts. Then sobering himself for the occasion, he came slowly and solemnly into the E  drawing-room, with a  mock gravity of manner, reading the burial-service in his most impressive chest-tones. Cora tried first to look unconcerned; then playfully at-     "8 v      BOUND DOWN, tempted to expel him from the room, and ended by asking a burial-place for her little favorite. Really, her self-con- trol was complete, when, leading the way to a corner of the garden, she assisted the same swarthy hands which had robbed it of its happy, playful life, in fashioning the soft mound above the little white kitten with amber-col- ored eyes, and said faintly, "Good-by, kittie; I suppose you haven't a bit of a soul, and I neyer, never shall see you any more, though I think you understood more than some real people, especially--" but, glancing at the sorrowful visage of the Chinaman,-she checked the rising 'declaration, and said softly, but a little patronizingly, "I should forgive you, only I need not, because you did not mean to do wrong." To which John replied, more meekly than intelligently, "No good, John ; heap no likey me, sabbe," and fol- lowed penitently back to the house. The next day Jane Haywood tucked the morningpaper quietly into the grate; not, however, until she had seen a full account of the incident served up after the most comic fashion, Harry Haywood being highly felicitous in the art of local-itemizing, and this was one of his hap- piest efforts. But, with true womanly instinct, Jane felt that Cora had suffered enough, and that since no consola- tion could possibly come out of it, it were better that no other sentiment be stirred. "Mildred," said Captain Gray, rising to take his leave after his\accustomed morning visit, "I shall have business in Sacramento next week, and am going up this afternoon. Now, if you will consent to limit the number of your bandboxes to say fourteen, or thereabout, I shall be glad of your company." "Most gracious parent, I shall go; accept assurances of my gratitude and my love."   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    1 "No delaying at the last hour, remember; not a no ment later than three o'clock; boat starts at four." "I could not make so poor a return for your kindnesS,' replied Mildred; and Captain Gray turned hastily and went out. Mildred at once set about preparations for her little journey, keeping steadfastly fixed in her mind, however, the injunction touching her wardrobe. At the appointed hour the carriage was at the door, Ad and Miss Gray, full of the responsibility of promises given and injunctions received, was whirled away to Broadway wharf, where a boat lay in waiting, and where, among the first of familiar and unfamiliar faces, she dis covered that of Dr. Marston. The fact that he had be en waiting for her was too manifest to be ignored, and s]e gave him her hand cordially. "May we hope we are to have you as our compagn n de voyage?" "I cannot look forward to so much happiness," he re- plied. "I merely drove down toinquire, if I may be o bold, whether your ladyship has the consent of her at- tending physician to this little escapade?" "His tacit approval, certainly," Mildred replied in e- niously, " to be found in the fact of his having virtually relinquished the responsibility of his patient."  "Even under this negative aspect I sit in judgment.' "You are a tyrant," was the only reply. "With the tyrant's one virtue-success," quizzed the tdoctor, leading the way to the ladies' cabin, while Captain Gray went to talk with his friends in the fore cabin.  "Good-by," as the last bell sounded, and Dr. Marston rose to go, and he pressed the little gloved hand of this woman, much as little gloved hands have been pressed from time immemorial; but if the answering touch came     150       BOUND DOWN, always as an honest response to the soul as it came with the chaste consent of her womanhood, without coquettish pride or thought of self, then there were fewer #iolations done in the name of love. CHAPTER XXI. NEARLY a week had gone since the absence of Mildred, and each day Mrs. Haywood realized more vividly the depth of resource and comfort she had found in this really gifted woman. She knew Mildred had many admirers, and she secretly wondered upon Whom of them all her own hostility was destined to fall; for, with all her grace, she knew she would not feel quite kindly toward the man who would for any reason deprive her of her friend's society and sympathy. Now' it will have been observed that whatever Miss Gray's convictions respecting Mrs. IIaywood's- domestic entanglements, not a word had been spoken between them, and perhaps it was well, for points which come often under discussion are liable to assume shifting phases; and more commonly still the reciprocant of the story of a heart's woes, no matter how, diplomatic or discreet, is generally brought to grief; and just so far as a third part' should have assisted in developing a suspicion in the mind of Jane Haywood, concerning the peccadilloes of Harry- and especially in this early stage of conviction-to just such extent must the said third party suffer the conse- quences of her folly. There is a negative power in silence often imperfectly understood. It furnishes license for any kind of interpretation most desirable for the occasion;   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    151 and there had already been seasons in Jane Haywood's domestic experience, when, to know that another shared her apprehensions would not only- for the time seemingly have renewed her faith in her husband's love for her, but must have done it to the irremediable disaster of the ven- turesome sympathizer. But in the very stillness of her doubts there was yet hope, and she was not yet ready for despair with its waiting hosts of results.,  It was Sunday morning, clear and serene as Sabbaths in San Francisco almost invariably happen to be, though a hurricane should have blown through the six days in- tervening. Nearly a week Jane Haywood had been alone with her thoughts and with Cora's, for Mr. Haywood was accustomed to spend his evenings abroad, and Mil- dred's absence seemed to effect no reformation in his habits. This day Mrs. Haywood had risen reluctantly from her bed, and appearing at breakfast a little later than was usual, Cora observed that she left untasted the eggs and muffins before her, though she served the chocolate as usual, and made no complaint. The meal was nearly ended, when Mr. Haywood asked Cora to go and bring his duster and riding-gloves. While she was gone, the wife took occasion to ask her husband if he meant to -go out of town. "If. the Lord is willing, and the straps don't break, I do," wasn the somewhat irreverent reply. "And what if I' enter a protest?" she asked,: smiling faintly. "Protest it is, without effecting results," the husband said. "Still, speak out, Jane, free your mind, you'll feel better; let us hear your objections." "They are very trivial," and the voice trembled a little. "I feel very unwell, and thought I would like to ,ave you at home with me, at least a portion of the day."  152       BOUND DOWN, "Jane, let me give you a little medical advice: take a dose of ginger-tea, and go tQ bed; draw up your feet, cover your head and ears, go to sleep, and dream of your virtuous husband." 'The wife bent her head above the smoking beverage before her, lifted the spoon to the Quivering lips, and the beautiful eyelid trembled with the weight of tears that slowly gathered among the long fringes, and she tried to command her'voice while she spoke. "And you cannot possibly stay, Harry?" feeling at the same moment that she had no right to ask this favor without giving some better reason than she had ready to  give at this moment. Really, no! There are business reasons why I must dine with a party of friends at the Ocean House, to-day." She believed it all, so this was an end of the question,  and in the course of a few minutes Jane watched from the window the strong, supple frame, and the elastic step, till both were lost in the distance. And still she looked, away across the shining sheet of water that hung be- tween earth and sky-looked upon ship and sail, upon island and mountain-looked until all seemed blended together in one vast sheet of gray uncertainty; and she would have fallen in her attempt to find a seat, but for  once, just at an auspicious moment, Miss Haywood ap- -peared to her, and spoke in an absent way, though kindly, "I better have a fire built here, though it is such a sunny day outside; you are as blue as a whetstone," all the while laboring with an arm-chair in its peregrinations across the floor, toward the place where Jane was stand- ing, afraid to move lest she should faint. "There', she said at last, seeing Mrs. Haywood seated, ' I better bring you a shawl; you look as if you was I half froze."  '    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    1I "And hale the goodness to send Cora to me; sl can bring the shawl, and save you the trouble, Aui Jemima." A moment more, and Cora came flying through tl halls, and reaching her side, said promptly that sl should go straight and bring Dr. Marston, Cora's Stan ing solace in affliction. "No, Cora; we will be alone to-day," Jane sail drearily. "And that will be a great deal nicer." In pursuance of this plan, a fire was kindled in Mr. Haywood's room, and thither the two repaired for a day of rest.  But as repose of body is but one of the many qond tions of rest, it was only solitude out of which one little bird was singing; that was all. As for peace, that ha waited for many a weary month at the portals of his heart, and she. could not bid him enter without a pass port, and who held that but Harry, Haywood? Cora wheeled a sofa closer to the fire, beat up and smoothed the fair pillows, repeating the process ti every feather promised to rest upon its own responsi bility, and every outline seemed impressed with a gens of the most rigid decorum, and then formally invited the invalid to repose. But Mrs. Haywood lingered over the fire, thrusting first one foot, then the other, across the fender, and holding the purple finger-tips so low Lbov the embers that the delicate skin upon the hand an, wrists flushed with indignation at the wrong done. In due time, however, Aunt Mimy came up, followed by John, carrying an urn of some steaming beverage most grateful to the invalid. and soon thereafter the torpid functions began to react, fever came, and she took kindly enough to her pretty couch, submitting to the  to     154       BOUND DOWTN, smoothing, tucking, and patting process with more than an invalid's grace. There are some days in the lives of all which lie apart from the mainland of events, like an-:  island in the sea, bounded by a broader and more far- reaching horizon, and fanned by strange breezes, not un- like prophecies or presentiments. These days stand out silently waiting, sometimes through long years, some- times only for a few hours, for its correspondent answer- and be sure it will come sooner or later-pointing back to this time and asking recognition. The events of this day signified absolutely nothing to the woman with respect to the future. She was tempo- rarily ill, but with no apprehension of being more seri- ously so. Her husband was absent, but that was usual. She felt no anxiety concerning Mildred; and finally she decided in her own mind that she should not and would not encourage superstitions by harboring a feeling of' foolish presentiment. And so, while Cora loosened the braids and threaded  the lengths of her shadowy hair with her cool fingers, Mrs. Haywood fell asleep, and forgot even the soft trickle left by the touch of the child-a, peculiarity of touch reserved for the few, but whichi-' Cora strongly pos- sessed. Among fevered fancies and flitting dreams the after- noon passed slowly away, and, when night came it was as if days instead of hours had intervened since her husband left her side. She had not expected him at the regular dinner hour; but when night crept on, and the lights were brought in, and the bells rung out a signal for evening service, the wife rose from her bed, walked feebly to the dressing-table, wound her Watch mechanically, and asked herself, "Will he stay while he knows I am sick and lonely? And yet," she said again, the old habit of self-  v    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    J rebuke rising in defense of her husband, III mu t not dome between him and his duties; for it is not thl'part of a true wife to act as a drag upon the energies or the pursuits of him to whom she must look for materia sup. port. Better that I bear my loneliness than that ] mis- judge or unjustly reproach him. Oh!" she continued her soliloquy in this way, the mental process waxing more and more energetic, "it seems as if he had been gone a year. He seemed so earnest-for him--when he told me he must go I  The moment he comes, I believe I will kiss him, and tell him just how I have wronged him." And as she seated herslelf she folded her arms in a little spasmodic rapture; a condition probably heightened by the fever that was yet struggling in her veins. Just in the midst of this season of self-communing Miss Haywood thrust her head in at the door and in- formally announced her intention of "going to church." "For," said the venerableminaiden, "decency is decency; and because one person is sick here it don't followi that Christianity has died a natural death in the house, does it?"  This as no time to discuss the misinterpretation of the term "Christianity," so apparent in this speech, br to attempt to assert its real office outside of "persuasions," or, what is worse, mere pretense. Aunt Mimy based her hopes of the future on an indorsement of the articles of faith uttered in a distinct tone of voice, and her standard *of religiouis fervor was always to be found in the nu ber of pews that were filled in the lately-constructed builing consecrated to her faith. She was not exploring  h intellectual character, and the most overwhelming r"gu ments were totally lost uponer, or hopelessly swa ped in the meshes of her illogical brain. Therefore not ing was left for Jane but to say, "Certainly, Aunt Mimy, go  156       'BOUND DOWXN, to church, by all means," which she said most promptly, and was alone with Cora in the house.          i Early in the evening the child went and brought her little stuffed dressing-gown and her warm, quilted slippers preparatory, as Jane guessed, to a night's watch; then she demurely folded down the coverings of the bed, and produced the night apparel for Mrs.. aywood, not for- getting to place them in appropriate ppximity to the fire; while she went to perform divers otherilittle tender offices, such as removing brooches and comns, and smoothing back the hair. But Mrs. Haywood did not fail to remark the more than usual gravity of manner of the child, though she proposed to allow the " idea" to take time for develop- inent. Indeed, this night of all, she felt a secret dread of Cora's speculations; exactly why she could not have told. But when she turned her aching head upon the pillow, and saw Cora intent upon getting into her gown, she said, wearily,  "What are you about to do, my dear? "Going to watch with Vou," said Cora, with impor- tance. "n o, my child," said Jane, "I have faith that Uncle Hal will be home early to-night." "iNo; he will not;" tugging at her shoe-strings, and the words were forced out instead of being spoken. "Cora, how do you know he will not?" and the woman spoke in a querulous, peevish tone, most surprising in one so uniformly kind, consistent, and tranqpil. The poor child shivered like a wounded bird, looked a moment into the fire, then limping across the floor, lead- ing one shoe behind, and trailing half her clothes along with her, she reached the bed where Mrs. Haywood lay, and quickly burying her face in the pillow, stood quite still until Jane felt the warm tears upon her shoulder. {*J    OR LIFE AN D ITAS' UOSSBIUITIES.   157 "Dear Aunty," she spoke at last, " don't blame me this time, and I will try and learn not to speak my thoughts out loud any more. I must say the thing that sounds right, even if it is not, must I not; Aunty?" This was a severe question for Mrs. Haywood, though at the moment she had almost answered yes; so she re- treated from the present position to the original cause of the outhreak, and said, "I believe I only asked you how you knew that which you asserted so positively, Cora." "Yes; only so sharply for you that I knew directly I had done wrong. But, Aunty, you said you had faith, and I was certain that- " and here occurred another one of those blanks which so interspersed her conversation whenever she grew very earnest. "Tell me of what you were certain," said the lady, plunging in boldly as one would take a cold bath. "Why, you know, Miss Mildred told me what faith is." "I have no doubt she did."  "And she knows, don't she, Aunty? Because she knows everything. "Yes, Cora," though the assertion was just a, little ambitious. "Well," said Cora, "I don't know how to say the other without seeming to dispute your word, and I could not do that, and I had better not say anything." "I will say4it for you," said Mrs. Haywood, struck with a new idea, "'afid you shall explain it your own way. I said I fiad faith that Uncle Hal would come early to-night, and you were certain I had no such faith."  "Yes, maam," very meekly, i   "Well," said Jane, waiting. "     158        BOUND DOWN,           ,  "If I have faith I seem to be walking up steps all the  while, though I can't see them, and nothing anybody says ; can seemn to pull me back."  Jgne Haywood felt the blood mount her cheeks while she "silently applied the test. Cora resumed, without raising her eyes, "I don't know who made up that little child's prayer, "but I think it makes us pray just as if :we have no faith; :and Miss Mildred says it is useless to pray unless we  ! ihave."  "And what about the prayer?"Mrs. Haywood said, -:glad to be relieved from the self-questionings suggested by Cora's opening remarks. "When I say, Now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul, to keep, and I say it with faith that He will keep me, I have no right to say, but If I die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Because, if I believed tight and sure that the Lord would answer my first prayer, I should not have to pray for another thing for fear I might miss that." The child grew silent, and Mrs. Haywood pondered. Unhappy woman 1 It was not the quality of her faith which was at fault, but the insecure basis upon which the faith had been reared. Hope and intuition had for once met in mortal combat; it was an unnatural war, engendered by unnatural elements and conditions, and both were equally cherished in her heart. But the courage to seize the facts firmly, sift them thoroughly, and decide on the part of truth, did not belong to the character of p   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    159 this woman, though poised in this hour upon her highest possibilities, and assisted by a calm and clear conscience. She might have ended her suspense and her agony long ago by one or two of the thousand little womanly tests of her husband's fidelity and love, if indeed more proof were required; but a little feminine weakness, miscalled affection-and not the worst of woman either-fluttered feebly between her heart and her judgment, and she ab- solutely shrank from a knowledge of the whole truth. Oh, Jane Haywood I the great love that must so glorify or so embitter a life may bring you the courage and the aspiration which you so much need to-day. Why is the spirit of mortal destined only to ripen under the seething, blistering suns of experience? Because growth, and not maturity, is the great principle of nature. After the conversation so abruptly taken leave of by the foregoing digression, Cora smoothed and kissed the. glowing cheek, and apologized rather extravagantly. She bhad forgotten that Mrs. Haywood was ill, had for- gotten her lonely and almost neglected condition, and had simply "let herself go." The charitable reader will scarcely charge this little  child with being possessed of self-will or egotism, re-. membering her few years and her natural simplicity of character; and yet, on the other hand, it is not always desirable to be forced to think. So Jane Haywood felt to-night.  Within the limits of a proper hour Miss Jemima came home all alone through the moonlight, and! soon after the doors were secured and the house was still. The lady came slowly up the stairs, stopped to inquire if she could do anything for the invalid, and then disappeared. Half an hour later, however, she literally "poppedI' in again, evidently having risen from her bed, her high-crowned     160       BOUND DOWN, nightcap punctuating every movement, and her little gray eyes gleaming like steel.  "I thought you were in bed," Jane remarked, as the old lady closed the door. "And so I was," Miss Haywood replied spitefully; "just where every virtuous person should be at this time o' night; but I can't sleep a wink, thinking of Harry, the 'tike,' and I thought I'd just come in and ask about him, though it is little one needs to care, for he's always gone." "He drove to the Ocean House to-day, and I presume has been delayed by some unexpected occurrence," the wife replied, with an indifference she did not feel. "Unexpected fiddlesticks!" sneered the aunt. "Didn't I see him fair and square as I see you when I crossed up the street to come home?" "Oh, you must have been mistaken," Jane said quickly, though her heart beat just a little faster, as she thought he wouldJe at home so soon, and only assum- ing a doubt for the purpose of being reassured. "Jane," said the old lady, bridling up, "you are an amazing odd woman; you try to hide that man's faults just as if they wasn't every one on 'em impositions on your common sense. I make free to say, here and now, that, though he is my poor brother's boy, he is just the most ridiculous husband I ever heard of-as a husband, mind," she added, softening. "Where did you see .Harry?" the wife questioned. "Well, I can't just tell you," was the provoking an- swer. "He'll know when I tell him the circumstances." And thus, having inserted the needle in the flesh, she left it to work its way out as best it might, according to its nature, while, rather peremptorily recommending Cora to go to her bed, she left in almost as ghostlike a manner as she had come.   OR LIFI A ND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    161 As the door closed, Mrs. Haywood breathed a sigh of relief, and then instinctively began to listen for a footfall upon the walk; but none was heard. Once or twice she was startled by a noise in the kitchen, away below stairs, but she knew it was only Bridget, and took no notice. The night deepened, and yet Cora refused to sleep; the barn-fowls shrieked forth their signals for twelve; one o'clock, and at last, weary with waiting for the coming of her husband and importuning with the child, she fell asleep. She had passed but a few moments of uncon- sciousness, when the sound of Cora's voice, first faint and low, then more distinct, aroused her quickly from her pillow. She raised her head and peered into the shadows, for the fire had burned low, and the lamps were deeply shaded, but under all she could discern the figure of the child sitting upright in her chair, and staring fixedly into the grate. The woman's movement, however, disturbed the child's reverie, and she slid slowly from her chair. Silently Mrs. Haywood gazed at the little gaunt figure standing out from the crumbling tints and shadows made by the uncertain light from the dying embers, marking a rigid outline, and forming a picture half solemn and half comic for her contemplation, while Cora mechanically drew the collar of her dressing- gown closer across the back of her neck, as if to shut off some obtrusive draught of air. Jane's first impulse was to speak, but she thought bet- ter of it, for she guessed what those absent movements prefaced. Finally, indeed, Cora spoke. "Poor Uncle Hal!" Mrs. Haywood shuddered; Cora resumed, "I have had such a long, still time, and I can't seem to help pitying him; he didn't truly mean to"---then turn- ing for the first time to look toward Mrs. Haywood, she "*     - *5 -        "     ' 1     162       !.BOUND DOWN,y, said rapidly, "to stat away, but I think Uncle does things and can't seem to help it, just as I say things and can't seem to help it either. But I think if he could get real sorry about it, he could help it-only if things themselves don't turn out so as to make him sorry, how can he be, because good thoughts don't seem to stay in Uncle Hal, do they, Aun'ty?"  Jane felt sorely annoyed; there 'was an irresistible suggestion ot prophecy in the sudden drift which the child's sympathies had taken, and observation had taught her to take singly and apart from every-day life all hints so given, especially when the whole series of comments were so subtle and significant in their bearings, and bore upon the face of them severe truths. And still, behind this phase, there was an implied dereliction on the part  of the husband which had evidently excited the pity of this capricious child. Wherefore? So she said, a little gloomily, but with a view of putting an end to the business of speculation for the time, at least, "Well, Cora, we will hope that Uncle Hal, like the rest of us, does the best he knows how, according to the nature God has given him. Human character is not made by rule." "Of course, all are not made alike, and that is the reason why you sometimes want to go one way and Uncle Hal another. If you both meant one-thing you would come- together some time, wouldn't you, Aunty?" "Cora, you are very tiresome," despairingly; "what do you mean?"  -"I mean that his mind is crooked, and it leads him the wrong way, and into. plenty of trouble; but if it grew that way, whose fault is it? Digah's tail might have been cut off, but it could not have been mended;" and she' yawned wearily.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     163 "Come to bed, Cora, it is near two o'clock; morning will soon be here-good-night, darling," as the child kissed her and nestled near her shoulder. Then the sound of voices ceased and all was still. About eight o'clock the next morning, before the break- fast bell sqounded, Mr. Haywood walked deliberately into the house. He-inquired anxiously after Mrs. Haywood's health, kissed Cora when she came down to breakfast, and kindly carried the tray of tea and toast himself up to his wife's room. He explained his absence overnight by relating, the circumstances of an accident which had occurred somewhere on the road between the ocean beach- a distance of ten miles or more-and the city, wherein certain king-bolts having been broken or lost, and no blacksmith or other smith within reach, and it being already late in the evening, the whole party concluded to take refilge for the night in a way-side tavern, till morn- ing; which they accordingly did, and with the early light had made such repairs as enabled them to drive at once home. This story seemed plausible, and yet Jane, al- though she believed it herself, never repeated it to Miss Haywood. Exactly why does not appear-probably she desired to avoid the comments of the aunt. But as Harry's manner seemed more subdued and earnest than usual, and as he was more inclined to linger about home, she did not mean to do anything to divert the current. For, true to the old trust, this sudden change of manner the wife eagerly ascribed to a growing desire on the part of the husband to gratify her wishes and enjoy her society; and if Miss Jemima's positive avowal, that she had seen Harry in town on the foregoing evening, did occasionally march in review among other reflections and recollections, she dismissed it summarily, remembering how prone is the human mind to fallacies, and assuming-,if she must      164       . OUND D OWN, rbelieve in any delusion-the right to choose from among them. And now, she must not keep Harry "cooped" up in her room, so she would make an effort to go down-stairs. Accordingly she called for Cora, and with her little as- sistance, dressed herself tastefully and appeared below, a little paler than usual, but with a bright smile upon the creamy face, and a quiet, almost happy-light in the eye. She sat upon the sofa, by her husband's side, an'd trifled; she ran her fingers through his hair, and asked him a thousand little coaxing questions, none of them quite dignified nor difficult to answer, nor important if unanswered. Indeed, Harry's mood was so unusual for, him, and greatly to her liking, too, that her little womanly spirit of badinage, always so delicate as to be easily del- uged under his boisterous flow of animal spirits, rose up at this opportunity, and she laughed and asked him if he loved her more than all the world-if he yas sure he passed all his leisure moments with her, as he often averred-if contrasts between herself and others were always favorable to the former-what great sacrifice he would be willing to make for her-and finally ended in a little spasm of sobs. 'Now this, to anyl rational mind, was a most unex- pected climax; she had begun her series of catechising playfully; the answers had been apparently satisfactory; the questions had not seemed to reach the depth of a sentiment; yet here she was, at the end of it all, in tears. Strange, incomprehensible, but woman still I Shall the caprices of this phase of character be submitted to strict analysis, or shall it be sufficient to say that every ques- tion, however frivolous, had found its prompter and its answer in her heart before her lips had formed the words, and that no attempt at self-deception-no matter how s    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    165 artfully done-could possibly obtain above the irrbpressi- ble intuition of the spirit. Call it by whatever name, but this intuition is the power that guards and strengthens the possibilities of every life,-a sentinel that, while rea- son sleeps, keeps his watch high above the reach of a challenge. Oh, woman, with her twofold nature! her very weakness is her strength. How many there are who, never estimating the'burdens they bear, daily ab- sorb the woes and disappointments of life, which man, with his more impervious nature, sheds off at his own hearthstone, going forth, free, but leaving her to wrestle feebly or bravely, as she may, with that which the world is pleased to call her fancies or caprices, or more unchari- table than all, her incontinent temper. To every such woman I would say, study well the possibilities of your life, and see if beyond the harassing cares that would imprison the faculties and fetter the spirit there be not found a serener atmosphere of high purpose, an inde- pendent, worthy, life-inspiring motive, which will be to the soul "like a rock of strength, under whose shadow there is rest." "Every woman is a masked battery," was Haywood's very natural comment, as he watched this exhibition of "feminine fickleness," and Jane brushed the tears away and tried to laugh again, but the warmth had gone from her smile, and she turned her head quickly away. Mr. Haywood took his hat and left the house without further comment or concern, and ten minutes after Mr. Montrose was announced. The tears were still lying in lustrous drops among the lashes of Mrs. Haywood's soft brown eyes as she went to the parlor to greet her guest, and the heightened color upon the cheek was half lost among the roseate lights and the bronzed shadows made by the struggling morning sun among the damask dra-     166'       BOUND DOW N, pery at the windows. These delicious effects in no meas- ure escapes the artistic eye of Montrose, and, as the lady sank languidly into the depths of an easy-chair, the ex- clamation which sprung to his lips was wisely suppressed, because how much soever -a ywoman may seek to inspire admiration among men, she alone is unfeminine who de- sires that such admiration shall be conveyed in words, no matter how delicate ,or well-chosen the words may be. But externals have everything to do with topics for conversation, and the half-dreaming senses of this really unhappy woman, swung to the music of the fiery-brained silvery-tongued speaker, every note attuned to the peculiar mood of her mind, and in accordant and lulling sympathy with each vibration of feeling, seemed wandering among the rustling, tremulous foliage of some grotto of enchant- ment; and it was only when he rose to go that she re- membered how really brief had been their term of acquaint- ance, and wondered why she felt as if she had known him for years. But this was not all. She frankly but injudiciously told him this--in a pretty and unexceptional way-told him while he held her beautiful hand just the hint of a r moment too long in pa;rting at the door; told him partly to relieve her own mind of the burden of the thought, and partly for the utter want of something more appro- priate to say. For Jane Haywood was, it is needless to rBmark, a modest and correct-mnided woman, so far as she knew, though, with all her life experience, somewhat unsophisticated in the arts of the world. -And sometimes, especially if taken at a disadvantage, she would say things which a sober afterthought might condemn. So, in'this instance, she did not mean to be bold; she meant, indeed, nothing at all except the simple truth, which the gentleman literally pressed out at the end of her  .    'Ij    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBIL  ITIES .  167 weak and slender fingers. But shei was feeble and nerv- ous, and really felt grateful for the hour of diversion afforded her perplexed mind. But, as she went back to the drawing-room, she felt a little troubled. About what she scarcely knew. 'Probably she whispered to herself, because Harry left so abruptly; and more softly still she whispered-something else. And then she thought of Mildred Gray, with her clear, and pure, and perfect per- ceptions, and secretly wondered if her life was so full of overreachings, and shortcomings, and great impossibili- ties. CHAPTER XXII.   WHEN Helen Montrose left the house of the Haywoods lon the evening of her first visit, a shadowy train of specu- lations of vague and new visions were her attendants home. Not that anything had distinctly occurred to in- spire her with new purposes or motives ; but she had seen Mildred Gray, who was herself an inspiration, and avvew tambition 1ad taken possession of her brain, which she was in haste to fathom and define. Accordingly she bade a hasty good-night in the hall below, and running up-stairs to her own apartments, quickly closed the door, and uncloaking and unwrapping herself, made her way straight to the pier-glass, and sur- veyed herself from head to foot. This womanly movement was more than half mechan- ical; but so much of it as was pot so-was to be found in the yet imperfectly defineddesire for self-examination, and a better appreciation of her fitness for the fulfillment 'J         \      168        BOUND DOWN, of some undeveloped but struggling aspiration. i Not that Helen Montrose expected to find any answerings for her vague questionings in her mirror, but there was an idea of presence and response in the act, which at least con- tains much of the true element of the Christian's idea of the Godhead. More mechanically still she disrobed, and in soft, wadded dressing-gown and tiny toilet slippers, she sat before her dressing-table, her rippling, golden hair floating in a complete sheen over the arm of her chair, the pink cheek resting heavily upon the palm of her dimpled hand, gazing into the stilly depths of her own eyes. And what did she find there? Untried powers, unwritten thoughts, undeveloped possibilities! A cold shiver crept down the delicate' flesh to her very feet, followed by a sudden hot flush of the cheek, and she rose, quickly muttering. half audibly, "Yes II will write something; enough of my powers have .been wasted in the vain attempt'to express that which is sure to meet with misinterpretation. I thought the fault was mine; now I know it is not. She declared it, and I' felt the truth of it course through' my blood like wine. Yes I I will write what shall I care hence-' forth? Let the world go by with its myriad armies of vain efforts; I shall succeed. Ah! I would yield even the man I expect some day to wed for this exultant, tri- umphant hope ;" and she clasped the taper fingers above her head, while her eyes burned like stars in a June midnight, and the hot cheeks glowed with a fire lit by an unseen hand. , All that night long, after the first ruddy glare was gone, the waking girl read, upon a mysterious scroll let down through the darkness before her eyes, "Think, write, and think again." This, oftentimes, comes in a moment; the idea which   O1? L FE, AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.   169 shall furnish action for a 'lifetime. The unimaginative and practical mind, the mind unaccustomed to specula- tive wanderings, can very safely halt over a thought thus unpremeditatively conceived before dismissing it; for never was a truth lost, and somewhere it must recur again, perhaps more imperfectly than at first, it may be misapplied again and again, even as the talent of Helen Montrose had so far been misunderstood. But when the truth came, with all its promise and prophecy,. she accepted it with faith and fervor of purpose. Never distrust the aspiration which fires the eye and chills the marrow. Every soul is fitted by God for some one duty of life above every other; and it is essentially the office of every parent and guardian to defend their charge against. the errors of misdirected effort, and the conse- quent effects of an undeveloped and imperfect life and character. It was about a week after Mr. Haywood's drive to the ocean beach, and nearly two weeks from the time of her departure from the city, that Mildred Gray returned; then the old light came back to the household; and even Aunt Mimy was fain to acknowledge that "things did seem to go on smoother-like when that young' woman was about," adding, that " one could hardly tell her from a professin' Christian, if they didn't know that there is many a wolf in sheep's. clothing." One morning the .family were seated at breakfast as usual, when Mr. Haywood, opening the morning paper, coolly read the following notice: "The body washed ashore near Vallejo Street wharf this morning has been fully identified as that of the man who so nmysteriously disappeared from 'the house with the green door,' in that vicinity, about a week ago. The peculiar situation of a knife-wound in the body furnishes sufficient proof of the I1     170.       BOUND DOWN, manner of his death; but, as investigations are going forward, further particulars, for prudential reasons, will not be given at the present moment. A few hours will prob- ably develop all the facts within reach of the detectives." This brief and not unusual paragraph finished, Mr. Haywood laid aside the paper, called for another cup of coffee, merely remarking that there was a " fee" in that case for some "lucky chap;" and, rising from the table, resumed his newspaper, and disposed himself upon the lounge, with the same air of easy nonchalance which marked his general movements. About two hours after, and as Mr. Haywood was lying asleep upon the sofa, the door bell rang, and two gentle- men were ushered, rather unceremoniously, into the presence of the host. One of them, approaching Mr. Haywood, laid his hand rather roughly upon the shoulder of the sleeping man, who instantly sprang to his feet, even before recognizing the intruders; then, beginning an apology, the officer-for such he was-interrupted him, declaring it was no time for compliments, and as theirs was an unpleasant business at best, they might better transact it at once. "It is my duty," said he, producing a paper, "to arrest you on this bench-warrant on an indictment for murder found in .the -  district court." Mr. Haywood did not grow. pale, neither laughed nervously, as might have been expected of him in the presence of such an exigency, but quietly inserting his fingers in the pocket of his vest he drew forth a handful of cigars, and politely presenting one to each of the men, proceeded to light his own with perfect complacency. At this moment Mrs. Haywood and. Cora entered the room, and merely kissing his fipger-tips to them as he led the way out, said.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     11! These gentlemen seem to have business with me, Mrs. Haywood; however, I shall probably be home to dinner, but don't delay it for me; it is just possible I shall be detained." Then closing the door a little more softly than usual, he said something about avoiding scenes, on general principles, of which remark Mrs. Haywood caught only a word or two, and peace departed from that house forever. Cora, the strange, weird child, had been observed to wander about the grounds ever since the breakfast hour, her little white, pinched, troubled face peering now through the palings about the garden, and now in at the open door, but not a word had she spoken, until seeing the visitors enter the house, she ran to tell Mrs. Haywood that they had come' now for Uncle Hal. Yet when questioned by Mrs. Haywood afterward touching the source of her information, she seemed to have forgotten all about it, and innocently declared she did not know how -she came to say so. But this one thing Jane Haywood had learned: that she could always trust the first serious 'impression of this young but incomprehensible mind; and although she often felt disturbed at her queer little prophe- cies, and amused at her quaint reflections and bits of philosophy, yet she had learned to look upon them all with almost superstitious credulity. But while events are shaping the fast-darkening desti- nies of this family, let us glance at the fortunes of Cap- tain Gray. With sufficient practical knowledge of the physical sciences to give a liberal, expansive, and inves- tigating direction to his mind, he was always reluctant to dismiss any subject or theory that came under his notice. without a fair examination, claiming that in every phase of physical or mental phenomena exists the germ of some great truth designed for the ultimate advance- \  . .     t-     172        BOUND DOWN, iX      menrt of the human race. Yet, for the very reason th he did propose to investigate,;he did not propose to E \ cept blindly i11 the theories, and delusions, and halluciI tions that spring from the fevered brain of the bevy -fancy artists who are sure to distort and misrepresel and thus retard the workings and the designs of a new truth that opens upon the world. "If fools and vagarists could be suppressed," he on remarked, "there might be some hope for the final rec matibn of the world to the true principles of scientific knowledge and pure faith; but, then, as soon as one f( dies another is born, and so the chances are that tPU and error will be pretty equally divided for all time come. Of the peculiar mental attributes of that animated mystery, that most unnatural child, Cora, Captain Gr entertained his own theory. It was, observed, howew both by his own daughter and by others, that, howev reticent, he was never known quite to disregard the artistically constructed argument or the abrupt decisi which, more often unsolicited than otherwise, fell fro those little thin lips. But the triumph of the friends the little maiden was most complete when an invitati came for Mildred and Cora to accompany Captain Gr to the fields of his buried treasure, for his faith was st firm in the testimony of the dying Spaniard, an accou of which was given in former pages of this book. But the purposes of his visit he deemed it prudent withhold from Cora until they were at least, as he e pressed it, under headway. The revolving wheel of for- tune had turned its balance of profits into the coffers Captain Gray, and curiosity was really the only anim for this last'experimental visit.    r It must, in the interest of honesty, be admitted th   i       'OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    173 Mildred was known to make a quiet little chuckling laugh as she turned to impart to Mrs. Haywood a few ,' *  minstructions respecting the. hasty preparation of Miss Cora's wardrobe. But as the object of the excursion was ostensibly,.one of pleasure, and as more than an lhour's notice for preparation for any journey whatsoever was always regarded by her esteemed parent as an un- necessary waste of time, Jane interpreted the amused look upon Mildred's face for once incorrectly. Cora parted from Mrs. Haywood that morning with an air of serious concern painfully apparent to all, and after they had driven away, the memory of that agonized ex- pression upon the face, of the tender, ominous action of smoothing the cheek, of the far-off dreaming, longing look in the eye, assumed the proportions of an awful ap- prehension in the mind of the lonely, anxious woman, and she at once attached the meaning to some   ill that   might befall her darling. For it will have been observed that among the incidents of the morning nothing unusual had come to the notice, either of the family or the public, up to this time, touching the difficulties which awaited Mr. Haywood in Court Block at this very moment. The little voyage by steamer down the coast of Cali- fornia-sometlmes sweeping the emerald borders of the mainland, and again cutting the still blue waters farther out at sea; now catching a glimpse of the distant cross and the cloistered walls of the homes of the grim monks, and now alone with the blue arches and the sea-paved floors of the great sanctuary of nature-all this was a  scene of perpetual delight to Cora, which she lived over many times in after years, when the loved ones were all gone, the old-time music bushed, and hope had grown dim, and life gave no promise to the weary young heart this side of the shoreless floods. 15*     174        BOUND DOWN, Toward evening Captain Gray and Mildred sat upoi the deck planning an early voyage to Europe, thei pleasant conversation thickly interspersed with rapturou exclamations and comments suggested by the rich hue or, the soft tints of earth, sea, or sky, or the mellow dreamy outline of the distant hills, when Cora cam romping by, followed by a bevy of fresh, well-developed beautiful children, one of the most noticeable features let it be said, of California productions. Cora halter before a vacant seat, and drawing up one foot after he peculiar habit, sat down upon it, while Mildred tucked soft, fleecy, Shetland shawl about the little figure to war off the fresh breeze which had sprung up with the setting ?1     of the sun. "That is right," Captain Gray spoke, remarking wit satisfaction the flush upon the usually pale cheek of th child which had been summnoned by the hour of hilarit; enjoyed upon the deck; " now, while you rest yourself, shall tell you a little story." u"Oh, do l" cried Cora, enthusiastically. "One tha  comes out well, and let me call the little girls.' *' No, if you please,?' remonstrated the narrator; " thi is for you alone, and you are to tell me, when' it is done just what you think of it." "Yes, or while you are going along, because that i the way my thoughts come sometimes, and I'd bette speak out, because I might not remember clear to th end," was the child's suggestion. And Captain Grai began his story: "Once there was a gentleman who had had charge o i .-    a vessel, running down this very coast, who, for certaih !I  *   reasons, was very much perplexed in his mind, and who for certain other reasons, did not desire the advice of an: [l     real person, in the matter about which he was troubled d ;  . v  ^   OR LIFE AND, ITS POSSIBILITIES.    175 so he called a little fairy of whom he knew, who some- times said very rational things, though, stupidly enough, she could never tell where she got them." '"That's like me," put in Cora, promptly. "Now, in one of the voyages down, there happened to be another man aboard, very sick, and thinking he might be about to die--which he did soon after-he told the captain a secret, and it was this secret which the gentle- man told the'fairy." "Play I am the fairy, and tell it to me," said Cora, coaxingly. "Very well I He said that on a certain spot of ground. there was a great deal of money buried, and he gave the gentleman a chart, or map, of the ground and country about, and told him just where he could find it. Now what do you think the fairy said to all that?" "I guess," ventured Cora, "thalv she said ' We fairies will take care that you don't get it, because it did not belong to either of you.'" "But. how did the fairy know who the treasure be- longed to?" "Oh I that was the fairy's secret; didn't you just say, Captain Gray, that this fairy often said very rational things, but could never tell how she found them out?" There was a provoking spirit of evasiveness and' a depth of shrewdness indicated in this reply that quite bewildered, and half perplexed the grave gentleman, and he made no answer. "Well, was the money his'n, or was it either of. them's?" almost shrieked the child, out of the silence that yawned dismally between sentences in the recital. A succession of titters, and then roars of laughter were heard from all quarters of the deck, from those sitting, as these were, out under the stars; but only to Captain     !     176        BOUND DOWN, Gray was this question one of so sublime significance that the unauthorized construction of the language was wholly lost. "Was it his'n? was it either of them's?" rang in his ears long after Cora was wandering in dreams. That night, after Mildred had retired to her state-room, and had begun making arrangements for going ashore, her father knocked at the door, and said, rather more hur- riedly than usual, "I have chaniged my mind, Mildred; we will not land at ---, as agreed upon, but will stop at some point along the coast, and take a healthy run through the country." Thereafter, no reference was made to the first proposi- tion, which was that of " treasure-seeking," and the ex- cursion proved the most delightful they had known for years. Really, it were impossible to tour through this garden of the "Golden State" with opened eyes and un- fettered senses and fail to realize a new delight with every enchanting scene. "Italia's skies,"' "Ionian shores," and [ "gmean breezes," each finds a rival in this dreamy land of luscious fruits and native wines, of voluptuous foliage and ever-blooming roses, honeysuckles, and violets. Cora's spirits absolutely ran riot. She screamed with the par- rots, chattered with the Spaniard, crossed herself like the devout man, laughed like a, child, and, if it must be con- fessed, ate like anything else than her former fastidious little self. But we must leave this trio to journey home at their leisure, and look in for a moment uponr Helen Montrose, before lifting the veil that yet conceals the unhappy act of Harry Haywood from the eagel, and, too often, ill- judging world.              3 :"   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     17 RCHAPTER     XXIII. As the first glint of the sun fell athwart the bars of the shutters the next morning after the rapturous communing with her own soul, Helen Montrose awoke to her new pur- pose. Her heart gave a strange, wild throb as she rapidly scanned the possible achievements in her way, and for an instant she shrank back from a full survey of her great purpose, as the delicate mimosa by the railroad track cowers before the approach of the steaming steed of em- pire. She. marshaled the vast army of reapers in, the "Republic of Letters," and as the aspiring host masrched in review  before her imagination, she remembered the legions who had fretted their brief moment and  then trooped away to oblivion. How then could she, with her youth and inexperience, in total ignorance even of the art of literary execution, hope to succeed upon a field where so many industrious gleaners had struggled and failed, and finally retreated to be heard of no more? And yet, she could not, if she would, forego .the attempt. The moment had come, and brave and earnest as she now felt, she recognized the new demand upon the powers of her mind and soul, and realized that the moment might not come again in a lifetime. She did not seek to know whither this prompting should lead her; she trusted in the inspira- tion to work, and, for the rest, believed that strength and help would come. And there, in that still morning, while ever-repeating nature, with life renewed, chanted the matins of creation all around her, the child-woman exulted too, and lacing J .      178       BOUND DOWN, the taper fingers across her breast, and closing hbr eyes softly, she whispered,'"Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, on earth as it is in heaven." Then, like plenteous fertilizing rain, the full significance of the words, the spirit of the prayer, fell upon her feverish brain, and a calm settled there, which was never entirely disturbed c gain. There is one class of persons who name this sudden concentration and illumination of purpose, conversion, more especially when allied with deep religious feeling; another class ignore the reality of such illumination alto- gether. The former are entitled to respect at least-the latter only to pity. Any man or woman who has not somewhere in the course of a life felt the need and the power of prayer, who has not realized the aspiration and the answer, will not succeed to high achievement in this  life. Certain it is, that Helen Montrose, proud, self- willed, and "spoiled" as she had been, felt at this mo- ment that the kingdom of God was as verily set up in her own heart as ever mortal felt the benign rays of the April sun. Still, with closed eyes, the beautiful girl lay silent and passive upon her pillow, while the house became astir, and the cpaches lumbered by with their freight of human life, and the rising sun kept on his way up the sky, adding jewel after jewel to the heaving bosom of the bay. Suddenly springing from her couch, she glided to her little writing-table, and seizing a pencil, wrote quickly upon a bit of paper, and then, with pencil still suspended above the page, she sat quite still for several minutes. It was a rare picture, and might have called angels to witness, only that angels are supposed to undergo some sort of stultifying process in the transition from this life X to such an estate, which makes them obtuse to the effects   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    179 of drapery, attitude, tints, or other artistic suggestions, such as cultivated human tastes are wont to indulge in. Nevertheless, anything lower than an angel must have paused over :the spectacle. From the light, sprayey locks of hair which had strayed from the great, massive, rippling wave, every outline and every interline, every fold, and fleece, and mesh of lace, every curve, with its answering swell, even down to the shell-tinted nail that sat lightly upon the crisp toe, with its upward inclina- tion, all were described by a pen dipped in the serene depths of living light, making effects which no human artist can ever hope quite successfully to reproduce. But the glowing thoughts that Helen Montrose so hastily caught from the flitting visions, and the uncertain images portrayed to her (fancy on this memorable morn- ing, have already been laid before the world, and, together with many others from her pen, have taken a place in the grand procession of new ideas, which, gathering strength in their onward march, as all advance opinions must, have gone far toward the establishing of great truths, even in this afternoon of the nineteenth century. "What change has come to Helen?"Diana asked of her brother a few days later. "She is as different from the Helen of a month ago as if she were trans- formed." "Do you mean that Helen is unhappy?"And Fred Montrose looked searchingly into the face of his sister, who answered quickly, "Qh, no, Fred. On the contrary, I never knew her so much occupied with her own thoughts. I hear no com- plaint of ennui, and she seems perfectly infatuated with some newly-discovered resource within herself. I am, for one, delighted." And Diana looked sincere. There is in almost every family some one of its mem- b v      180       BOUND DOWN, bers whom it is difficult to regard in a serious aspect. Either from some attribute of their own, or some seem- ing naturally-attaching to them, everybody, as by com- mon consent, assumes a light or frivolous manner, either in talking to, or of them. ;This is usually the outgrowth of the estimate such persons entertain of themselves-- a much more common criterion than is usually supposed. Helen Montrose had lived thus far without any motive apparent to herself; and that others should discover any in her behalf was scarcely a supposititious case. Be- trothed almost in her infancy, her education had been merely incidental; her powers of mind, however, served the somewhat negative purpose of engendering in her naturally haughty spirit a feeling of contempt for the in- sipidities and insincerities which constitute the predomi- nant: elements of fashionable society, especially in Cali- fornia, at the time of which we write. It was, therefore, difficult'to look the change which had come to the spirit of this wayward and frivolous girl straight in the face, or to seek any other interpretation than was to be found, in a simple caprice or freak of fancy. While the brother and sister were yet speculating, Helen, of course with the instinct which commonly animates the object of a conversation, walked quietly into the room. Something in her manner, like a strange guest in the house, shut back the jocose words which sprang to the lips of Montrose, as the fair young girl closed the door and. crossed the room to sit on the sofa by his side; and gradually the discussion, indifferent at first, assumed a tone altogether amazing to Diana, and vastly gratifying to the intelligent perceptions of the brother. "And you dare to criticise the world-renowned Dickens!" said the latter, crossing to the hearth-rug, and rubbing pussy's back with the toe of his boot.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     181 "I dare assert my preference of the two cotempo- Ineous authors for Bulwer," the girl replied firmly. "You are very brave! Do you know that your atti- ide is a very unpopular one in these days of flash terature?" "Perhaps so  but I should never eat chestnuts if I ere compelled to the tedious process of extracting them om the burrs; certainly if delicious and refreshing straw- erries were equally available. For one, I have, never een able to get below the froth and scum, which his dmirers declare only float upon the surface of the flood." "Helen," interrupted the brother, "Charles Dickens has reated a world of his own, and peopled it with-" "Caricatures!" spoke the impetuous girl, in return, reaking in before the sentence was finished. "Point to ne you would wish yourself to emulate." "His books are the embodiment of pathos, sentiment, ad humor," said Montrose, manifestly driven from his rst position. "Which flaunt their dramatic effects in the eyes of very thoughtful reader. I really don't know which is rorse, his affectation of conception in producing those rotesque monstrtsities "which the world finds sulch a ource of perennial del1ight, or his affectation of style in epicting them," Helen returned, while the edges of the haves in her book flew rapidly under her fingers as she rovoked them to escape. "Then tell us of the achievements of your heroic tulwer," Mr. Montrose said, with a challenge, turning nd facing her.  "Briefly, then, while amusing, he has also instructed is readers," Helen said, a little hesitatingly, as to just rhere to begin. "He has written philosophy under the xtional light of calm reason; politics under the light of                        .i     182  .BOUND DOW N, history; fiction under the light of philanthropy, and poetry under the inspiration of Heaven." "Bravol I my charming little sister," said Fred Mont- rose, stooping to kiss the fair forehead of the enthusiastic girl, while his own fine eyes filled to the utmost. "Even the blase Bulwer might feel a throb of renewed life and pride in contemplating his fair young champion. But mind," he said, the imp of the perverse returning for a, reconnoiter, " don't let me see you come down to break- fast slipshod, with stained fingers, and a pen dangling among your curls. Au revoir!" and he was gone. CH- APTE-R  XXIV. As has been shown in former chapters, Harry Hay- wood was a devotee to the fascinations of the card-table, and into this vortex the large gains of his profession periodically disappeared. At the time of which we write, any lawyer in good practice in San Francisco earned in a twelvemonth a sum more than equal to the savings of a lifetime in the Atlantic cities; and Hay- wood, as a land lawyer, was among the most successful and popular of the members of the bar of California. But the first disposition made of the large sums of money which came into his possession every month, after defraying his family expenses, was to hazard them upon the faro-table, or, surrounded by a few congenial spirits, to engage in a heavy game of "poker." And, unfortunately, neither social nor political ostracism re- suited from this practice; for almost every man then in the State gambled more or less, from the blue-shirted   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    183 miner, who ventured his few days' gathering of dust at Spanish monte, to the judge of the supreme court, who, in a public hell, would Disk his month's salary at roulette. On the Sunday morning when Harry Haywood left his house, for a drive to the Ocean House, he bent his steps at once toward a frame building which then stood on the street fronting Broadway wharf, and which was well known to the heavy gamblers of California as the "Jhouse with the green door." The high price of real estate at that day in San Francisco crowded the city for- ward into the bay, and two streets, running along the city front, were built upon piles, through which, at high tide, the water ran. Warehouses, stores, saloons, tav- erns, and a few private residences lined the side of one of these streets which faced the wharves. On a corner of this street, and fronting Broadway wharf, stood the house with the green door. It was built with no more pretension to style on its exterior than its neighbors. The front room was entered by the "green door," and contained a large dining-table, chairs, lounges, and a sideboard. Off this main room were three smaller' ones, for card-parties. A kitchen back completed the building, which was one story in height, and lighted entirely by sky-light, no window being allowed through which the curious might peer. The proprietor of this place was a Frenchman named Gascoyne, and a cook and two waiters formed his staff of assistants. Whenever a party of card-players desired to be particularly select, or to play recklessly, without interference or comment, "Gascoyne's" was the -ap- pointed place of meeting. On this Sunday morning, when Haywood, with his pass-key, entered Gascoyne's, he found, as previously agreed upon, the proprietor, Mr. Wilford, a heavy Front     184       BOUND Do oWN, Street importer, and Judge Mundy, who graced a seat on the bench of an adjacent district, and who was also known as a fortunate mining speculator. The four were soon gathered round,a table in one of the card-rooms, and a heavy game was pursued with varying fortune, until about six o'clock in the evening, when dinner was announced in themain room, and Gas- coyne was the winner of some ten thousand dollars; the losses being equally divided among the other players. It was not proposed to renew the game after dinner, and Judge Mundy and, Mr. Wilford took their departure, leaving Gascoyne and Haywood smoking their cigars over the remains of the repast, and alone together in the house; the cook and waiters, in consideration of it being Sunday and no players present, being excused for the day. It was about nine o'clock when Harry arose to go; then, as if struck by a sudden thought, he turned, re- marking to 'the Frenchman, "Gascoyne, you have been lucky of late-so have I. I was paid twenty thousand dollars yesterday for my third of the Castro land-grant, which I succeeded in having confirmed. I have a mind to go up town, get my certificates of deposit, and come back and play you single-handed while the money lasts. What say you, eh?" The eyes of the Frenchman sparkled with delight, but he replied with an appearance of sang-froid, "At your plaizir, Monsieur Haywood; I zhall be very much happy to assist you to so pass away ze time."  "All right," responded Harry; "I will be back in an hour or so." And out into the night went Harry Hay- wood.  Five minutes after, Gascoyne left the house, and ,' j     OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    185 walked rapidly away in the direction of. Montgomery Street. Reaching his sleeping, apartments in the upper portion of a' tall building on the corner of Montgomery and Washington Streets, he opened a large escritoire which stood in the room, took a package of cards, patted them on the back, muttering to himself the while, "Ah, my beauties, it is wiz you we zhall despoil Monsieur Haywood,'" and, with this, he thrust them into his over- coat pocket, and, locking his door, left the house. When he reached the street corner he hesitated for a moment, walked across to the saloon, and, smilingly accosting the barkeeper, invited a lounger acquaintance to drink, and left the place. This simple occurrence is only important for the aid it subsequently rendered Haywood. While pursuing his way to his own house on North Beach, the mind of Harry was busy in devising some plan by which he might obtain the certificates of deposit from the safe in the dining-room without exciting remark. It was whil4so occupied that he was seen by Miss Jemima Haywood, on her way home from church. The gentleman finally decided to invent some story about hav- ing a client who was going away on the next morning's steamer, andbwhose business must be dispatched without delay.- Thi idea foremost, he entered by the back gate, and passed through the lower hall into the dining-room, greatly to the disgust and surprise of the Irish domestic, who was sitting in the kitchen with her "cousin." Obtaining the papers, he started up-stairs to make his excuses to Mrs. Haywood. On reaching the main floor, however, he found the halls and parlors dark, and con- cluding that the household had retired, determined not to disturb them, and letting himself out at the back door, he hurried back to Gascoyne, whom he found apparently as he had left him. 16*         .   . s b W     186       BOUND DOWN, The game'was renewed, and about midnight, Harry,  who was several thousand dollars the loser, seized the pack of cards, which lay upon the table, and with a gest- ure of impatience threw them into the fire, exclaiming, "I don't like these star-back cards, Gascoyne; let us have some of the others."  A shade of chagrin passed over-the face of the French- man, but he arose without comment, procured another package from the sideboard, and resumed the game. Luck changed, and for once Harry Hay wood was a large winner. Gascoyne lost all his assumed imperturbability, and staked his money recklessly. Two, three, four o'clock struck, and Haywood was some fifty thousand dollars winner. Suddenly Gascoyne sprang to his feet, with an oath, "Ah!" said he, "I am ruin-destroy 1" "Sorry for you, old fellow," said Harry, coolly folding up the certificates before him preparatory to a transfer to his own pocket-book. "My delight at winning is sadly dampened by the reflection that I have gained at the expense of so estimable a gentleman." "Ah, sacre bleu!" growled the Frenchman. "Monsieur Haywood," turning to Harry, "you zhall give me one chance; my money is exhaust. I am ze proprietor of zis house; he cost me twelve zousand dollar. Voila r I zball put him in at ten zousand, and we zhall resume ze. game, eh?"' And the excited man -reseated himself op- posite Haywood, and fixed the wild, gleaming eyes steadily upon his face. "Well, now," replied Harry, yawning, at the same time depositing his pocket-book with the money in the breast-pocket of his vest. "Really, Gascoyne, that won't do. You see it is nearly five o'clock-almost daylight-- and, I swear, I'm sleepy; besides, what is the use of   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    187 playing for your house? If you should lose it, where would we go for fine dinners and heavy \play? and if I should win it, what the deuce should I do with it? No, no, my good Gascoyne; this is the first time fortune has favored me, and I will not tempt the fickle jade again- at least, without money to play against. Accept your bad luck, my dear fellow, with the resignation of your race, and congratulate yourself that your money has fallen into such worthy hands." So saying, he arose from the table and walked away, with a yawn. Livid with rage and excitement, Gascoyne sprang from his seat like a tiger-cat, withdrew the key from the front door already locked, placed it in his pocket, and turned fiercely toward Harry, who stood filled with amazement in the center of the room. "Aha, Monsieur Haywoodl" he hissed between his teeth, "you suppose you zhall me of my fortune so easily despoil! Now you zhall refuse a chance which ze gentle- man always gives his adversary. You zhall me insult of ze resignation of my race-ah! ze resignation of my race you zhall see;" and with his left foot, inserted beneath a corner of the carpet, Gascoyne suddenly threw- back the heavy Brussels, disclosing the bare floor under- neath. Then pressing his heel upon what seemed to be a nail-head in the floor, a trap-door, about five feet square, fell suddenly down, revealing a yawning space, out of which came acrid and noxious odors, and from which could be distinctly heard the washing of the tide, whichf ran beneath the house. Simultaneous with this movement the Frenchman ex- hibited to Harry a Derringer pistol, which he produced from his bosom. "For God's sake, Gascoyne! what does this mean?" said Haywood, still standing erect and calm, though his cheek was blanched.  , ..      188       BOUND DOWN, "It mean, Monsieur Haywood," said Gascoyne, "zat you have my money win by one trick, and I zhall win it by anozer back."  Quick as lightning Haywood leaped upon the French- man, and caught the hand holding the Derringer, and turned it away from himself. Then began a desperate but brief struggle. Gascoyne wa, muscular, and in a few moments Haywood lay upon his back at the foot of the table and close by the trap-door, with the waters gurgling their death-song below. 'Gascoyne held his left arm upon Harry's shoulder, while with his left hand Harry grasped Gascoyne's wrist, and thus turned the muzzle of the pistol away. "Hold on, Gascoyne!" gasped Mr. lHaywood, "you shall have the money." "Too late," hissed the Frenchman in a hoarse whis- per, "I have expose my secret, I zhall not choose be ar- rest for murder-I can dispose of monsieur, and set away to my own France zis day." So saying, by a sudden' movement he wrested his right hand free from Harry's grasp, and raising it, attempted to cock the pistol. Hay- wood heard the sharp click, and throwing up his left hand wildly in one last attempt to grasp the pistol, it struck against the ivory handle of a carving-knifewhich lay near the edge of the table. With the intuition which danger brings, he knew it was a knife that his fingers seized upon, and before the muzzle of the already cocked pistol could be turned toward him, before even his fingers could close tightly round the handle, and with the samie upward move- ment which grasped the instrument, it was buried deeply and fatally in the neck of Gascoyne. The pistol dropped from the uplifted hand into the orifice in the floor, the knife fell after it, and Gascoyne, forgetful now of human passions, lay dead, with the blood still trickling into the sobbing tide.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    189 After extricating himself from his terrible position, Mr. Haywood slowly arose as one bewildered, and stood trem- bling upon his feet. Terror seized him for a moment, and his first impulse was to fly. 'The ghastly wound yawned ominously, exposing the severed jugular, and the film already began to gather before the glaring eyes, fixed in. death. The unhappy man looked vacantly about him at first, and then took notice that every object in the room seemed staring at him with eyes as real as his 6wn. Once he thought he saw figures standing up by the walls, and again the furniture of the room seemed actually bur- dened with a presence, only felt-not seen. "This will never do," he said under breath; while the cooling perspiration chilled and made him shiver. "I must out of this. Let me sum up the chances-a clear case of self-defense, only how shall I make it appear?" The pistol had fallen into the water, but so had the knife; not a spot of blood to be seen owing to the fortunate position of the body; nothing but circumstantial evidence against him, and that not of a very serious character. Only once did his heart sicken near to faintness, when-he placed his foot against the warm, yielding body, and swaying and balancing for one moment, it bore its unre- luctant weight down into the flapping waters below; then did the man wish he could remember it Cold and stiff, and fit only for its watery grave. "It will go out with the ,tide!" and then he wished he had said "he" instead of "it," while he closed the trap and replaced the carpet. One more look around 'the hate- ful room, and the open safe-door caught hisbeye. He re- membered the certificates, and thought of the evidence they might furnish against him if found on his person, So much for the man! Then came the lawyer, who rea- soned with greater breadth and subtleness. He referred     190       BOUND DOWN,H himself again to his favorite maxim-that i'the path of safety lies just upon the brink of danger." "Then he re- called the events of the preceding night, which if testi- fied to, would go to show that he had won large sums of money from Gascoyne; and although this money being found in his possession might have a suspicious look on the surface, serving to prejudice the minds of many in the outset, yet the act of returning the certificates must, upon investigation, have a deeper significance, implying deliberate motive toward some secret end. This end would undoubtedly be interpreted as a desire to evade the appearance of an act, which, if he had not committed, he could not have anticipated a fraud. Then having decided 'through his own counsel to take the boldest ground, he closed the door of the safe, which locked with a spring, took up his hat, and turned to go. Another dilemma faced him, in the front door which was locked, the key being, as he just now remembered, in the dead man's pocket, With a feeling not unmixed with dis- may he glanced about the room. "How shall I escape?" he muttered, "the door is locked, and the key gone to Davy Jones's locker," and he even smiled grimly at his own ghastly joke. Then glancing at the skylight, i"No ; that won't do, for the breaking in of' those lights might rouse even one of the San Francisco police, especially if he feels well." Then it occurred to him to try the' doors on the back of the building; in one of these he found a key, and making hasty egress, fastened the door on the outside, threw away the key, and walked rapidly away. It was not quite breakfast tine when Mr. Maywood entered his own house as if nothing had, occurred, and said he had just driven from the way-side tavern on the Ocean!House Road.        A Justice was swift or slow in those days in San Fran- o   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    191 cisco, according as the defendant desired a speedy trial or an indefinite postponement. The, grand jury hap- pened to be in session when the violent fate of Gas- coyne was first-discovered, and the dead man haying a number of friends impaneled upon that august, inquisi- torial tribunal, an indictment at once followed, upon the partial and one-sided evidence produced before them. It was upon a bench-warrant issued upon the indictment that Haywood was arrested, and after consultation with his attorney, Harry determined to demand an immediate trial./ He feared the developments which delay might make, and thought it judicious to make the venture at once. Of course, if acquitted, no subsequent disclosures-^ could affect him; for the constitution guaranteed that no man should be placed in jeopardy twice for the same offense. The trial jury for the term was in attendance, the representatives for the State made no remonstrance, the criminal trial on the docket for that day was con- tinued, andopn the second morning after his arrest the \ case of the?  vbql vs. Haywood was called in the district court. A jury was speedily impaneled, the State offering no challenges, and Mr. Haywood removing but one or two, whom he thought might not prove altogether friendly or altogether impressionable. The court-room was crowded with spectators, and with  the briefest preliminary statements the district attorney called and examined the witnesses for-the State. They consisted of Judge Mundy and Mr. Wilford, both of whom testified that, on the Evening of the dav when Gascoyne was last seen alive, at about nine o'clock they left Haywood smoking over the dinner-table with Gas- coyne, at the house with the green door. The cook and waiter were next called, who swore that, on Monday I^',      192       BOUND DOWN,  morning, they found the house locked as usual, and no keys in the door; that Gasboyne was in the habit of locking up every night, and taking the key with him; that there was nothing unusual in the appearance of the premises; that they'had left the house at ten minutes past nine on Saturday night, leaving Haywood alone with Gascoyne, since which time the latter had not made his appearance. The attorney for Haywood made no cross-examination, except to fix more positively the fact that it was not later than ten minutes past nine when Gascoyn'e and Haywood were last seen together. The physician, who had examined the body, -was next called, and swore that the man came to his death from the wound, made by a knife, in the neck, severing the jugular vein. He also ventured the opinion that the de- ceased must have been in a stooping posture at the moment the blow was given. On cross-examination, it was asked by what means he judged that the deceased must have been stooping, to which he replied, "from the position of the wound." Mr. Haywood's counsel then asked if the position of the knife would not have quite as much to do with the appearance of the wound as the attitude of the body receiving the wound. The learned doctor conceded that such might be the case; and when driven to logical sequences by another question, admitted  that it was possible the wound might have been self-   c inflicted, and then retired, amid the smiles of the by-  standers. The cashier of the bank was next introduced, and testi- fied that certificates of deposit for a large amount, pay- able to Gascoyne, or bearer, were, on the Monday morn-  I ing subsequent to the disappearance of the Frenchman,  presented at the bank, and drawn by Mr. Haywood.  This closed the case for the State, and the court ad- journed, to meet at ten o'clock the next morning.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    193 CHAPTER XXV. A LONG, lonely day was that on which our little party excursionists-Cora one of them-left the house of rs. Haywood, and she half regretted not' having ac- pted the cordial invitation of Captain Gray to make e of their number. However, she reasoned, since Mr. aywood could not, in all probability, leave town, it were tter she should remain at home, where he could find her ien business was over for the day. For long hours she t alone at her window, Miss Jemima having gone out "drink tea," watching the bright sunset clouds fast anging into the leaden hues of deepenin/g twilight, inking about Cora'and wondering about Harry, till the ening glories were a gone and night was upon her. Suddenly the door-bell rang, once, twice, imperiously, it were, and Jane thought she never knew the harsh  / ,ng half so aggravating as now. Another thought, in rpany with this, flashed across her mind. Somewhere- 3 had heard persons aver that they could unmistakably ;tinguish the sound of a pistol-shot which had taken man life. Indifferent as she had felt to the supersti- n at the time,; it forced itself upon ier recollection at s moment most unwarrantably. A few minutes of suspense, and she was summoned to parlor, where sat a tall, grave-looking man, holding ; hat, one arm swinging carelessly over the curve of sofa, while with the other 'hand he drew from his :ast-pocket a letter, which, rising and bowing, he nded to Mrs. Haywood, remarking, coldly, that he 17   .               .   . .     194        BOUND D O IV, would discuss the contents after she had read the in- ' closed, concluding with the hope that she would be as calm as possible, and try to regard the matter quite in a- business light, considering how very much was at stake. With this speech the lawyer resumed his seat, and Mrs. Haywood, with trembling fingers, tore the envelope and recognized her husband's handwriting. A faint shriek was all; she-did not swoon or drop the paper, though her lips were pallid and her features looked as if chiseled in marble. But who that has once heard, can quite for- get that weak, inadequate shriek of human agony that may come from a woman's lips but once in, a lifetime, as if the tendons of the heart, contracting with the shock, crushed back and shut in forever some awful agony that must remain there in its dreary stillness to the end of life? Take heed, for that cry may be the knell over the one chiefest hope earth can bring. Others may dawn, and illumine, and die, but one there is, hushed forever in that first, last, sharpest pang. It is not mercy which lends to youth that hope which must sooner or later be taken back, leaving none in its place. Of course the human fossil before her felt no corre- sponding thrill of horror as the woman's cry went up /to heaven. - He heard, and remembered it afterward; but at this moment he was intent upon calculating the chances that had this woman's- nerve for their base line. And so, when shte resumed the reading of the letter, he softly congratulated himself upon the prospects held out. These were the dreadful words contained in the docu- iment which the unhappy wife held before her reeling vision : "MY DEAR WIFE JANE: Burn this letter as soon as read. The bearer is my lawyer. Convey your reply   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    195 through him. If you would save' me from the gallows, come to the court-house at ten o'clock to-morrow, pre- pared to swear that on Sunday night last, at ten o'clock, I came home to you, where I passed the night; and that I arose about seven to go to my office, returning again at breakfast time. The attorney will give all the explanations you require. "P S. It pains me to say that, in order that your oath may avail, you will also be compelled to swear that you. are not my lawfully married wife, the usual forms hav- ing been omitted. I believe, Jane, that you love me enough to do this for me, rather than risk my life on a refusal. Prove it now, and gain untold gratitude and devotion from your unhappy husband." The Fwife dropped both her hands in her lap, and sat silent for a long time. "What is the crime with which my husband is charged?" she presently asked, but her voice was dry, ald ,the tones sharp, almost like a cry. "Murderl and we must prove an alibi," and the first Iword was forced painfully through the nasal organs, and emphasized plaintively. Quivering from head to foot, Jane Haywood rose, clinching the letter with a deathless grasp: "Tell him," she spoke with as much firmness as she could command, "tell him I will come ;" and she sank back in her chair. Then rallying as the man began to speak, she cried, "No; do not tell me if he is .guilty ;" and added, "Pardon me, will you leave me at once? I would prefer to be alone, quite alone." Here the lawyer essayed to speak again. "Leave me,!' she said,-her color rising faintly, and her eyes flash- ing fire, "I cannot bear that you stay anothor nloment  vf-   .     196       BOUND DOWN, No," as he began again, "do not speak of it, but pityme, I know enough ;" and this time the voice was plaintive, and she rose to her feet and stood waiting, on the floor. Nothing was left for the worthy advocate but to take his leave, and the wretched wife stayed alone with misery. God help me! what shall I do?" she wailed, as the door closed between her and the grim messenger of woe. Then she thought of her friends, and the conflict of soul began. First, what would Mildred say, and what would be Dr. Marston's advice. With these suggestions, she flew to the kitchen, where, balancing his chair upon two legs, sat Bridget's ubiquitous cousin, for once opportunely present. Rapidly and excitedly she gave the young man instructions to go at once to the office of Dr. Marston and convey to him her request that he should come to her house immediately, for reasons more serious than illness. It was all of no avail, however, for very shortly the man returned with the information that Dr. Marston had been called away on professional business, and would not, probably, be at home for several hours to come. Alas and again she plunged into the awful vortex of doubts, and fears, and perplexities, and apprehensions. "Swear that Lam not his wife!" she murmured, while her cheek lit like a blaze. "Does Harry Haywood know that which he asks? Perjury, disgrace, social banish- ment! A wife's honor should be dearer to her husband than his own life. Yes! I will so swear; but let him say he loves me never more. And for me-I here put off my self-love, becoming a tool for his iniquities,-unsus- tained even by thel redemptory vindication of a great love; and so descending into the vale of hypocrisy in the name of duty. Yes,! I will swear!" and she laughed hysterically.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    197 Again the door-bell clanged, and this time she did not wait for Bridget, but herself went to usher in the visitor, whoever it might be. It proved to be Fred Montrose. "Let me trust, my dear madam, that this visit is no intrusion upon the sacredness of your sorrow. I could not rest to-night without knowing if I could be of the least service to you in any way."  His manner was earnest and full of sympathy, and Jane Haywood did not hesitate to give him her hand frankly, saying, without once lifting her eyes to his face, "I am moset sincerely obliged to you, Mr. Montrose"- but she could go no further with that she had begun to say, and an awkward silence ensued. Then Mr. Montrose presented the names of his sisters, with assurances of their kindest solicitude, asking per- mission to return and bring them, seeing the lady was alone; but this act of polite consideration Mrs. ilaywood gently, yet firmly, declined to accept. And still she sat clutching the letter, with eyes as dry as summer's dust, the face a little'paler, and the lips more firmly set than usual, but otherwise calm. It was an uncomfortable po- sition for the gentleman, and he felt a momentary relief when Miss Jemima came in from her afternoon visit; but as the worthy lady failed to take this section of the house in her tour of inspection about the premises, according to her habit, after an absence from home, no matter how brief, the necessity for him to speak seemed as apparent as ever. Suddenly a new idea seized him; perhaps she desired to be alone, or what if she had not heard the dreadful truth at all. So he rose, and with the movement, Jane Haywood looked up full in his handsome, manly face for a moment, and then dropping her eyes quickly, she buried her face in her hands, and sobbed wildly and passion- *17'     198       BOUND DOWN, ately. What could he do? What would you have done, reader-man or woman? W1y, he stooped and kissed the fair brow, just where the dark line swept back and mingled with the rich braids of hair upon the temples. You would not haw done so, or you would not have cared to see it in a book ifyou had?. Probably not, but even that was not the worst of it. For a full minute Jane Haywood forgot all about the letter she held in her hand, forgot her husband and' her own misery, in the great swinging, bewildering Sensation which had been precipitated upon her. And a minute afterward Mr. Montrose had forgotten all about -the condition into which he had' precipitated the woman and her misery. And that is just the difference, my romantic young lady, between the man you love, and the woman who loves him. With Mr. Montrose it was the accident of the oc- casion; with Mrs. Haywood it was the only reality of the evening. A most appropriate season for a love- scene, says some ironical critic. Ayl but if there had been time to consider appropriateness, the thing had not occurred at all. Now Fred Montrose kissed Jane Haywood in the depth of her woe, not because he was unprincipled, nor evil- minded, or depraved, but-well, probably because he wanted to-that is as near as it is possible to come to the real reason for a certain class of things, anqc this' among them. Perhaps he reasoned that her husband was a graceless scamp;, and she must know it; that she was too womanly to lovye a graceless scamp, and that if she did not love him, she ought to love some one else, and why not Mr. Montrose as possibly as anybody? Of course he had no absolute right to speculate at all about it, and probably he did not then; that it was, as was said before, entirely an accident of the occasion; an impulsive act, not   OR LIFE A4ND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    199 directly associated with any motive whatever. But it must be admitted that such accidents are dangerous to domestic peace, and ultimately to conscience; yet, where domestic peace does not exist as 'a fact, such accidents are liable to occur sooner or later, and there be no more direct means of debauching the conscience than the assumption of conjugal faith which does not exist in fact. The plain truth is, this gentleman was fully possessed with a sentiment of pity for this neglected and lovely little lady, and howsoever pride may spurn such a senti- ment, pity is at last more nearly akin to the great ruling passion of the soul than is generally supposed. Jane Haywood felt the sympathetic tie, and never waiting to question whither it might lead her, accepted the unusual demonstration with a little more zest than was quite warrantable to one viewing the case from a disinterested stand-point. Ah! that one fatal element of female character, the in- ordinate love of admiration, has destroyed more women than all the direct seductive influences of the other sex, by an incalculable difference. And Jane Haywood was not strong to the point of absolute resistance in this re- spect. What woman is so? And yet, let the justice be shown her to say, that during all these years of trial and bitterness and perplexity she had\never once dreamed of a sentiment more fervid thai mere esteem, beyond the limit of conjugal duty. But the conviction had come unsought that her hu's- band's love was a mere pretense, and womanlike, wiffh out waitingl for further evidence, the verdict had gone forth from the council-chambers of her soul, "Guilty of wife-murder," and beyond this she had not advanced. Thus far we have, perhaps rudely, uncovered the work-     200        BOU3N   DD O WzV, ings of this woman's heart before she has dared herself to lift the. veil. Henceforth we shall not be answerable for motives, but record the impossibilities of this life as they occur. And now, what was her resolve touching her immediate movements for the future?      ;  ; More self-possessed than she had been since that fatal letter came into the house, she rapidly scanned the situa- tion and decided upon her action. Rallying all her powers, she dried her lashes and smoothed her hair as energetically as if she had parted with the last tear of. her life, and turning resolutely toward Fred Montrose, she deliberately told him a falsehood-leaning to virtue's side-a falsehood to screen her husband. It was nothing more nor less than an indorsement of the first proposi- tion, of her husband's letter. She said he was at home all aight I Then she opened the letter and read, verbatim, the postscript, and fell into silence, without comment, evidently waiting for her guest to speak. It was a rash proceeding, and might have been utterly fatal to the interests of Mr. Haywood; but, half iptui- tively and half recklessly, she risked it all upon the very act just recorded, with all its tropical outgrowth of con- fidence and faith-a faith fully established on her part, and strongly implied on the part of the gentleman. The first result of the "accident." So easy come the degrees after the initiatory step is taken. A look of in- expressible disgust and anger overspread the face of Montrose, as Mrs. Haywood let the document fall upon her lap, and his first words expressed incredulity: "'I beg your pardon; will you read that again? I must have misunderstood it." "The meaning is not obscure," the wife spoke, in a distinct voice, and read over again:    . "' It pains me to say that, in order that your oath may   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    201 avail, you will also be compelled to swear that you are not my l:wfully married wife-- " "And may I ask, have you decided upon this point?" he interrupted, pausing in his walk to and fro across the floor. "I have," replied the wife, dropping her eyes, while the look of shame and confusion came back with all its painful burden of heart-sickness, that made the brain dizzy. "And your decision is?"-and his eyes gleamed like steel. "To serve my husband this once, at the risk of my  honor."  "Mrs. Haywood," spoke Montrose, almost fiercely, "tell me-i claim the right to ask it-do you love that man?"    ' The woman's heart alternately sank and swelled in her bosom, as that pitiless question echoed through her brain; but the answer came slowly up, and, before her surprise at the temerity of the question had fairly de- elared itself, she had answered, "No." "Then you shall not so swear," he had just time to say, when visitors were heard upon the piazza, and leaving Mrs. Haywood in the consoling hands of other friends, who came dropping in, one or two at a time, he seized his hat and took his way down the street. Out of the presence- of that woman who had so  strangiely interested him, Mr. Montrose wandered into the night, alone and absorbed. He was what the world would call an honorable man; he was the natural' protector of two sisters) both younger than himself, and, as he walked rapidly through the streets this night, his imagination was busy in contemplating, Diana or Helen in the position of Jane Haywood, and considering some     202        BOUND DOWN, third party as representing himself. This was a simple, conscientious process, to which he not unfrequently sub- mitted himself, in order to familiarize his mind with the situation. It was a practice instituted during the earliest days of his guardianship, and never before had the test failed. Bjt on this occasion it seemed impossible to bring himself to a realization of a 'perfectly analogous condition of things. Diana, with her meekness, or Helen, with her high spirit, could neither of them, reach the case at all. Jane Haywood was suigeneris, and not to be judged by the standard of other women, scarcely in like circumstances. Naturally trustful, she had been educated to suspicion; naturally faithful, she had been impelled to desperate resort and unscrupulous action, which, having no part in her actual character, assumed direction according to the exigency. "And then, again," the gentleman argued, "I should expect no man to regard either of my sisters precisely as I regard this lady. If he loved her, itlwere bad enough," and here Mr. Mont- rose's intellectual race having terminated in the most humiliating and illogical confusion, he very wisely de- termined to abandon the pursuit till his own sentiments should have time to mature. "Ah then it may be too late; this is the golden moment," he whispered under h is breath. "Better resolve never to see that face again. Think what strides have been gained in our former in- different friendship by this last evening's conference and confidence!"And then his manhood, asserting itself, said, "Coward, to desert her now!"And thrusting aside the whole argument of both pros and cons, he resolutely bent his steps in the direction of the office of the gentle- man who, in this case, was acting as district attorney. Entering the door, and finding this august personage alone,' he at once proceeded to business.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    203 "Is the murder trial on for to-morrow?" "The People vs. Haywood goes on to-morrow, at ten o'clock," replied the district attorney. "Has Haywood any witnesses ready?" "None that avail anything, except his wife, who, as you know, of course, is disqualified by virtue of being his wife," answered the official. "There is such a law in this State, I believe," Mont- rose remarked. "I believe there is, and in every other State or c - try where the common law prevails," said the lawyer, facetiously. "You could, if you chose, admit the testimony of a wife. Who beside the prosecution would raise the ques- tion?" and Montrose watched his face.     i "Certainly not counsel for the defense," was the reply, with a shrug of the shoulders; "and as for our judge- he is a saloon-keeper whom the dear people have elected- I doubt if he knows that a'wife's testimony is inadmis- sible; certainly he would never ask the question." "And will you not, for the sake of justice, fail to ask the wife as to her relation to Haywood, and so admit her testimony without question?" asked Montrose. "Not if the court knows herself," was the original and brilliant retort.  "It is, 'as I understand it, a matter of a hundred dol- lars, more or less, whether you convict this fellow Hay- wood. Now, I can show you, by a simple row of figures, that it is greatly more to your pecuniary interest to raise no question in the matter." "I always knew you were a clever gentleman, espe- cially in figures," the district attorney said, with an ob- sequious manner. The expressive face of Montrose reflected a shade of ,'     204        BO UND DO WNl,. disgust, but he did not speak. Taking a pen and a scrap of paper from the desk before him, Montrose, quick as lightning, dashed off some figures, anld resting his three fingers lightly upon the paper, slid it along the desk within view of the worthy functionary, and only looked steadily in his eye as he paused before him. "Satisfactory, sir," was the laconic reply of the attorney. "Now, what further arrangements?"Montrise asked, rising,                   '  C .  "It is all right," the lawyer returned, smiling^ "Jyour word is as good as your bond any day, Mr. Montrose." "And you need no instructions," he said, lookinig back sharply; then turning around, he added, "JI l4ive no compunctions in this matter, and I presume yogi have none. The law which prohibits a wife from testifying for or against her husband is a hinderance rather than an aid to that which is supposed to be the object of legal investigtion-the discovery of truth. It isl a relic of that feudal society wlierein the wife was supposed to p0s- sess no individuality, no mind or life of her own, and to be incapable of telling the truth ihna case where her hus- band was interested. At this stage of the world's civili- zation, it is monstrous and intolerable that that relation which the law'itself calls a ' civil contract' between two intelligent persons, should disqualify either one or the other from testifying in court, where. life, liberty, or for- tune may depend on the elucidation of facts, of which such witness is alone cognizant." The district attorney smiled grimly at this phase of the case, following and looking approvingly down the stairs at Fred Montrose as, he darted into the street below and was lost in the crowd of night-strollers, and pleasure-seekers, and sight-seers with which the streets of San Francisco were nightly thronged.   R0) LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.   205 CHAPTER XXVI. THE Bext morning was spent in further preparations for the trial of Harry Haywood for murder, according to the indictment of the grand jury; and meanwhile Dr. Marston arrived at home. But the eagerness with which Jane Haywood had longed for his return, up to the time of Fred Montrose's visit on the night previous, had lost itself somewhere amid the echoless jungle'of those few confused and agonized hours; and when the good man came to her, and held her head against his breast for a moment, and patted her shoulder soothingly, while great round tears stood in his clear, honest eyes, to her ever- lasting disgrace, be it said, she remembered, in spite of herself, a single former scene, wherein one of sympathy less fervid than this had stamped a memory for all time. To the great surprise of Dr. Marston, this lady, though betraying little agitation, at the same time gently set aside his importunities -concerning her presence at the trial, firmly meeting his argument that "her evidence would not be received," with the opinion that her simple assertion before a jury might have its weight, which was indeed true. For the other part she was silent. After the usual panegyric pn the intelligence of the jury, the learned counsel for the defendant proceeded in a preliminary speech to show how flimsy and trivial were the hypotheses of the State, averring their own ability to, prove an alibi, and deploring the malignant character of the individual who could charge this crime against a gentleman and citizen of unblemished reputation and 18 b .     206       BOUND DOWN, standing in society, surrounded by his friends, and hav- ing no possible interest in this man Gascoyne, above the hundreds he daily met in the same way. Finally, he concluded by expressing his willingness to. leave all in the hands of the jury, who would never leave their seats after the evidence for the defense should have been ad- duced, without finding a verdict of not guilty. The witnesses were then called to the stand, one after another, each in turn testifying to having seen Mr. Hay- wood at or alout ten o'clock on the night of the disap- pearance of Gascoyne. First, the barkeeper at the Ex- change was called, who said that deceased came into the saloon and drank at precisely ten minutes before ten; that he came and went alone, and that he saw nothing unusual in-his manner. Upon cross-examination it ap-. peared that Haywood had not visited the saloon that night; and that Gascoyne made no mention of him, nor indeed of any one. Next came Bridget, the Irish servant in the employ of Mr. Haywood. After being duly sworn, the counsel asked the usual question as to her name, place of resi- dence, occupation, etc. "Do you remember having seen Mr. Haywood on Sunday night last?" he questioned. "Faith, an' I do, yer honor," replied Bridget promptly. "Where did you see him?" "Well, you see, I was a-sittin' up wid my cousin, him that cam' all the way from the ould counthree on a pleashure trip to see me, an' he's a jourheyman mason, an' he makes journeys all the day wid bricks and morthar on his back, an'-"  Here the thread of the narrative was broken by the opposite counsel, who insisted that the witness be kept to the point.   OR LIFE AND, ITS POSSIBILITIES.    207 "Where do you say you saw the defendant on last Sunday night?" "May it plaze yer honor, I never said anything about defendin'; I said I seen my master yonder on Soonday night, in his own house, on North Baich." "How do you know it was Mr. Haywood?" "The saints be wid ye I an' didn't he spake and ask me about my misthress; and didn't I say,' She's right sick, I thankye?' an' he went straight to the safe in the chimney corner fernenst the kitchen door, barrin' the enthry, yer honor, an' took some bits of paper and was off up-stairs to bed. I seed him shure; just tin o'clock it was." "Are you certain about the time?" '"Shure an' I am, for by the same token my cousin Ted-that's my cousin -he pulled out his watch, a love of a thing,' yer honor, as big as that"-and she traced the circumference on her broad red palm-" an' I poked Ted in the ribs, and says I,' That's right, Ted; what's the use in havin' a watch onless somebody sees it besides yerself,' an'--'" "What time did you say it was?"' insisted the counsel. "Just tin o'clock, yer honor; for Ted, says he, 'I must go now,' but never a fut did he put out o' the house, nor mane to, plaze yer honor."  ' That will do, Bridget; you may go." "May it plaze yer honor," said the girl, "they told me it was for an alkali I was 'to come, and where is it, shure?" "Hold," said' the district attorney, with some pom- pousness, "I will ask a question or two. Your name is Bridget O'Mallorey; do you know the pature' of an oath?"  "Shure an' I do," said Bridget. "It was that same '     208 .       O'UND D O WN,  -          you did yerself when I was comin' along, an' ye said, low to yerself like, 'Damn it, I want that alkali -busi- ness to, myself; they'll prove it too easy without that woman.",               *  The last portion of the sentence was fortunately lost to all but the ear of the district attorney, in the laugh that burst forth at Bridget's definition-of an/oath, and the attorney for the prosecution here put another question: * "Are you married or single?" "Och, now, by the mither of Moses," thrusting her huge, ungloved knuckles under the dignified ribs of the astonished functionary. "Is it yer would ask me in sich' a place. Come up wid yer swate ould face daisently to the house, and I'll tell yez."        ' The cross-examination herewith closed, and Miss Je- mima HayWood was next called to the witness-box. She appeared in her familiar suit of black bombazine. Her flat loops of front hair, fastened by side-combs, were made more conspicuous byvthe high scoop bonnet worn twenty years ago. Upon her arm she carried a black silk reticule, containing the usual complement of seed- cakes, a pair of spectacles, a fan, a snuff-box, pocket-hand- kerchief, and Testament. Her face wore an expression of the most determinate and appropriate melancholy, only disturbed by the somewhat frequent application of the huge handkerchief to her nose, and as she took her seat, real, genuine tears flowed from her weak, downcast eyes, which she urged down her sallow; wrinkled cheek with the second finger of her left handi while the senti- ment of the spectators seemed pretty equally divided- between outhre'aking mirthfulness and smothered com- passion. "The name of the witness?" called the counsel for the defense, after the preliminaries were over. ^       *      1   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    209 "Jemima Haywood," in a trembling, faltering voice. The court-room grew quiet, and the counsel proceeded with his investigation. "What is your age?" Miss Jemima's, melancholy vanished, and rage salt tri- umphant upon her purple features. "Did I come here to be badgered?" Her. head, propelled by the pressure of nAervous energy, keeping time to the vehement question. "Unless counsel desire to prove that which does not . seem to require6 much proof, namely, that the witness has arrived at years of discretion, that question might be waived," said the judge, with a smile. "I'm thirty-six years old; there!" "The witness will remember she is under oath," put in the district attorney. "Well, I am thirty-six, and I didn't say how much more," said the old lady,quivering before the suggestion. "You can waive that question," said the district attor- :ney patronizingly. W"Where is vour place of residence?" "Peaksville,"7 replied Miss Haywood with unction. "Peaksville is where'I was born and bro't up, where my soul was converted, and where I expect to be sanctified." "Are you not an inmate of Mr. Haywood's family?" "To be sure I be." "Where were you on Sunday night one week ago?" "At prayer-meeting, sir," fanning herself energetically. "Did you see Mr. Haywood on that night?" Now, somewhere in the confusion. of the scene, Miss Jemima had lost the thread of her own evidence, and whether these questions were bearing for or against the case, she could not for the life of her decide. The only thing left, therefore, was to pursue a middle policy. ,The lawyer repeated the question rather sharply, and his tone     210       BOUND DOWN, startling the maiden lady from her reverie, she replied quickly, "Dear-a-me, of course I saw him ;" then remembering her dilemma-" that is, sometimes I think it was him, and sometimes I think it wasn't." "Do you mean to say you don't recognize Mr. Hay- wood when you see him?"  "Well, I ort to, that's a fact," catching at the signifi- cant form of the question, and. fashioning her reply in accordance. "On the whole, I guess it must have been him.  "That will do," said counsel for defense. And the district attorney rose. ",Permit me, madam; are you married or single?" Here the old lady sprang to her feet, towering with in- dignation. "Do I look married?" she said fiercely; "is there a hair of my head that looks like it? No, sir; I am not married, nor likely to be." And down she sat again. "You say you were at prayer-meeting on the Sunday night referred to. Did you go alone?" "Well, now I who should a decent, respectable lady, find to go with in this heathenish place? Of course, I went alone; my nephew, you know, sir, was out of town all day, and I met him plump, face to face on the Plaza, as I told Jane at the time, while I was coiin' home." Thus, at intervals, and in this evasive and equivocal manner, the evidence for" defendant was given, and taken for what it was worth. The only matter about which she was positive, as she avowed in answer to a cross-question was, "that her sins were forgiven through the blood of the Lamb." To her perceptions, this was the one great ruling fact of existence. And verily, vast indeed are the possibilities which may be worked out   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    2" upon that faith which teaches humanity and wisdom that are of. God. But though Miss Haywood was un- doubtedly conscientious in her convictions, she lacked the vitalizing principle necessary to her usefulness. Her re- ligion was essentially a matter of faith and not of works, and the very means she chose to employ for the dis- semination of her faith, operated, as the emanations of all irregular minds must do, in exact opposition to her de- signs; and so far from carrying conviction, the illogical construction of her arguments only served to build up a barrier against honest investigation. Still, that charity which Christ commands above all other exactions, belong, by vastly the greatest right, to just such imperfect organizations as those of Miss Je- mima and Harry Haywood. After the lady was dismissed from the stand, a brief and almost breathless pause succeeded. The next witness was Jane Haywood, wife of the defendant; and the well-known law concerning the inva- lidity of-the wife's testimony in the case of her husband, made the appearance of this lady a matter of absolute astonishment to the public. However, as her name was called, the door from an  antechamber opened, and Jane Haywood came in, lean- ing upon the arm of Dr. Marston. She was dressed in a plain street suit, and the blue trimmings of the hat against the face, heightened rather than subdued the ex- treme pallor of the face, which, though the lips were of a much brighter color even than usual, looked like a cast in Wax, so changeless the expression, so perfectly immovable the features. When half way up the aisle, however, she gave one searching, imploring look toward the prisoner's box; her whole soul mounting like a flame of living light to her (? - -  ,     212       BOUND DOWN, face. For there sat Harry Haywood looking approvingly o, only lifting his eyebrows as he caught that look of un- utterable agony, while she, for him, had laid her woman- hood at the door through which she had entered, and so swaddled in shame and dishonor, was struggling meekly forward to meet the jeer of t-he'ribald crowd, or to cower beneath the pitying shadows of the more charitable world. By way of interpretation of this sang-froid, it may be said that the State had virtually failed, so far, to make out a case against him, and being lawyer enough to dis- cern that, he had began to grow indifferent to details be- fore his wife was called to the witness-box. And the development of the case had also led the friends of Mrs. Haywood to importune earnestly with the defendant, who resolutely refused to release her unless she should so elect, thus throwing the responsibility of results upon her. Who shall say that this woman was weak, and that it required more courage to refuse than to go forward and swear herself into ignominy? Releasing. the manly arm that had supported her, she walked firmly upon the platform, and the usual oath was administered. Every eye went in search of the district attorney, whom it was expected would directly challenge the competency of the witness. But the investigation proceeded until the wife had sworn, in full, clear accents, to e fls hat her ban pased that her husband passed the night in question with her as usual at his house on North Beach, and left for his office about sunrise, returning in time for breakfast. Then, for the first time, with utter self- forgetfulness and abandonment of purpose, she turned and gazed into the face of the prisoner with that look, half- accusing, half-defiant, and altogether contemptuous, al- most indescribable in its refined and concentrated despair.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     213 There was a long pause in the examination, which none seemed to notice, so intent were all'upon this silent dem- onstration. The quick, hard breathing through the thin, firm nostrils of one man at the extreme end of the court- room attracted the attention of a few around him, but the basilisk eye of Fred Montrose was riveted upon the scene before him, which was too intense for distraction, and with an impulse everybody looked toward the pris- oner at the bar. For once this self-possessed, imperturbable individual shrank slightly before the embarrassment of the scene, and, biting his nether lip, slipped his plump, white fingers through his light-brown curling locks, and looked at the floor. Then the judge spoke, "It is usual," said he, "for the attorney for the State to examine witnesses upon their voire dire where doubt exists as to competency. At least such is his prerogative, not to say strictly his duty, providing he choose to as- sume it." This observation of the judge gave place for the flash speech to which our obliging functionary had sacrificed a night of sleep. Appropriating the argument of Mr. Montrose in con- demnation of the law that prohibits the evidence of the wife in a case of life or death, he, in grandiloquent terms, declared his magnanimous resolve to waive further ex- anination of the witness in the case. Scarcely had these words passed his lips when, for the first and last time in her life, the yellow lights began to float before her vision, and Jane Haywood sank, half swooning, into her seat. At the same moment there was a bustle near the door, and a little, reeling figure came staggering up the aisle, the pretty black beaver, with its   ,     214       B 0UND 'DOWN, cherry plumes, hanging idly back over the" delicate shoul- ders, and the searching blue eyes, with their swollen pupils, gleaming out from the white face, only intent upon their mission of finding out the stricken one. "Ob, my Aunty," shrieked Cora, unmindful of the dignity or the etiquette of a court-room, while she clasped the listless form of Mrs. Haywood in both her slender arms, "I did hurry so to tell them that he couldn't seem to help killing that man, else I know Uncle Hal w\ould himself have been killed." Harry Haywood sprang to his feet, and, notwithstand- ing the hammer of authority, and the officious bustle of the sheriff, he roared rather than spoke, !"What do you mean by this ridiculous foolery, Cora?" he said. "I do know all about it," said the child, standing up- right and looking resolutely into6the face of Haywood, "and if I tell them, they won't blame you." "That child is mad,' calmly spoke Haywood, and re- sumed his seat.  "No, no, I'm only Cora," said the child, bursting into tears upon Mrs. Haywood's lap; "I'm queer, but I'm not mad.'  It was Dr. Marston who lifted the little figure and car- ried her sobbing from the court-house, and, being excused, the family, except Mr. Haywood, quickly followed, and gaining the carriage, were driven rapidly home, to find Mildred waiting in intense anxiety the result of this ter- rible day's work. Very judiciously and delicately Mildred spoke of the extremity to which ler friend had resorted, having gained most of her information from others than Jane herself, who manifestly evaded all allusion to the sub- ject. It was'plain that she bitterly deplored the action   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    215 of her beloved friend, and to the consequences and changes which came of the business she could but be painfully alive. But of this hereafter. The trial went forward, was finished, and the verdict of the jury was "Not guilty." Thus ended the trial for murder, really, as shown, com- mitted in self-defense, the facts of which, if the actual facts had been known, must have complicated the case. As it was, the extraordinary conduct of the child Cora so confused the minds of the jurors as to render it expe- dient, after consultation with Mr. Haywood, for his counsel to represent the child as periodically insane. Although this assumption was recognized as the grossest of outrages and a most deliberate assault upon the truth, yet no one man was quite prepared to come forward and hazard an explanation, even such as was satisfactory to himself. And 'thus fell the first spectral shadow across the life' of this helpless but still unconscious child. CHAPTER    XXVII. ALL this while there was a patient, voiceless passion locker securely within two waiting hearts, to which Helen Montrose but half consciously held the key. That Mildred Gray loved Henry Marston has already been made apparent; that he loved her without hope, the gathering gloom upon, his noble face, the alternating thoughtful and restless manner, the frequent visits with their abrupt terminations, and; the faltering evasiveness ,     /   c.     216       BOUND DOWN, when he mentioned her name, might all attest. Still le performed his daily work, visiting the rich and poor alike, giving to the needy, while his right hand knew not what his left hand was doing. There are hundreds in San Francisco to-day who bless the memory of such a man as Dr. Marston, whose like they may not look upon again  for a lifetime. Humane, patient, zealous, and of infinite good cheer, the very influence of his presence was like a splinter of sunlight iin the sick-room. He was not an artist; he had neither the time nor the inclination to ac- complish himself in the arts and wiles that most strongly commend a man to the artificial world. His manner was grave, or graceful, or brusque, according to his moods, and no one need seek long for an interpretation of his meaning, for his motives were as transparent as his char- acter was ingenuous. But the dilemma in which he found himself with respect to being in love with one woman and engaged to another, was a serious matter with this really conscientious gentleman, and that act, which to a man differently organized might have seemed a most trivial matter, in Dr. Marston would have been an actual transgression, for according to our perceptions are we accountable. And whoever offends against his own conscience offends against the Holy Ghost and the king- dom of heaven, which abide in his own heart, or not, according as the spirit of Christ be invoked to dwell therein. Why will theologists so seek to complicate this beau- tiful truth? The intricate and labyrinthine "plan of sal- vation" has confounded, and bewildered, and appalled the world long enough. The precepts of Christ are simple -his example is before us. For the misinterpretations, and abuses, and distortions which these doctrines have undergone, mankind is perhaps indebted to priestcraft on   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    21T the one hand, and to overcredulousness or ignorance, the legitimate fruits of such a system, on the other. In hu- mility, faith, love, charity, joined with the aspiration which bringeth each of these, there is salvation, without blood, or sacrifice, r creed, or dogma. But this digression is scarcely fair to Dr. Marston, whose case was left in chancery, so to speak, and whose movements are, for this reason, under a kind of moral embargo. He was not committed to Miss Gray, it is true, so he soliloquized; but, on the whole, he almost wished he was. On the other hand, would it be quite just to Helen Montrose to weakly proceed to the fulfill- ment of a purpose of such vital importance to her, which was distasteful to' him? It is not uncommon that the child, when disinclined to wear a garment, proceeds first of all to seek out a rent or flaw somewhere among its hidden folds, by way of excuse. And Dr. Marston had no sooner entered upon a field of speculation than he began to look into the character and conduct of his affianced, if indeed he might succeed in discovering the flaw which should, in some way, enter into and strengthen the compromise that common justice might compel him, sooner or later, to effect with his scruples. In pursuance of which project our belligerent friend started out boldly on his new enterprise. First, he fell upon her pride. It was true she was wealthy, accomplished, gifted, and beautiful. But. so was Mildred Gray, and she was honored for her graces of soul beside, directing her thought and purpose athove all external seeming. But, hold! this was not a eulogy on the character of Miss Gray, but a necessary, if painful, investigation of the weaknesses of the woman to whom he was betrothed; conssequently it involved a duty re- 19     218       BOUND DOWN, luctantly performed. So our hero went back to first' resolves.  Helen Montrose was obstinate-not, quietly resolute, like Mildred Gray-but absolutely self-willed. He could not just remember an instance, but that was the impres- sion left upon him; and how ever could he make a woman happy, or be so himself, in always yielding to her-especially some women, lle said. Now, if it were Mildred, though 'not an atom less determined! Mildred again! He could manage her, becayse she was intelli- gent; no, that would never do; for so was Helen-be- cause she was unselfish! Accepted, under protest, how- ever. "Imbecile man!" he muttered, half aloud. "It is ail because you love Mildred Gray, and she loves you; be- cause you do not love Helen Montrose, with all her noble qualities of spirit, which you, nor any one, has half appreciated; and the negative condition is a mutual one, for she does 'not love you, whether she just knows it or not." Eureka! eureka! H ,had caught the great flounder- ing idea at last, and it ought, with all its magnificent proportions, to absolve him from half a dozen engage- ments. Of course, Helen did not love him. Why had he neverlthought of it before? He was quited sure Mil- dred must have divined it, for, as Cora averred, she knew everything, though she was too modest, by a great deal, to suggest it; beside, she was not supposed to know of the engabemlent at all, nor, as a matter of fact, did she know of it. But after all-and his countenance fell-who should undertake the task of instructing the fair Helen concerning her sentiments toward -Henry Marston, and just where was the evidence of the alleged fact? With such questionings and doubts ,the discomfited adven- ?     *         *       .   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     219 turer lost' his foothold, and fell back very nearly to his starting-point. Now, as a purely intellectual exercise, this mental pro- cess of attempting to reason himself out of his difficulties may have been profitable; but for the practical' purpose essayed, it was simply ridiculous. The achievement of ratifying a treaty with the heart, not confirmed by the conscience, is a novel feat' not yet accomplished by'any process of intellectual gymnastics. Ah! my dear sir, the instincts of one womanly soul, who deliberately elects to deal fairly and in good faith with her own convictions, independently of the intriguing action which the arbitrary laws of society would impose upon her purpose, are worth all the flimsy philosophy or the more flimsy trickery 'of your sex. Never fear, but in good time the way shall be made clear. Helen Montrose is at home conning over the old lesson, that to be true to others, she must be true to herself. To all the vexed reflections of this man, as well as to the pitiless current of circumstances which underswept and stirred them into life, Mildred Gray was wholly ob- livious. Perhaps, indeed, she would have found a mel- ancholy solace in contemplating those reasons predicated upon a truth very dear to her; in other words, this knowl- edge would have taken away the doubt that she was be- loved, even though circumstances might have shut out the spqken truth. But she had learned to suffer and to wait, apd out of such experiences sometimes come the richest returns, not always as a reward, but as a natural result of patient, passive endurance, which at least gives events time to shape themselves. A few days after the conclusion of the trial of Harry  Haywood, as the affairs of the house were settling back into their old channel, Mrs. IIaywood stood by a window     220       BOUND DOWN, watching an incoming steamer, with her freight of human life, as she plunged along the waters of the bay, and, firing her signal-gun, she boldly rounded the wharf and glided into port. Suddenly the wheels of a carriage came rattling up the street, and, halting before the house, a lady descended. It was the elder of the sisters Mont- rose, who was shown into the drawing-room, and, gra- ciously explaining to Mrs. Haywood the object of her unceremonious visit, begged that Miss Gray accept her invitation to spend a few days at their house, adding that the project in which both she'and her brother most heartily joined was especially Helen's, and that she could take no refusal short of an absolute determination on the part of Miss Gray. Though a little surprised, Mildred, with the instincts of a true lady, promptly and cordially consented to go; and when, half an hour after, she stood folding the soft India cashmere about the elegantly-rounded, drooping shoulders, she said quietly to Mrs. Haywood in the pres- ence of Diana, "I have left 'Pascal's' Provincial Letters,' a book which Dr. Marston kindly brought me, upon the table in the library; be pleased to return it; with my thanks, if he should call while I am away." There was nothing in that little speech to call the hot flush to the face, yet from that moment Diana knew that which she had not even guessed before; and further, she supposed that of course Mildred knew of the relations between Henry Marston and Helen, which, taken alto- gether, was not a quite comfortable reflection. Never- theless, the matter was one most nearly affecting- Helen, and with her she must rest the affair. As they were passing down the walk, Cora in the van, to "kiss Miss Mildred in the carriage," they were met by   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    221 Captain Gray, who received their explanations and as- sisted them into their seats, with the assurance, a little more warmly given than usual, that he should be an early guest at the house of Miss Montrose; and the two ladies drove away. As they approached the Montrose dwelling, Mildred caught sight of the little plump figure of Helen robed in a soft, French blue cashmere gown, the rippling golden hair confined by the broad-brimmed gardening hat, and the whole picture half hidden among the lilies and grasses as she stooped to complete the moist, crisp, fra- grant armful of many-tinted glories, designed for the refined and critical eye of Miss Mildred Gray. Without waiting to disengage herself from the bris- tling, perfumed encumbrance, she ran up the walk leading to the side entrance, whence the carriage was driven,'and greeted Mildred with an earnest cordiality, quite unex- pected by that young lady, in view of the comparatively brief term of their acquaintance. It was to Helen's own apartments that she conducted her guest, resigning all the little elegant appointments of her own toilet to the use of her fiiend.  "Because," said she naively, "when you, are gone,! ' may fancy you shall have left some slight element of your identity, impalpable of course, but not. inappreciable to me. It may be a whim, but I have long imagined such things." Mildred looked in the girl's face in utter surprise. "Do tell me what you have been reading," she said, walking up to her. "  Oh, I have not been reading, only thinking." "Only thinking," and Mildred took both the little white-cushioned hands between her own slender fingers, "you have been exploring the mysterious depths of your 19*     222       BOUND DOWN, own nature; you have been readingi a greater book than was, or ever will be, printed; something of that which you read there you may give to the world, much more of it you may- apply to your own daily life, and thus transmit it to the world, but you cannot lead mankind along the silent aqueduct that bears in its stilly flow a' deeper meaning than may be fashioned into cold ideas, fervid and truthful as they may be. It is self-conviction, the chaste music of whose trickle would be lost in the great troubled reservoir of the world. This is the un- written book through which you shall educate your faculties and learn the grand possibilities within your reach." Mildreddid not intend this long speech, and when she had finishedl ,they looked one into the other's eyes, each at that moment lit by the same vestal torch, with that searching, far-reaching, fervid look, deeper than mortal questioning. Thus unconsciously Mildred Gray had touched another string, which, once swept by her inspiring fingers, might vibrate to all eternity. So possible it, is for the fiery magnetic thought of some one peculiar mind to scale the unscarred heights and reach and melt with a glance' tipped with love, the life-long snows that have piled up, in unrelenting frost, their gleaming fronts of pride and prejudice, high above the emerald turfs and the green twigs of honest feeling and out-reaching purpose. Lunch was announced, and, chatting lightly, the two ladies went to the dining-room, where they were met by Mr. Montrose and some old friend off the steamer, whom j  the elder sister and the brother evidently valued highly, ,- Il but whom Helen, by reason of her school-days absenta- , tions, had never happened to meet. !   The climbing-rose, the honeysuckle, and the Australian \ \, *  , ,  '  '  - '  , ' ,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    223 creeper, the favorite vines for San Francisco dwellings, though prospered tolerably in their little ambitions, yet failed" to shut out so much of the light but that the rich glow! upon the checks of each of the young ladies at- tracted the quick eye of Montrose, who, under the ad- vantage of his seniority, rallied them in turn upon an exchange of their confidences, whereupon, for some hy- pothetical reason, both ladies fell to looking grave;, and good, discreet Miss Diana shrewdly changed the topic., Delicious dewy grapes, genuine cream and strawherries threl tinles magnified, biscuit like little puffs of cotton, melting slices of cake, balls of "ranche butter" yellow and crisp as the petals of the cowslip, chicken salads lifting their foaming crests above the silver bowl, choco- late flavored with the spices of the Orient-such was the lunch over which the party lingered1and chatted, till each seemed wholly acquainted with the other. '  And it is true, to have read the same books, to travel over the world in imagination together, to discuss phases of life and incident of mutual recognition, will familiar- ize strange elements with wonderful felicity. At length, as the conversation grew light, the guesta,' with that simultaneous impulse which is not an apparent movement, but only delicately indicative, terminated the- pleasant season by rising, the ladies taking themselves to bathe their hands for a moment, in the .bm   of the vines at the window, and the gentlemen to ll and a cigar.  .               - Thus auspiciously commenced Mildred   ry's visit in the family of Montrose. The opera season had just opened, and the liberal investment in season tickets which Mr. Montrose habitually made, as a matter of principle for the benefit of Art, not infrequently embraced Mr. and Mrs. H aywood within its limits. In this way, with Mildred     224        BOUND DO O  , as a -sort of tacit tie, the two families saw much of one another. Only Miss Cora resolutely declined the opera.! The music seemed to overpower her nervous sensibilities, and she always declared that the house seemed "ever and ever so much fuller than it really was; and if nobody else felt so jshe did not want to feel it either." "A trick that the stage illusions play .with her un- natural and riotous fancy," Harry Haywood was accus- i tomed to say; and so Cora was always leFt at home, tucked snugly in her'little bed, with only Miss Jemima and the servants-in the house.        j But no distracting, alluring forms of amusement could divert Helen from her purposes and plans. Accordingly, after the first day or two of -Mildred's visit,'she held an absolute monopoly over theyoung lady's leisure time, not arbitrarily, but by virtue of her actual, manifest growth in mind and spirit, which so interested and ab- sorbed Mildred that the outside world seemed like a great play-house, full only of mimic life. For hours they sat together as pupil and teacher, alternately discussing the different developments and restrictions of existence; its failures and its achievements, each growing in charity, i   "as they dispassionately examined into the. conditions and , sources of propagation of error, and' often finding at its root a hidden and irrevocable cause, totally relieving its agent of accountability. "And if I could get the world to see this great truth as I see it," Helen would say, "I could make myself the sacrifice." "The true spirit of Christ, dear girl," Mildred replied; "'as we have, therefore, opportunity, let us do good to all men ;' be patient and abide your time; the world is not yet ready for your virgin philosophy, neither are you yet fitted for combat with the world."   OR LIFE AND ITS .POSSIBILITIES.    225 That night after the young ladies had retired, Helen, to the grand and silent guest-chamber, with its massive and solemn furniture of rosewood, whither the young hostess, brooking no denial, repaired when her' friend came, and Mildred to the charming "maiden's retreat," as Fred had named Helen's apartments--with their mossy carpets, shimmering laces, satin hangings, rose- colored canopies, pictures of heads, and history, and landscapes, and flowers; its nameless profusion of orna- mental figures, of cabinets in Chinese, and screens and scrolls and curious seats and cushions in Japanese, a miniature fountain and pond where real fishes swam, and lilies and rare filigree tufts that looked like actual grass; cunning little tables mosaicked to the perfection of costly paintings, and many another device to catch the eye and, capture the fancy-behold I a little white-robed figure at the door,/tapping softly; and- when she asked, "May I come in?" how quickly Mildred sptang aside to make room in the bed, while Helen crept into the warm place vacated for her, and sat wrapping her little feet in her' gown, and thinking how she should begin to say to Mil- dred that which she wished, without having it sound egotistical or " flat," or in any other;way unworthy the motive which prompted the commu;0icapn. : At length she said, abruptly, looking-atw -the'i aill, "Iv want to tell you something."  ' "-" "And I want to hear something," said Mildred. , " "Well, to begin : you are not to tell anybody in -the world,"-lowering her voice and looking like an owl caught on, his perch at mIid-day. "Nobody!" replied Mildred with mock seriousness. "Nor to laugh, or sneer?" demanded Heleu. "Nor to laugh, and oh, Helen, certainly not to sneer." -"Well, then, I am engaged"-A pause. -  '    !     226       BOUND DOWN, "You are," broke in Mildred, the very picture of won- der; " why did you not tell me sooner?\" "Mildred, how can you?"  "I am not laughing, my darling." "No; but you did not want to hear me through." "How unfair," sighed Mildred; "but I thought you said you were engaged." "And so I am," returned Helen, fixing her eyes some- where among the folds of the canopy-" engaged in writing a play." "A plalI You dear, ambitious little puss, run and get it this moment," half pushing the little figure away. i "Indeed," argued Helen, perching upon the side of the bed, and quite meaning to go all the while, " indeed it is too late to-night; I only wanted to tell you." "But I must see it directly, I'm not a bit sleepy. You can nestle down here and dream Awhile I ready" Then Helen;-went without further argument, and tum- bled the very manuscript in a desk again and again with her eyes right upon it, making herself believe she could not find it at once, in order to gain a little time, because she was in a flutter. At last she dragged the unhappy thing out and brought it, the. pages blotted and scratched and interlined with painful irregularity, but otherwise bearing the marks of earnest work. Helen laid down and tried to sleep, but the characters in that wonderful drama trooped, before her and haunted her vision. She speculated upon Mildred's verdict--upon the situations- upon the disposition of the characters at the end-upon the plot-upon the dominant idea-upon the dramatic effects-and finally upon the probabilities of ever seeing it upon the stage at all. Two or three times she attempted explanation, but Mildred checked the pur- pose.   OR LIFE. AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    22T "Let me read it, and then we will talk it over," was all the intellectual buckram she offered the poor child's vanity. And then 'Helen would be silent again, only peeping out from beneath the soft brown fringes at Mildred's face,. marking its changes, measuring the depths of interest exhibited, traveling over the pages and flitting through the scenes as the reader eagerly turned the leaves, till at last she really fell asleep. It was one o'clock, when Mildred closed the pages before her, and folded her hands above them. For a long hour she lay thinking beside that sleeping girl, who, unsupported by her years or experience, had, with in- spired grasp and prophetic pen, gathered the hopes and disappointments, the shortcomings and the successes, the retributions, and the rewards of a dozen lives, all ani- mated and vitalized with the spirit of their own separate ambitions. She had developed them by means of artistic illustration, of course; dramatic situations and scenic effects even to 4 state of transfiguration, to be represented by tableaux, each individual signifying by his course of conduct and his choice of purpose and pursuit his exact condition at the fall of the green curtain. The play was called "Charity," and Mildred thought she recognized in the heroine, despite herself, some of her own qualities of character, only heightened, and quickened, and sanctified in their apparent influences upon humanity. One of the leading features of the play was the sacri- fice, which the heroine proposed to make of the man she loved to the selfish exactions of a former childish betrothal. But the personal application suggested to Mildred was wholly lost in the comical character of the lover. An awkward "hobble-de-hoy," "Charity" saw in him nothing J .,     228        BOUND DOWN,           : .' but budding genius and struggling power, while the mis-!4- chievous rival encouraged the hallucination. The last: .- act, however, redeemed all incongruities, and 'portrayed the injustice often shown to the immature or undeveloped' parts of the mind or character. A man of sterling worth and regal powers of brain, he had caught the quickening spark from the loving glance of the eye of "Charity," the inner consciousness asserted itself,'and the man stood  upright in the imniage God had made. Meanwhile the light-minded maiden had found something herself to love in earnest, and so the play went on to the end. The next morning, in a corner of the breakfast-room, arrangements were entered into for the session of a secret conference to take place at the hour of "A M., for what purpose may be easily surmised. This council resulted in the resolution to finish the drama, call in Mr. Mont- rose, an acknowledged connoisseur in matters pertaining to the histrionic art, ahnd' abide his decision.' All of which arrangements culnminated in the. approval of the "effort," and the organization of a "Thespian Society,' whose immediate office it should be to test the dramatic effects of a conception, the-literary parts of which were undoubtedly beyond questioni whether it should succeed as a drama or not.;                 : To tgis end a:day was given to the writing of grace- ful little notes-of invitation to the members, appointing an evening for the purpose of casting of characters, ar- rangerpent for plans -of meeting for rehearsal, arid for presenting various other projects and plans. During all this time, while Mildred and Helen had been so absorbed, the world was moving on outside, Cap- tain Gray making his visits more and more frequent, until, when the young ladies woke from their Rip Van Winkle sleep, it was to discover that the gentle Diana ,* ' t"          *   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    229 was unquestionably accepting consolation for the solitude engendered by their daily withdrawal from her society,  at the kind hands of the grave but entertaining gentle- man just omentioned. Nothing could have given either Mildred or Helen more satisfaction than this little sur- prise, though the secret of the discovery was strictly con- fidential between them. CHAPTER XXIII. DAYs and even weeks went by, and still Mildred lin- :. gered among the fascinations of the house ofEf M trose X passing every Sabbath, however, at the home, of Jane Hay wood, frequently returning only in time for rehearsal on Monday evening. At length the night for the per- formance of the play was named. This was a signal for the reign of costumers and carpenters and scenic artists, till the whole house became a vast scene of preparation. The architectural construction being such as to admit of elaborate changes with but trifling inconvenience, several rooms were thrown together, '1 stagig, ing wngs," and "flies" appeared in rapid succession, and even the con- servatory was transfigured, and became an illuminated grotto, where fire-flies with gleaming wings and starry eyes danced to the music of soft-dripping fountains. Bordering the grounds, and amid the thick foliage; too, were suspended Chinese lanterns, with their quaint devices and magical effects, and even the bronzed guardians at the door, and the classical Psyche and 'Apollo Belvidere were urged into questionable service as flag-bearers for the occasion, an anachronism not altogether approved     230        BOUND DOWN, by Mr. Montrose, but strenuously insisted upon by some of his enthusiastic aid-de-camps. Neither were the French modistes above-stairs idle, for busy fingers sped along the filmy folds of gauze and gos- samer, or wildly whirled the willing lengths of ribbon and blonde, and tossed the beautiful French flowers into enchanting effects, as only a French woman can do, flit- ting from topic to topic, usually dismissing her subject with a light epigram, or a piquant and theatrical gesture, still busy; erratic, and happy. And Cora, too, growing taller and paler and more re- served day by day, glided silently in and out, only giving a sidelong glance at the pretty dresses for the tableaux, serenely confiding every detail to the unerring taste and the critical eye of her bgloved Miss Mildred, whom she always declared would know without asking if anything was going wrong. At last arrangements were complete; the play was re- hearsed for the last time-wretchedly done, it may be said. The tables below-stairs-prepared only for a select number of guests--might vie with those at the last feast at Pompeii, so magnificent, so complete in all their su- perb appointments. "'Every prospect pleases, and only man is vile,' was Harry Haywood's comment, as he surveyed the scene; "for of course we shall fail, and every character will go to ruin, magnificent heroine, and all together." Seven oiclock came, and the excitement behind the scenes grew intense. All ceremony was put aside, and dignity fled the field. "Put on more rouge; you will look ghastly to the audience."-"Where is the powder? lend me some, will you?"-"Don't you think my dress is too short in front for the stage?"-"Now don't let any one in here till I  .   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    231 put this thing on."--"Oh, I've lost my fan, and I'm walk- ing lady, and can't flirt without it."-"Are there many here?"-"Dear me, I'm trembling like a leaf all over." -"Keep away from that curtain, they'll see you!"- "Oh, 'Lord, I've forgotten my very first speech-stand back and don't fill up the wings i"-"Do you know all your cues? I don't."--"Where is the musical director? the house is crammed, and not a note yet!"--"Give my love to my wife, I expire at half-past nine."-"Good! the music has struck up, that will satisfy them for awhile." -"Oh, my! just feel my hands; cold as ice."--"Pass me that bell, and clear the stage," etc., etc. Thus, no one person was expected to pay the least at- tention to the observations or even the questions of an- other, these desultory and random remarks each playing their little part in relieving the overburdened fancy or the 'overheated temper, and subsiding into oblivion innocent of further results. At last the crimson folds of the heavy silk curtain in front gave a premonitory jerk backward, again, and the stage appeared in full view, while its two or three half- bewildered occupants, each clutching wildly for his cue, veered with undeviating certainty toward the prompter's corner, beset with tender apprehensions regarding the timely recurrence of the cherished text, wholly oblivious as to the significance of one word they uttered. The opening scenes dragged heavily enough, the first act closing among furtive glances from quasi friends, the. non-committal stare of the shrewd critic, and the approve ing smile and nod of some personal friends, each demon- stration weakened or strengthened according to its in- clination, as the first feeble impulse, gathering strength. at last, rounded into an authentic burst of applause. Now, in the construction of this work of histrionic art,     232   ,     BOUND DOWNr,  destined indeed neither to make nor to mar the fortunes of its author--though who should have the courage to say as much?-the quaint little Cora had not been forgotten. A flippant or artificial character, such as commonly marks the " side-play" or "underplot," never once occurred to the prolific brain of Miss Montrose, as fitting the powers of the little maiden; but instead, she planned her the youthful disseminator of a kind of ethical philosophy, a sort of moral teacher in miniature, developed through the accidental discovery of the wickedness or the weak- ness of a child, as old in years and as wise in books as herself. As is not an unusual feature with unpracticed dramatists, these latter characters were scarcely on speak- ing acquaintance with the main plot of the play, -bearing a; totally irrelevant part in the general development of the design, thereby maintaining an individual responsibility. This fact must be Cora's sole defense; no other apology may be offered for an act totally defiant in itself and demoralizing in some of its effects. The curtain rose upon the second act. A child from the poverty haunts of a city was dis- covered in the act of committing a theft, having gained access to the apartments of the lady Cora, through a series of wily tricks and misrepresentations. Cora's role was to reverse the rule, tempering mercy with justice, offering the erring ore into the hands of authority, and at the same time a ho mily on the evil of her ways, and a method of speedy reform.  All this, if commonplace, was natural enough, land afforded no challenge to social or moral usages. Accordingly, the child, balanced upon her toes, was seen first reaching over the dressing-table, in the act of rifling a casket of its jewels, whien Cora appeared at the door. The little depredator hastily con- cealing the spoils under the folds of her tattered shawl,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     233 in her attempt to escape through the open door, was con- fronted by Cora, and sank upon her knees. So far all was regular. But witness the action of that justice which she was here to represent. Instead of detaining 'the young pilferer, and calling the authorities to her aid, meanwhile delivering her address on the folly of such a career, with its inevitable horrors, Cora, in the ndost in- conceivable manner, quite forsook the text, grasped the child by the arm, and hurrying her th rough the open door, bade her fly for her liberty. The astounded " actors" waiting about the wings', stood in open-eyed wonder. Mildred and Helen shrieked in whispers behind the scenes; the prompter thrust the outraged text through every aperture as he frantically strode to and fro in wild pursuit of the young vandal; but the "policeman," unde- viating in his duty, with an bye single to business, and wholly undismayed by the reckless error of Cora, cap- tured the recreant child and bore her back triumphantly to the stage. The audience, who in the awful pause had caught the spirit of consternation, though ignorant of its source, applauded the act, which promised to restore order and confidence, and the " cue", was given for Cora to proceed, upon whom at length all eyes were turned. But white and softly swaying among her fairy robes, like a lily tossed by contrary breezes, the child seemed fas- cinated by some weird power that checked her utterance, and, graduallly relaxing from her struggle for the little speech written for the occasion, a new light kindled in the little face, the soft, lulling motion of the figure ceased, and a firm attitude took its place, as she drew herself up and quietly folded her arms across her breasti "There I true as I live and breathe, that girl's got one of her spells," spoke Aunt Mimy away across in the 20*     234   ,    BOUND DOWN, He   -  . .     *?  - audience, in a whisper loud enough to be heard to the remotest corner of the hushed apartments. "It is all over for to-night," murmured Mildred Gray, through her pale lips, as she gathered up her gorgeous robes and sank into a seat, " we have a rival here in Corals muse." "The child has forgotten her part; she must be called from the stage," was urged from every quarter, and yet no one essayed the duty. Twice Mildred called, but she heeded not; the manager commanded, but there ras no response. Poor Helen Montrose! her wretched despair was galvanized into spasmodic life by a curious concern as to the exact mode of her death; for that Cora was armed with an independent purpose was as apparent as posture and gesture could possibly make it. At last she found tongue, and importuned her brother to bring the child from the stage. "No, indeed 1" replied Fred Montrose gayly; "it is an original play, with only a questionable fate at best, and if Miss Cora fancies she can improve upon it, give her a chance." At this moment, and before Helen could offer a demur, the clear, crisp tones of Cora's voice, not yet relaxed by the passion which came after, fell like a spell upon the ear, and every murmur melted into stilly hearkening. "Something won't let me say those words," was the shockingly crude beginning of Cora's impromptu. "Mercy is the- explainer of Nature, and Nature always goes ahead. Mercy will not punish this child for doing a thing that Nature told her to do. She was hungry, and had no one to feed her; she cannot be honest and live, because she would starve. Men make laws against dis- honesty; but laws do not feed people. The laws that men: make tell them what they shall not do; and the laws J    . ,            "'   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    235 that Nature makes tell them what they shall do, and the two do not fit at all. There is an earth law that looks just like a heaven lawon the face of it; but it means- nothing at last. It is something about taking care of- one's self first. of all. Is not that just what poor little Susie was doing? and if I didn't like the only way she knew, let me show her some real, live way, and she would have been glad enough. Too many people are very' poor, and so do what seems wrong. Too many peo- ple are very selfish, and do what they know is wrong, by giving all they have to their own pride, and rebuking crime that leans on poverty. Oh!" burst forth the strange child, as clasping her thin, blue fingers; she began to pace the stage passionately, while Mildred sprang to her feet as the prophetic ejaculation leaped from the beating breast, "what is\ Charity? a thing of words or of deeds? What is pity for the fallen if we cannot lift them up? What is that counsel,"t and the figure grew still again, "whose fruits may only be gathered from death, or sympathy with a life whose best efforts an imperfect plan ravels out faster than Providence weaves? No!" said the little, quivering speaker, taking the hand of the frightened girl, who, the stage illusion fled, was now cowering behind a sofa, "they shall not persecute you; challenged by despair; forbotten of Heaven; and accused and despised of men, you were-no better than the Christ." The child stopped abruptly, as if appalled at her own words, and every heart stood still in contemplation of the thrilling satire. She had manifestly either overreached or fallen short, of the design, for her eyes wandered above the heads of the audience, beyond the pietty hangings, the silken curtains, and the flowers about the windows, and there gathered- over the divine blue surface of the eye a whitei oft film, such as was accustomed to settle     236       BOUND DOWN, there when the image upon the brain was imperfect or the idea inadequately wrought out. But this we know, that the inspiration was therei with all its exquisite, tortuous blisses, such only as the few may know who have climbed, and reached, and touched the electric wire that throbs with the life-pulse of In- finity.  Without a signal or a sound the 'curtain slowly fell behind the footlights, shutting back the strange scene, and leaving the audience free to speculate, not more than a half dozen comprehending the innovation, never recog- nizing the impromptu as anything else than a legitimate part of the play. Of these exceptions, one-half consci- entiouslyl believed the child insane, the remaining few keeping their opinions discreetly to themselves for the present. The play went forward to the end, but Cora appeared no more that night. Her scenes were "cut,' and she felt herself in deep disgrace, although, to the great credit of all concerned be it said, that every word and look on the part of the players indicated the most delicate con- sideration for the inopportune act; for which, indeed, no explanation could be given, even by those who knew and ;loved the child well. But a natural intuition seemed to illimine the minds of those disposed to question about the matter, and so, thrusting the incident under the very convenient head of " intellectual phenomena," it was soon left to oblivion. Helen Montrose, indeed, while she stoutly affirmed herself willing to 'make any sacrifice for the sake of truth, could but feel that her dear play had in some measure been immolated, but the drama rounded out well at the, close. The tableaux/were a great success, the supper, wholly unprecedented in those early days of California luxuries, which have now no rival in all the ',t . ' - X                  -   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    237 world, and from that time forward Miss Montrose en- joyed a liberal share of the homage bestowed upon that prescribed, but charmed circle, the literati of the Pacific coast. It were well if no more unhappy results should have accrued to the fortunes of poor Cora, but martyrs to whatever cause rarely find their rewards in the approba- tion of this world, and the capricious little maiden had not made many friends out of this freak; the more the pity that those she had, or any of them, should have failed her. CHAPTER XXIX. EARLY autumn had come aJain. A few months among school books and robust, romping children, had reduced Cora to a shriveled, and most degenerate estate. Her own explanation of the change was conveyed in these words: "Too much light!"At this, Miss Gray nodded, Mrs. Haywood smiled, and Harry shouted a derisive laugh, calling her a potato-vine, and assigning her quiet quarters in the corner of the cellar. Something about a consultation with Dr. Marston was mentioned, but the gentle, evasive glance'of Mildred's eyes plead an unin- tentional remonstrance, and so the :matter dropped. Now it may not be supposed that during the lapse of these months destiny had been idle. Several changes had come, and the foundationfor several more had been fashioning. Among others, Miss Jemima Haywood had, one bright morning, signified her intention of journeying back to Peaksville; accordingly, in due time, back to Peaksville she did go. i.      '  '     238       1 BOUNDT DOWN, "A dispensation of Providence," the ungracious nephew declared, "before which I can bow with Christian resig- nation." Also, Miss Diana Montrose had become the affianced : of Captain Gray. Also, Mildred had been observed quietly, but firmly, to avoid the occasion of those visits which Dr. Marston still habitually paid to the house of Mr. Haywood; a. mode of treatment, by-the-way, in no respect exceptional in its application to Dr. Marston, since several others who had hitherto been received upon unquestioned grounds of friendship, shared a like fate. ,l "Mrs. Haywood, who knew Mildred's gentle, sacrificing, spirit well, partly guessed the secret, although the reasons for such action were to her vision wholly obscure. The truth is, Helen Montrose had told-Miss Gray all about the engagement, the question as to whether she really loved Henry Marston never seeming a supposi- titious one. But the quick, subtle sense of Mildred Gray, sharpened by the needs of her own stricken heart, asked no woman's tongue to tell the story. If the pride or the ambition of the girl Helen had cried out for recognition, the response had come, not from the lips or the, heart of him to whom her faith was plighted, but from a self-conceived, self-sus- taining purpose independently of him; and both these  women felt, though neither spoke a Word, that in this union some great and vital principle must suffer violation though thus far the truth, whicl one cared not to speak, the other dared not. If Mildred had herself loved Henry Marston less well, then, indeed, might she have gone forth in the discharge of her duty. As it was, she had not the courage even to suggest to the girl self-questionings-those secret scouts or pickets which every woman should throw out   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    239 in advance of a movement so important as that of mar- riage. Albeit, in the heart 'of Helen Montrose a feeble protest had set up its ceaseless flutter, which, sooner or later, must be heeded. But, as the embryonic impression had not yet reached the proportion of an idea, the para- doxical question of whether she loved her love, or her love loved her, had never entered upon the field of speculation. It was a night in early autumn. All day the fresh wind had been blowing, but at nightfall a few patters of rain had pinned the white frills upon the bay close down upon the breast of ocean, and the moon broke fitfully through the fleece of clouds, making a dappled light upon the somber face of the water, enchanting for its very un- certainty. There were yet no lights in the house, and Mildred sat at her window alone, looking abroad upon the scene. A luxuriant shrub of the crimson and purple fuchsia grew close, to the panes, and the plumed and dancing glories swung gracefully between her eyes and the moon-flecked waters df the bay, till she fancied them a fairy fleet, draped in funeral plumes, dancing upon a sea of ebony, and amber, and amethyst. "Ah!" she sighed, "that I might set afloat in one of those phantom barks, and drift away to a sainted shore (who, that has been in love, had not some 'isle' of their own?) where love is not a secret, guilty thing, and where the heart may escape its burdens, and wander freely under the living light of immortal truth, unvexed by the tortuous by-ways laid out by ever-deviating humanity to lead the soul away, and lose it among the decaying jungle of sensuous enjoyment or moral sophisms!" An unusual corimotion among the fuchsia bloom in- terrupted this soliloquy, and the thought glanced quickly through Mildred's mind that this was a more lengthy     240       BOUND DOWN ,: and a more sentimental speech than she was accustomed to make to herself. At this moment a voice among the- fuchsias spoke her name. She recognized it at once as that of Dr. Marston. She felt disturbed for a moment, and her first impulse was to retreat; but, rallying, she . only expressed a delicate surprise at his presence in so unusual a time and place. Her next thought was, had he heard her speak? But a glance out in the moon liht told that the man was terribly in'earnest-more seriously than Mildred had ever seen him before. His hat was thrown back upon his head, and his long, white fingers clinched his coat-collar firmly. Every muscle of his face and figure stood out hard and uncompromising under that unsteady, fluctuating light. The wind tossed his hair and played among his garments, but he took no notice and only bent his eyes steadily upon Mildred, Whor sat pale behind the fuchsias. At length he approached, and thrusting the bushes abruptly aside, spoke almost brusquely, as he settled his arms. upon the window-seat. "'Mildred," he said, without a word of preface, "I am not here to apologize for that which may seem rude; I have come to say that I love you, and to ask whhy you so avoid me."              ' "Certainly," returned the lady, "if you did not kno v why you would have the right to inquire."  Dr. Marston hesitated with his next remark while he crushed the purple blood from a living flower. "Then," he said, more slowly, "you have learned cf my--my engagement with Miss Montrose." " Yes," feebly spoken. "And you avoided me for that??" "I confess I did,' Mildred said, more firmly. "Alh! then you id--you do love me. Only tell me this, and let the worst come."  ! .  . . *"*,.     ,    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    241 Mildred was silent. She could hear the beating of that great heart through the stillness as he waited for an answer; but out of all that struggled for utterance, not one word did she admit to the threshold of her lips. Again he put the question exactly in the same words, and waited again With the same old eagerness. It would be both weak and sinful in me to seek to perpetuate a passion which offers a deliberate challenge to the manifest course of a destiny which you have chosen for yourself." Perhaps Mildred Gray had never spoken more satiri- cally than this in the whole course of her life. "Mildred Gray, am I a tool in the hands of fate?" never observing'the sarcasm. "We are all so to some extent," was the trite reply, only employed to hide the deeper answer. I do not love that woman ;" and the man's tone Was so loud that Mildred knew every ear in the house might have heard. "She is lovely, and worthy of you," the lady said. And she shivered as if she had spoken falsely. "You are trifling with me," the man spoke huskily. "Heaven forbid!" and the miserable defenses she had built up fell at once, and Mildred Gray sobbed openly in the most womanly way in the world. It was only for a moment; she was stronger for her tears (what woman is not?) and now, a holy passion lighting her beautiful face, and an indescribable pathos rippling among the natural melodies of her voice, she spoke calmly. a"Dr. Marston," she said, lifting her sweet, pale face full to the moonlight, " hear me to the end, for I have no power now for discussion; you may have observed that I did not ask if you love Helen, that was because I be- 21 d ^        . , *      242        BOUND DO WN, lieve those first words you spoke to me to-night. Bi t, while I ought to hope those words might die in ed o, I cannot find it in my heart to withhold from y u the little of solace you may gain in the assurance that I do love you; here let these mutual confessions rest under the shadows of future years. Helen will love aid trust you, and you will make her happy. For me, no matter; we must part. I shall go abroad with rmy father, who, you may know, is to be married in a week; whatever else, I shall not regret that I knew and loved you. " "Do you mean what you have just said? is all this irrevocable, inevitable?"  "As I mean to be just," faltered the brave woman. "Then God help me, and her, and you 1" he added, his lips whitening even under the white moonlight. There are moments in every life, either of joy or o sorrow, Then the very flow of nature seems curdled into profound stillness; when even the hum of the insect, or the din of the town, is hushed for the time; when objects  wave and recede and grow still before the eye; in a word: when the material senses- seem subdued in the presence of a single emotion. Such a moment came this once t Mildred Gray and Henry Marston.  Long after this agonizing night the memory of that first, last burning kiss-voiceless interpreter of two longing, waiting souls -gleamed. like a diamond, full of the gloried hues of a strange life, above the darkness of two lonely paths. Oh, the stupendous height, the immeasurable breadth, the incalculable depth of possibilities of a life, led through suffering to charity, through meditation to faith, through aspiration to love, a life dedicated to high purpose and to truth I Possibly, this beautiful character had not, iinits earlier stages, seemed more perfect than the average (*1   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     243 humanity; but through peculiar conditions it had grown to look up and learn of that" angel aloft" until virtue and sacrifice had become not mere'hypothetical possibilities, but the unchanging realities of its existence. The next morning rose bright and clear, and the first sounds that fell upon Mildred's ear were the half-faltering but energetic tones of Cora's voice, as in unsuccessful but repeated effort she essayed a " tune." "Poor little Cora 1" she said, smiling sadly; and then a sharp pang caught her breath, at the thought that she must this day announce the news of her departure from among them. Therefore, after an early consultation with her father; it was decided that Miss Gray was to go abroad, and from that hour a pall settled over the household. "You can't think what dreadful things will happen when you are gone, Miss Mildred!"Cora said, as she stood looking into the bright blaze that made an un- natural light over her pallid, despairing little face. "Dreadful things," she repeated musingly. "And to Aunty, too, I think-to all of us," never lifting her eyes. Mildred shuddered-she always did when those little prophecies were uttered-so sharp, so sudden, so un- bidden. Can you tell me more clearly what you mean?" with another shiver at the heart.       :, "Only that you will never find things this way any more," the child returned simply. "Cora, do vou say I should not go away?" Mildred asked this with a flush of eagerness upon her face.  "Oh! I do not say that. You may escape some bitter, bitter times, darling Miss Mildred ;" and the little creat-     244        BOUND DOWN, ure threw herself passionately upon the neck of her kind friend, and once again wept the tears of childhood The following week was full of joy, and sorrow, and preparation. Mr. Haywood, instigated by who knows what motive, if any at all, had proposed a lease of the Montrose dwelling, with the express provision that Mr Montrose and Helen, its two present incumbents, shoLld remain precisely as they were. 'Now, it should have been remarked, that Mr. Montrose had, for reasons mere praiseworthy than will be accredited him, entirely ceased his visits to the house of Haywood for a period of several months. But this proposition, emanatin from such a source, and illumined with all the enchanting visions of domestic delights, quite captured the high resolves of the really gallant gentleman. Besides, the anxiety he felt for the comfort of Helen who refused to leave him alone, added the balance in favor of Haywood's proposal, and the arrangements for the change were speedily completed. Accordingly, the heir-looms, the family treasures ard relics were securely deposited in fitting quarters, ard agreeable to Dianais express wish to see every detail carried out, the new-comers assumed immediate posses- sion. The marriage ceremonies were to take. place at eight in the morning; a reception breakfast, and thence to tie steamer, which was to leave the wharf precisely at ten o'clock. It was late when'the sisters separated upon their last night at home, and Diana retired with eyes red with weeping, and with a heavy load at her heart quite new to her. For, painful as the revelation had been, sl e had discovered that Helen, so far from exhibiting an in- crease of sorrow as the hour for separation drew near manifested an unequivocal desire to release herself from 4 J   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    245 the last confidential interview. She fidgeted and walked the room; she opened the doors of her wardrobes, and lifted the lids of her boxes; she looked at her watch, and yawned, and at last actually declared that, in view of i "coming events," her sister really ought to be in her bed. At last Diana kissed the "heartless creature" sorrow- fully, and went. Helen's first movement, after her sister's step had died along the hall, was to fly to the door and lock it. Then she dragged her sleepy maid from her bed, and hastily instructed her how to proceed. Trunks were to be relieved of their present contents and refilled in proper order. Only one heavy traveling suit to be left out-all supplies for the voyage to be of light material, plenty of light reading, portfolios, games, glasses, etc. to be left in the "state-room" trunk. Then tfere was a broad-brimmed hat to be trimmed, and a few letters of adieu to be written besides. A Among the latter, a glance at that addressed to her old friend Dr. Marston, may be, by virtue of former confidences, due to the reader who shall have worried through so many pages of this book. Under proper date, Miss Montrose penned the following, with never a tear to bear witness: "DR. HENRY MARSTON. "DEAR SIR AND KIND FRIEND: I cannot suppress the trite quotation, 'Who would be free himself must strike the blow.' "To the end that there shall exist no misunderstand- ing between us, let me venture to address you with a degree of frankness scarcely warrantable under other au- spices than these. I have formed a very hasty resolve to accompany my sister and her husband abroad, and while I am not happy at explanations, I beg to recognize your 21*  k          I   - 246       B OUND DOWN, claim upon my regard as superior to all others. Of the peculiar nature of the compact existing between us I need not here speak. My first object is to explain myself, whom you know so imperfectly, and next, to perform an act of simple justice. You know me most well as a child, and belonging to others; I am now a woman, and I belong to myself; a woman self-reliant, ambitious, and " hopeful. "I do not say that in giving you my hand I could never give you my love; I only mean humbly'to ac- knowledge thbt, up to the present hour, I am not justified by my conscience in employing the liberties of the civil laws for the violation of the higher laws of nature. I will not deny that I am strongly fortified in my action by the unwavering conviction that there is in this confession nothing that Will bring you pain; but that rather, when I cheerfully release you, as I hereby do, from all matri- m6nial engagements between us, you will thank me in the same kindly spirit that dictates this communication. "I regret that your temporary absence from the city renders it imperative that these good tidings shall be con- veyed by letter, or that I should lose the opportunity of hearing your expressions of gratitude from your own lips. I "Devoutly trusting, that your next betrothal may not raise up a rival for you from among the leaves of a port- folio, and hoping, in conclusion, to hear from you very soon, believe me, dear sir, "Very sincerely your friend, "HELEN MONTROSE." The first glance of the new day found Miss Helen's "baggage" in orderly array ready to be conveyed on boar ithe steamer. She ordered her early morning bath ,         ,         .   as usual, and not till she appeared at brea'st-time in full traveling outfit did the truth reveal telf to her friends. The brother protested, the sister encouraged, Captain Gray applauded, and only Mildred was petrified into -silence. That is what comes of giving a woman her own way in little things; remember that, captain," Montrose said ruefully. It is not necessary to note just what the gentleman thus addressed either said or, did at this juncture; we pass it over with the marriage ceremony and the part- ings. They are all dreadful in their way, and should never be detailed in writing. The reader may have guessed that Mildred Gray would, by some unforeseen accident, be detained at the last moment; she was not. She sailed away with her happy friends, past the storied rocks and the pictured island, through the Golden Gate, grim; tearless witness of many a bleeding heart and prostrate hope, sailed away into the broad, beating ocean, and knew not that Henry Marston was free. CHAPTER XXX. "AND, Cora darling, pray do not forget the subjects of our little charities," had been among Mildred's last words to the child.  And Cora did not forget. Dr. Marston furnished her with a list of the most helpless, and-the "poor plate" waited upon the breakfast-table with the same undevi- ating regularity; so that there was little need of the in- ..     248       BOUND DOWv, junction, only that she loved to remember it. Every morning "John," in sweeping "cue" and shining frock of blue "lastirig," followed just as devoutly in the wake of the little Samaritan, to the cabin, or the tent, or the tenement apartment, wherever the sufferer chanced to be, always intent upon his important charge of chicken soup, asparagus, or strawherries, and never failing, if possible of achievement, to add a dish of his favorite "Iicey" upon his own responsibility. In this way it happened that Miss Cora was able greatly to extend her observations, and to number, among other acquisitions, quite a promiscuous acquaintance. One day, as the child, returning from a visit of this kind, walked slowly along the macadamized road leading from the old Mission Dolores, through a boggy strip of low land on the one side, and sloping up to terminate in an ambuscade of chaparral, which thickly studded the hill-side, on the other, she fancied she felt, as she after- ward expressed it, a sudden rush of air sweeping by, as if a great wind had suddenly broken from a cloud. Looking ahead, she was horrified at the sight of a horse- woman, swaying frightfully from side to side, threaten- ing every moment to lose her balance in her saddle, as the terrified horse dashed headlong over the way, more mad, and blind, and frantic with every bound. Another dash, and the lady was thrown to the ground, her foot still fixed in the stirrup, while her body was dragged furi- ously over the graveled way. An impetuous, searching glance revealed the awful truth to Cora that not a human being was anywhere in sight. Child as shewxas, she had learned her power, and, stepping boldly forward into the middle of the road, she interposed her own little, frail figure between, with that serene confidence which only belongs to steadfast faith.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    249 The movement caught the blazing eye of the animal, and"he threw back his head, manifestly slackening his speed. Cora saw her advantage and seized the bridle. The creature panted, quivered, stared wildly, and finally stood still. Quick as thought the child sprang to releasei the foot of the unfortunate lady, while the horse already bent his beautiful neck and strained his nostrils to the utmost in the process of investigation touching Cora's personality. "Speak, poor lady," said the child, raising the pale face, covered with dust and blood, to her lap, while a shower of flossy, golden hair swept over her knee and fell to the ground. Then, as the thought struck her, she laid the fainting head softly down, and springing up, caught her little bucket, and flew to a pool near by, fill- ing it and hurrying swiftly back. But the woman showed no signs of life, and Cora shortly fell into de- spair. A moment after; however, she descried persons hurrying up from every quarter, and, quite to the child's surprise, Mr. Haywood appeared among them, his un- usual haste and manifest alarm evincing a more that common interest in the unhappy occurrence. He sprang from the saddle, and dispatching a messen ger for a doctor, stooped and raised the slender figure ol the lady in his arms. He called her Clara, and begge( her to answer, bathed her face, glancing furtively at the group of .rough men and children gatiered taround, thei whispered in her ear, and, with a sudden intuition -b looked up and saw the child. The rich blood in hi cheeks turned purple-that was all, except, perhaps, little undue haste to say how it all happened. The lad, was a friend-a client, indeed-alone in the great city- needed air, exercise-pure philanthropy on the part o the gentleman-dreadful result.: Poor thing-still dal     250        BOUND DO WN, bling her face nervously-if only his wife-but then she could do no good, even if she were there-of course not. Meanwhile, the doctor arrived, and the lady rallied. She inquired for her preserver; and as Cora was the- only one who knew anything about the arrest of the a animal, she came forward, and very modestly told -her little story. The woman kis'sed the little'plain face, and told the child where she could come to see her, while Haywood switched his boots unmercifully with his riding- whip. Directly a carriage drove up, and took the stranger, half fainting and evidently very ill, back to the city. : A precocious mind is a monstrosity, and should bet  curbed and metaphorically bandaged, after the manner of: treatment for any phase of physical overgrowth. But the perceptions of this strange child, Cora, were, if advanced, only natural and spontaneous, being rather the result of '- impression than of labored irgument or thought. Indeed . stolid and unimpassioned reason too often refused to sus- i  tain the impulsive declaration, whereby the young lady :? vas sometimes brought to confusion. The occurrences immediately succeeding the accident just related bore  a phase of such discomfiture, besides pretty effectuallyf,". settling the question of Cora's logic, in her own mind, at least. Unquestionably, Mr. Montrose had grown to be a:  favorite with the child: she had outlived her first impres- sions of the man, which, it may be remembered, were full of apprehensions and vague anxieties. Graceful of-de- meanor, unrestrained of manner and speech, a certain spirit of challenge, half daring, half deferential, and alto- gether courtly 'and agreeable, balanced by gravity, or pathos, or emotion, as occasion seemed to warrant, won upon the taste and fancy of the youthful feminine mind   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    251 with the same comparative degree that such qualities are sure to do upon more mature heads and hearts. Now it so happened that on the same afternoon to which reference has just been made, Mrs. Haywood had, with a little flutter at the heart, perhaps, accepted an in- vitation for a, drive upon the ocean beach with Mr. Mont- rose. If, upon taking a seat at his side, her heart beat a little clamorously in demand of an explanation of an action quite unusual in her married life until recently, thte excuse was pronptly rendered, and, to her perceptions, all-suffi- cient. To think of her lonely condition I Mildred gone- Corals time divided between her school and those little charity missions, so dear as a tie to the memory of her loved and absent friend-of course she had nothing to expect of her husband. His companionship was only a memory of the long past now, and gradually feebler from time to time, she had quite relaxed in her demands upon his leisure; and so he only came and went as any casual guest, with light words upon his lips, and never more than a formal recognition of his domestic duties and requirements. Toward evening, as Cora sauntered dreamily back to the city, swinging her little empty bucket, and musing upon the fair woman who had come and, gone like a troubled vision, she beard the clatter of hoofs and the sound of wheels, and, remembering that the road was narrow at this point, she lightly sprang across the drain- channel, and rested upon the bank till the carriage should have passed. As the travelers drew nearer, Cora ob- served that the gentleman holding the reins with one hand was occupied in putting back the hair and wiping the dampness from the brow of the lady, and ended by folding the robes carefully and tenderly about her figure. A few paces nearer, and Cora recognized Mr. Montrose     a. '          ."     252   e    BOUND. DO WN, and Mrs. Haywood. Instantly she recalled the events of the afternoon, and secretly marveled that her heart should fail to fire with the same indignation she had felt upon witnessing the rehearsal of a scene only differing in that Mr. Haywood instead of Montrose had been bhe actor. Cora rose, the carriage halted,' and she was taken up. Then followed a brief explanation, wherein it appeared that, having driven down the beach in company with a party of friends, Mrs. Haywood and Mr. Montrose had, upon a challenge, taken the lead in crossing on foot upon broken ledges and stones to the famous "Cave in the Rocks," whence their gay companions had, at the last moment, and too late for the two to retreat, refused to follow. Having gained the cavern triumphantly, however, what was their dismay to find the tide rapidly setting in I A mute glance revealed the situation; the only outlet to the cave being the burnished breast of the Pacific. Tile gathering surf piled its mimic astles each moment to a more and more ambitious reach, measuring with shorten- ing tread the chances of escape. Five, ten, fifteen minutes passed between consultation and rapid examination of the wall and the extremities of this shadowy haunt of the wind and waves. Then, with scarcely more than a word from his determined lips, Montrose lifted the terrified. woman in his arms, and seizing upon a moment when the tide began to recede, he strode in among the gambol- ing breakers, while the foam whitened his own locks and embroidered the robes of his fair burden till they seemed like twain-jeweled Aphrodites risen from the sea. Such was the plain story of an innocent adventure, n accident altogether unavoidable, after the leading fact of having so situated themselves with respect to the charity or the magnanimity of their temporary judges. But U . ' " ' I   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.-   253 whether it be that the uncharitable spirit is oftenest stronger in the breast, poisoning the tongue and beguil- ing the judgment, or whether, in very feebleness of mind / and purpose, too many, both of men and women, estimate others according to their own morbid tests, the result is the same; the world is often carping and censorious, and will espy one swarthy defect among a whole battalion of white-robed virtues. In just such -an easy and natural way, as:may be imagined, these people were destined to glide out into the turbulent, merciless tide of public scan- dal, never, perhaps--te woman least of all, alas!-to lift their wave-whitened heads to the full height of perfect, fearless, and unchaenged selfhood again. CHAPTER XXXI.  "WHY, Cora, what accident has befallen your apron? It is disgracefully soiled and stained," Mrs. Haywood re- marked, as, merging from the dimly-lighted apartment where the ladies had hastily lain aside their out-of-door garments, they descended to the dining-room, where the gentlemen were already seated. "Oh, I had forgotten 1" the child returned quickly, glancing at Mr. Haywood, as she took her seat beside him at the table. But the look was returned by another of the most imperturbable serenity. "Tell me, darling," Mrs. Haywood urged, with unusual persistency, " whbat happened while you were abroad to-day?" The lady scarcely comprehended how direct was the 22     254       BOUND DOWN,       -  question, and the napkin-ring twirled from Harry's finger: only spun a little more actively; he never lifted his eyes.  But Cora grew restless, not- under the questioning, for in ' that was'nothing extraordinary, but the old, chilly warn- ing crept over heart and brain, and she knew she must speak words fashioned for an end leaning forward beyond the limits of her normal vision,.but fr which she must render account. Ah! how much we all suffer for that wise but unrevealed purpose which, unheeding of means, tramples upon the short-lived fruits of the mortal vintage in order that the sparkling, living wine of everlasting truth may low. That there was, indeed, no need for her hesitation and embarrassment, the child knew well enough; and it was just for this that she tried to thrust the explanation through her open lips, but she could not. Mr. Montrose came bravely to the rescue. "Some one of Cora's good Samaritan projects has brought her to confusion by making her do duty as a surgeon, a branch of the art of healing which her humanity ignores," the gentleman said, banteringly; how much of it is true, Cora?" After a pause, Cora found voice: "Miss Mildred always' said, let my good deeds be spoken by others; it is only the wrong I need confess." "But there are none here to report your heroism, and your Aunty is devoured with curiosity," Mr. Montrose urged, glancing again at thb tell-tale apron. Cora's eyes wandered from the gleaming blade of the knife wielded most dexterously in the hand' of Mr. Hay- wood, as he daintily laid aside one section after another of the plump, savory fowl, and looking half appealingly, half curiously into the blank countenance, she secretly  wondered if he enjoyed her discomfiture sufficiently to permit her to make herself the hero of her own story, ,B        er; qwn story,   T OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    255 while he knew all about it, although she would willingly enough have related it, hero and all, but for his presence. This she felt from the first moment the subject was men- tioned. The imperturbable gentleman, however, thought it time to speak. "I can explain the matter," he broke out. "My lady fell into an imbroglio with some of her young Celtic friends, and came off ingloriously, as the marks upon her pinafore testify." All smiled but Cora; she accepted the remark as a challenge, and whatever his motives toward evasion--a matter in which she had no care or conjecture-her self- pride rallied round this point in the discussion, and she replied, not altogether without bitterness, "It is ungenerous of you, Uncle Hal, the only one who really knows how the blood-stains really came upon my apron and frock; and I did so want you to tell about it and save me from seeming bold." "Tell what, you crazy little goose?" blurted out this strangely contradictory man, cool and impetuous in a breath, who, nevertheless, generally succeeded best when off his guard. Mrs. Haywood lifted her glass to her lips, looking -straight into the crystal water, and Mr. Montrose plied his napkin a little more vigorously than was necessary to his moustache. "About the accident to the lady with the beautiful shining hair, and how her poor white face bled upon my clothes, and you washed it away." "The child is raving!"Haywood spoke, assuming a look of blank dismay, which, if Montrose half suspected, completely deceived the wife. "Uncle Hal, do not tease me; it was pitiful, and. you seemed to realize it then." t      256       BOUND DOWN, "I am painfully ignorant of what you are talking about, Cora."'  "Did you not send for the coachman and lift the woman froIn the ground where she had fallen from her horse, and bathe her face with your own hand, and put her into the carriage, and send your own horse away, riding home beside her?" and the blue eyes grew rounder, and the nostrils grew thin and white as paper. "Upon an intimate acquaintance with myself, I feel justified in declaring this witness innocent of familiarity or sympathy with the woes of wife or maiden, to the extent of not having beamed upon any such divinity outside my own charming family, for the space of one week, more or less. Further, deponent testifieth not.7, No hysterical ejaculation, or incredulous retort, or other exhibition escaped the little wonder-stricken child; she only paused in respiration, her eye glued upon some object immediately before her, and shivering slightly, she exclaimed, plaintively, "Well! then I am crazy at last!" Harry Haywood burst into a loud, convulsive laugh, in the intervals of which he declared that he had hopes of Cora, for she had at length discovered that which all the world had known since she first opened her eyes upon light and sin. It-was a moment full of pain and embarrassm'ent to all, lut especially so to Jane Haywood. She was con- founded. She had never seen the reflection even of dis- honesty in Cora; but what of him? And yet, he would -not, she thought, be guilty of so unmanly an act as the bold Utterance of a falsehood-that could not be possible, becajse-well, she had loved him.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    257 Dinner hour passed heavily enough, different topics being duly mustered into service, proved inadequate to the occasion, and informally dismissed. Dessert came on, but with it no enthusiasm; a few grapes were crushed for the sake of appearances, but the untouched delicacies went back drearily, and the family arose from the table silently, and we'nt away. Oh, kind, benignant, charitable, and canker-concealing lodge-night! Sweet conceit of man-natural foe of woman! with the sound of the little compound word rise visions of weary hours of long watches for dusky forms and coming footsteps. But for once Mrs Hay- wood felicitated herself upon the recollection that it was lodge-night. She wanted to be left alone, to think,- to talk a little to Cora, and then to think again. And so when the last step had died along the walk, Jane and Cora, woman and child, sat down among the roseate tints of the embers, and communed again in soul and speech, as they had done so many times, all through the years that were gone.   - Cora.- "Aunty, a real grown-up impossibility is not 'the same as a little one that only needs growth to get to be a possibility, is it?"  Jane--"I am not quite sure that I understand you, Cora." In truth she was quite sure she did no such thing.  Cora.--"Well, you know some people do badly because they are bad; others because they are weak, and can't seem to help it; and others because some- thing happens to make them do it, while they do not really want to. I guess with one it is a real impos- sibility, and with the other a possibility too weak to bear its weight." 22*     258       BOUND DOWN, Jane.-"Then we should wait patiently for its devel- opment." ora.-"If it is a truth ; but whatif it is not?" JaLe.--"For instance, Cora?" Cora .-"Well, one may, tell a thing without a scruple which is positively untrue; another, with a great deal- of mortification, may only conceal something. Which is more to be blamed?" 'The large, dark eyes of the brunette, usually so soft and quiet, sought Cora's almost fiercely, and the flush upon the round cheek grew deeper even than the rich hue the firelight had painted it. And yet she could not force one word of reproach from her lips. But Cora's mood was not one wherein she could be easily discom- fited; and, though she marked the sign of pain upon lip apd brow, she only looked a little whiter while she spoke. ; "Wrhen I shut my eyes I see angry waves, and, a ireat sea-wall, such as is beginning to grow up about ;lcatraz; and when these and other things come before - ine, I must say all that comes to me, for somewhere there is sorrow, and there is work for me. Aunty, I feel ,s if I were half a woman to-night-as if the little, old-f shioned, dreamy, capricious child were falling behi d me-as if life were here, and eternity before." And the child rose, clasping her slender fingers above her head, and stood out in the uncertain light, glorified with her new-born zeal. "Cora! Oh, my darling 1"Mrs. Haywood called drearily, "you are yet too young to appreciate the pas- sions and sympathies constantly at work to beguile the heart and judgment of a woman; but some day you shall understand how much your fervid, magnetic, well- directed powers have done to lift my soul above beset- i   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    259 ments to a fuller view of its duties and obligations. Cora I you have saved me," and she caught the little figure convulsively; "not from suffering,' and the voice trembled, "but from that most intense of human agony, the sin against my own conscience." "That is what the Bible calls grieving the Holy Ghost."  "Perhaps so," a little doubtfully; for the lady held fast to the old theology, though with Cora iin the van she floundered through many miry places. An hour more of quiet, loving talk, and the little eye- lids began to flutter and droop; and before Mrs. Hay- wood's last good-night had fairly died along the hall, Cora was asleep. "Yes i I will tell him the incident of to-day, unim- portant as it may seem, and little as he has done to deserve my confidence." But it was not that resolve which brought the quiver to the lip and the deadly pallor to the cheek-she had left that far behind; and, as she sat alone in the stillness of that midtight hour, she was delving with iconoclastic hand among the hidden treasures of her heart, with a new and higher purpose than she had before known. Poor heart! Weak .human nature I Brave womanl For ever and again, as she lifted the puny arm to strike the dear image, the hand fell powerless. "I will pray," whispered the woman. There may be some who imagiWn that the struggle ends with this Christian resolve-there be others who know better. Jane Haywood did not pray. So poor an intervention as the click of the night-latch came between her noble -resolution and its enforcement. Indeed, the spirit was     260       BOUND DOWN, 'grieved," and fled, for a mortal presence was still dearer, and interposing, took its place. ":Hawood is not in yet," half interrogatively spoke Fred Montrose, 'as, dropping his cloak in the hall, he appeared at the open door of the drawing-room, Mrs. Haywood was reclining upon a sofa, robed grace- fully, in some soft, rich material, shielding her eyes from the light with one hand, while with the other she feebly attempted to fasten the falling braids of hair. At the sound of his voice she rose, and the old ecstasy came back, and sat as triumphantly at her heart as if Cora had died in the old tenement-house, as& her mother did kong ago. But that was all. She merely stood up, and said, "No," in reply to the question; a little more shy, per- haps, and a little more restrained in manner, if anything, than before. She had thought to pray that the image of this man might turn to ashes in her wife-soul.  And what did the man? He saw there was a struggle somewhere, pitied it, rose, and pressing the delicate fingers lightly betwecn his own, for a moment only, took his night-lamp and went to bed. "My dear madam," said Mr. Haywood, upon leaving 'the breakfast-room the next morning, "might I indulge the hope of holding an hour of conversation with you this morning?" "Certainly, Harry." And the eyes showed the sur- prise which the voiq, failed to betray. 'Thle conference proved to be, as Mrs. Haywood sus- pected, to the end that Cora be placed somewhere away from home in school. To interpose objections, she well knew, would but be placing her own selfish feelings in the way of the- real interest of the child, and, in this light, she of course acquiesced. It was therefore ar- I        '       '      1' I \   ) OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    261 ranged that Cora should enter school at the Benicia Seminary on the first of the following month. "And one thing more," caljod out Harry, carelessly, as Jane laid her, hand upon the door; "last night, by a mere accident, I heard your name mentioned in connec- tion with a rather extraordinary occurrence, and as you seem to have forgotten to mention it, I will take this oc- casion to do so." The first sensation was confusion, but that soon passed, and the wife turned almost fiercely, ad throwing back her head, with a look of proud defiance, she demanded rather than asked, "Was anything said to my dishonor?" "Well, that is a good joke; as if bar-room scandal recognized such a thing as honor. Ha I ha!" "And you listened without remonstrance or rebuke?" "Well, yes, since I did not propose to exhibit myself as 'champion of the light weights' for the amusement of the public. Besides, I was not posted as to the facts. We never enter a complaint unless we have g show of facts to sustain it." "Harry," and the eyes blazed anew, "whatever of wrong or of outrage to my affections, of broken faith or perjured vows, believe me, the iron has never, under it all, so entered; my soul as now. I will state to you the 'faiets,' but it is the last act, on my part, of confidence between us, till I shall have some proof that such confi- dences are not wholly misplaced. If your heart leads you away from me, I am the last to censure-only our relations should change. You have no right to hold me by a false tenure, or to impose upon me obligations which, having lost their sacred element, sink me to the depths of a depraved woman. So, persisting to do as you have done, I will not be answerable for the result.   .                 -  \^      262       BOUND DOWN, The unfortunate event of yesterday I will relate to you, asking in return, however, no explanation of the remark- able conversation that took place between yourself and Cora on last evenin'g, to which, by-the-by-I volunteer the information-no allusion has been made since." Then leaning her hand lightly upon the table, as she remained standing, Mrs. Haywood told the straightforward, plain story of the adventure on the beach, as already related. When she had finished, she stood for some moments waiting a response, but none came, inasmuch as milord, who had retired under cover of his eyelids early in the  recital, still remained undemonstrative and motionless. Whether the man had really fallen asleep during his wife's rehearsal will forever remain a mystery to all but  himself. One thing is certain-when Jane Haywood closed the door of the library on this morning, she left behind her the last hope of renewed trust and fealty. A day or two after, while engaged in some domestic duties, involving a glance at the " week's wash" below- stairs, Mrs. Haywood drew, from the pocket of her hus- band's velvet riding-jacket a handkerchief soiled with blood and dust, and with evident marks upon it of hav- ing been dabbled in water. She spoke no word, but only looked a bitter smile, as she tossed it among the heap of linen, which she calmly directed the servant to take away. And then she sat down and mused for a long' while. Europe! A letter from Mildred! oh, -joy.! a little white, fluttering thing, but so replete with sweet words and graceful thoughts, and dear remembrances, and graphic descriptions of men, and women, and places, and events. "Last night," said she, "we all went, with reinforcements from among our friends, to hear Ole Bull. He was already upon the platform when we entered the   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     263 house. We were scarcely seated when a great sob came up from my heart, and another, and another-else I must have smothered. He stood with head thrown back, his grand old face, pale and serene, lit with a strange and wondrous glory. His eyes were closed, and his only gesture was made when, in producing a rapid succession of notes or trills, or in a sudden transition of those grandly eloquent but unfamiliar chords, he would toss up the neck of his instrument in a wild kind of ecstasy, and then, precipitating his head forward, his iron-gray hair, once very fair, and yet showing the sunbeams lying among it, wo;uld scatter in sullen locks about his broad forehead, like glinted foliage when the old tree is writh- ing in the wind. Ah! surely those tones have a soul, and are some way linked with, eternity. The mere artis- tic and manipulative power furnish but a poor idea of the quality of his genius; the witching mystery lies in the power of the man to lift and entrance the soul with sound-to ravish the' senses with 'harmony. In this man, I thought, appear the developed possibilities of a life. Once unappreciated, obscure, hungry, and despair- ing, it is said, he sought the fate of the suicide, but, as he 'lifted the false keys to the gates of heaven,' immor- tality seized the hand, and played the grand overture for the life beyond.  "Again," says Mildred, toward the close of her letter, "I desire to write a book, but feel how great is the un- dertaking; varied and heterogeneous as seem the ele- ments which go to make up a nation, such as politics, religion, jurisprudence, literature, science, art, and physi- cal nature, with all their ramifications and bearings, although operating mysteriously, adjusting different and apparently incongruous parts with an intuition wholly 'inscrutable to us in detail, do yet produce results con-     264        BODqUND DOWN, sistent with the operation of certain fixed external laws, but this life, with its hidden springs, and its conflicting and varied phenomena, embraces a philosophy deeper and more subtle and mysterious, drawing its highest truths from the obscurities of Infinitude. And so I must wait for my little inspiration, and some day we will write a book together. Dear Cora, is not that a grand idea?' The letter contained much over whichl to linger long and lovingly; but these few extracts, exhaust the limits of these pages. Let us glance for a moment at the movements of Dr. Marston. Returning to the city and finding the letter of Miss Helen Montrose, unequivocally releasing him from an engagement which had carried with it nothing better than the promise of domestic thraldom, his gratitude swelled to the proportion of a higher sentiment, and he almost brought himself to believe that he had loved the proud, self-willed, capricious, but really noble girl. All this ecstasy of feeling, however, it may be remarked, trans- pired prior to the discovery that Mildred Gray had also departed. Then the man arose within him; was this a trick to cheat him of hope? Was there a conspiracy be- tween the two? and was Mildred hollow-hearted and un- worthy? How else? Once the confidante of Helen, she must have known the secret. She had gone, and left him "- no word; not even one line to say that after some time, perhaps, etc. Yes. Undoubtedly the whole world was hollpw, or only stuffed with saw-dust; and, worse' than all, saw-dust that glittered like gold. He would go straight to Mrs. Haywood-no; upon second thought, Mrs. Haywood might not know, and it would lie awk- ward business, He would write to Helen, and thank her; and he would write to Mildred, and-reproach her. Oh, no, for there was no love betrayed, no faith broken, for 6iV       -     OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    265 no vows had their lips exchanged. True, there were treasured up in the memory of both, tones and gestures, and glances, and hand-pressures, and unspoken vows, and silent responses, enough to have sealed their two souls to all eternity; but neither was committed, be- yond the present, in actual words. Ah I how manyi a fickle heart has taken refuge under just such false and flimsy cover as this: "I never said I loved;" or, 'We are not engaged." No! but you, whoever you are, who sought to win the love you could not return, perjured yourself in the face of heaven. Much more than this passed in review before the mental vision of our worthy friend, but to his credit let it be said, that the whole series of speculations, savoring of reproaches and imprecations and various false charges, were duly dismissed, and all ended in an abiding faith,n the fervent love of Mildred Gray. So unerring is the instinct of the human heart. But the charm of life was at least temporarily sus- pended, and existence dragged heavily. The mornings seemed more foggy, and the summer winds colder than ever before. Patients were insufferably slow in returh- ing to health, and old friends lost their " bonhomie" and prated or stayed too long. Rumors of flush times in the gold-bearing districts were afloat from time to time, and at length the doctor determined to launch out upon the fluctuating tide. I In pursuance of which plan, a morn- ing with Mrs. Haywood and Cora. concluded the long round of unprofessional visits; and one evening, the gorgeous summer sunset burning in the west, mingling its opal tints with the swarthy waters of the Sacra- mento, found Dr. Marston steaming away through the "tule" lands and along the embroidered edges of the soft emerald hills, bound for the "upper country.' 23     266       BOUND DOWN, CHAPTER XXXII. AND what of poor Cora, whose happy home-days were fast fading into dreams-not unshapen, like those of the future, but boldly fashioned from the realities of life, and fixed upon her youthful brain for all time to come? We shall see. The moment has arrived--as was long ago apparent that' it must-when the internal economy of the house of Haywood must come to the light. No man who plays at cards can hope to be continuously successful. The philosophy of gaming is deductive, and counts its results with almost mathematical precision. Mr. Hay- wood was no exception to the rule. He gambled and lost; won and lost again! It was the old story repeated, of profligacy, and pride, and poverty; of lavishment abroad and restrictions at home, and falsehood everywhere. "Mrs. Knowlton," said Mrs. Haywood, speaking to her seamstress in a quiet, but firm voice, "I wish you to make over this cafe an lait poplin for Miss Cora." "Yes?" drawled the woman, interrogatively. "I think," Jane went on, taking no notice of the very significant manner, "that it will make a complete suit, and will look equal to new. See how ample it is," ex- tending it to its full width. "Oh yes, it is not that," fluttered the dressmaker. "And, as you will observe, it is of very rich material."' "And I like real true things," put in Cora, glaicing   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    261 irresistantly at the "pinchbeck" jewelry, and the gener- ally counterfeit attire of the seamstress. "For them that don't' mind putting their dear little things into second-hand dresses, why it's all well enough I suppose, but a lady like you, ought to give that to some poor woman that has to sew for a living, for in- stance," looking over her shoulder into the weary and almost haggard face of her who had more' than once proved her benefactor. But poverty is not the apostle of delicacy or good taste, and Mrs. Haywood remembering this, checked the retort that rose to her lips. "Besides," pursued the woman, "somebody will be sure to know the dress, and that would mortify the poor thing dreadfully." Have the goodness to go on and rip these seams care- fully, pick the threads, free it from dust, and lay the pat- terns for making the goods up on the other side," Mrs. i Haywoad said, quietly. Mrs. Knowlton produced the implements of labor, and set to work in earnest. "My I what a pity to put scissors into such goods as that," was the woman's next comment. "I know right well Mr. Haywood would put a stop to it-if he was here; - he'd say he could afford new dresses for Cora; but then, everybody to their notion; this same trimming can't go on again, of course, the dress must have something new and fresh about it, and this might do for children's hats or something, maybe for collars and cuffs for boys, seeing as it is on the bias;" and the dressmaker laid the rich velvet folds complacently aside.\ ,' "I had thought that would answer, if cut after some tasteful device and neatly sewed on. It was quite new, and I have worn the dress but little," Mrs. Iaywood ex-     268       BOUND DOWN, plained; but the tone, despite herself, sounded apologetic and weak, and she felt vexed and humiliated. But the sered perceptions of the seamstress were proof, and she continued in an injured tone: Well, the reputa- tion of a poor dressmaker aint much, that is so, especially if she ' goes out;' but I'm sure, I don't want the name of doing slop-work, though it aint for me to choose trim- mingos."    ,      ' This was a little more than the overtaxed pride of Jane Haywood could well bear, and the retort was ready. "If you will have the goodness to state to me the amount of my indebtedness, Mrs. Knowlton, I will make an effort to obtain the services of some one who has less professional reputation at stake." ;At a first glance, this action on the part of Mrs. Hay- wood might seem hasty and undignified, but when it is remembered that she felt keenly the necessity which compelled the reducing of her own wardrobe for the little supply required for Cora's school outfit, the result carried little surprise. Rather she hoped for some one whose delicacy of appreciation, and sympathy might contribute to assist her, or who, at'least, might give the charity of their silence. Buthow far she failed in her desires may be seen. After a few obsequious and unavailing apologies the woman delivered herself according to her taste and capa- city. "I might have known that no good would come of my. getting into this house to work. It's always the way; the more anybody risks the less thanks they get for it. Half the sewing-women wouldn't have Fcome here, at all for fear of being talked about." "What do you mean, madam?" demanded Mrs. Hay- wood, with a livid and appalled countenance.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    269 "Mean! As if you did not know. Oh, some people are mighty innocent!" tossing her head in disdainful in- ' credulity. Two plans occurred simultaneously to the lady of the house-one to open the door and bid the woman to be gone; the other to suppress her rage and listen. The former she could not afford to do, inasmuch as the in- formation might be of value; it was therefore the latter course that she chose. Fortunately, Cora had left the room before the conversation began, therefore there was no restraint. "I desire you will explain the observation you just made," said Mrs. Haywood in a husky voice, tugging as usual at the braids of hair at their imminent peril, with fingers as white as wax. "And so you don't know that the stories about you are under every chip and stone, and that the whole town is alive with bad reports about you, and that most every- body believes them?" "To what effect are these reports?" said Jane, with compressed lips. "Oh, it's everything!" said the woman, growing her- self interested in anything savoring of slander. "It is about Mr. Montrose, and ever so many more; but mostly about him, I believe. They tell about the Ocean Cave, and they say you live in his house and he supports you; and that'Mr. Haywood has affairs of his own everybody knows; you can get proof of that any minute; but-of course you know all about that, and it is your business, not mine. But there's one thing certain, everybody believes the whole story, and a great deal more than I have told." A quick, fierce, and indescribable pang shot through the heart and brain of the wife, and a hot tremor ran through every nerve and fiber of her body. There is no 23* /     270        BOUND DOWN, lie so fatal as that which has its predicate in truth, ever so innocent; and how much of truth was to be found in Athat part of the unhappy business which related to the movements of Jane Haywood, the reader has an opportu- nity to judge. Besides, though the fact may have escaped her observation in detail, yet the recollection of the great material pecuniary aid which She knew to have been afforded her husband through Montrose from time to time, an obligation, too, increasing day by day-sent the hot blood to the face, and sat in two burning spots upon the hitherto pallid cheeks. She had no heart to question further; if there were more she should know it soon enough. And having indicated this by her manner, the busy and intrusive female rose to take her leave. "I hope you won't distress yourself, madam," turn- ing back, with her hand upon the door, " perhaps I ought not to have told it, but when one gets ',riled' and they know a thing, they're pretty apt to tell it." The apology was not, as may be seen, of the most soothing or conciliatory character, and merely turning her head away, the lady said coldly, "that it was all not of the least consequence;" the tone ofbwhich said plainly it was of the utmost consequence; and the gossiping seamstress took her leave. The next morning the unhappy lady awoke with that heavy weight upon the brain which dulls but does not deaden the senses, which haunts the consciousness with- o ut revealing itself, sickening the soul to a degree; com- pared with which stark and undisguised despair would seem a luxury. She attempted to rise, but was so dis- pirited that she felt half relieved when her efforts failed. She sank back and occupied a half hour in reviewing the situation of affairs, and in speculating upon the dismal prospect which lay just before her. Oh, that there were   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     271 some one to whom to unburden her heart in this bitter hour I Should she tell her husband of these signs of the fall of her fair fame? Had she not herself declared an end of confidences between them, till he should furnish some proof that such confidences were not misplaced? And how had he elected to act in the matter? For three successive nights he had absented himself, never making his appearance until the breakfast hour, and only then offering some trifling excuse, happily fitting some excellent joke into the awkward places, and carrying the whole affair off lightly, as the idle wind tosses the idlest t foam that gathers upon the wave. The intentions of this woman-so far as she could see through her perplexities -were in the direction of leaving the house of Mr. Montrose; but how was this to be accomplished? That Mr. Haywood was basely using the preference which Mr. Montrose uzquestionably felt for herself, to his great pecuniary aev, atage, was as apparent as it was unnatural. Therefore, if she were to make application to such an end the means employed must bring about the same result. In any case, Fred Montrose was the moving power be-' neath their fortunes. And where were her friends? Alas I one breath had swept them away, and between herself and the only true woman she had ever intimately known, two oceans were rolling unceasingly. Ayl but after all, if Jane Haywood's poor little womanly heart had been uncompromisingly free, she might have marked that her inventive faculties were capable of wondrous expansion. Because, in those ele- ments of generalship to be found in fruitful resource and ready and efficient plans of resort, a bright, quick- witted woman will out-general a Napoleon. "Oh Pl says some disappointed reader, " here is a woman in love with another man than her husband!     7^     BOUND DOWN,  The story is spoiled." Ah! how many a life is robbed of its higher possibilities, cramped and misdirected and dis. torted by worldly conditions and circumstances; lives nobly designed, and only "spoiled" by a false stroke of the pencilI Who would dare sit in judgment upon this woman, or attempt to fix the limits of her transgression? Surely, it cannot be denied that there be no more certain ' means of developing an unwarranted passion than through suspicion and continuous suggestion. The former poises and centers the sentiment through the natural law of magnifying the gravitating power; the latter leads to self-investigation and fanciful speculation, which tends to build up and cement the delusion. Thus, that love of protection, that sense of feminine dependence, so dear to every true woman, strengthened with every difficulty; and thus was nursed by. vicious hands day by day into fatal fullness, a power of life and death. Days went by, and the patient grew worse. In the early hours of her illness delirium had set in, and still there were no signs of its abatement. It was painfully noticeable that no female came to the house, except the professional nurse, and Mr. Haywood continually plead urgent business or distaste for the sick-room, or a morbid dread of witnessing suffering, all, however, to the end of relief from responsibility. Cora stayed constantly by the bedside, her great blue eyes fixed, and her anxious little face drawn with manifest apprehension and perplexity. Still she spoke but little to any one, and more rarely than all to Mr. Haywood. At last the physician declared the disease to be assuming a typhoid form. This was a signal for Haywood's action. He had all along desired an ex- cuse to take the child away, and a subterfuge such as this was not to be overlooked. "Of course," he said, "Cora must not be exposed for days and weeks together to the   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     273 fever--a delicate child like this-and as she was to be placed in school in the course of a few days, in any event, the sooner now the better." The only opposition he met came from the child her- self, together with a few suggestions from Mr. Montrose, none of which were strenuously insisted upon, who, though 'inclined to risk the contagion in view of the mutual distress of the parties, when Mrs. Haywood. should have come to a realizing sense of her loss, never- theless deferred to the judgmeht of Mr. Haywood. And as Harry was the guardian of the child, and as be seemed quite resolved upon his course, further resistance might result unpleasantly; so turning his efforts in the direction of consoling the child, he expressed no further opinion. But poor little heart-broken Cora I Prostrate and un- conscious, upon a bed of suffering, and perhaps of death, lay the beloved idol of her young heart. Only one dear pressure to her breast Honly one sweet hour of her old self!-only one glance even of recognition and farewell H only one word as a talisman in the future days so full of mystery and strange foreboding 1 But instead, only the darkened room and the palsied hush, the fevered flutter at the fair throat, and the beautiful lids glued passively to the pallid cheek; and when at last the child was taken from the room, a wild sob, which was almost a shriek, broke through the stillness, the patient muttered in her delirium and smiled, and that was all of it. "Uncle Hal, only let me stay till to-morrow I Put me in the attic-anywhere-but let me hear her voice, and take her blessing with me I Only let me stay till she opens her eyes and kisses my lips once again, and I can live Ah!" and th9 little form shuddered from: head to foot. "The old awful prophecy has come back. I see the waves just at my feet, and the room is full of shadows.     214       BOUND DOWN,  Something is coming of it all!"And the child grew ap- pallingly calm, and the breath came as through a reed, and the poor voice seemed husky and choked. "I am ready to go now." And' she laid her hand feebly in that  of Fred Montrose, raising her little blue trembling lips to his handsome face. "Kiss her, and tell her that her poor little Cora was denied even so much- " A quick contraction of the shoulders, and a sudden ,} checking of the breath, told the story. It was a slight spasm of the heart, a beginning of the end; and she made no complaint, but turned and went out with her unfin- ished message upon her lips.' Montrose half carried the little swaying figure down the walk, placed it in the car- riage, noticing the gleaming white teeth of the man (so full of meaning to those who knew Haywood welD as he sprang lightly to the side of the child. He kissed her again, and went back to watch. CHAPTER XXXIILI IF this book could close here, there might be some faint hope of its success; but being committed to the actual possibilities of life, no justification can be found in the ex- ercise of those exploring practices of bookmakers who wisely reserve for themselves broader limits and wider fields. There is, therefore, but one plan of redemption from the fate which awaits some of its characters, and that is based upon a public appreciation of truthfulness. Over- the waters of the bay, past the swelling sail, the towering masts, the gaudily painted craft, the dancing row-boat, with its dipping, shining oar, and the island   OR LtFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    275 sitting away alone in the midst of the waters, up info the broad channel they sped, and at nightfall the old cry of "Passengers for Benicia, land from the lower deck," warned them that their journey was at an end. Quite to her surprise, on this night Cora's supper was sent to her room at the hotel. She asked no questions, but feeling disinclined for food, she waited for an hour, and then weary and dispirited sought her lonely bed. The next morning, after she had taken her breakfast : alone in her room, Mr. Haywood came in, followed by two grave-looking gentlemen, who stood staring at her, so greatly to her embarrassment that she grew nervous, and confused, and perplexed. One of the men, giving her a look, half apologetic and half patronizing, took a seat beside her, and proceeded to institute a series of the most extraordinary questions, while the other, producing a very formidable note-book, recorded her replies verbatim. Sup- posing this to be some process of examination usual to those about entering the seminary, the child deported her- self with as much dignity as she could well command, while Mr. Haywood threw himself upon the sofa and listened silently.             { "I generally divide the course of my investigation into three branches," began one of the gentlemen, ad-  dressing Haywood. "The intellectual, the moral, and the phenomenal." Then turning to Cora, he spoke, look- ing straight into her eye. "By-the-way, you seem to be an intelligent little girl. Do y u live here?" "No," said Cora. "I live where my thoughts are; but I am going to school here." "Ah! Do you like books?" "Not many. Books are only made to tell the things that people know, or can find out without them. They are afraid to tell anything else." t       ,        .         ,i     276       BOUND. DOWIN, "But why are you going to school if you regard your books in that way?" "I am going to school to myself. I like to study people, and myself seems to know more about them than books-anyway I can learn more so." "A very cleaF case-unsound without question." Then to the child: "Why don't you study human nature through books, lif it is that you desire?" "Oh, the moment people get into books you see through the author's eyes, and the author sees them through the eyes of the world that is to read his book, and it's all guesswork at last." The man nused a lttle. l"Do you know what sin is?"' "Yes, it is the good turned wrong side out, or wrong' end up, according to the way you hold it. Most of the sin comes from mistake somewhere-either in making the thing seem a sin at all, or in concealing it when you do it and can't seem to help it." And as the men scanned the little white face, the eyes wandered and grew vacant and expressionless.  'A beautiful case," was his humane comment. ' Well, now," as starting up she came to look about he, "you are fond of your papa here?"  Perhaps Cora hoped to evade a direct reply by a dis- tracting quibble; for, turning her eyes full upon Hay- wood, she gave prompt answer, "I never had any papa-any live papa." : I, All three smiled, and Haywood's eves took upon them- selves another of those "quirks" so peculiar to then} when one of those sharp, incisive strokes threatened t( cut the line of his policy.           Y 'Phenomenal, I see I said the physician, answering: Hay wood's look and gesture; " well, then, you iove this gentleman very much?" he pursued.    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    2" No answer. The question was repeated, with slight variation. "I pity him."  The three stared in amazement; but, without waiting further suggestion, she continued, "I like slate-pencils, ;and I have a weak fore-tooth, and I am always biting upon that side, though Miss Mildred constantly told me 1if I have an infirmity I should not burden it with temptation, and--" Here Haywood rose; the investigation was growing too personal, and he was the first to see it. "Are you satisfied?" he asked blandly. "Ob, entirely," both rising at once. "It is a case of dementia rather than mania. Call at my office in an hour and the certificates will be ready," spoke the man who had conducted the investigation. "'Uncle Hal, what does this mean?" said the child, springing up and attempting to detain him by holding the skirts of his coat. ".Am I going away from here? Shall I not be placed in school?" "You observe the hallucination," remarked Haywood; "always just ready to enter school." Here occurred a conversation in an undertone, which, of course, Cora could not understand; but enough had passed to convince her of foul play-enough that she was not going to school; that she had not reached her jour- ney s end, and that all former plans seem changed or abandoned. The three. gentlemen left the house together, and for hours thereafter, the doors being secured upon the out- side, no further communication was had with any one. At last the person whom Haywood had addressed as doctor, entered the room, and, smiling graciously as he laid his hand upon Cora's head, told her that she would 24     278        BOUND DOWN, not stop here as previously arranged; that another place was prepared for her where she would receive great attention, and that she must try and be as amiable as possible; that temper was one of the mopt aggravating causes as well as a common result of a disorder such as hers, and much more he said to the same effect, ending with the desire that she proceed to attire herself for the journey.  No hysterical scenes followed this disclosure; no shrieks or struggles, or efforts toward resistance, for something ministering to the soul of the child made her calm and still in this dreadful hour. During several seconds she stood looking straight into the eyes of the man with the old, compressed lips and thin, firm nostrils distended to their utmost, until he actually quailed be- neath the gaze. Then turning quietly away, she stood up still as she spoke, "I don't understand it all," she said, "but I seem to know I need not blame you." Then buttoning down her paletot, and tying her hat, she drew the tiny gloves over the little blue fingers, and declared herself ready for her mysterious journey. The sound of a boat whistle soon warned them aboard another river steamer, and being shown at once to her state-room, she threw herself upon the berth, and there sobbed herself to sleep, conscious only of the one thing, that the doctor was sitting close to the door upon the outside. Roused from her sleep at dead of night, hurried to a carriage, and driven rapidly from the wharf through the town, and away to the suburbs, and out among fresh green fields, it was not till the gleam of a great white building lifted its proportions from a bright green lawn, oatted with shrubs and flowers, far up to the moon.   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     279 light, that Cora began to feel an interest in the destiny which awaited her. As the question rose to her lips, however, three little words checked her speech, and "here we are" answered her unspoken query. Then she was led along the walks and up the broad steps, and being shown into a reception-room with a bare floor, she was left to await-she knew not what. Presently a man appeared. A few words with the doctor, and gliding out, a large; dark, stern-looking woman came, and after a conversation of some minutes, she took Cora by the hand and pronouncing the one word, "passive," looking back at the doctor, she led her away to a room not larger than a convenient closet, con- taining an iron bedstead, furnished as a cot, and ringing a bell, for the first time paused to look in the face of the child.  Encouraged by the movement, the little frightened thing lifted her agonized, appealing face, wrinkled and haggard with the horrors of the last twenty-four hours, and in a half-suppressed wail addressed the dark, severe woman, "Oh, please tell me where I am, and why am I here?" "Don't confuse yourself now; one question at a time. Where are you? this is the blessed institution, the Asylum for the Insane, and why you are here you can readily guess.'  "But I am not insane," shrieked Cora in wild despair. "Who says I am?"  "Oh, no, of course not; we have never had an insane patient in this institute since I entered here. All the world is mad and you are sane," and the woman gave a smile that was half a sneer. "Ah!" said Cora, sinking upon the rude bed beside her, "I am sent here because I am queer, because words and ,'  .,.u     280       BOUND DOWN, thoughts sometimes gush to my lips from an unseen source; because things come in at a hidden portal and point me through loopholes not visible to other eyes; because I see faces and hear voices, and realize a presence which men and women beside me fail to see, or hear, or feel, and all for what? Better I were here, shut in among mad people, than to shock the world, as I know I have done, with the sight of an unnatural child. But there are those who know I am not mad, and, perhaps,--here she spang to her feet, and clasped her little fingers con- vulsively, while her whole face changed, and softened, and glorified. "Yes I I am here for a purpose! no more repining 1 It is well, it is well!" and the dear child laid her head upon the muscular arm and wept real tears of relief,  "Well," muttered the woman, "this is a queer case;" and placing her fingers upon the child's head for the pur- pose of phrenological investigation, she said learnedly, "Large sublimity, a clear case of overdevelopment of that organ; too much imagination; been indulgea in her vapory and sickly fancies, probably to her everlastingu ruin," and then, abruptly, "Where's your mother?" "I don't know," said Cora feebly. "You don't know?" repeated the matron, in a not too kindly tone, "you are sane enough for that; when did you see her last.?" "Not for a long time. I think she has gone up higher; she looked a great deal lighter the last time I saw her." And the little creature gazed away through the iron bars into the moonlight, evidently having forgotten that she was speaking to mortal ears. The matron looked at her, as she stood thus, with a half-puzzled, half-blank expression, and then, with a shrug which plainly declared her determination to dis,    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     281  1 miss all further speculation, she turned to the woman who had long since answered her summons, and giving instructions as to the disposition of the patient, she left the room. Cora's little bed was hard; the rude touch of the woman made her shrink apd shiver, but a new light had fallen upon her in the little cell, and when she was alone she sank upon her knees and said, simply, "Oh, Lord, I thank Thee that my little mission has at last begun! Show me nmy work every day, and please help me to be faithful in the development of Thy plans. Amen." At intervals, all night, the shrieks, and groans, and wails, and curses of those maniac creatures fell upon her unaccustomed ears, and all night that pure child-spirit was mounting those "stairs of faith," while, as she had averred long ago, "nothing could seem to pull her back." Verily, "of such is the kingdom of heaven." CHAPTER XXXIV. FOR many days after Cora 'was gone, the low, wasting fever struggled with medical skill, and Jane Haywood's life hung in the balance. Proper female attendance was an object almost unattainable, at best, in those early davs, and one morning; as if fate had set her face against all favor, the nurse, pleading illness in her own family, announced her intention to leave. In vain were en- treaties, in vain all pecuniary inducements, in' vain the assurance that the crisis in the fever not having arrived, a change might' prove fatal; homeward her eyes were turned, and thither she repaired, leaving the 24*     282       -BOUND DOWN, sick woman with no other available help than the house- maid, with such other slight assistance as was to be  found in the various little kind offices rendered by Mont- rose, who sat for hours in the place where the husband should have been,'while that husband trifled the hours away; generally in some place of amusement more "or less disreputable. But the sufferer, totally unconscious of either devotion or'neglect, lived in an unreal world, peopled by her own fevered fancies, knowing nor hope, nor fear, nor sorrow, nor distrust now. Shortly after the nurse had departed so precipitately, there came to the house a fair lady, in dress of "leveling black," and deeply veiled, who, asking earnestly after Mrs. Haywood's condition, proposed to go and sit with the invalid, only upon the express conditions of being warned and allowed to, retire upon the return of any member of the family. These conditions the maid readily and gladly accepted, grateful for relief from doing double duty, which had of late fallen upon her; and, being shown into the sick-soom, the fair stranger sat for hours, gently stirring the breeze over the still white brow, or administering little delicate womanly comforts, as nameless as they are numerous, but mercy- showing and life-giving. There were moments when a ray of light would break across the overshadowed mind of the sufferer, and then her eyes would follow the strangely beautiful figure of the blonde lady, and she wondered whence came a thing so fair; but anon the clouds would gather, and she would seem to whisper, Cora to her side, and tell hereof the lovely stranger, call- ing her Mildred,- and again all was a dream or a blank. So, for days, the beautiful and mysterious woman came and went, cooling the brow, and moistening the lips, re- freshing the linen, or adjusting the pillows or the light,   OR LIF. AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     283 preparing palatable draughts, and disguising odious potions, till at length, the fever having run its course, the change came. Then the doctor stayed, and Hay- wood looked in Xa little more frequently, and Montrose never left the house, but sat almost breathless, eagerly gazing for hours from the depths of an arm chair, where he always sat :in these days; and the mysterious stran- ger came no more. "Thank God, you are saved 1" said one, as two great manly tears fell upon the transparent blue-veined hand. "Holloa I you are going to get up and save funeral expenses, after all 1i' said the other an hour after. "Where the d-1 did this come from'?" spoke Hay- wood, a little excitedly one evening, as' picking up a piece of dainty filmy fabric from the foot of the, sofa, where it had fallen, he read the name of the owner in the corner. "Do you know that name, Harry?" the wife feebly interrogated, looking steadily into his face the while. The pink upon the cheek once more faded into a sickly purple-a phenonmenon not rarely to be witnessed in these -latter days; for with all his reckless audacity, this man was in some respects a coward. "Know it? no; never heard of it before," but his Voice slightly faltered, and every muscle of his face gave chal- lenge to the falsehood. And Jane Haywiood knew this, for the proof of his perfidy had reached her in various ways. First, her own intuitions, which rarely deceived her; next Dr. Marston had delicately warned her; again, the statement of the seamstress made even so boldly as to offer testimony, and stronger than all the reluctant admission of Fred Montrose, who consented to impart only a very small     284       BOUND D W N,  portion of his actual knowledge, and that when she had  pressed her questionings upon him. And here the weakness of the woman is made pain- fully manifest. The act is false which rests upon a false basis, and when there ceased to be longer any faith, or love, or confidence between these two, what less were their relations than a public violation of laws both human and divine? Let custom whiten the sepulcher as it may; there is but one depth for every woman who wantonly reposes her head upon the breast of the man whom she regards with loathing or with indifference. Gradually Jane Haywood recovered from her low ill- ness, and every day the loss of Cora entered her heart more deeply. Why did the child not write? she ques- tioned again and again; then she laid plans for visiting the school, but Mr. Iaywood interposing objections from time to time, the purpose was postponed. At length a letter. came dated Benicia Seminary, and signed "your loving C6ra," but the tone of the letter was stiff and altogether unlike Cora, and when Jane laid the little missive before Mr. Montrose, he whistled softly under his breath, while Mrs. Haywood hid her face in her hands and wept bitterly. So this life proceeded, revealing more of sorrow than of joy, till summer waned and the winds sung themselves asleep and ceased, and the rich dreamy autumnal haze gathered again over the hills and valleys. One morning as Jane was walking alone-she always * walked abroad alone in these days-taking her way out a rather unfrequented street, she was attracted by the peculiar grace and beauty of a figure robed in white cashmere, with trimmings of the most delicate peach bloom, gathering a bouquet of fresh flowers from a con- servatory. A little nearer and she fairly recognized her s . i   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    285 benefactress of the sick-chamber. Turning the corner of the street, she came abruptly upon an open window. Not being able to resist the temptation, she glanced in- side, and there beheld, to her not very great surprise, milord, Harry, stretched at full length upon the sofa, evidently fast asleep; slowly she turned back and re- passed the front, reading the same name upon the door- plate which she had read upon the handkerchief. A little quickened beating of the heart, that was all She thought it discreet to make no mention, and discretion had grown to be the leading motive of her. life. Alas for all such lives! During all this time the woman's isolation was becom- ing more and more complete. This pained Montrose in the extreme. How far, he questioned, had he been in- strumental in bringing about this state of things? It was true their names had been connected, but only by accident, the most innocent in itself, and not by any pos- sible avoidable compromise on his part. He had minis- tered to her wants, guarded her interests, and labored for her happiness in all. But he forgot the one thing: to quit her presence and thus break the spell. And so as the weeks wore on, and the world was moving all out- side, these two walked, and talked, and read, and sung together, and the time came very shortly when the woman said, from the depths of her heart, "I don't care what they say." Then the wise world was wiser than ever. But the beginning of the end had already come. Some banking affairs called Mr. Montrose to Europe, where he must remain for several months perhaps; and as Mrs. Haywood, with tearful eyes and heavy heart, watched the carriage drive avay to the steamer, she began to feel how much easier it would be now to act ip to her con- ho Iptobrcn     286         BOUND DOWN, victions I Solitude, she said, would bring "time for re- flection, and abnegation and regeneration would be sure to follow." All this was very well in its way, only such. action had been postponed too fatally long, as the sequel will show. One day, not long after this, Mr. Haywood, having oc- casion to use a book which Montrose had, taken fromi the library shelves and left in his room, rang and sent a ser- vant to bring it. In turning the leaves, almost the first object that met his eye was a scrap of paper covered over with the handwriting of his wife.  The lady was engaged in another quarter of theroom, and not observant of his movements.  Therefore he had an opportunity to peruse the MS. uninterruptedly.  That the writer was unprac- ticed as a poet was clearly manifest, but naturally enough this was a criticism wholly overlooked, for the lines ran thus: Gather me closer, love-there!  Cold blows the wind through the gloam of the morning; Push back the braids of my hair, Chill grows their touch, like the finger of warning. "Fallen and lost," they will say. Fallen! oh, never soul mounted like mine! "Lost!" but remember, for aye, That among all the "missing," few fall by design. Come to the window, dear'one; Watch yon acacia, with soft lulling motion! Gaze on yon low western moon, And ask is it "lost" when it sinks in the ocean. Blame thee! oh, no, my beloved, Mine is thesoul where thy transports are tended; All thy proud passion approved, Worship and will in one ecstasy blended. This was not the end of this rather remarkable produc- tion, but the purpose essayed being not so much the   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    287 edification of the reader as his enlightenment, this frag- ment will be sufficient. "Jane!" and the voice sounded hollow and quaking, like that of an did man. "Well ;" andSthe wife turned quickly to look. "Did you write this?" and now the voice was plaintive. "Why, Harry, what is the matter?" said the terrified woman, having eyes for nothing save the blanched face and the wild, unbending stare. "Did you write this?" holding the paper with fingers like a vice, and speaking more huskily and with an effort toward restraint. Thenf Jane Haywood came forward and saw. For a full minute she stood as one appalled and petrified. The room swam round, and a film gathered before her eyes.  Then, grasping at the paper with a firm gesture, she cried, bitterly, "Oh, for the love of Heaven, give it back to me 1" But the husband only spoke again, in the same hollow tone, 'Answer me. I shall question you no further." And she answered, more low but quite distinctly, "Yes." The next day the servants were dismissed, the blinds closed, and passers-by said the Haywoods had gone out. of town. *               v     288       BOUND DOWN, CHAPTER XXXV. "DOCTOR, I cannot be responsible for the life of that patient in No. 12. It is the worst case we have ever had in the asylum since my experience. I have just come from there, and the shrieks and struggles of that woman are perfectly appalling. The attendants are in mortal terror, and if you cannot give some potion to quiet her, the life of the patient will not be the only one in danger. , Thus spoke the matron in passing up the hall, when * just opposite the door of Cora's cell. "Is she in chains?" asked the doctor mechanically.  In chains I I should think so; but her strength is absolutely superhumnan. She has now and again torn nearly all the hair from her head; not a finger-nail is left  upon her hands; and it all seems about the loss, of a child ;" and the woman turned to walk away..  "I shall see her in my rounds this morning," the doctor said briefly il "Who's knocking here?" turning toward the door of  Cora's room. "The: child that came in last/night," replied the matron. "Please," wailed a little, feeble voice, ' let me speak " The doctor halted, and the woman lifted a huge bunch of keys to the lock and opened the door. "I thought you said you were not going to be trouble- some?" the woman said, looking sharplyat Cora. "Will you not permit me to go to that poor woman in NTo. 12?"    , OR LIFE AVND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    289. "Of course not l" answered the woman almost savagely.  "Why do you make such a request?" the doctor asked, evincing a. much more than usual interest in the little patient. "Because I know that I could help her," Cora replied timidly. "Shejwould tear you in inch pieces the moment you came in her reach," was the startling suggestion. "Njo, sir; she would not.  Try me only once; do, please!" The ddctor made no answer to this, but only gave a hard, scrutinizing, half-puzzled look, as if some- new idea had possession of him for the moment. Then turning to the matron! he said, quizzingly,  cant "irs. Thurman, do you know I have half a mind to take tfiis child to No. 12?" "Well! well I said the woman, throwing back her head with a significant jerk, "I have always heard that, the inordinate development of any one faculty of the mind above another must, sooner or later, result in monomania. You have given your life to-, the study of the phenomena of lunacy, and here comes the result." The doctor laughed good-naturedly, and took Cora's little thin hand to lead her out. "How cold you are!" spreading her fingers upon his own warm palm. "Yes; I am always cold when-when I am right about anything, as I am this morning." "I'll study this case," thought the doctor. Then aloud, "What is your name?" 25     290       BOUND DOWN,         i "Cora," looking down the long line of doors in the distance. "Cora, and nothing else 1" "Nothing else?" "No, nothing else that I know, except that it might be Haywood, but," after a thought, "it is iot." "Who is your father-?"   "I never had a, father " ,The doctor!laughed out- right  .  "Who is your mother?" "She didn't use to be anybody." "Is she anybody now?" with an irresistible smile. "Yes, sir; I'll tell you about it after awhile; some- times I can talk real easy, and sometimes I cannot. When I'm only Cora I don't amount to much." "And are you ever anybody but Coria?" the doctor asked. "'Nobody-in particular." "And everybody in general," the doctor pursued, already interested in the originality of his little patient. But Cora only laughed now, in a low, abstracted way.  A moment more, and they had reached the door of the cell whence the most unearthly yells were: proceeding. The doctor entered first, and Cora stayed so closely behind him that she was not at once perceived by the woman. With the first glance of the doctor she started forward, shrieking and writhing till the blood flew from her nostrils, and hear muscles stood out like whip-cords. "How long has she been in this condition?" the doctor asked of the attendant.  I "For three weeks, sir. I do not think she has taken an hour of sleep for six days and-nifghts." "Stand back!" shouted the woman, in a voice like thun-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    291 der "I see her-yes I it is my child I my child I come to my arms, my blessed one," and her terrible voice shook with the appeal, as she tried to lift her fettered hands toward Cora. The child started forward, but the doctor caught her arm. "Rash girl, would you go there?" he said, a little savagely. 1I am not afraid," said Cora, "and perhaps I could soothe her." "Oh, God knows I could not hurt her," and the awful voice softened with pathos; " do you think I am a devil, to hurt my own precious baby?"  "She is firmly secured," suggested the man in waiting. "Only let me toUleC her once, and, I will not scream any more,-see if I do," and tears came to the dry, fierce eyes. Cora looked beseechingly into the doctor's face, then he took her hand and led her cautiously forward. The child- laid her fingers, upon the poor worn face, and its expression changed as by magic. "Oh," she moaned, in a voice of infinite tenderness, "my poor lost baby, how beautifull how beautifull now,. it shall goi away from me no more," and she folded her arms as if they bore the little child burden, and rocked her phantom baby to and fro, singing a low, sweet lullaby, and forgot that she was mad. For many minutes the three stood watching the movements of the lunatic, then turning, spoke together in a low tone. When they looked again, the poor sufferer, with a sad smile upon her lips, lay fast asleep. And, every day for many a week there- after, the child went to the cell of the mad woman, and carried her rest more potent than draught or potion, because it brought not forgetfulness alone, but peace. It was always the same to the lost or wandering mIind.     292       B ROUND DOWN, Cora-a phantom baby-a lullaby, and -a long, sweet, re- freshing sleep. Such is life; a wish, a dream, and a sleep I a verifica- tion of the Persian philosophy. "Walk, walk; pace, pace; up and down unceasingly, night and day. Whenever will his powers of endurance fail him; I believe he walks and sleeps." This was the comment of one of the assistant physicians as he passed the cell of a patient, whose perpetual footfall, like a pen- dulum, seemed pacing away the time, day after day, without pause, or repose. "I believe I'll experiment a little, since that seems to be in order. Doctor," putting his head into the imain office, and addressing the senior physician of the insti- tute, "lend me your magnet, will you-?" "Lend you what?" "The wonderful child you all talk $o much about. I want to make an experiment on a pati6nt." "Excuse me, I shall choose to make experiments my-  self, if any such seem advisable. Give me the number l of the cell," and the gentleman rose. "90. Perfectly harmless--I'll go along." "Very well," and the doctor rang and sent to have Cora brought to him in the office. Now it was the delight of the child's heart to be per- mitted to visit the cells of these mad people, to watch her own influence upon the crazed biain, and the wan- dering fancy, and she was accustomed to divide her time between speculative visions, and memories of home and the loved ones, on the one hand, and on the other to im- patient hours of waiting for a summons to the. side of some victim, who should have already learned, with tlhe well-known cunning of their class, to pick out her light footsteps from among others who constantly came and went. before' their doors.   OR LIFE AND JITS POSSIBILITIES.   293: Accordingly, the little child, ever on the qui vive for the: signal of relief from: the awful monotony of the place, slipped through the bor' before it was fairly opeA, and flew to the side of her patron before the message was well delivered. The three entered the cell 90, together, but its occupant took no kind of notice. Walk, walk, walk, walk, and never any halt. "Still walking, old man?" said the assistant. "There is no peace for the wicked, nor rest for the weary," was the reply, still pacing up and down. "There is both," said Cora, in a voice strange to them all. "There is peace in repentance, and rest in faith." The old man put out his wrinkled hand and spoke. "Come, child, and walk with me."  She took it as fearlessly and lovingly as if it were the soft palm of an infant, and asked, "Why do you walk so unceasingly?" "I am pacing the distance between time and eternity." "An immeasurable distance, and only compassed by patient hope," was the unchildlike suggestion. "What do you mean by that?" and the old man almost halted before her. "I mean that jou have the Wrong idea of your work,"' was the reply. "Your spirit is in unrest, but you never ask what you can do, only walk idly, and perhaps self- ishly. 'Faith, hope, and charity, but the greatest of these is charity."' "Here is a truth deeper than a well, sprung up by the way-side, 'And the greatest of these is charity,'" mut- tered the old man again, almost pausing. ' There -a objects of love and charity all along, yet you pass by on the other side." "And what shall I do?" pitifully wailed the walker. "That whici your hands find to do. Sit down now, 25* i       294      --- BOUND DOW,            and let things come to you; that is what I do, and I  always feel that I have not wasted my time," and, taking his hand, she led his now tottering a steps to a seat, and, without speaking, held his witheredl hand till everything grew still. Directly the restive' eyes grew quiet, his face changed with new visions or olden memories-who can tell which?--and, like a dream, the strange child glided away, and was lost in herself again. For two days and nights the weary feet, and the unpoised p ur-- pose, gave no sign. When the two men left the cell, the senior physician went round and ordered the child Cora- placed upon -he list with the convalescents, and, added he, "Give her the best vacant room in the house; she is worth Eve thousand a year to this institution.'? But Cora did not hear; she was busy counting her steps, as she made ler way slowly back to her' dreary little cell, where she!lad waited day by day, and where she still thought she must go. Dear little patient thing I but she never went there any more. Power will find recognition sooner or later, however mysterious or inscrutable the means chosen for its devpl- opment. But this recognition came not a moment too soon in the brief life of this child. After two days of sweet and restful slumber, the old man rose from his bed without a seeming thought for the "Iong walk ",before him, and the doctor, in pursuance of Cora's suggestion, having ordered some out-of-door work for him, he set about it with a good will, always cherish- ing the beautiful delusion, however, that he was making a garden for Cora, who would sit, dispensing now and then a bit of her philosophy, or sending out jets of childish mirth, in laugh, and song, and story, while the old man gradually came to the -light again. And thus it came to   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     295 pass that one morning Cora stood, With tearful eyes, and watched himndriven away, in his daughter's carriage, to her home, among the beautiful flowery hills, and the mountain brooks, in the interior of California. Thus ran the life of this child, broadening, expand- ing, and developing)in opportunities day by day. There seemed no phase of 'insanity but she could reach in one way or another. Sometimes it was by argument, again through wholesome delusions, sometimes by her mere presence, and more frequently than all by the touch of her hand. But all this was telling upon the delicate constitution of the child, and the truth broke with awful solemnity upon the perceptions of the "responsibles" connected with the institution. Upon examination it was at last feared'that an enlargement of the heart was going for- ward, and the rapidly developing chest, disproportionate to the other members of the attenuated frame, gave ter- rible encouragement to the theory. Still the doctors said, "She is so young we think she will outgrow the tendency." And Cora too kept her spirits and her cheer, and looked forward now to a Release, for the doctor had assured her he would write to Mr. Haywood announcing her convalescence, and, knowing Dr. Marston well, he also addressed him a letter, unconscious alike of the doc- tor's absence from the city, and that the whole business of placing the child in the asylum had been a piece of strategic villainy, although Cora had repeatedly avowed that the original design had been to put her in school. But weeks went by and no answers came to the letters, and the little invalid began to call Mildred in her sleep and Jane in her waking hours, and talked pleasantly to Dr. Marston in her fevered visions.     296        BOUND DOWN, CHAPTER- XXXVI. IT was night in Paris; every park and boulevard was ablaze with light and glory. But our bridal party had traveled much, had learned a little, and seen a great deal, and were now ready to return to the land of their homes. This was their last night in Paris. Mildred and Helen were at their hotel. "t Let us go in here," said Captain Gray to his wife, as his eye ran down a poster at the entrance to a public place of resort, into which numbers of people were crowding their way. "And if it proves a fraud, as we Americans say, let us forget to tell Mildred :and Helen about it," the wife remarked, slyly. "Oh, by all manner of means," returned the' husband. And so the couple, mixing with the immense throng, were borne along into the vast hall. At first sight there were no signs of anything save a rude, open platform, containing a small skeleton table -' and three wooden chairs ranged alongside; but shortly after an enthusiastic call for some one, in which Captain Gray joined for the sake of company, a young woman appeared, comely of appearance and evidently' a little embarrassed. She rose, after a few minutes, and deliv- ered an harangue made up generally of set phrases, but to the effect that a committee be appointed, chosen fro'm the audience, making preference of those either opposed or indifferent to the phenomena about to be presented. The committee being duly selected, proceeded to the distribu ,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    29T tion of bits of paper, upon which as many of the audi- ence as should choose might write the name of a de- parted friend. Securely 'folding the paper containing the name or communication, and placing it in company with a thousand others, these were to be drawn by the lady as chance should elect. The act of picking up the very first billet from the table was accompanied by three loud, distinct raps upon the platform. Of course every- body turned to see, and of course everybody failed to see anything. The committee sat silent and motionless-the lady sat with billet suspended between her fingers, and that was all. Directly, when the bustle had subsided, she questioned, "Is the spirit whose name this paper contains present?" Three loud raps, interpreted "Yes!" Then the lady, again, "Will the name be given?" Thkee loud raps again. Then, seizing a pen, she wrote in a rapid manner, beginning at the right hand, however, and writing up- side down, the name of James McIntosh Fulton. Pass- ing the still unopened billet to' one of the committee, he unfolded it somewhat nervously, and read James McIntosh Fulton. Correct. " Is the person present who sent in this name?" "He is,. Lady.-Would he object to testing this influence? If not, please proceed with any questions you may choose. Capt. Gray.-Where did you depart this life? Lady (writing).-In San Francisco, California, U. S. Capt. Gray.--What was your age at the time of your death?                      d A.--Thirty-two years and eight mlonths. Xr     298       BOUND DOWN,- Ques.-Of what disease did you die?  A.--Of consumption.  Lady.-Are the answers satisfactory so far? Capt.-Wholly correct. Lady.-Has the spirit anything of importance to communicate? Three loud raps. Then the woman wrote rapidly. To Capt. Gray-You were right about the treasure. It was there, and,:was removed, almost while your hand was laid upon itl" Capt. Gray.-Through what agency? A.-Through the agency of the devil. Q.-Then there be spirits both good and evil? A.--Undoubtedly; but many more of the latter com- municating with the earth. Q.'-Interviews of this character, then, are not very profitable? A.-They are very unprofitable, asa rule. Q.-Is there anything more? A.--One thing more. Tell Miss Mildred Gray her presence is needed in California. Q.-For what purpose? No answer. The influence was gone; and so, shortly thereafter, were our curious friends. "WTe shall not speak of it to the young ladies," Diana said, pressing her husband's hand, as they were seated in the carriage. "Not if you are ashamed, my dear," was the rather malicious retort.  When they returned to the hotel, Captain Gray's mail lay waiting upon the table. "I think that letter is from Fred," Helen Montrose remarked, as, resting one plump little arm upon the     OR LIFE AND'ITS POSSIBILITIES.    299 shoulder of the gentleman, she selected one from the package and held it up before his eyes. "Do, pray, open that first." It proved as she had predicted. Mr. Montrose would meet them in New York, on hisway to Europe., There was added a postscript, containing briefly this piece of news, "Dr. Marston sails for New York next week, as I am informed through letters received from him of recent date." And not one word about the Haywoods-not even about Cora. "Oh if you love me, put off that lugubrious face, dear, dear girl l" said Miss Montrose, seating herself beside Mildred, and slipping her arm about the slender waist. "I know it pains your beautiful features, and there is not the least need of it, I assure you. Do you know-per- haps I never spoke of it before-I jilted that excellent fellow, Marston: I did, upon my word." '1., This was the very'first occasion upon which Dr. Mars- ton'sr name had been mentioned between the two girls since the setting out upon their journey; but the light, c reless manner of the child-woman carried a conviction- to the mind of Mildred, not-if it must be confessed- wholly painful to her. That night, after the two had retired. to their rooms Helen told Mildred the whole story. "You see I,was not one bit in love with him, nor he with me; and I know what comes of loveless marriages. There!, I have spoiled the whole business," she spoke, making a comic gesture with the mouth. "I meant, you see, to put it on a basis of pure magnanimity. But it is useless now. I know he will proposd to you in the first hour--perhaps he has already done so. But take him, any way, Mildred; I have no use for him myself, d      300        BO UND Do W JN, and he is really so nice to have in the family." And for the first time Helen Montrose kissed the beautiful woman a little patronizingly. That night Mildred felt too happy to sleep much; but packing and arranging for the ocean trip must be done just the same, and where, but in Paradise, do they have maids competent to do these th-ings half so well as one's self? The "changes " are always at the bottom, the in- dispensable "double wrapper," first of all on the list of needs, is usually in one of the other trunks, the deck- wrappings just a little further down, and something neces- sary tucked away in or under something else so unneces- sary as never to suggest a suspicion. Old travelers by ocean highway would pass over a descriptive account of the most attractive sea-voyage without a scruple of remorse ; those who have not made the trip are happy in their ignorance. Only Mark Twain need hope to make one passably endurable in these days; therefore, it is sufficient to say that our little party arrived in port safely, and in good time to meet Dr. Marston, who, be it said, added to a character, if anything, a little too evenly balanced, the quality-of promptness, aquality in which, as he was known to remark to Mildred' in the years after, all women were alike wanting-"' especially sonme.              '  It was a bright, crisp, winter morning in New York, the home of Mildred's early years. She had renewed many of her old acquaintances and associations on tlIe occasion of her first visit east, en route for Europe, and this winter she had been endeavoring to fulfill some of the many promises rather, as she had discovered, too lavishly given. But interests of her own were beginning, already  to interpose, and, and, accepting the luxurious hospitalities of one of her oldest and most valued friends, she had retired,    ,                     ,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     301" for the present, from general society, and the'elite said, in a woeful tone of mock or meaningless sorrow, "The beautiful Mildred Gray is at last going to marry only a -medical practitioner from California." Eight o'clock, this glinted, crystal-hung, ice-bedizened winter morning. All about, for squares in extent, were ranged dainty-footed horses, gay and denture coachmen in livery, resplendent robes decorating mirrored carriages, fairy " cutters" jeweled and inlaid, and sleighs not much more complete if made of nerves and muscles. Within t  he ma  he .scene was all that the 'idea of a Fifth' Avenue wedding conveys. It was a palace of fairy delu- sions, the gorgeous effects being made up of mirrors, and natural flowers and foliage, of statuary, and paintings, and marbles, and fountains, with all the auxiliaries that architectural design and artistic device could possibly pro- duce to surprise the eye, to delight the senses, and to captivate the fancy. At every glance something novel and enchanting met the unexpectant gaze. Here a grotto, and there a shaded mountain-pass; here a fairy scene, and there a classical tableau; here a storm at sea, and there a starlit night in the tropics; yet so harmoniously had all been planned and arranged that nothing seemed theatrical or crude. To such a nearness to nature is art approaching. Nine o'clock came on. The guests had all arrived, and the wedding party was announced. Mildred, superb in- her soft, floating bridar robes, but slightly too pale under the gas-light; Dr. Marston happy, but a little clumsy in white kids-who is not? bridesmaids in ample and taste- ful toilets; yet, among them all; none looked more self- forgetful, more completely lovely, nor half so happy as Helen Montrose. 26 ' y   *                 r 'o     J UUND DOWN, "Whom   God hath joined together let no man put asunder," echoed solemnly through the halls after the final word had been pronounced. "And God is love," breathed Relen to Mildred, in a scarcely audible whisper. "He is rather fine-looking and intelligent,' was the comment passed on Dr. Marston. "Yes, so he is, decidedly; but no match for Mildred Gray." "Well, I can't say that," remarked a young "swell, who chanced to hear the observation; it is the fawst life they lead out there that, makes the hair turn. He may be perfectly worthy of the lovely cweature, but you see they are not quiet like ourselves ;" and, having thus exhausted the philosophical stratum of his brain, he stuttered a succession of complacent ,,aws" and bowed himself into the retirement of a dressing-room, for the original purpose of adjusting the knot in his cravat for the twentieth time that morning. A few    hours later, Dr. Marston drove awy  to the steamer landing with his bride, bound for California. Captain( Gray and the two ladies watched the huge, black, unsightly steamer which bore the two loved ones out of sight, and then turned slowly back, with perhaps the feeling which m ust comne at least once to all, that some one parting separates lives more widely than any has hitherto done. A few days after, Fred Montrosejoined the family party in New York. Seated by his side, Helen Montrose looked, steadily into the face of her brother, asking only a simple question about the Haywoods. He answered the question deliberately  out for the first time since the days of his boyish temper were passed, which Diana remembered and Helen did not, the scar among the eyebrows grew flaming    OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    303 red. Helen forebore to press her questionings further, wherefore does not appear, unless because-she had been to Paris. CHAPTER XXXVII. OUT under the stars, hopeless, friendless, aimless, Jane Haywood stood alone upon the deck of the river steamer, leaning heavily upon the railings, her wrappings falling listlessly about her, only half grateful for the chilly breath of the night wind as it blew against her hot cheek. " What is my life to me now ?" she whispered, under her breath. "I dare not even claim Cora's love. As yonder wheel swoops down, gathering in and destroying the helpless waves that lie in its track, so has inexorable" circumstance despoiled my soul of its purer elements- dashing my resolves to spray, and leaving my life a 'dreary, echoless waste." And close to her ear, like the child Cora's, a voice as real as a voice could be, said: "But see how every scattered fragment gathers itself again into a perfect form, fashioning new waves, con- ceiving new motives, and thus, through faith, going for- ward toward the sea of final results, working out the end not seen from the beginning." The woman did not turn to look for the voice-she knew the child was not there; thus much she had gained in spiritual discernment. Certainly she knew what Cora would have been likely to say-pursuing the metaphor. Yes, surely; but with- out this fancied or real embodiment or individuality, the conviction that this mental suggestion was a truth which she could not afford to overlook might have failed of recog-    304        BOUND DOWN, nition and thus be deprived of its object. No matter in what way we may choose to account for a conviction no matter through what crevice the light may fall, the moment our eyes are opened to a recognition of the truth, the scales begin to drop, and a new world is open to the spirit's vision. Why will really honest seekers after revealments, with their manifold inspirations, shut the door against that faith which holds the power to lift the faculties into the sunlight of eternal perception? The mists of error and misguided, reason, while they cannot wholly eclipse, too often refract the rays of light, and half destroy the power to write, or think, or act entirely nobly or' well. If these remarks seem inductive in their character their results may be found close behind them. To inor. dinate self-sufficiency-to a scornl of reliance upon un- seen aid, the great fountain of wisdom and good, which orthodoxy calls by a high and holy name, may be as- cribed the unachieved objects of many a worldly career. And what, in the case of Jane Haywood, was the pur- pose accomplished by that very casual occurrence-that hallucination, if there be no better name for this class of phenomena? Why, it saved a life from suicide--that is all; a despairing, forlorn, and utterly worthless life, as it seemed to her. And so, clutching the guards, letting fall her unresisting garments, with hot, eager, unflinch- ing eyes fastened upon the cool, flashing water-love, hope, peace, all floating together behind her, this woman had fixed upon that one moment to enter by a false pass- port upon the realities of an untried world. And thus the memoried voice interposed a promise and a prophecy between the purpose and the fulfillment. A plain state-. ment of facts would have shown that this woman con- templated suicide but thought better of it. And for   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     305 those who care nothing for the way in which things come about,lif they only do come, such statement is all-sufficient. But to such persons as choose to put by the philosophy which underlies all grades and phases of human events, experiences but poorly serve the ends of advancement, and progression: and principles are surely lost in coarse, cold, unvitalized materialism. Out under the stars stood Jane Haywood, but no longer hopeless, friendless, aimless, or alone; for a spark "downward thrown" had entered her soul, and was glowing to kindle new motive-fires wiiin her breast. It was not the soft taper of peace wh'ch gleamed through her answering eyes, nor yet the beacon of hope, but only cajm resignation-a willingness to work and suffer and endure, for these were the conditions upon which she ac- cepted another lease of life, uninviting as they seemed. But which way her poor dusty feet should turn, her weary, dreary brain knew not, this night out under the stars.  A woman from the cabin saw her standing there, and sat studying the despairing, listless attitude with a sharp, intense, absorbed expression of countenance. Presently a half-reluctant, half-triumphant look broke over the face, and she rose somewhat deliberately and walked out upon the -deck. Then addressing "Mrs. Haywood slightly undertone, she approached noticeably, though not. of- fensively near. But in this 'moment any presence never so unobtrusive, any voice however sweet and low, must of necessity bring a shudder ; yet remembering that this was no time to be critical, Mrs. Iaywood turned ner- vously about and) answered, though half mechanically, the woman's question. "Yes, I am alone," and she felt her heart lose a beat 26*     306    -   BOUND D0OW.,  as she glanced at the face, and her eyes fell aown the well-developed, well-dressed figure before her. ', You look delicate, and this night-air is too strong for you," the woman said, facing her and lifting the trailing wrappings from the deck and placing them upon Jane's shoulders familiarly. "Better come inside," leading the way with every visible assurance that the lady would follow, which she did. She followed as a lost child fol-. lows a sympathizing voice through the darkness-fol. lowed because she had nowhere else to go. The woman sat upon the sofa and kindly made room for Jane at her  side. "Any person unaccustomed to this climate and coun- try, will do well to heed the advice of old residents here. I presume you have not been in San Francisco long,", folding her arms snugly before her and looking keenly into Jane's face.   o "Long enough to learn its inhospitable climate," Mrs. Haywood replied evasively. This was not precisely to the point, and smoothing the jetty bandeaus of hair with a  plump, white, jeweled hand, which fairly dashed back the light with its tinted splendors, she began well along this time,  "Going any further than Sacramento?", The question was very natural and very quietly put yet the wanderer felt the blood rush to her very temples while she stammered an uncertain response, the manner* of delivering which would have condemned a less erring woman than Jane Haywood had been.    Instantly she felt that she must rise out of the suspicious pitfall made by her curious ladyship; therefore she did not, as she felt inclined to do, rise and walk away from her fair interlo- cutor, but rather remained, and weakly fell into those more dangerous and designing. She therefore entrenched   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    30Y herself behind wretched, crumbling, little fictions and as- sumptions and wholly immature plans, which looked well enough to her iinpracticed eye, the whole design being as transparent as her womanly sou:, to the eyes of the worldly-wise woman beside her. The summxing up of the evidence in the case showed facts most unsatisfactory to Jane, while, with complacent unction, this woman recounted, one after another, of dis- aster and calamity, which, within her " experiences," had % befallen well-meaning but unprotected women of every sphere and station, ending by offering the unsuspecting victim a home in her household till, at least, she should] find protection elsewhere--an offer which Mrs. Haywood accepted with more of real gratitude than she had ever known in her whole life. So heartily does the soul crave sympathy that it hugs the very dagger aimed at its peace, if only ever so flim- sily sheathed in delusive pretense. At six o'clock next morning, agreeable to instruction, Mrs. Haywood was dressed and ready for the first up- ward-bound boat; and joining her inew-made friend in the saloon, was presented to Mr. Smith, a handsome, but rather flashily-dressed man, whom, though evidently many years her junior, the lady introduced as her hus- band. Entering a carriage, the three drove to the hotel for breakfast; thence to the boat, which landed them at the little city of Marysville, where new and bitter scenes were lying in reserve.  Surrounded by every sign of ease and luxury, specu- lation gladly folded her wings for awhile, and forgetting suspicion or surmise, the wretchec: woman busied her mind only with tortuous memories and forebodings of the immediate  future, when hospitalities should become charities, and heartily as she appreciated that which she     308        BOUND IDOWN,    , named, a motive of delicacy on the part of Mrs. Smith, a motive which secured for her the most uninterrupted privacy, even her meals being invariably served in her room, she yet felt that a time must come, and that shortly, for earnest effort and honest endeavor. But even the way to these was arched and paved with agony and bitterness of spirit. It was now nearly a week since Mrs. Haywood had entered this place, yet she had seen no human face within these walls, except that of the servant, for all this length of time. One night a pitiless storm was blowing abroad the rain was falling in torrents, and the wind shook the windows in their casements, and shrielked about the  chiihneys and corners, as she had loved to hear it in happier days. Now if was only a reminder, and she rose and looked into the street, and pondered. An almost unbroken sheet of water covered the level public ways, reflecting a sheen of light firom the Windows of the house of which she was an unfortunate occupant, illumining the whole street with a blaze of light. The sound of hurrying feet and carriage' wheels also told of some unusual fete or occasion of pleasure of whch she had been unapprised. The notes of revelry soon found their way to the hitherto) unbroken quiet of her apartment; then iSusic arose with its voluptuous swell, and she knew there was dancing. Directlty the loud, shrill voices of women in high glee rose above the more vibrating effect of men's voices, and for the first timze the betrayed woman began to shudder. What if-but no human creature could be so base as thus to plot her final ruin-yet this was Sunday night, or she had lost her reckoning, and, although an unwmrarrantable amount of license did unquestionably prevail in those early frontier days, she could find but one solution for   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     309 this remarkable phenomenon. She was still standing, half stupefied with amazement, when the door was sud- denly thrown open, and the rotund form of Mrs. Smith, her hostess, in full evening dress, stood up before her. The wine-flushed face, the boisterous laugh, and the gen- eral abandon of her demeanor, struck Mrs. Haywood with terror, and she would have fled down the steps into the streets, anywhere to escape the vile creature; but, inter- posing, her figure between Jane and the door to the passage, she shouted an oath that made the poor woman shudder where she stood. "Oh, all that shy is played out; that's the old thing," was the first observation - '*come on, I am going to introduce you to the jolliest fellow that ever flipped a glass," "For the love of Heaven, pity mne i" was all the half- fainting woman could find voice or strength to say. "Oh, don't drool out your weak sentiments here," the woman said coarsely, "we'll soon cure you of all that; come along;" and seizing Jane's wrists rudely, she liter- ally dragged her through the open door into the passage. Jane Haywood struggled desperately for release, but the brutal grasp tightened, and her voice grew louder and higrher, wholly drowning the inarticulate tones of the weeping victim. "How is this for high, captain?" she said, gloatingly aiming her lascivious gaze at Mrs. Haywood, with her falling hair and burning cheeks.  . Jane cast pne terrified glance at the figure of a man coming forward, and fell heavily upon the stair. The man was Harry Haywood. Since this book is not designed to be sensational, fur- ther details of this scene are wholly unnecessary. It is enough that the miserable woman had been deceived,     310        BO UND DOWN, and, under the guise of disinterested hospitality, had been decoyed into the snare. TFor the ends of justice, it may be well to add that Harry Haywood was in no way party to this little by-play. iHe enjoyed his own varied round of individual vices with a zest all-his own, but he never turned aside from pursuit of them to help others into an entanglement; he was too much occupied for that. Therefore this meeting was an accident. When Mrs. Haywood next came in possession of her senses, she was lying upon a sofa in her own room, ;  alone. The revel had ceased-so had the storm. She glanced at her watch--it pointed to two o'clock. She e  rose, and found the door secured upon the outside. A feeling of fierce indignation and resolve came to her rescue, and she set to work, losing no time. In a satchel which she could, carry with one hand, she placed a few articlessof clothing, together with all the valu- ables she possessed. Then destroying all traces of her identification by cutting the name 'from the canvas upon her trunks, she locked them and looked around. How should she escape?  She walked to the windows-- they were several feet from the ground; but throwing up the sash, without a moment of irresoluteness, she tossed the satchel to the sidewalk and springing after it, landed in the street far below. A shal:p pain took, away her breath for a moment, but fearing to pause even forU an instant, she heroically made her way up the town, without in the least guessing where she was to go. Policemen were not troublesome, in those days, in Cali- fornia, and the sight of, a woman abroad, even at this hour of the night, might have attracted some little atten- tion, but certainly no question. Nevertheless, the worst . ' had already come, and she challenged-fate for the future.'l Making her solitary way to, the suburbs of the city, she i ,    OR- LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    3" halted for the first tifme upon the steps of a little wooden church, and looked up at the dwarfed steeple and the un- p:retentious windows with a holy reverence, which never in all her life had come to her before.. She thought of the chant that was scarcely still within the homely walls from the evening service-of the amen, of the words of comfort, and the benediction. She recalled one after an- other of the blessed promises and glowing assurances of forgiveness and protection for those who should cast their burden on the Lord. But, above all, hung sus- pended before her fancy the beautiful, painting which Mildred had made many years agong, and which she loved so much. It was the woman of rSamaria. Again she saw, sitting alone in that silent shadow of the little church, the dappled light of the early qlorning gilding a Judean landscape; the Mount of Olive:r bending beneath the weight of green foliage, musical wkth the tramp of the wind among its myriad boughs; the lofty palms bow- ing their heads in homage, and waving their broad leaves in joyous welcome to their Creator; the arching vault, ?s wrinkled, with crimson, and azure, and violet; the Tem- ple of the Most High 'God, glittering in the splendor of gems and mellowed by the rays of the rising sun, and silvered by the softened fires of fading stars; she saw the Pharisees, self-convicted, departing from the Temple; and above it all, she saw the outstretched arm of the Saviour and Lord bent in meek pity over the wayward wonlan, saying unto her, "Neither do I condemn thee- go, and sin no more." Weak, half paralyzed with the cold, and stupefied with the terrible uncertainties that awaited her, it was not till light began to break in the east that she came .to take up her weary walk. She turned toward the open country, only tq rid herself of the sight of human faces. On and *     I     812        BOUND DOWN, on she went, rarely accosting, and never lifting her eyes to any she chanced to meet. Once during the morning the stages came rumbling by, but she drew her veil closer, and decided to take passage for a few miles at least, in the next. This might contain some one who had heard of the scenes of the previous night-that could not he thought of. On she walked, over miles and miles of level ground, till at length the sight of hills covered with chaparral re- lieved her wearied vision. If only she could get beyond the reach of vulgar-minded curiosity of suspicious men and questioning women I She had a vague idea of some place somewhere-perhaps a village sufficiently important of itself to secure her from personal scrutiny. In any event she could not stop yet. Another stageI came by, and this time she went aboard. Over the verdant foot- Pills, though it was deep midwinter, cleaving the blood- red soil with every turn of the wheel, with the priestly pines singing anthems over their heads, up the steadily }increasing grades, and really among the mountains at last. Still they thundered on, only waiting to catch a hasty meal at some wretched way-side station, and .then "all aboard" again. But another ordeal was in store for the lonely traveler. The pain which she had supposed was only temporary, had been increasing for several hours, until it was almost more than she could bear with equa- nimity. It was night, and snow had begun to fall rapidly. At length, however, her suffering became quite uncon- trollable. The coach contained but one female beside herself-a German woman-and With her she conferred. No other alternative seemed to present itself than that of remaining for twenty4four hours at the first station. This proposition was communicated to the driver, and the suf- fering, forlorn, and utterly wretched woman was "set         .   !,   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     313 down" to make application for admission at the bar-room of a beer-shop! "A mighty rough time of it she'll have," was the half- rueful commenrt of the honest driver, as he cracked his whip and parted company with his " genteel passenger." Jane Haywood was very ill. For five minutes she sat upon the ground, the still, cool snow, falling upon her face, listening at intervals to the disgusting words to be plainly heard outside the bar-shanty, and again absorbed with her own sufferings and sorrows. Presently she rose and looked in. A rude counter covered with unsightly bot- ties, three or four half-drunken miners swaggering about, or seated by a filthy stove in the center of the single room, some blankets upon the ground in the corner--that was all. Rather would she make her bed in the clean, cold snow, even though she should know no waking this side the land of eternal summer, than enter here. But sleep was already struggling with her senses. Tosit down in the cold was to die; so she began walking round and round the little cabin, afraid to lose sight of, yet loathing it. But, as the darkness deepened, she thought she saw ;in the distance a speck of light, dim and uncertain, but still a ray of joy to see in this dreadful hour. She rubbed her eyes. Was it the vapor of fever? Was it an optical illusion? No! She would follow whither it should lead her. And so again she took up her march. She wan- dered on; but, sick of heart, weary of eyes, and dizzy'of brain, she lost her bearings, and would have sunk in the snow but for the delusions which took possession of her mind. .Then consciousness forsook it, and the eyelids closed with weariness. 27 ,     314       BOUND DO WN, CHAPTER    XXXVIII. "HALLO there, you infernal fool I don't you see that shaft there? three steps fartler and you are in hell in a minute." This gentle warning was shouted, rather than spoken, by a rough, long-bearded miner, who stood, hose in hand, washing a very little gold and a good deal of dirt into the sluice-boxes below.  "Jim, just take the lantern, and go up and see who that concentrated idiot is, will you? He was making a bee-line for the shaft; guess he's gone down; didn't see him very clearly, nohow."  The man, thus instructed, took -up the lantern and dragged his long gutta-percha bloots slowly up the hill, evidently not'inspired with the object of his mission; but nearing the mouth of the shaft, he uttered a brief ejaculation, and stopped shortly, waiting for more than a minute to find utterance intelligible to his comrade  below.  For there, upon the extreme edge of the shaft, more than a hundred feet in depth, Jane Haywood had well- nigh set her foot for the last time on earth. But ex- hausted nature had refused aid, and she had sunk upon the snow in terrible juxtaposition with the means of sudden and dreadful death. At last f' Jim" resolved to break the spell, and abide the results,i though he might startle the " person" into a death swoon. So he roared, rather than spoke, down   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    315 the hill, "Say, you Santa Fe, get up here double quick, here's a pretty kettle of fish." "I Oh, curse your fish, I've got others to fry!" and on he piped, pecking away at the inexorable bank with a zeal not always justified by results. "Say, aint you coming?" with a slight touch of pathos. "Can't cut loose " answered back Santa Fe indif- ferently. "I'll fetch him," muttered Jim, armed with new resolve. "Halloo there!"' "Halloo!" shouted back sullenly. Then Jim, with a comic mixture of importance and solemnity, uttered sepulcherly--"Santa Fe!" "Go to the devil! What?" "Santa Fe, there is a bunnet up here." Every miner knows the overwhelming significance of such a communication as this, and Santa Fe's rugged beard fell down two inches lower upon his breast as he dropped his hose at his feet, allowing the water to run to waste, and hurried up the trail. His first thought was that this was the figure he had seen indistinctly through the darkness, approaching the mouth of the shaft; the next mnoment he remembered the character of warning he had given, and the /warm blood tingled in his bronzed cheeks as he followed the trail of sullied snow which his comrade had made up fhe hill. But it mattered little, for she had not. heard; this he knew, as the rays from the lantern fell upon the white face, with their fever-lit vacant eyes, and the lips babbled sweetly but wholly incoherently. The rough man stooped and awkwardly raised the figure to a sitting posture, but the head -fell- heavily aside, and she clasped her delicate     316       BOUND ,DO0WN, fingers about his hard dry hand confidingly, whispering with hurried respiration,              ! "I can work-oh, I will work, only---" "Jim, take that cursed lantern out of my way-it blinds my eyes," drawing his hand quickly across them' and duplicating the movement along the leg of his pan- taloons. "If it hadn't been'for that infernal thing I should have known it was a bunnet." But Jim evidently preferred his own construction of the matter, for he never moved the light, but stood glow- ering down upon the scene like one in a dream. "Well,;" spoke Santa Fe, in a voice marvelously soft- criened, "what are you going to do with-this?" "What am I going to do?" spoke Jim, looking con- temptuously at his companion, who sat upon one knee in the snow, supporting the womfil with the other. Santa Fe gave a shy, half-confused glance rather in the direc- tion than directly into the face of Jim, and wiped the perspiration from his face, or did something of that kind. "It's mighty sick, this is," said the long-bearded man again. "You bet," spoke Jim, laconically. "We've got to get out of this,' said Santa Fe, sug- gestively. "You bet," repeated Jim. "Well, why don't you go?"Santa F6 said this in a very loud tone of voice. "And leave-everything here alone?" asked Jim, with stupid gravity of manner. Santa F6 gave one withering look too deep for words. "Well, go where?" after an embarrassing silence. "Go somewhere and get somebody to do something or another," was the very lucid reply. "That is as clear as mud," and Jim repeated the in-   ,(:    -               rc 'i   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    317 structions. "I can go and fetch a blanket though, I suppose." "And take-them to the cabin," said Santa Fe, his face beaming and brightening with the thought, but still beating about the pronoun feminine. "Of course-where else?" asked Jim, a little pom- pous about having originated so-brilliant a plan. "Oh, very well," was the reply given with highly affected compliance of manner; "we can turn over the pillows and shake the blankets in the lowest bunk, and it'll do first-rate till--they get better." Jim brought the blankets. .Tenderly, as if she were an infant, those rough hands laid the sufferer upon the rude couch and conveyed her'to the floorless, unlighted cabin among the Sierra Nevada mountains. "What next'?" was Jim's interrogative, after Jane Haywood was safely deposited upon the bunk. "I sup-  pose you'll fix the 'grub'--slap-jacks and beans aint very high living, nohow," Santa Fe turned around fiercely. "Do you suppose they can eat that? There won't be anything wanted for an hour or two, anyway, and we can get something by that time. Of course you'll go for it." Jim made no answer, but lifting the satchel, carried it toward the light. "Drop that I it isn't yours," howled Santa Fe", sav- agely. "Well, I aint going to eat it," grumbled Jim.- Now it was very clear to "Jim," that however mag- nanimous the motive behind it all, this " thing" was bound to make a brute of Santa Fe, so far as concerned his con- duct-toward himself; this he had seen all along. So be took a stool and sat upon it in dogged silence, determined, though half devoured with apprehension about the woman, 27* ? -      318.       BOUND DOWN, that the next suggestion should not come from him. And  it did not. A miner upon a neighboring claim, relieved by some trifling accident from his regular night-shift, on his return home saw a light, and suspecting something unusual, dropped in. "I'll go right home and send my wife," said the honest- hearted man, appreciating the situation at a glance. "It is only half a mile, and the mule is up to-night; the little fellers can take care of themselves, they're all right while  grandpa is round; anyhow this woman needs attention, that's plain." And off he started. In little more than an hour the good wife was bending over the sick woman, tucking back the hair, bathing the temples, loosening the fastenings, and performing other little offices, such as only a woman's hand is skilled in performing, at the same time bringing infinite relief to' that pair of individuals whose services, so important shortly since, were now no longer required. "'Tis my opinion she won't be sick long," Mrs. Mennick said, cheerily; "I've seen a good deal of illness in my day, now and again, and this has been a hard chill fol- lowed by the regular fever, brought on by exposure probably, and maybe some little trouble of the mind, the nervous symptoms look like it; anyhow I'll stay with her till we see what's coming of it." About daylight the fever began to diminish, conscious- ness returned, and the sick woman began to ask questions. "That's a good sign;"Mrs. Mennick said, encourag-. ingly, and answered to the best of her ability. Two days afterward it was decided that Mrs. Haywood should be removed to the house of Mrs. Mennick. Jim muttered something about killing a person and have done with it, and Santa Fe sat outside the cabin in the snow, on a three-legged stool, and plucked at his beard fero-   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    319 ciously. Indeed, he had already pulled half his beard out, at one time and another, since that woman came under the roof, and as a protective measure alone, it was best she should be gone. At last, after a short season of consultation and prepa- ration, a rude sleigh was brought, into which both ladies were comfortably stowed, and Jane with tearful eyes held the rough hands while she expressed her gratitude to her benefactors, who, had they been lortds of palaces and estates, could not have given her a surer welcome. Many months after, Jim overheard Santa Fe mutter in an undertone, as he stirred the beans over the fire more vigorously than usual, "I don't believe they ever knew I called them an infernal fool that time;" and then he whistled under breath for a long while, and looked away over to the "Buttes," ever so many miles off. But Jane Haywood felt that even in this humble house- hold to which she came, her position was a false one. Ah whither was she drifting? Cora, Mildred-where were those she loved so well? Had they, too, learned to hear her name, and keep silent? One evening after Mrs. Haywood's convalescence, the meager mail matter, which, at long intervals, found its way into these mountain rookeries, was left at the cabin, and Jane, in glancing over a newspaper, fell upon the name of Dr. Marston. She looked again; it was ap- pended to an advertisement for information relating to herself. She walked away to a window, and wept bitterly. Precious tears; they were the first she had found, as it seemed to her, for an age. And how light of heart they made her feel-almost happy; for one there' was, of them all, who had cared to know of her fate. She seized her pen'and wrote. She told all there 'V     320       BOUNVD DO RvN, was in her heart to say-of love, and error, and despair, ,and resignation, and hope, and fear, and prayerful resolve. When she had finished and read it over, she destroyed the letter. If her conscience had accused ler, let it also confess her. No mortal ear, not even Dr. Marston's, could be attuned to full sympathy with her temptations and her. weaknesses. No eye, save One, could keep merciful vigil over the advancing transition of her spirit from one condition to another, making light to shine where darkness had fallen. So she folded her hands and sat down'to wait, even as she had' rebuked the little ,Cora for doing, in those olden days forever gone.  An old man, the "grandpa" in the household, sat by the fire, trying to read by t!e uncertain light of declin- ing day. He laid down the paper, took off his spectacles, rubbed them vigorously, and readjusting them, examined the pamrgraph again. "Ah, I have it at last, Hannah," he said, addressing 'Mrs. Mennick, " this is the name of the blessed child I have told you about so often; the little thing that was put in -the asylum  a great deal more sane than any of them. Haywood, Haywood, Cora Haywood, yes, that is it.", Quick as thought Mrs. Haywood sprang to the side of the old man.  "What is it you were saying, grandpa, about Cora Haywood?" and the voice faltered as she pronounced the name.  "About Cora, onlyA hat she was a  good, dear good child.  Oh, you mean what did I say about her name. Haywood was her name; I had forgotten until I saw it in the paper-that is all,"* and the old gentleman quietly resumed his reading. "What is it, Mrs. Howe? Does the advertisement   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    321 allude to any one you know?"Mrs. Mennick asked with a woman's quick instinct.       , By which question it may be seen that Mrs. Hay- wood had not given her real, though a similar name. "It was not that," returned Jane, evasively, "I want to ask about the child. Where did you say you saw her, grandpa? Tell me, oh, do!" "Why, in the asylum, to be sure, bless her little soul; I reckon I may thank her, under Providence, for being in my old place at this hearthstone to-day," and the old man smiled up into the two woman faces bending over him. Then followed eager questionings and answers but half satisfactory, yet enough there was in it all to con- vince Mrs. Haywood of the cruel plot to which she, as well as the child, had been a victim. Oh, that she could take the wings of the morning and fly to her darling  What were even her own sufferings compared with the terrible, corroding, life-destroying conviction with which that child was haunted by night and by day,-the con- viction that, abandoned, forsaken of them all, like a forgotten flower armid the bare, and rifted stalks around her, she had been left to die in that horrible place alone? Now Mrs. Haywood's resolve was taken-she would go to the child though she challenged the world. And all through the still hours that succeeded, fancy folded the little glad Cora to her own heart, and!the ills of life floated by. Once in the depth of the night the clear notes of a canary bird rang out in the stilly mountsin gloom, clear and musical, just under the eaves above her sleeping-: place. The woman rose in her bed, listened long and eagerly to the warbling notes, and then, returning to her pillow, said quietly,     322        BOUNVD DOWWN, '( Cora is calling to me--I will go." Cora had been an inmate of the Stockton Asylum for the Insane for a term of 'several months, yet, since the night-she was first thrust away among the iron bars in her cell; no earthly interest had been made manifest con- cerning her fate. Within the asylum it was at first sup- posed that the child's story originated in an unsound brain, and therefore elicited no special observation. Sub- sequent events, however, opened the way to suspicions, and established the little maiden upon the popular basis of a victim of foul play. It was with the design of probing the affair that the letter from the resident phy- sician had been dispatched to Dr. Marston; but that gen- tleman never having received the letter-being absent upon its arrival in San Francisco-the investigation rested there for the present. And thus it happened that all concerned for the child were deprived of any knowl- edge of her, really believing her to be in school, as ar- ranged from the beginning. Meanwhile Cora had fallen in among those inconse- quent lives, like a second bloom in autumn, renewing the spring-time of youth, and bringing cheer in unexpected seasons and places. More than once her diagnosis of patients had startled the learned heads of the institution from their professional tread-mills, to the extent of fol- lowing out her suggestions, under some remote pretense, certainly, but always with the most satisfactory'results. But day by day the melancholy fact became more apparent that the strange but beloved child was soon to enter upon new scenes. Physically absorbed, as it were, by her surroundings, painfully misunderstood, and, there- fore much compelled to corroding silence, her vital forces had begun to yield, and a listless, dreamy indifferepnce had taken the place of the old fire that seemed to glow'   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     323 within, Various remedies were proposed and essayed, all of which failed upon at least the one material point of inspiring the patient with faith in future release and recovery. At last some reckless mind hazarded the proposition of giving the child a Newfoundland dog-as her companion. At this suggestion Cora sprang up and fairly danced with ecstasy. It so happened that the doctor had acquired, achieved, or otherwise come in possession of a Newfoundland dotg of magnificent proportions and lineage, but his unhappy constitutional rapacity had brought him l9w in the esti- mate of his early friends, to the extreme of inclining his master to the resolve of making disposition of him, inno- cently of course, at no distant day, unless, indeed, he mend his ways, of which reformation no recent events gave the least promise. Indeed, there were evidenc:es of moral depravity inherent in the dog's nature' which challenged all hope of reform-the first step toward which is penitence, or at least decent recognition of error. On the contrary, the lower the depth of infamy into which some delusive spirit of mischief may have led him, the more totally oblivious to the consequences did his canine- ship seem.                    . His treasure-field in the corner of the garden held more mysteries than the human heart, and when one of those-, frequent occasions of exhuming occurred, which were  sure to follow a season of losses, Tantalus was rigidly oblivious to the fact that anything extraordinary was going forward; and when the house-maid produced a garment with a sleeve lopped off, or the gardener un- earthed a beaver or a fur from its hiding-place, no Rip Van Winkle's sleep could have been more profound, or have rendered the subject more impervious or undemon- strative.     324       BOUND DOWN, The only single apology he was'ever known to make. was by means of a leer with one eye and a half-mast flag appearance of one ear, and this only when in an unlucky moment he should have been caught in the very act of mischief, no accusation by inference, no circum- stantial evidence, could possibly avail; unless morally certain that there was proof sufficient f6r all criminating  purposes, to say nothing of intents, he totally ignored  the whole thing, saying plainly as dog could say, "This is no offense of mine, 'what's Ilecuba to me, or I td Hecuba?"'                        Finally, the dog was brought, and friendly relations  between the future playfellows speedily and satisfactorily established. The life of Tantalus had a new impetus. No longer driven to resorts so undignified in themselves,  anfd so demoralizing in results as those which had dis- graced his former career, his zeal for inspiring the confi- dence of his young mistress was worthy of the trium-ph he achieved. Indeed, it might almost be said that Tan- talus had experienced a change of heart-at the very least, a change of motive. He gave up his -aquatic sports, or scampered down to the river for his morning bath alone, and was back again before Cora had risen from her bed. Day after day they were seen together saunter- ing though the graveled, grass-lined walks, among the grounds of the Asylum, or bounding away in the direc- tion of the private residence of the doctor, the former home of Tantalus, where Cora had long since become the established guest of the family. Their conversations, though a little one-sided, perhaps, were not wholly unre- ciprocal. If the child particularly desired to elucidateO a  point in her own mind, her favorite method was to set Tantalus before her, and harangue him. Of course, the dog had nothing else to do but to sit and look wise; and I *   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    325 not unfrequently her interrogations were answered by whines and sniffs, and such other demonstrations as evi- dently meant intelligent response. How little soever he actaally comIprehended of the matter, unintelligible as these communications seemed to others, they were vastlyi enlightening to the parties concerned, "because, you see," Cora declared, with great fervor, "he never mis- understands me-he knows some and believes the rest,i and he, learns a little more every day of that which is true."  But the days were not all of play; there were those of suffering and doubt, and almost despair, even to the child Cora; days when the conviction seethed in her brain that she was unloved and forgotten. Days when she felt more than others the deadly gripe about her heart, which only required another degree to have done its last work with her' slender life. Would they not come? Heard they not her voice through the night? could they not feel her outstretched arms among the shadows? Was she not so much as a memory with them? and might she not gather with her kindred around the hearts that had once been quick to respond' to her love?                  ! Oh youthi Oh hopel! Oh human sacrifice! What else is such a life as this than an embodied principle? a mingled flow of divinity and mortality, checked and frozen in its warm life-current, reflecting the prismatic splendors of an abstract truth,-an ensnared bird blown from unseen shores, beating the long, unanswering hush of eternity with speculative wing, but still feebly fanning aside the mist of error or unconcern to let in a glint from the great Beyond. It had been raining all night, and for many nights and days. The little city. of Stockton was already a watery 28 *     326       BOUND DOWN, field, and the water was still rising. The drift-wood that lined the banks of the flood was eloquent with the story 'of wreck and ruin. Small farm-houses rocked giddily down the current, and terror-stricken animals struggled, with mute eloquence in their beseeching eyes, to reach the ever-receding shore. And still the skies bent darkly  down with unrelenting frown, Spreading the waters of desolation over the face of the fair earth. It happened that the dwelling-house of the doctor, where Cora had been detained by the storm for two or three days, stood near the banks of the river, and an infi- nite resource for her, in the dull hours, was the practice of watching, through a marine-glass, the dreadful ravages of the flood. With the aid of this glass, she could clearly discern objects scarcely visible, even in outline, to the naked eye. Thus employed, she discovered a building drifting down the stream at the mercy of wind and wave, and, upon closer inspection, she was able to recognize human figures clinging to the roof and about the open- ings, frantically gesticulating in the unwarrantable hope that some one eye more vigilant should catch sight of them. This it was Cora's privilege to do. She watched the reeling structure, first with interest, then with eager- ness,} for among the half dozen of forms there was one she recognized. How he came there she did not wait to question. She only knew it was Harry Haywood. The next thought was, not-as it might have been-shall I rescue him? but how?  She knew that all efforts for relief would be essayed by the town-folk; but, above this, the old idea haunted her to do something of herself. The roaring, booming Jriver, plethoric with incoming streams, fed by the fast-dissolving snow upon the Sierras, promised only speedy destruction to small boats reckless enough to push out among the hurrying and crazy debris   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    327 of field and forest; and, besides, night was coming on, and the probabilities of succor remote at best. While she stood, glass in hand, the bark of Tantalus, from his kennel, where the water had crept in, suggested, with some emphasis, more comfortable quarters. "Tantalus!" That moment she sprang across the halls and down the stairs; at the same time a shout came up. from the street below, and excited menerushed in pursuit of boats, and cautious men warned them to beware how they trusted themselves to that angry flood. In the midst of debate and calculation Cora appeared, wet to the knees, holding her dog by the collar. Meanwhile the wreck began to tottle and wave, and finally went over. 'The figure Cora recognized as that of Mr. Haywood was seen to lose his hold and battle with the torrent. Cora remembered to have heard him say, upon one occasion, that he could not swim I She did not hesitate for a moment, but seizing a man by the arm, and entreating him not to wait an explanation, she induced him to row away to the limit of safety; then, with. instructions to the huge Newfoundlander, who seemed to have comprehended every movement from the beginning, she plunged him into the stream. With a sweep of his great soft, sagacious eye, he looked around upon the watery scene and back into the face of his young mistress, to be reassured of -the instruction. "Go and, fetch them, Tantalus; go, sir," and the mag- netic tones shook in the air above the confusion of waters. Tantalus set forth; now submerged beneath a mass of drift-wood, now reappearing, his white head whiter than the foam upon the wave, he bravely struggled on, his eye single to his object, as one of his kind may carry a pack- age through the street, shunning, and putting down with' 'i ,      328       BOUND DOWN, grave dignity all allusion to former familiar association and decoys, only intent upon his present mission:. At length the dog reached the wrecked building, which had temporarily lodged among the floating tree-tops, and began swimming around it. At first no one saw-then from out the waves a hand reached and grasped his collar. The moment the animal felt the weight about his neck he set his face firmly toward the boat. For a minute he made progress, and wagers were laid upon his final triumph; then the current struck him and whirled :his head down the stream. A moment of terrible sus- pense succeeded, for the waters were gaining. Then wavering opinions grew confirmed, and wagers- were made upon the other side. Cora stood poised upon the helmsman's seat in the little boat, while a strong man grasped her: arm. She 'saw her dog pointing down the stream. Could he recover? Unquestionably he was trying to turn in the tide. A huge mass came tumbling down from above. Cora saw, and knew if it struck the dog all was lost. She sprang upon the shoulder of the man -beside her without a sound, and, throwing her little, weak arms aloft, she shouted, "Tantalusl"Did the faithful creature catch the sound of that feeble shriek? The men in the boat did so believe, but no one ever knew. Whether or not; he made a convulsive plunge under the water, and came up, headed for the boat, his eye fixed upon the little figure on the man's shoulder. "Brave fellow!" shouted the child, and then she wiped a little blood from her lips with her handkerchief. Tan- talus neared the boat, and at last, making one final plunge forward, man and dogt were dragged in and lay drenched and gasping in the little boat at Cora's feet. - The man was indeed Haywood-the dog was her faith- ful servant and friend. She looked 'at them both, and, \ , i   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     329 with the' license which thought asserts over expression, she fixed the relative status of each in her own mind; then, stooping down, she kissed the dripping, curling -head of the dog reverently. She had saved the life of Haywood, and she regarded the act as a sort of tribute- money, which she, as a pensioner, esteemed it a privi- lege to be able to offer. She was now free, and she did not speak to him, but directly grew rigid as marble, and was carried up to her bed in the doctor's house. There she lay thinking long into the night, while the waters rose, and the people talked spasmodically beneath her windows, and her heart grew cold and "shivery" as it reached drearily out, while her pallid lips articulated a whole prayer in the two little words, "Oh Aunty!" A few sentences will be required to throw light upon Mr. Haywood's position. While California was yet a part of Mexico it was a practice of the shiftless, loose policy of that republic, to grant tracts of land to favorites of the "powers that were" in almost unlimited quantities. The boundaries of these grants, frequently embracing many leagues of land, in some cases comprising tracts of land twenty miles square, were usually mountains or streams or other natural limits. A right to a tract of land of a few specified number of miles, situated at any locality within the boundaries of fifty or perhaps a hundred miles square, was called a " floating grant."' When the United States acquired Mexico, it was among other stip- ulations that Mexican titles should -be respected, a pro- vision which, more than anything, has retarded the per- manent settlement of California. The discovery of gold :and the consequent influx of population rendered tracts of land, hitherto considered worthless, valuable. Accord- ingly, old grants were hunted out from forgotten or     330        BOUND DOWN, musty Mexican archives, and new grants were forged in the names of dead Mexican potentates, or those still living were bribed to sign and to swear that they signed them before the "Conquest."   Genuine grants were "floated" -from their original locations so as to cover ,  towns or settlements not situated upon them. Settlers not disposed to acquiesce in Mexican titles, resisted the rights of the grantees, and litigation thereby became extensive and lucrative.  There is scarcely a city, or village, or ranch in Cali- fornia but that, at some time, has been claimed under these grants. Alternately fraud has been exposed, and triumphant. Sometimes the possessors of genuine grants secured their rights, and sometimes they failed. The first business of the settler was to enter into a combina- tion with his neighbors to resist the Mexican claim, which was pending or sure to come. The regular business of the legal speculator was, to ferret out a "grant" to cover any settlement which promised to be valuable. It was" easy to procure Mexicans to testify to the authenticity, of any document; it was not difficult to manufacture records. Even high officials in the Mexican republic were not beyond the reach-of temptation. It was difficult, on the other hand, to enforce a grant in a locality where judge and sheriff were elected by "squatters." The most common course was to fortify the grant so as to secure its confirmation by the United  States Commissioner and courts, and afterward compro- mise with the settlers. Harry Haywood; as a successful lawyer, had become interested, for a contingent fee, in some of these grants; whether genuine or fraudulent is of, no concern here. Upon an,4errand of inspection, he had visited the San Joaquin valley, examining boundaries, the character of   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     331 the land, and the attitude of th9 settlers. Having gained the information he sought, the flood 'overtook him, and he found refuge under the roof a hospitable ranchman. But there was no security for 'man, beast, or property in all this broad and beautiful vlley. The ravage's of the relentless flood were not to be stayed by boundary lines, or sounding titles, or sagacious interpreters of limits and localities. Like the avalanche of the Alps, its visitations are swift, sudden, and terrible, and even the reckless, riotous spirit of Harry Haywood was awed in the pres- ence of the Water-King. Thus the child Cora rescued him from the very arms of the messenger of death, and a week afterward he laughed about the whole- incident, as he tragically recited the story of the Chinaman, who, poised upon a hay bale, in the middle of the stream, answered back, when asked by Haywood where he was bound for, "No sabbie!" CHAPTER, XXXIX. SEVERAL days went by, and still Cora languished in her room. The doctor's wife, a humane woman, showed -the child many little attentions. She overlooked her now rapidly diminishing wardrobe, seasoned her broths and sent jellies and chosen fruit, with a real motherly care; but household, duties demanded her attention, and so Cora was left alone. Not alone, for Tantalus was ad- mitted to her chamber, and for hours together the faithful creature, now quite a hero in the city, would lie before the bed with his paws upon the rug, and resting his head upon them, doze and watch his young mistress alter-    .           .'     332        BOUND DOWN, nately. But every hour the fingers grew more waxen, the hectic light burned more fiercely as the day waned, and finally the little patient refused to lie down even to sleep, but sat, supported by pillows, in her chair, " wait- ing l"Waiting for what? Why, for the angels. Whether they come clad in the olden clodden trammels of earth, as mlortals, or in garments fibered with uilfamiliar textures, and hued with rare and strange glories, still mercy and love abide in the spirit alike, and will finally come. Yet many a child of earth beside this little one waits through a long life of dark years for theecoming of their better or beloved angels.  One evening the doctor came in with an open letter in his ihand. "What will you give me to read it? for it is all about you," was the light banter.  "Oh, anything!I anything but Tantalus. I'll take my horrid pills, and my bitter drops, and my cod-liver oil, and never make a fuss," was the grave promise. "Agreed!" said the doctor, and he read aloud the com- munication from Dr. Marston. It was an acknowledgment of the letter to which reference has already been made, together with expres- sions of the deepest concern for Cora, announcing his purpose to proceed at once to bring her to his home in San Francisco, and adding, that they-Mildred and him- self-might be expected almost simultaneously with the receipt of his letter. Oh-! joy once more to the little, weary, lonely heart I This was, of course,.the first intimation of their marriage; yet it brought no surprise to the little, radiant face, it was "so natural "-only a look of serene contemplativeness, tinged with sadness, for one loved name was left un- written-one page was an ominous blank. *Y          ,d    . I UIIU   OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.     333 But time hurried on, and a few hours more brought a carriage to the door. The beating of the little heart almost smothered the child, and when folded in Mildred's arnms she swooned upon her shoulder. ; She was soon re- stored, but greatly exhausted. And now, for the first time, her real condition became painfully apparent. Her first questions were of Jane Haywood. Upon being told. tlhat shte had left San Francisco to go, no one seemed to know whither, she faintly replied, "Then I shall see her no more," and from that hour she sank rapidly. Again and again Mildred assured her that no effort would be spared to find her dear one, and bring her home. But Cora only said "too late," and turned her little white face to the wall. Arrangements being rapidly completed, the invalid was conveyed by loving friends to their beautiful home by the western sea, and Tantalus was of the party. It was late one afternoon in February, the loveliest of all the months on that Pacific shore. The day had been one of enchanting, voluptuous splendor, and as the sun throbbed, rather than sank down the western sky, it showered its shining dust over rock, and sea, and sand, and sail, gilding uncomeliness and squalor even with a traditional touch of glory. The beautiful bay, encircled in its zone of regal purple and gold, lay shrunken and blushing, abashed in the presence of profligate nature, and ships wantoned on the smooth surface, reluctant of' duty and inviting delay. The bay-windows w-here Mildred and Cora had been sitting with one or two friends, during the afternoon, were attired in the same golden sheen, and the oriole which& Dr. Marston had brought for Cora, a day or two since, trilled his most extravagant notes from his highest perch. ,  '              /     334       BOUND DOWN, The little invalid lay back in her easy-chair, with closed eyes and clasped fingers, while the painted light played over her quiet features, and the sun sank lower. Mildred came and stood by the chair, with a great solemn hush at her heart, such as she never knew before. "Miss Mildred ;" and the eyes unclosed languidly. "Yes, dear Cora ;" and she touched the smooth brow with her lips. "Turn me toward the sunset--there 1" The gorgeous conflagration burned on with unabated display, as if all the embers in the realms of ether were lit at once. Dr. Marston came quietly in, and sat upon a stool at Cora's feet, holding her wrists softly, his fine head sur- rounded by the same halo. Miss Mildred, I'm going now, and I want to tell you about it-for you will not think me queer." "Yes, my beloved, trust me to the last." The sweet womanly voice wavered a little, and that was all. X I There was a pause. "Cora, can you see me?" was the very natural ques- ttohn of the doctor. "I might, but my sight seems drawn away. There are visions of such untold loveliness gliding between ;" and the old vacant look came back to the eyes. "But this is not dying; I am floating away from the poor little 'body. Can you not see me?"' and the lips broke loose from their prison of pain, and the whole face relaxed into a smile of indescribable sweetness. "No, dear child, I cannot see; my eyes are too earthly for that." Mildred spoke firmly now.  "Neither are you able to see them -- Hark I a wail like that of a bereaved mother for her J'             ,     OR LIFE AND ITS POSSIBILITIES.    335 young broke the stillness of the death-chamber, and sent a shiver through the veins of the watchers. It was Tantalus, lying down upon the ground, with eyes fixed upon the open window. "He sees them," said the dying child. Dr. Marston gave a quick glance at the calm face of Mildred, but neither spoke. "Tell Aunty I go, but shall come again," and the little fingers groped feebly about in search of those they would clasp once more. "I shall know, myself at last there is no mystery there; I know that, because everything looks so plain to me, though there is no language." A long pause in respiration, and Mildred's heart stood still. Again, after a spasmodic struggle for breath, the child said, while Dr. Marston gently raised her head, "Let me once more hear your voices." Both began together as with one thought, but tears choked the manly utterance, while the woman went on in a clear voice, which echoed with strange distinctness. "Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I shall fear no evil; for Thou art with me: Thy rod and Thy staff they comfort me." Mildred's voice grew still. The sun had sunk behind the hills, the oriole's voice was hushed at the window, and the pure spirit of the child Cora had escaped from its casement of clay, and was already entering upon "fields ever fresh, and groves forever green." They laid the little form away in Lone Mountain Cemetery, upon the sunny slope of the hill overlooking the Golden Gate, and the mountains pf the Coast Range, with their laps full of dimples and waves, away among silent strangers, where the din of human affairs rarely comes, where the sturdy chaparral keeps watch by night     836      7 BOUND DO WN,     ; and day in somber green, and never gives -way save at the approach of a certain messenger who never heard a challenge.   . For nearly a week after the burial of Cora, Tantalus was never anywhere to be seen except by her grave. He stolidly refused food, and sat patiently waiting with longing, anxious face, whining piteously when left be- hind, but still as resolutely keeping his vigil night and day.  One evening, as they were passing the cemetery, Mildred suggested driving in, for the double purpose of leaving 'a bunch of spring violets and ascertaining if Tantalus was still there. The doctor turned up the smooth drive, and, coming in sight of the little mound, they were surprised by two forms-one a human figure kneeling at the grave. It was draped in complete black, and bore a striking contrast to the white, shaggy coat of the dog, who was stretched alongside. A little nearer, and the figure rose and stood upright, as if startled atthe approach of strangers. Dr. Marston sprang from the carriage, and, advancing a few steps, stood still, appalled. For out in the white moon- light, stamped with the unmistakable seal of woe, and stained with bitter tears, stood the well-remembered, features of Jane Haywood. Mildred beard the name spoken in consternation by her husband. The next moment they were kneeling, clasped in each other's arms, above the child's grave; and Mildred, whispering, said,. "I know-I know-neither will I forsake thee. Come home with me."' The two walked away together, and Dr. Marston led the way.              A day or two after Tantalus was found dead upon the little grave.   OR LIFE AND .ITS POSSIBILITIES.    33t Helen Montrose remained in New York with Captain J Gray and his happy and lovely wife. She went forward developing her mental powers, according to her oppor- tunities, and. came to be a brilliant woman. She took the platform, and-grew to be quite the fashion, popular- izing almost any cause she espoused. Aunt Jemima sleeps among the gray stones in the little church-yard of her beloved Peaksville, waiting the sound of Gabriel's trumpet to announce the resurrection of the body. CHAPTER      XL.        i 1862 1 Rebellion was doing its worst. War was in the air. Strife walked abroad in the land. The revelry of death shook every hearthstone, and the nation was drunk with blood. Prisons and -hospitals swarmed with the living,' the dying, and the dead.  Mothers and sisters and wives were abroad on' missions of charity and relief. No heart, North or South, but responded to the appeals of the suffering, and many a treasonable act was blotted out at last by the equalizing hand of mercy. Early in  the war, Harry Haywood had enlisted on the side of the Confederacy; had done really gallant service; and had fallen, not wholly without honors.- 'Through one of the hospitals, after the battle of Shiloh, a quiet female figure was seen gliding to and fro among the suffering, a minister of mercy--"an angel," they said, "if ever one walked the earth."7 ,She passed by the couch whereon lay Fred Montrose, wounded, but, as they trusted, not unto death. He held . 29 ,.     338       BOUND DO WN. out one thin white hand-the only one left-and asked her to come to him. Jane Haywood paused, and laid her hand in his once more, after all those long, dreary years. "Have we not both suffered enough, Jane?" She stooped and kissed him softly, then went and stood by the window, while A great sob seized her heart. When she turned round again it was quite dark, and the candles were already lighted in the tent. THE END.   "ST OF PUBLICATIONS OF J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO. PHLADELPHA. Will be sent by nail, post paid, on receipt of the Price. The Albert N'Yanza.    Great Basin of the Nile, and Explorations of the Nile Sources. By SIR SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S., &c. With Maps and numerous Illus. 'trations, from sketches by Mr. Baker. New edition. Crown 8vo. Extra cloth, $3.   "It is one of the most interesting and instructive books of travel ever issued; and this edition, at a reduced price, will bring it within the reach of many who have not before seen it. "-Bostonyournal.   "One of the most fascinating, and cer- tainly not the least important, books of travel published during the century" Boston Eve. Transcrt.    The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia, and the Sword- Hunters of the Hamran Arabs. By SIR SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R G. S., &c. With Maps and numerous Illustrations, from original sketches by the Author. New edition. Crown 8vo. Extra cloth, $2.75.   "We have rarely met with a descriptive work so well conceived and so attractively written as Baker's Abyssinia, and we cor-   dially recommend it to public patronage.  . . It is beautifully illustrated."--N. O. Times.    Eight Years' Wandering in Ceylon. Bjy Sir SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S.,.&c. With Illustra- tions. I6mo. Extra cloth, $1.50.   "Mr. Baker's description of life in Cey- lon, of sport, of the cultivation of the soil, of its birds and beasts and insects and rep- tiles, of its wild forests and dense jungles, of its palm trees and its betel nuts and in- toxicating drugs, will be found very in- teresting. The book is well written and beautifully printed."-Bait. Gazette.   "Notwithstanding the volume abounds with sporting accounts, the natural history of Ceylon is well and carefully described, and the curiosities of the famed island are not neglected. It is a valuable addition to the works on the East Indies."--'hia. Lutheran Observer.     The Rijfe and   the  Hound in   Ceylon.  By  Sir SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R. G. S., &c. With Illus- trations. x6mo. Extra cloth, $1.50.   "Certainly no sporting book we have ever read is more alive with spirit and dashing achievements, and we can guar- antee that no one interested in such sub- jects at all can begin to read without   finishing it to the last line, or can lay it down without unbounded admiration for the versatile powers of its hero and author." -The Round Table.   Cast Up by the Sea. A Book for Boys from Eight Years Old to Eighty. By SIR SAMUEL WHTE BAKER, M. A., F. R G. S., &c. With eleven Illustrations by Huard. I6mo. Cheap edition, cloth, 65 cts. Fine edition, tinted paper, extra cloth, $1.25.   "Since the days when 'Robinson Cru- soe' first gave pleasure to the host of readers, young and old, which has ever since been ,multiplying, we doubt if any book of that class has presented a claim equally strong to take its place right squarely up to it, and alongside. The boys will all run to get it, and old boys,   too, will find themselves growing young again in the boyish-admiration which it will elicit even from them."-Charleston Cou- rier. "The boy, of whatever age, who takes up this fascinating book, will scarcely lay it dovm till finis or daylight appears."- Columbus eournal.    Bulwer's Novels.     Library Edition.     Complete in forty-two volumes. Large type. x2mo; Cloth, $52.50; Library, sheep, $63; half calf, neat, $105; half calf, gilt extra, $115.50. Each novel sold separately, as below, in cloth, at $1.25 per volume.                               ,   The Caxtons.........  .2 vols. My Novel .............4 vols. What will He do with It?.,3 vols. Devereux .....   ..... 2 vols. Last Days of Pompeii.... 2 vols. Rienzi .....2 vols. Leila, Calderon ....... I vol. The Last of the Barons. .2 vols. Harold...........   2 vols. Pilgrims of the Rhine.... I vol. Eugene Aram ...........2 vols.   Zanoni ................2 vols. Pelham ...............2 vols. The Disowned   .........2 vols. Paul Clifford ...........2 vols. Godolphin ............... vol. Ernest Maltravers.......2 vols. Alice..... .............2 vols. Night and Morning......2 vols. Lucretia...............2 vols. A Strange Story.........2 vols.   "This edition is in everyway a desirable one for libraries; the volumes are of con- venient size, the type large, the paper of a superior quality, and the binding neat and substantial."-Philada. Inquirer. "Its convenient form makes it desirable for use in traveling, as well as for library   purposes. .'. Book-buyers will do well to purchase this edition for their libraries." -Pittsburg Gazette.  "Every gentleman who desires toebuild up a complete library must have this edi- tion of Bulwer."-Columbus yourn4i, j   Tricotrin.  The Story of a Waif and Stray.      By OuIDA, author of "Under Two Flags," &c. With Portrait of the Author from an Engraving on Steel. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "The story is full of vivacity and of thrilling interest."-Pitsburg Gazette. "Tricotrin is a work of absolute power, some truth and deep interest."-N. Y. Day Book.   "The book abounds in beautiful senti- ments, expressed in a concentrated, com- pact style which cannot fail to be attractive, and will be read with pleasure in every household. "-San Francisco Times.   Granville de Vigne; or, Held      in Bondage.   PA Tale of the Day. By OUIDA, author of "Idalia," "Tricotrin," &. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "This is one of the most powerful and I spicy works of fiction which the present I   century, so prolific in light literature, has produced."   Strathmore; or, Wrought by His Own Hand. A Novel. By OUIDA, author of," Granville de Vigne," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "It is romance of the intense school, but it is written with more power, fluency and brilliancy than the works of Miss   Braddon and Mrs. Wood, while its scenes and characters are taken from high life." -Boston Transcripit.   Chandos. A Novel. By Ouida, author of "Strath- more," "Idalia," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.   "Those who have read these two last- named brilliant works of fiction (Granville de Vigne and Strathmore) will be sure to read Chandos. It is characterized by the same gorgeous coloring of style and some-   what exaggerated portraiture of scenes and characters, but it is a story of surpassing power and'interest."-Pittsburg Evening . Chronicle.   Idalia. 'A  Novel. By Ouida, author of "Strath-  more," "Tricotrin," &c. I2mo. Cloth, $2.    "It is a story of love and hatred, of affection and jealousy, of intrigue and de- votion. ... We think this novel will at- tain a wide popularity, especially among   those whose refined taste enables them to appreciate and enjoy what is truly beau- tiful in literature."-Albany Evening I yournal.   Under Two Flags.     A Story of the Household and the Desert.' By OUIDA, author of "Tricotrin," "Granville de Vigne," &c. i2mo. Cloth, $2.   "No one will be able to resist its fasci- nation who once begins its perusal."- Philada. Evening Bulletin. "This is probably the most popular work   of Ouida. It is enough of itself to estab- lish her fame as one of the most eloquent and graphic writers of fiction now living." -Chicago yournal of Commerce,   Ouida's NVovelettes.   First  Series, Ccil Castle- maine's Gage. .Second Series, Randolph Gordon. Third Series Beatrice Boville. Each of these volumes contains a selection of "OUIDA'S"Popular Tales and Stories. x2mo. Cloth, each $1.75.   "The many works already in print by this versatile authoress have established her reputation as a novelist, )and these short ston'ies contrir"nte largely 4o the stock   of pleasing narratives and adventures alive  to the memory of all who are given to eromance and fiction."-N. Haven your     The American Beaver and his Works.        By Lewis H. MORGAN, author of "The League of the Iroquois." Hand- somely illustrated with twenty-three full-page Lithographs and numerous Wood-Cuts.' One vol. 8vo. Tinted paper, Cloth extra, $5.   "The book may be pronounced an ex- pansive and standard work on the Ameri- can beaver, and a valuable contribution to science."-N. Y. Herald. "The book is an octavo of three hun- dred and thirty pages, on very thick paper, handsomely bound and abundantly illus- trated with maps and diagrams. It isa com- plete scientific, practical, historical and des-   criptive treatise on the subject of -which it treats, and will form a standard for those who'are seeking knowledge inf'this de- partment of animal life. ... By the pub- lication of this book, Messrs. J. B. Lip- pincott & Co., of Philadelphia, have really done a service to science which we trust will be well rewarded."-Boston Even. Traveler.   The Autobiography of Dr. Benjamin Franklin. The first and only complete edition of Franklin's Memoirs. Printed from the original MS. With Notes and an Introduction. Edited by the HON. JOHN BIGELOW, late Minister of the United States to France. With Portrait from a line Engraving on Steel.' Large i2mo. Toned paper. Fine cloth, beveled boards, $2.50.   "The discovery of the original auto- graph of Benjamin Franklin's chaacter- istic narrative of his own life was one of the fortunate events of Mr. Bigelows dip- lomatic career. It has given him the op- portunity of producing a volume of rare bibliographical interest, and performing a valuable service to the cause of letters. He has engaged in his task with the en- thusiasm of an American scholar, and   completed it in a manner highly credit- able to his judgment and industry."-The New York Tribune. "Every one who has at heart the honor of the nation, the interests of American literature and the fame of Franklin will thank the author for so requisite a national service, and applaud the manner and method of its fulfillment."-Boston Even. Transcriht.   The Dervishes. ,History     of the Dervishes; or, Oriental Spiritualism. By JOHN P. BROWN, Interpreter of the American Legation at Constantinople. With twenty-four Illus- trations. One vol. crown 8vo.. Tinted paper. Cloth, $3.50.   "In this volume are the fruits of long years of study and investigation, with a great deal of personal observation. It treats, in an eyhaustive manner, of the belief and principles of the Dervishes. Tt r   .. On the whole, this is a thoroughly original work, which cannot fail to be- come a book of reference."- I hePhilada. Press.   N ew America. By Wm. Hepworth Dixon. Fourth edition. Crown 8vo. With Illustrations. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $2.75.  I   "In thi graphic volume Mr. Dixori sketches American men and women sharp-               .   ly, vigorously and truthfully, under every aspect."-Dublin University Magazine.   The Old Mam'selle's Secret.      After the German of E. Marlitt, author of "Gold Elsie," "Countess Gisela," &c! By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Sixth edition. i2mo. Cloth, $I.75.   "A more charming story, and one which, having once commenced, it seemed more difficult to leave, we have not met with for many a day."-The Round Table. "Is one of the most intense, concentrated, compact novels of the day.... And ithe work has the minute fidelity of the author   of 'The Initials,' the dramatic unity of Reade, and the graphic power of George Elliot."-Columbus (0.) Journal. "Appears to be one of the most interest- ing stories that we have had from Europl for many a day."--oston Traveler. I   Gold Elsie. From     the German of E. Marlitt, author of the "Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Countess Gisela," &c By MRs. A. L. WIsTER. Fifth edition. i2mo.-- Cloth, $1.75.   "A charming book. It absorbs your attention from the title-page to the en4."- The Howme Circle.   "A charming story charmingly told." Baltimore Gazette.   Countess Gisela.   From  the German of E. Mar- litt, author of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," "Gold Elsie, "Over Yonder," &c. By MRS. A. L. WISTER. Third Edition I i2mo. Cloth, $1.75.   "There is more dramatic power in this than in any of the stories by the same author that we have read."-N0 O . Times. "It is a story that arouses the interest   of the reader from the outset."-Pittsbur; Gazette. "The best work by this author."- Philada. Telegrapkh   Over Yonder. Prom the German of E. Marlitt author of "Countess Gisela," "Gold Elsie," &c. Third edition. With a full-page Illustration. 8vo. Paper cover, 30 cts.   "' Over Yonder' is a charming novel-  ette. The admirers of 'Old Mam'selle's Secret' will give it a glad reception, while those who are ignorant of the merits of   this author will find in it a pleasant in- troduction to the works of a gifted writer.!' -Daily Sentinel.   Three Thousand Miles through the Rocky Mosun- 'tains. By A. K. MCCLURE Illustrated. Imo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $2..   "Those wishing to post themselves on the subject of that magnificent and ex- traordinary Rocky Mountain dominion should read the Colonel's book."--New York Times. "The work makes one of the most satis- ,factory itineraries that has been given to us from this region, and must be read with both pleasure and profit."- Phiada. North A merican. '; We have never seen a book of Western travels which so thoroughly and completely satisfied us as this, nor one written in such ,        V   agreeable and charmingstyle."--Bradfr Reiorter. "The letters contain many incidents oi Indian life and adventures of travel whicl impart novel charms to them."-Chkcagk Evening yournal. "The book is full of useful information. -New York Indepiendent. "-Let him who would have some propet conception ofthe limitless material rich. ness of the Rocky Mountain region, read this book."-Charleston (S. C.) Courier.     Bulwer's Novels.    Globe Edition.    Complete in twenty-tw9 volumes. With Frontispiece to each volume. Beau- tifully printed on fine tinted paper. I6mo. Extra cloth, $33; extra cloth, gilt top, $38.50; half calf, neat, $55; half Turkey, gilt top, $66; half calf, gilt extra, $66. Each novel sold separately, as below, in extra cloth, at $x.50 per volume.   The Caxtons.......   . i vol. My Novel............. 2 vols. What will He Do with It?..2 vols. Devereux ............... vol. Last Days of Pompeii.. . vol. Leila, Calderon and Pilgrims. i v. Rienzi............ .I.. vol. The Last of the Barons.. i vol. i Harold ...........    vol. Eugene Aram...........   vol.   Zanoni .'..............  vol. Pelham ....        vol. The Disowned ........    vol. Paul Clifford . ......  I vol. Ernest Maltravers.  ....  vol. Godolphin..........     vol. Alice ............. ... I vol. Night and Morning......  vol. Lucretia..        I vol. A Strange Story ......... vol.   "The Globe edition of Bulwer is very neat and satisfactory- more satisfactory than any other issued in this country."- Philada. North American. "The Globe edition is remarkable for a judicious combination of cheapness; legi- bility and beauty."-Charleston Courier. "We have repeatedly borne witness to the pre-eminence of the Globe over all other editions, in respect to cheapness, neatness and convenience of size.'- Cin- cinnati Gazette. "The clear-cut type, delicately-tinted paper and tasty binding of this Globe edi- tion of Bulweris works cannot be awarded too much praise.".-Rural New Yorker. "We repeat what we have so often be- fore stated-that the Globe edition is the best ever issued on this side of the Atlan- tic."-New Orleans Times.   "The Globe edition of Bulwer furnishes a model well worthy of imitation." - Philada. Age. "As to execution and price, there is no better edition in the market."-Chicago Evening Journal. "We congratulate this well-known Phi- ladelphia publishing house upon furnish- ing so complete, so legible, so compact and so beautiful an edition of the writings of this great novelist. The American book-buying and book-reading public will not fail to place this fine edition upon their library shelves. It is the best cheap edition of Bulwer that we have ever seen. It is offered at the low price of $1.50 per volume, at which price the purchaser gets the best part of the bargain."-Providence Even- ing Press.         I   Reade's Novels.   Illustrated Standard Edition of Charles Reade's Novels. Complete in ten vols. I2mo. With Engraved Frontispiece and Vignette Title to each: Handsomely bound in extra cloth. Price, $15 per set. Extra cloth, gilt top, $17 per set. Sold separately, in extra cloth, as follows:   Hard Cash............. $1.75 Love me Little Love me Long....    .... .....  .50 Never too Late totMend.. I.75 White Lies .............. I.50 Foul Play,.............. I.50   The Cloister and the Hearth$I.75 Griffith Gaunt... ........ .50 Peg Woffington.......... 1.25 Christie Johnstone ....... .25 The Course of True Love Never did Run Smooth'. 1.25   Hints for Six Months in Europe.      Being the Pro- gramme of a Tour through parts of France, Italy, Austria, Saxony, Prussia, the Tyrol, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, England and Scotlandt in the Summer of I868. By JOHN H. B. LATROBE. i2mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth, $I.50.   "It has many of the best advantages of a regular guide-book, with the additional excellence of being reliable as to facts and trustworthy as to the opinions it utters."- New York Christian Advocate. "Mr. Latrobe had some capital qualifi- cations for producing a good book about Europe ....' The result is a highly satisfactory volume, which we commend and recommend to travelers, whether they go abroad or stay at home."-The Phila- delphia Press.   "Is a' genuine treasure-book for every new European traveler. . . . And if this programme should be carefully studied by one about to start on a summer tour in Europe, and be substantially followed by the tourist, he would secure for himself manifold more enjoyment, and save him- self from countless disappointments, and vexations which he would be sure other- wise to experience."-Boston Evening Traveler.   Lippincott's Treasuries of Literary Gems.       Min- iature 4to. Choicely printed on the finest toned paper and beauti- fully bound in extra cloth, gilt and gilt edges. 75 cts. each; as follows:   I. A Treasury of Table Talk.   II. Epigrams and Literary Follies.   "I. A Treasury of Poetic Gems.   IV. The Table Talk of Samuel   Johnson, LL. D. V. Gleanings from the Comedies of Shakspeare. VI. Beauties of the British Dramatists. The six volumes in neat box, $4.50.   "A charming little series, well edited and printed. More thoroughly readable little books it would be hard to find: there   is no padding in them: all is epigram, point, poetry or sound common sense."- London Publishers' Czrcular.   Mizpah. Friends at Prayer.     Contamninga Prayer. or Meditation for each day in the Year. By LAFAYETTE C. "OOMS. i2mo. Beautifully printed on superfine tinted paper, within red lines. Fine cloth, $2. Extra cloth, gilt edges. $2.50.   This work proposes Morning and Even- ing Scripture Readings, and an Evening Meditation. The Morning Readings em- brace the Psalms twice, and the evening, the New Testament entire, during the   year. The Meditations are not exposi- tions of the text, but rather devotiona' reflections-generally upon the Evening Reading-and intended to follow the Scripture and precede prayer.   The Wife's Messengers:. A Novel. By Mrs. M J.B. HORTON. x2mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $1.75.   a"The writer has produced a capital con- tributioh to the cause of domestic truth, and one which will be read with delight in many a household."--Ohio Statesman. "This story is pervaded by a strong re-   ligious feeling. The story is well wortL reading on its own merits, and some por- tions of it are written with a real power that cannot fail to command attention."- Philada. Evening Telegrajh.     Our Own Birds of the United States. A Familiar Natural History of the Birds of the United States. By WILLIAM L. BAILY. Revised and Edited by Edward D. Cope, Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences. With numerous Illustrations. i6mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth, $1.50.   "The text is all the more acceptable to the general reader because the birds are Called by their popular names, and not by the scientific titles of the cyclopaedias, and we know them at once as old friends and companions. We commend this unpre- tending little book to the public as pos- sessing an interest wider in its range but similar in kind to that which belongs to Gilbert White's Natural History of Sel- borne."--N. . Y ven. Post. "The whole book is attractive, supply- ing much pleasantly-conveyed information for young readers, and embodying an ar-   rangement and system that will often make it a helpful work of reference for older naturalists."-Philada. Even. Bulletin. "To the youthful, 'Our Own Birds' is likely to prove a bountiful source of pleas- ure, and cannot fail to make them thor- oughly acquainted with the birds of the United States. As a science there is none more agreeable to study than ornithology. We therefore feel no hesitation in com- mending this book to the public. It is neatly printed and bound, and is profusely illustrated."-New York Herald. ,         '   A Few Friends, and How They Amused Them- selves. A Tale in Nine Chapters, containing descriptions of Twenty Pastimes and Games, and a Fancy-Dress Party. By M. E. DODGE, author of "Hans Brinker," &c. I2mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth, $1.25..   "This convenient ittle encyclopaedia strikes the proper moment most fitly. The evenings have lengthened, and Until they again become short parties will be gath- ered everywhere and social intercourse will be general. But though it is compar- atively easy to assemble those who would be amused, the amusement is sometimes replaced by its opposite, and more resem- bles a religious meeting than the juicy en- tertainment intended. The 'Few Friends' describes some twenty pastimes, all more   or less intellectual, all provident bf mirth. requiring no preparation, and capable ot enlisting the largest or passing off with the smallest numbers. The description is con- veyed by examples that are themselves 'as good as a play.' The book deserves a wide circulation, as it is the missionary of much social pleasure, and demands no more costly apparatus than ready wit and genial disposition." - Philada. Narth A mericatr.   Cameosfrom    English History.    By the author of *'The Heir of Redclyffe," &c. With marginal Index.  i2mo. Tinted paper. Cloth, $1.25; extra cloth, $1.75.   History is presented in a very attractive and interesting form for young folks in this work."-Pittsburg Gazette.   "An excellent design happily executed." -N Y. Times. I .    The Diamond Edition of the Poetical Works of Robert Burns. Edited by REV. R. A. WILLMOTT. New edition. With numerous additions. I8mo. Tinted paper. Fine cloth, $I.   "This small, square, compact volume is printed in clear type, and contains: in three hundred pages, the whole of Burns' poems, with a glossary and index. It is cheap,   elegant and convenient, bringing the works of one of the most popular of British poets within the means of every reader."-Bos- ton Even. Transcript.   Agnes  Wentworth.    A  Novel.   By  -E. Foxton, author of "Herman," and "Sir Pavon and St. Pavon." I2ma Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $i.5o.           I   "This is a very interesting and well-told story. There is a naturalness in the group- ing of the characters, and a clearness of definition, which make the story pleasant and fascinating. Phases of life are also presented in terse and vigorous words. ...  It is high-toned and much above the aver-    age of most of the novels issuing from the press."-Pittsburg Gazette.  "A novel which has the merit of being written in graceful and clear style, while it tells an interesting story."-The Inde Pendent.    Siena. A Poem. By A. C. Swinburne. [Repub- lished from Lipincott's Magazine.] With Notes. I6mo. Tinted paper. Paper covers, 25 cts.   "Is polished with great care, and is by far the best composition we can recall from Swinburne's pen, in more than one of its effects."-Philada. North Arterican.   "'One of the most elaborate as well as the most unexceptionable of his produc- tions."-N. Y. Evening Post.   Recollections of Persons and Places in the West. By H. M. BRACKENRIDGE, a native of the West; Traveler, Author Jurist. Neweditionenlarged. i2mo. Toned paper. Finecloth, $2.   "A very pleasant book it is, describing, in an autobiographical form, what was 'The West' of this country half a century ago."-Philada. Press. "The writer of these 'Recollections' was born in 1786i and his book is accord-   ingly full of interesting facts and anec- dotes respecting a period of Western his- tory, which, when the rapid growth of the country islconsidered, may almost be called Pre-Adamite."-Boston Evening Tran- scrtipt.   Infelicia. A Volume of Poems. By Adah Isaacs MENKEN. I6mo. Toned paper. Neat cloth, $x. Paper cover, 75 cts.. With Portrait of Author, and Letter of Mr. Charles Dickens, from a Steel Engraving. Fine cloth, beveled boards, gilt top, $I.50.   "Some of the poems are forcible, others are graceful and tender, but all are per- vaded by a spirit of sadness."-Watshing- ton Evening Star. "The volume is interesting, as reveal- ing a something that lay beyond the I vul- gar eyes that took the liberty of license   with the living author's form, and it serves to drape the unhappy life with the mantle of a proper human charity. For herein are visible the vague reachings. after and reminiscences 'of higher things."-- in- cinnati Evening Chronicle.   Dallas Galbraith. A Novel. By Mrs. R. Ha d- ING DAVIS, author of "Waiting for the Verdict," "Margs-xet Howth," "Life in the Iron Mills," &c. 8vo. Fine cloth, $2.   "One of the best novels ever written for an American magazine."-Philada. Morn- ing Post. "The story is most happily written in all respects.'"- The Nort A merican. "As a specimen of her wonderful in- tensity and passionate sympathies, this sustained and wholly noble romance is   equal or superior to any previous ach; eve ment." -Philada. Evening Bulletin. "We therefore seize the oppbrtuni y to say that this is a story-of unusual pr-wer, opening so as to awaken interest, and maintaining the interest to the en ."- The National BaPtist.     Beatrice.    A  Poem.   By Hon. Roden Xoel. Square i6mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, gilt top, $i. "It isIimpossible to read the poem   "It is impossible to read the poem through without being powerfully moved. There are passages in it which for in- tensity and tenderness, clear and vivid vision, spontaneous and delicate sympathy, may be compared with the best efforts of our best living writers."-London Spec- tator.   "Mr. Noel has a fruitful imagination, and such a thorough command of language as to link the heart and tongue in that union from which only true poesy is born." -N. O. Times. "Mr. Noel has no rival. He sings with fairy-like and subtle power." -London Atenaeum. *s I   Breaking   a Butterfy;   or, Blanche    Ellerslie's Ending. A Novel. By the author of "Guy Livingstone," &c. Author's Edition. With Illustrations. I2mo. Extra cloth, $1.50. Paper cover, 50 cts.   "It is a charming story of Erglish life, and marked by the well-known character- stics of the author's style, in which the gorgeous descriptions of manhood are pre- dominant." -Buffao Expjress.  "It is intensely interesting, full of life and spirit, and throughout is written in the   gifted author's most captivating vein."- Philada. Age. "It is a story which every one will find interesting; and it is written with an easy. grace indicative of good taste and large ex- perience."-A lbany Journal.   The Voice in   Singing.   From  the  German   of Emma Seiler.  Third edition. i2mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $1.50.    "We would earnestly advise all inter- ested in any way in the vocal organs ,to read and thoroughly digest this remarkable work."--Boston Musical Times. "It is meeting with the favor of all our authorities, and is a very valuable work. To any one engaged in teaching cultivation of the voice, or making singing a study, it will prove an efficient assistant. '-Loomis' Musical 7ournal.   "This remarkable book is of special interest to teachers and scholars of vocal music. It is, however, of value to that much larger number of persons who love music for its own sake. Here, almost for the first time in English, and certaiply for the first time in an American book, we have a satisfactory explanation of the phy- siology and aesthetics of the art divine."- Pilada. ,North A merican.   Abraham   Page,. Esq.    Life  and  OtPinions of Abraham Page, Esq. I2mo. Tinted paper. Fine cloth, $I.50.   "It is really refreshing, in these days of sensational stuff to fall upon a book like this, written with the easy, well-bred air   of a gentleman, and the grace and culture of a scholar."-Baltimore Leader.   What I Know about Ben Eccles. A Novel. By ABRAHAM PAGE, author of "The Life and Opinions of Abraham Page, Esq." I2mo. Cloth, $i.50.   ' Quite a pathetic story, which, without being at all of the kind denominated sen-   sational, will enchain the attention to the I very close."-Pittsburg Ev. Journal.     
         
      
   
