
    ----CITATION----
        Dorsey, Sarah A. (1829-1879). Athalie, or A Southern Villeggiatura .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6307 wright2-0777
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               ATHALIE,
               OR, A SOUTHERN VILLEGGIATURA:
               "A WINTER'S TALE."
            
            BY "FILIA." AUTHOR OF "AGNES GRAHAM," "LUCIA DARE," ETC.
               ETC.
            
               
                  
                     
                        "We deal with progress, and not flight.
                        Through baffling senses passionate
                        Fancies as restless—with a freight
                        Of knowledge cumbersome enough
                        To sink your ship when waves grow rough,
                        Though meant for ballast in the hold—
                        I find, 'mid dangers manifold,
                        The good bark answers to the helm
                        Where faith sits."
                     
                  
                  BROWNING.
               
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               CLAXTON, REMSEN, AND HAFFELFINGER.
               NEW ORLEANS:
               J. A. GRESHAM.
            
            1872.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by CLAXTON, REMSEN,
                  AND HAFFELFINGER, in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at
                  Washington.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               COLLINS, PRINTER, 705 JAYNE STREET.
            
         
         
            TO "XARIFFA."
            
               What shall I bring, my poet sweet?
               Crowns for her head!
               The world has spread
               Its brightest laurels at her feet.
            
            
               The muse has touched her tongue;
               Hers have been joys elysian;
               And love's divinest vision
               Her tuneful lips have sung!*
                  
               
            
            
               
               *"In creed."
            
            
               What, then, can I seek out,
               Since all that man deems rare,
               And rates beyond compare,
               Compasses her about?
            
            
               What can I say, O poet sweet,
               As this poor work of mine
               I lay before thy shrine?
               From far the sibyl greet!
            
            
               FILIA.
               LAKE ST. JOSEPH, TEXAS PARISH, LA.
            
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            VILLEGGIATURA—country diversions or residence.
            The story of Lettice Tilney is founded upon fact.
            My own uncle had a small steamboat, which he used in hunting expeditions before the
               war, as I describe in the case of the little Louis d'Or. The adventures of General
               Von Lingard are neither impossible nor improbable in our forests.
            This is all I have to say by way of explanation or preface. My work must take its
               chances.
            
               FILIA.
            
         
      
      
         
            Athalie, or A Southern villeggiatura
            A SOUTHERN VILLEGGIATURA.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               
                  
                     THE WILDERNESS, Dec. 20, 18—.
                     MY DEAR ANNIS:
                  
                  Here we are, all safely arrived and distributed to our respective apartments in
                     this long, rambling house of Mrs. Dulany's. The Christmas party comprises,
                     first, of course, our hostess; but you have seen Mrs. Dulany, so I sha'n't
                     waste time in describing her. You know the slight, delicate person, the soft,
                     calm manner, the vibrating voice, the spirituelle countenance, the large brown eyes with their steady
                     glance, the bits of white hands, so active in all good works, so skilful on
                     piano, tambour, or easel; you recall the quick sympathy, the genial hospitality
                     which characterizes Mrs. Dulany.
                  We reached here late in the evening. We heard the murmur of voices in the
                     drawing-room as we hurried past it, but we were conducted immediately to our
                     apartment by our considerate hostess, where our suppers were served to us, and,
                     after relaxing our weary limbs by a delightful bath, we just took one peep from
                     the windows of our dressing-room, which look out upon the lake (it was so
                     lovely in the bright moonlight), and then we gladly crept into bed and slept
                     the dreamless sleep of exhausted travellers.
                  We were awakened about eight A.M. the morning after by the sound of Julie's
                     voice, saying, "Your coffee, please, Miss Emma; Mr. Arthur, your coffee,
                     please."
                  I sprang bolt upright in bed, wide awake in an instant. Arthur opened one
                     sleepy eye. With difficulty I made him comprehend that it was late, and time to
                     take his matutinal coffee if he wanted any. Arthur has come here with vast
                     plans as to shooting, hunting, boating, &c. &c., but all of these
                     generally reputed amusements of men requiring early rising to enable the
                     devotee to attain any success in their practice, I fear Arthur's ducks and deer
                     and fish will remain in primeval, undisturbed bliss, as my charming but
                     procrastinating husband does hate early rising and all its concomitants.
                     However, he grumbled very little at this time, but, sitting up in bed, took his
                     coffee, and then lay back and went to sleep again.
                  We breakfast en famille at eleven, or, if we
                     choose, privately in our dressing-rooms. Arthur selected the latter mode of
                     existence on arrival, and accordingly lounges in usually every day just as we
                     all draw up around the lunch-table at two o'clock P.M. He brightened up perceptibly when he received, on the first
                     day, the merry salutations of Sophie and Ellen Fortier, and also recognized the
                     fair Athalie Deslondes, who is here, for a wonder, without the
                        bête, her dreadful husband. These
                     constitute our female department at present. Arthur, Conrad, and Louis
                     Stillman, and a Prussian traveller, a Colonel Von Lingard, a décorée from Solferino and Magenta, make up the
                     covey of men.
                  Old Mr. Foster aids Mrs. Dulany in doing the honors of the establishment. Mrs.
                     D. does not live of course in the splendid style she did when you and I visited
                     her before the war, in that forty-roomed palace of hers on the river, but still
                     it is very pleasant. We have everything needful for comfort, even for luxury,
                     but of plainer material than formerly. Of books, musical instruments, boats,
                     dogs, guns, &c. &c., there is plenty, and there is even built out a new
                     wing containing a good, new billiard-table; and up in a sort of tower
                     overlooking this most beautiful of lakes, she has fitted up a delightful
                     studio, in which she spends a part of every day. This is the only room in which
                     we do not feel at liberty to intrude at pleasure. We never go there unless she
                     invites us, which she does sometimes, not so often, however, as we could
                     wish.
                  It is a delightful spot, filled with all the rubbish that artists love. It is
                     lighted by one large window, or sort of dome in the mansard roof. The light can
                     be controlled, heightened or lessened at will, by touching certain pulleys and
                     weights which draw or fling open the blinds. It is carpeted, has a deep
                     fireplace and a recess at one end, concealed by damask curtains, behind which
                     one finds a luxurious couch and sofas, and washstand for ablutions after
                     painting. The view of the lake is superb from a little fantastic balcony, which
                     projects before the one door of entrance into this paradise. Mrs. Dulany is
                     just now painting this view. This lake is large, about twenty miles long by six
                     miles in width. It is finely wooded to the margin, and has one pretty island,
                     with an elevated point in its midst like a cone. Mrs. Dulany says it is an
                     Indian mound. She has built a little pavilion upon it, and we are to go over
                     some morning to take luncheon there—some warm, sunny day, such as we so often
                     have in this delicious climate even in the midst of winter. The lake abounds in
                     water-fowl in winter, and in terrapins and alligators in summer. The steamboats
                     come into the lake once a week out of the Red River, bringing freight and mails
                     from New Orleans. There are few persons living around here. Mrs. Dulany owns a
                     wide stretch of country, and her neighbors are rare and distant. This is only
                     one of her estates—you know she was a Durochet, and a great heiress—but this is
                     her favorite winter home. It is always healthy. There is no malaria here even
                     in summer. The land is not near so fertile as in the swamp proper, but it is
                     quite as level, and very rich in grasses and forest-trees. Nothing could be
                     handsomer, I think, than the trees here, with their graceful draperies of
                     vines. The ground in the open glades is carpeted with the yellow jasmine, and
                     shrubs of wild azalea and verbenas abound. I don't think it is so splendid with
                     lilies as the lower plateau of the Mississippi valley, but it is very
                     beautiful. A day or so since, Arthur went in a skiff completely out of the lake
                     into the river which feeds it. As he returned in the glow of the sunset,
                     shooting his skiff through the narrow neck of the river where it enters the
                     lake, the whole panorama of the lake—with the single islet like a gem on its
                     broad bosom, the sky with its splendid glow, and the enormous trees which
                     girdle the lake as in a setting of mosaic (for the leaves are of every tint and
                     hue still, russet and green, and gold and red, and purple and brown)—was spread
                     out before him. In the enthusiasm of the moment, Arthur sprang upright in the
                     boat, at the risk of upsetting it, took off his hat, waved it over his head,
                     and cheered loudly. You know it takes a good deal to move Arthur, he is
                     generally so unexcitable and seemingly indifferent. Col. Von Lingard was with
                     him, and told us of Arthur's fit of ecstasy, else we should never have known
                     anything about it. I shall keep you au
                        courant to our existence. The company has divided itself already
                     into groups of "natural selection."
                  Conrad and Louis Stillman pair off generally with the pretty Fortiers; old Mr.
                     Foster is my devoted. Dear old man! His hair is white as snow, but he will tell
                     those dreadful long anecdotes of his hunting and fishing expeditions. However,
                     Mrs. Dulany is a watchful hostess. She never permits anybody to be bored or
                     victimized in her house. What great tact she has, to be sure! She swoops down
                     like a hawk in the most unhoped-for and most unexpected manner, just at the
                     very minute that one begins to succumb to the terrors of satiety or discomfort,
                     and carries one off into her higher atmosphere of perpetual peace and fulness
                     of vitality. I think I am indebted to Mr. Foster's known proclivities to
                        anec-dotage for many priceless moments of rich enjoyment, and
                     of the attention of this wondrously gifted woman. Arthur lounges around in the
                     sweetest temper and most good-humored way possible, lazily considerate and kind
                     to everybody. Col. Von Lingard, a "Von" of the purest blood, is a pattern card
                     of his compatriots. He seems much inclined to abate his grandeur even so low as
                     to lie at the fairy feet of Athalie Deslondes. As for Athalie, she is just as
                     wayward, just as coquettish, just as graceful, just as beautiful as she always
                     was! Takes all this homage as a matter of sovereign right, with a cool banalité that must be aggravating to a man with any
                     sensibility. You know what she has been since her marriage—a star shining
                     dangerously on the waves of society, which might toss and surge at will below
                     her without disturbing her equanimity. She is an exasperating woman! No one
                     believes Athalie has any heart, or any use for one, except to supply physical
                     blood to her full, cool veins. But I know better, Annis. Athalie Deslondes is
                     capable of deep affection, true friendship, and of intense passions. But she
                     has marked out a line of life for herself, and she intends to follow it out if
                     woman can. She has got the loveliest toilettes right from Paris; everything à
                        merveille. She is bewilderingly beautiful en grande tenue every day at dinner. You ought to see her.
                  Good-by. Write every day to your sister,
                  
                     EMMA LALANDE.
                  
               
               
                  
                  P. S—We are expecting Miss Clementina Dandridge and her nephew "Benny," or Mr.
                     Benjamin Dandridge I suppose we'll have to call him, now that he is six foot
                     two in height, wears a moustache, and has become a hadji, having travelled all
                     over the known earth, Mecca included. Benny used to be a little pest, and Miss
                     Clementina spoiled and adored him in the most aggravating way. Athalie shrugs
                     her white shoulders whenever she speaks of Miss Clemmy. The truth is, Athalie,
                     who likes a respectable flirtation, even while she is rigid in regard to
                        les convenances, does not care to have
                     Miss Clemmy's sharp eyes in her near neighborhood, especially as Miss C. is a
                     cousin of old Deslondes, and—This Prussian, my dear, is extremely good-looking,
                     decidedly agreeable, and evidently épris de ses beaux
                        yeux. Poor Athalie! Clemmy will find her out the first day,
                        "I bet," as the Yankees say.
                  Arthur smokes about fifteen cigars per diem. He is too lazy for anything. He is
                     languidly attentive to Athalie, but you know I am never jealous. The truth is,
                     I know I suit Arthur exactly, and the other women fatigue him in a very little
                     while. Louis Stillman is stupider than ever. He has a genius for silence. I
                     don't think he utters ten words a day, or ever opens his mouth except to put
                     something in it. Yet he is said to have been a good soldier during the war—a
                     favorite scout of Beauregard's—I suppose because he is dumb and impassive as an
                     Indian chief. They tell several anecdotes of his daring and cunning. He went
                     into the enemy's camp often in disguise. Ellen Fortier seems to like him. She
                     says the first time she ever saw him he was led by her father's house with his
                     hands tied together, and fastened by a rope to a Federal soldier's saddle. As
                     the enemy passed through Tennessee, they had caught Louis on a foraging
                     expedition. Conrad is as handsome and vain as ever.
                  I hear a bustle in the hall; the steamboat has just landed. Miss Clemmy is
                     come, and "Mr. Benjamin." One good thing for me will be, that I sha'n't have so
                     much of old Daddy Foster, because he has an ancient gossiping love for Miss
                     Clemmy, and he'll keep all his longest and most interesting stories for her
                     delectation; upon which I claim your felicitations. Adieu. Je vous embrasse mille, mille fois.
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               MRS. DULANY'S guests gathered together rather earlier than was their custom, in
                  the drawing-room, before dinner, on the day after the dispatch of Emma Lalande's
                  letter to her sister. They were all curious to see the additions to their little
                  circle. Arthur Lalande lounged slowly in after everybody else had appeared, and
                  threw himself languidly into a fauteuil,
                  conveniently located near a sofa occupied at the moment by Mrs. Deslondes. Taking
                  her mother-of-pearl fan coolly out of her hand, and complaining of the heat of the
                  room after his long fatigue of two games of billiards with Col. Von Lingard,
                  Arthur began to fan himself as well as the fair Athalie, uttering a few
                  commonplace words of compliment upon her exquisite toilette. Athalie wore a full dress of black lace over lilac satin,
                  with gold and purple heartsease scattered in her hair, and a cluster in her
                  bodice.
               She was very décolleté; her white shoulders
                  gleamed like polished marble in the soft lamplight. Her beautiful rounded arms
                  were bare to the shoulder. She had a single gold band around each fine wrist, and
                  one resplendent ring on her left hand. She wore no other ornament; not a jewel
                  broke with its glitter the soft coloring of her dress and her burnished, waving
                  hair. Athalie was of that rare type of creole beauty, a blonde with dark brown
                  eyes and bright golden hair. The tintings of her face were perfect, only a very
                  delicate pink upon her cheeks, while her lips glowed with carnation. Her
                  eyebrows—not arched, but a straight pencil-line across a full, low, rounded
                  forehead—furnished an inexhaustible theme for innumerable young poets of the city,
                  who patronized the corners of the Sunday Picayune and Times newspapers. Indeed,
                  never was any woman, since the days of Helen, more besung in all sorts of metres,
                  both in French and English, than this cold, beautiful Athalie. She was
                  acknowledged to be the beauty, par excellence,
                  of New Orleans, and a very central star in the beau
                     monde. Yet, in spite of the ordinary méchanceté of society, Athalie had, so far, escaped all jealousies,
                  all envyings, all malignities, by her imperturbable sweetness of disposition, and
                  her cool impassiveness of manner, which was yet so courteous to all men. So, while
                  the world knew that her marriage with old Monsieur Deslondes had been entirely one
                  of convenances, yet no living man could boast
                  that he had ever encountered more than a ray of kindliness from Athalie's soft,
                  calm eyes. They met everybody's with a frank, level gaze of affability, but not a
                  glance had ever spoken to any man of any central fire or warmth in the soul which
                  vivified the lovely form. But a physiologist would have said there met in her two
                  diverse nationalities and temperaments—one lymphatic, the other passionate. She
                  looked like a Danish Eric, but her eyes were those of a Spaniard. She was so
                  habituated to homage, that she received it as a matter of course. She was never
                  specially grateful for anybody's admiration. She had been surfeited with it. She
                  knew she was beautiful. She smiled now, with a slight arching of her brows, at
                  Arthur's affected fatigue. She did not trouble herself to open her lips to reply
                  to him, and he did not seem to expect that she would; for, saying, "You are a most
                  delightful woman, Mrs. Deslondes; the only woman I know in this world who
                  appreciates silence," Arthur settled himself more comfortably in his chair before
                  he continued, with his eyes half shut,
               "Now let's be quiet, and wait for the entrée! Do
                  you know, Mrs. Deslondes, that word 'entrée,' grande
                     entrée, always makes me think of Dan Rice's circus?—in the opening,
                  you know, when all the performers prance in on resplendent steeds, dressed up in
                  Persian or Turkish costumes. I wonder what character Miss Clem, means to
                  take!"
               "Any other would be more agreeable than her own, I expect, Mr. Lalande," said the
                  beauty, with a curve of her red lips, which were opened as slightly as possible to give utterance to
                  her words.
               "Ah! well—I like a little acid occasionally in life, either in salads or society.
                  It wakes one up. That's the reason I married my wife. She is as tart and pungent
                  at times as cayenne pepper. When one is imperturbably amiable one's self, one
                  really appreciates a little temper at times—that sort of a thing prevents satiety.
                  I do dislike a woman who is always smiling, or a lake that is always smooth like
                  this one. Toujours perdrix exhausts me directly.
                  I should blow my brains out in disgust if my wife did not vary her words," said
                  Arthur.
               Mrs. Deslondes laughed a low, rippling laugh, as she glanced at Arthur's comically
                  serious face, and then she looked towards his wife, who just at that moment was
                  standing near a portfolio of engravings open on a tall easel. Mrs. Lalande held
                  one of the pictures off at a short distance in one hand, while she pointed with
                  her fan in the other hand at some portion of the picture, speaking earnestly and
                  rapidly to Col. Von Lingard, who stood by her side, and who was smiling as if much
                  amused at something the witty little woman was saying. Emma Lalande was a tiny bit
                  of a woman, with a clear brown skin, a brilliant flushing color, and black eyes
                  that danced and glittered like diamonds. She was very slight in figure, but not
                  too thin for her height, though her whole aspect suggested the thought of a
                  fire-fly—she was so little, so dark, and such effervescing flashes of brilliancy
                  in her face. Her motions were quick and agile as a squirrel's, rather deft and
                  vivacious than graceful. She gesticulated a good deal in conversation, but she was
                  not exhaustively emotional. Col. Von Lingard, a handsome man of thirty-five or
                  forty, stood bending near the little woman, listening, with a slight smile, to her
                  evidently amusing observations; but occasionally his eyes stole, as if
                  involuntarily, to the sofa where Athalie Deslondes sat in all the splendor of her
                  beauty. She seemed unconscious of his glances of admiration. She leaned back
                  against the satin cushions, a marvel of nature. God never created a fairer type of
                  womanhood than a blonde creole. That's what Col. Von Lingard thought, and his eyes
                  said so. Louis Stillman sat by the chair of Ellen Fortier, while his brother
                  Conrad, leaning over the ottoman of Sophie, managed at the same time to catch at
                  intervals a glimpse, in the opposite mirror, of his own handsome face and figure.
                  Near the fireplace stood Mrs. Dulany, the hostess, and her uncle, Mr. Foster. Mrs.
                  Dulany's face and figure were attractive still, though she was past the bloom of
                  youth. She wore a gown of black velvet trimmed with rich lace. Her hair was still
                  black, but had one gray streak just in front. It was folded smoothly around her
                  head, and partly covered with lappets of white lace, caught up with stars of
                  diamonds. She had been a widow for four years. There were small lines about her
                  quiet mouth, which told of grief; markings about the eyes, which spoke of tears;
                  and a slight line or two in the brow, that showed the continuous action of deep
                  thought. She had the countenance of a student and a thinker. Her uncle, Mr.
                  Foster, was tall and well made, his figure wonderfully straight for a man of
                  seventy years. His hair and beard were snowy-white white, but not scant; his
                  complexion ruddy, much embrowned by sun and wind. He had been a mighty hunter in
                  his day, and still ventured out on a fine day on a deer-hunt. Bear-hunting he had
                  to give up—it was sport too violent for his rheumatic limbs. He spent much time
                  now in fishing and in bird-shooting—milder sports which conformed better with his
                  old age. His shot was still true, his hand steady, though he had to use spectacles
                  in order to see his game. He was very kindly, even genial, in his character, full
                  of gallantry towards women, and his manner showed tender reverence and affection
                  for his niece. His only fault as a companion was that he would sometimes tell long
                  and prosy anecdotes of his past prowess, and showed something of the garrulity of
                  age. While the party were thus grouped, the door was suddenly flung open, and Miss
                  Clementina Dandridge entered the room, leaning upon the arm of her nephew. Miss
                  "Clemmy" was a woman of sixty. She was tall; she had a hooked nose, and a wide
                  mouth, with rather thick lips. Her upper teeth, false now, projected in a singular
                  mode out of her mouth; and when she smiled, she showed the whole gum. The lower
                  teeth were small, white, and even; her chin long and pointed; her eyes of a keen
                  gray—she wore glasses with gold rims; her eyebrows were black and straight; her
                  hair still black by aid of art, and she wore it elaborately coiffed, with black
                  lace and pink roses. She was slightly lame, and carried an ebony cane with a gold
                  head in her left hand. She did not lean upon her cane, however, just now, but upon
                  the arm of her nephew. Miss Clementina was dressed in a common moiré silk, flounced with black lace. Her neck and
                  bust and arms were still full and handsome, and she displayed them in all the
                  plenitude of their charms. Her neck was slightly veiled with a tulle chemisette,
                  but her arms were naked to far above the elbow. She had falls of deep lace in her
                  short sleeves. Magnificent bracelets gleamed on her wrists over the tops of her
                  white gloves. Miss "Clemmy's" diamonds were so splendid that they made even
                  Athalie Deslondes' calm heart slightly covetous for an instant. For Athalie did
                  not know that there was a standing joke in New Orleans society about Miss
                  "Clemmy's" diamonds. She went to Paris every alternate year, and always returned
                  thence with a new set of brilliants, which she sported extensively for a while,
                  and then the splendid diamonds would disappear. People were malicious enough to
                  say that "it was because paste would lose lustre in time." But Miss Clemmy was
                  known to be rich enough to wear real jewels, and all such friendly observations
                  were made sotto voce.
               
               Miss Clemmy had another passion besides her weakness for diamonds—scandal, and her
                  nephew "Bobby." She liked musical boxes, and she had her rooms filled with every
                  form of musical box that Genevan ingenuity could frame. She had big boxes and
                  little boxes, snuff-boxes that played one tune, and little birds that hopped out
                  of automaton tulips and lilies, and sung several tunes; and lastly, she had
                  purchased a three thousand dollar orchestrion, which was wound up and set going
                  whenever she received her friends, which she did en grande
                     tenue every Sunday evening. Being a Roman Catholic, Miss Clemmy entertained every Sunday as a
                  religious duty. "Benny" stood the orchestrion on two of these occasions after his
                  return to America, and then he prevailed upon his aunt to allow it to be removed
                  out of the parlor into a distant apartment, whence the sounds came modified and
                  softened, so much that it did not put an end any longer to conversation. "Benny"
                  disliked mechanical music. He was too good a musician himself to like it. But Miss
                  Clemmy was incorrigible about music-boxes. Benny had to give in to his aunt's
                  tastes. Indeed, he was very good to the old woman—devoted to her in spite of all
                  her eccentricities. "Benny" was a plain-looking man, with fine dark eyes. He led
                  his aunt up to Mrs. Dulany, was duly welcomed, and as he turned away from his
                  hostess, his countenance flushed with pleasure, a sudden smile illuminated his
                  face, transforming it literally by a brief radiance.
               "Little Emma Grevenberg!" he exclaimed, extending both hands to Mrs. Lalande.
               Emma laughed, her mischievous elfish laugh, as she replied,
               "Teasing Benny Dandridge!" Then she gave him one little claw to shake. Benny took
                  it in both of his, and kissed it with empressement. Emma presented him to Arthur.
               "My husband, Mr. Dandridge. My old playfellow and—"
               "And victim," interpolated Benny, shaking hands with Arthur. "My dear sir, from my
                  ancient experiences, I really don't know whether to congratulate or condole with
                  you upon your connection with my playmate. She tormented me so, seven years ago,
                  that my aunt sent me abroad in order to protect me from her tyranny and
                  machinations; for I adored her, and was reduced to despair a hundred times a day
                  by her cruelty."
               "Yes," said Arthur, languidly, "Emma has told me. I like it; I like my wife to be
                  a little whimsical, it amuses me."
               Benny shrugged his shoulders in real French style, "chacun
                     à son gout." He laughed, and then he went back to his aunt and Mrs.
                  Dulany.
               Dinner was announced. Mr. Foster took in Miss Clemmy, Mrs. Dulany summoned Arthur
                  to her side, leaving Emma to Benny's care; while the others paired off as usual,
                  the Fortiers with the Stillmans, and Athalie, slowly rising from her sofa, took
                  Col. Von Lingard's proposed arm.
               Col. Von Lingard said something in a low voice as they went into the adjoining
                  dining-room, evidently complimentary, for his eye gleamed and his manner was
                  impressive. For one instant Athalie's fair cheek flushed as he spoke, but it paled
                  as quickly, and she replied to him in her customary sweet, even tones, which
                  sounded always cold and pure as the notes of a dove.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               EMMA LALANDE'S prophecies were verified. Miss Clemmy soon began to peer curiously
                  through her gold spectacles at Athalie whenever Col. Von Lingard approached her,
                  which happened to be pretty frequent in the course of every day. But even Miss
                  Clementina's sharp eyes failed to discover a flaw in the cold courtesy of
                  Athalie's manner, or change in her voice when she conversed with the gallant
                  Prussian. Athalie sat like a Buddhist idol on the throne of her beauty, and
                  received his homage, as that of all other men, with quietly folded hands.
               Her maid, who slept in an antechamber of Athalie's apartment, might have told, if
                  she had been able to keep awake long enough, how Athalie spent hour after hour
                  sleeplessly sitting up at her writing-table, often leaning her weary, beautiful
                  head on her crossed arms and weeping silently, for Athalie dared not even indulge
                  in the restlessness of walking to and fro in her own room, for fear of having her
                  footsteps overheard and commented upon. Athalie knew her own slavery, she had sold
                  herself at the will of the aunt who had taken her an orphan child from the
                  death-bed of her parents, and this aunt had trained her up carefully to "make a
                  good marriage." At sixteen Athalie had been married to the richest man she knew—a
                  man over sixty, hard, cold, imperious; a man absorbed in business and in adding to
                  his fortune. He wasted but little time or interest upon his fair young wife. His
                  evenings were spent in a club-room, where he went to pick up items for the next
                  day's speculations, and his sole excitement was in drinking a certain quantity of
                  brandy and water, which he took freely every night, so that he scarcely ever was
                  entirely sober when he retired to his wife's apartments. Athalie had grown to
                  consider these habits as a matter of such ordinary occurrence, she expected
                  nothing else; and she endured the désagrémens of
                  her position with a sort of dogged coldness that was slowly ossifying all that was
                  tender and womanly in her soul. Her husband gave her a fine house. He let her
                  spend money on clothes; he bought her jewels. It was a good advertisement of his
                  financial success. She was his wife, and he chose to have "his wife" live and
                  appear in a certain style of opulence. But he had no sympathy with the young
                  Athalie, and after the first flush of triumphant possession of the much famed
                  beauty had passed away, he had no particular love for her. Any other woman would
                  have answered his purposes just as well as she. He never allowed her to spend a
                  dollar according to her own tastes, without accounting to him for it. Books,
                  music, &c. &c. he considered as vain and useless baubles, upon which he
                  did not wish his money to be wasted. He did not like to see a woman read. He
                  considered it a waste of time. A woman should look after her house-keeping, watch
                  her servants, have fine clothes to go out in occasionally, and fine furniture in
                  her parlors, should give a stately dinner-party on proper occasions, and strictly
                  subordinate her life in every respect to that of her husband, and should exist
                  only in and through him. He did not value Athalie so very much, though he liked to
                  hear men say at the opera, "The most beautiful woman in the house is Mrs.
                  Deslondes." But Athalie had failed to give him children, and he considered that a
                  serious failure on her part. A woman was regarded in his eyes a good deal in the
                  same point of view as he thought of his brood-mares. It was rare for him to allow
                  Athalie to go from home, and her present escape from his fatiguing society sprang from a sudden business
                  necessity which compelled him to go on to New York for a time, and so he permitted
                  Athalie to pay her long-promised visit to Mrs. Dulany. He knew there would be a
                  party of guests, and that his cousin Miss Clementina Dandridge was to be there to
                  look after his wife! So Athalie found herself a petted inmate of Mrs. Dulany's
                  hospitable mansion, and was thrown intimately into the society of the most
                  agreeable man she had ever known in her whole life; and this man, she saw by a
                  thousand petty cares and attentions, was beginning to live only for her careless
                  words and her fainter smiles. Col. Von Lingard was a gentleman who respected
                  women, and, above all, the guest of Mrs. Dulany, where he had been himself
                  received with such frank hospitality. He resolved nearly every day that he would
                  cut short his visit and hasten from the dangerous presence of Athalie Deslondes,
                  but she had never recognized his smothered emotions in any way. She seemed
                  perfectly unconscious of being the object of any attentions from him, and he
                  persuaded himself that as he alone would suffer, it did no harm to any one for him
                  to linger still in this enchanted atmosphere. It would end very soon; only a few
                  weeks of dreaming in a life that had been somewhat arid of sensations. So he
                  stayed on.
               Miss Clementina renewed her own long-standing flirtation with old Mr. Foster, but
                  she never lost sight of Athalie. Sometimes Athalie was so provoked at seeing how
                  she was watched, that she was almost tempted, by the natural perversity of woman,
                  to risk everything, and "to coquette just a little" with the enamored Colonel,
                  "just to spite Cousin Clemmy." But Athalie did not, chiefly because, for the first
                  time in her life, she felt it would be highly dangerous for her to yield one inch
                  in this "affaire." "Because," said she to
                  herself in those long hours of silent weeping at night—"because this man is too
                  attractive to me; I shall love him if I am not prudent." So she began to shrink
                  from the petits soins of Col. Von Lingard, and
                  she devoted herself as much as she could to Mrs. Dulany and to Benny Dandridge.
                  Benny was not deceived or cajoled by Athalie's sudden impulse of cousinly
                  affection; but he was very willing for Athalie to make use of him if it suited her
                  to do so. Benny Dandridge was just the best-natured fellow in the world—the most
                  convenient sort of a man to have in any country-house. He was full of social
                  resources, and always in a merry humor with the world and with himself. He
                  retained much of the frankness and abandon of
                  his childhood. He was never shy, nor troubled with self-consciousness or mauvaise honte; neither was he obtrusive nor
                  officious; indeed, he never thought about himself long enough to be vain or
                  self-important. Everybody liked Benny Dandridge, though sometimes they laughed at
                  his affectation of sentimentality. Miss Clementina adored him. Stern to all
                  others, she was wax in Benny's hands. He could turn and mould her at his will.
                  Benny's face was rather dull in repose, but he had the charm of a bright
                  resplendent smile, which fairly irradiated his plain features with instantaneous
                  light. Few people could resist Benny's smile.
               Benny found, upon reconnoissance of his present position, that he was left in an
                  unsentimental solitude, which was not agreeable. The Fortier girls were occupied
                  with the Stillmans. Sweet Ellen had no eyes except for the silent Louis; and
                  Sophie, who was very fat and very pretty, shook her rosy cheeks and rather truly
                  stout sides only at the sparse witticisms of the Adonis Conrad. Benny was reduced,
                  for social companionship, to Athalie and Emma. He liked Athalie well enough, but
                  she was his cousin's wife, and rather under his protectorate for the nonce; and
                  then she came as near to boring him as such a pretty woman could do. She was too
                  immobile and unemotional—there was nothing sympathetic in her for Benny. Nobody
                  knew what a sharp pang Benny had felt, when he heard, while he was in Egypt,
                  through Miss Clemmy's letters, of the marriage of "little Emma Grevenberg." He had
                  never met anybody so bright and quick as Emma. They had been neighbors' children
                  together in the country, and Benny had fully expected, from early infancy, to
                  marry Emma himself "after he was grown up;" and when they parted in tears, but not
                  in silence—when Benny was sent off to school, for Benny roared aloud in boisterous
                  grief, and Emma shrieked and wrung her tiny bits of hands in demonstrative
                  despair, they each wore a tortoise-shell ring, which they had exchanged with many
                  vows of eternal love and unchanging constancy. Benny had manufactured the rings
                  himself from a bit of terrapin-shell with his own pocket-knife. Benny still had
                  his ring. He looked it up now out of an old dispatch-box he had travelled with,
                  and hung it sentimentally upon his watch-chain. He had some curiosity to see if
                  Emma would notice it. It had her initials carved rudely upon it; and Benny also
                  had an immense E. G., with an anchor above it, tattooed on his arm in dark
                  blue—one of the silly effects of his childish amour. It was a week after Benny's
                  arrival that he got out this old ring. Emma did not notice it, but Arthur did.
                  They had all been out boating on the lake, and were now gathered on the long
                  veranda, in the warm evening sunlight. Emma was sitting on the top step of the
                  staircase leading down into the yard, looking out on the broad lake, and the green
                  lawn studded with trees which sloped gently to the margin of the water. Arthur,
                  looking at the dying sun, suddenly asked Benny the hour of sunset. Benny
                  good-naturedly drew his watch out of his pocket and handed it over to Arthur, who
                  was holding his own watch in one hand to compare it with Benny's. Arthur languidly
                  reached out his hand to receive the watch. Benny had not extended his arm far
                  enough, and between them the watch dropped on the floor with a crash. Emma, in her
                  quick way, bent back, picked up the watch, and handed it to her husband, saying,
                  half reproachfully, "Arthur! you are too indolent! See! you have broken the pretty
                  watch between you, haven't you?"
               Arthur examined the watch carefully. "No, Emma, it is not broken; but this old
                  ring is. Is it anything Egyptian or cabalistic, Benny? a ring of Amasis, or with
                  talismanic properties? What are all these hieroglyphics?"
               Arthur turned the ring over and over. It was cracked on one side by the fall.
               
               "Emma, look here! What are those letters? They look like Gothic or 'Runic.'"
               Emma leaned back against her husband's knee, and took the ring in her hand. She
                  recognized it—the blood flashed to her face. Benny's became crimson, too.
               Emma put the ring back into her husband's hands.
               "I am no Champollion, Arthur, and take no interest in antediluvian things. I used
                  to like beetles and scorpions, and things that the Egyptians worshipped, when I
                  was a child; but I don't like childish things now. They are absurd!"
               Benny sighed audibly, took back his watch and souvenir from Arthur's hands. But he
                  continued to wear it; and sometimes it worried Emma to see him hold and play with
                  the old ring when he was talking with her.
               One morning Arthur came in to breakfast—quite an unusual circumstance for him. He
                  was evidently much discomposed. "Benny," he said, "look here! I don't mind your
                  giving my wife bouquets; lots of fellows do. But I always tell them what flowers I
                  dislike, because Emma has a way of sticking them under my nose that requires me to
                  be particular about it. Now, I can't bear cape jasmine, and you sent her that
                  bouquet that came from New Orleans full of jasmine, this morning, and when I woke
                  up, there they were all scattered around my head, over my pillow, and I am half
                  poisoned. I tell you, Benny, you must confine yourself to camellias, heliotropes,
                  and violets. Strong-scented flowers just kill me! Mrs. Dulany, please make my
                  coffee extra strong this morning, will you?"
               Arthur ran his hand through his fair hair, and leaned back in his chair, looking
                  reproachfully at Benny.
               Athalie laughed, and that started everybody else off into general mirthfulness.
                  Benny laughed, too, with the rest, though his cheek flamed up, and he apologized
                  to Emma, by saying,
               "I sent you cape jasmine because, when you were a child, you were fond of that
                  flower."
               Emma answered rather shortly, "Thank you; as I told you, I have changed a good
                  deal in my tastes since I was a child. Col. Von Lingard, may I trouble you for
                  that toast? Here, Arthur, let me butter your toast while it is hot."
               Arthur submitted to be waited on by his wife; ate the toast which she had held in
                  her little fingers without the slightest emotion. What wouldn't Benny have given
                  for the crumbs from that rich man's feast! But he did not get any. Emma spread her
                  husband's toast, broke his egg, stirred his coffee, and tasted it to see if it was
                  all right, exactly as if she was attending to a spoiled child, without noticing
                  Benny at all. It was trying, though very respectable and highly moral, Benny
                  thought. He had a sort of lichenous nature—it was indispensable to him to attach himself to some one, and he liked the
                  sympathy of women; men so often hurt his susceptible and rather effeminate
                  soul.
               Benny Dandridge had lived so long in Paris, too, that he had lost some of
                  his-American ideas of morality, and had acquired too much of the philosophy and
                  religion of the Quartier Latin. He did not mean exactly to interfere with Emma's
                  domestic happiness, but he had always liked her better than he even knew himself,
                  and he did wish she would at least recognize his constancy and fidelity—traits not
                  common, Benny thought justly, among men. He was too good-natured to hate Arthur;
                  indeed, he rather liked him, personally, but he did not like the proper monopoly
                  of Emma's time, attention, and heart, which her husband claimed as a matter of
                  course. Benny had some vague ideas of an eternal sentimental devotion to his
                  faithless ladylove. At any rate, his vanity was more concerned in making Emma feel
                  and acknowledge that he did love her, than his affections were just now. If Emma
                  had only said, "Benny, I know you did and do love me, and I have been the
                  ungrateful one—forgive me," Benny would have been perfectly satisfied, and would
                  have turned his devotions to one of the Fortier girls. But it was really dreadful
                  to be shut up in a country-house, in the middle of winter, with five charming
                  women, and to be entirely deprived of any romantic sensations, or anything like an
                  adventure. No! Benny could not endure it. If Emma ignored him as a lover, she
                  should recognize at least a victim. Arthur was good-humoredly oblivious or
                  contemptuous of any petits soins paid by other
                  men to his pretty, sparkling wife. He was so perfectly satisfied of his own
                  possession of Emma's heart, as well as of her person, that he watched any of this
                  sort of "affaire" with somewhat of the coolness
                  with which one would look at a violent sea dashing against an iceberg. He would
                  take his pipe out of his mouth sometimes to say to his wife, "Emma, there's Benny
                  Dandridge looking after you. He has got on his finest suit to-day. Did you ever
                  notice that he always wears his socks and cravat and gloves of the same color?
                  Yesterday they were yellow, to-day they are red. I wish you would tell him never
                  to wear blue. It's not becoming! People owe something to society. They ought to
                  dress becomingly. I don't like blue on Benny."
               Emma would look up angrily.
               "Pshaw, Arthur! what do I care about Benny Dandridge's socks and cravats? I think
                  he is just more detestable than ever. He used to worry my life out when we were
                  children with his foolishness, and he is just a hundred times worse now."
               Emma snapped off the thread from a button she was sewing on one of Arthur's shirts
                  in a vindictive style, that showed how gladly she would have served Benny's head
                  in the same way if she had had the power to do it. Arthur laughed his low,
                  indolent laugh, and, drawing his wife to him, kissed her red, pursed-up, angry
                  little mouth.
               Benny was quite an accomplished musician. He sang well, in a fine baritone voice,
                  and played well on the organ. Mrs. Dulany had bad one of Bruneti's finest organs
                  built up in a room adjoining her studio, and even Emma enjoyed listening at a
                  distance to the beautiful music which Benny often stole away from them all to make
                  for himself upon this king of instruments.
               Though delicately framed, Benny had large, white hands, strong and full-veined,
                  showing powerful passions and susceptibility, and they gave him great power over
                  his instrument.
               One day they all went over to the island to take luncheon in the pavilion there.
                  Some of the ladies had their fancy-work with them. Miss Clementina was great on
                     tatting ting. Mrs. Dulany carried a
                  book of poems and a guitar, in case they should grow weary of conversation. Arthur
                  took his pipe, and his furlined cloak to make a divan of. Emma and Benny conveyed
                  each their respective sketch-books, for they both drew very well from nature.
               After seeing Arthur comfortable in the pavilion, Emma wandered off with her
                  drawing apparatus to the opposite side of the little island, to take a sketch of
                  the lake. She had begun her drawing, and it was so far advanced that she was not
                  willing to leave it, when she heard a step behind her, and Benny approached with
                     his sketch-book in hand. Emma glanced up rather impatiently, but
                  she only looked a little spiteful. She would not order him to quit the premises,
                  as it was really the prettiest point de vue. So
                  she sat quietly on her camp-stool, and went on with her sketching, while Benny
                  coolly established himself on a log not far off from her, and began his drawing.
                  They both drew on in silence for several minutes; then Benny uttered an
                  exclamation over an awkward stroke of his pencil, which made Emma look up.
               "Emma," said Benny, "pardon me—Mrs. Lalande, I mean. How did you get in that tree
                  there? I see you have put it so nicely."
               "I put in the distance first with a stencil," said Emma, "and drew over it."
               "Stupid of me," said Benny, "not to think of that. Let me see yours, will you, for
                  a moment, please?"
               Emma held out her drawing-book, and Benny examined it carefully. On returning the
                  book, he did not go again to his log, but sat himself on the ground nearer to
                  Emma. They sketched on silently. Soon Emma felt conscious that Benny was drawing
                  closer to her; his foot touched the hem of her skirt. Emma quietly pulled in her
                  skirt about her feet. Benny did not seem to observe this movement; his foot moved
                  forward again. He seemed to feel an involuntary attraction, as if he must touch
                  something connected with Emma. Benny's organ-playing had given an education to his
                  feet, which were nearly as sensitive and supple as other people's hands. Emma did
                  not like to notice these movements, which might have been accidental, so she
                  continued drawing; but her cheeks began to flush. Presently Benny's French boot
                  touched her kid slipper. Emma sprang up as if it had been a scorpion, and flashing
                  one fiery glance on Benny, she turned to leave the disagreeable proximity.
               Benny caught her hand.
               "Emma, don't be so angry with me. If you would only pity me a little! it is all I
                  ask. I don't ask you to love me!"
               "I hate you," gasped Emma; "you always were hateful, and you know it, and you
                  pretend to be my friend and Arthur's, too! I hate you!"
               "Well, I am your friend; nothing more—indeed, indeed, little Emma," pleaded Benny.
                  "Why can't you like me a little, when I have always loved you so much? Emma,
                  Arthur is so indolent, he loves himself better than he does you or anybody. And I
                  knew you first, too, ever since you were a baby."
               Emma snatched her hand from Benny's.
               "You know much about my noble husband! Ask Louis Stillman why Arthur is indolent,
                  and you will see, while you were fiddling and dancing in Paris, making believe to
                  be one of the officers of the French cavalry, Arthur was fighting the battles of
                  his country—was wounded in trying to save his friend's life, and the wound has
                  left him in such a condition that any violent exertion is painful, and might be
                  fatal to him. You, Benny Dandridge, are not worthy to be named at the same time
                  with my Arthur! And I will just thank you to let me alone, and never to speak to
                  me again as long as I live."
               Emma rushed off in a towering passion, leaving Benny in possession of the field,
                  but very discomfited, and altogether miserable. Emma made a circuit of the island
                  in order to cool down before returning to the pavilion. When she got back there,
                  she sat herself down by Arthur's improvised divan, and served him with edibles, as
                  an odalisque would her master. The others gradually wandered back. Mrs. Dulany
                  gave them luncheon from the baskets brought by the servants, and then she read
                  aloud the "Morte d'Arthur," from Tennyson's Idyls of the King. Benny came in
                  during the reading, stole to his aunt's side, helped himself to luncheon, and
                  listened to the poem, sending an occasional glance of pleading entreaty towards
                  Emma, who sat with her head turned away from him. But Emma's cheeks and neck were
                  crimson still; and when Mrs. Dulany had finished the exquisite poem, Emma said
                  emphatically, "I do hate Queen Guinevere; I always did."
               Benny sighed audibly. Arthur put out his hand and caressed his wife's small head
                  tenderly, as she bent near him. Emma leaned over with a sudden impulse, and
                  secretly kissed Arthur's other hand, as it held his unfailing pipe.
               Benny saw the tender salutation as he sat by, and felt a momentary pang of
                  bitterness. But he took two extra glasses of iced champagne, and his spirits rose
                  again.
               Miss Clementina helped herself to a paté, and
                  then observed, relevant to Emma's ejaculation, shaking her head solemnly,
               "Queen Guinevere was a terrible creature—terrible and so unnatural."
               "Only too natural, I fear," said Mrs. Dulany. "Such mistakes are often made by
                  women, preferring a Launcelot to an Arthur."
               "She knew Launcelot first," pleaded Athalie. "She loved him before she ever saw
                  King Arthur, and he was a noble knight."
               "We love where we must, not where we ought, perhaps," observed Col. Von Lingard,
                  with a glance at Athalie, which Mrs. Dulany caught. Athalie's fair face flushed a
                  rosy pink. Miss Clemmy was looking at her with her eyes half closed in a sort of
                  questioning way.
               "She was married to Arthur by her father's will; she was not consulted at all in
                  the beginning," said Ellen Fortier.
               "O, well, she ought to have made the best of it," put in Sophie Fortier.
               "She had the best, and was too foolish to see it," said Emma,
                  severely; "and there was no use of all that praying after Arthur's death. She and
                  Launcelot had better got married and lived respectably, and then they would have
                  got dreadfully bored with each other, I know. That sentimental sort of love is all
                  nonsense. I don't believe in it."
               "I tell you what," said Arthur, "women
                  are often very silly about such things. In every good-natured man there is a
                  disposition to say amiable and courteous things to any pretty nice woman—what Jean
                  Paul calls 'general love' towards all nice women, and what Gutzkow calls
                  'änstandige artlichkeiten,' 'decent
                     tendernesses,' that spring up momentarily from occasions, and which
                  sweep over a man's soul just like a summer cloud. But women always take things
                     au sérieux. They like the excitement and
                  mystery of any sort of a passion. The man kisses a woman's hand if it's white and
                  pretty, and forgets all about it. But the woman remembers it, and wants him to be
                  perpetually on his knees before her, when he has other work to do in this much
                  troubled and entangled world. I wish women had more sense about such things, for,
                  as a general thing, I like the sex." Arthur winced here and laughed, as Emma
                  pinched his arm severely. "I declare, Emma, your fingers are sharp as little
                  claws," he said.
               "Served you right! pinch him, Mrs. Lalande," said Ellen Fortier, "for talking so
                  about us."
               "I'm giving you all wholesome advice from a man's point of view," rejoined Arthur,
                  laughingly; "you ought to be very grateful to me. It is perfectly disinterested on
                  my part, because I like to flirt a little myself when Emma is not about; but I
                  tell you, Miss Ellen, there is not a man of the world in the world, who has the
                  least soft-heartedness about him, who won't make love to every attractive woman he
                  sees if she'll let him. No man of any sentiment can help it. All of you women
                  believe in a grand passion. We men know there are a hundred grand passions in a
                  sensitive man's life. I have had a thousand slight attacks of this malady you call
                  love, and am waiting until I've been married twenty years to build up, atom by
                  atom, a real grand passion for Emma! Lord, Emma, you've bitten a piece out of my
                  little finger now!" and Arthur held up his hand as if in pain.
               "O, Mr. Lalande! how can you say such dreadful things?" said Sophie Fortier,
                  affectedly.
               "Pshaw! it is the truth!" said Miss Clemmy, looking severely at Athalie.
               "I don't believe it," remarked Athalie, quietly.
               "Neither do I," affirmed Col. Von Lingard.
               "I know it is not true," said Benny, plaintively. 
                     
                        "Sigh no more, ladies, sigh no more!
                        Men are deceivers ever;
                        One foot on sea, and one on shore,
                        In one thing constant never,"
                     
                   sang Emma, gayly.
               Arthur patted her on the head. "That's right! stick up for your husband, Emma;
                  perhaps I won't have to wait so long as twenty years for my grand passion. Twenty
                  years! Ah, little woman, I should like to feel certain of twenty days," added he,
                  mournfully, thinking of his precarious hold on life. Arthur rarely ever alluded to
                  his dangerous condition. Emma's eyes filled up with tears in an instant, and Louis
                  Stillman pressed his lips forcibly together.
               Mrs. Dulany laid her hand gently on Arthur's and pressed his hand firmly. Arthur
                  returned the pressure.
               "Give me a bumper of champagne," he said, rousing himself from his momentary
                  gloom. "Everybody fill up their glasses—a bumper now, mind!" Arthur stood up,
                  holding his sparkling goblet aloft, and recited with enthusiasm Pinckney's
                  beautiful "Health." 
                     
                        "I fill this cup to one made up of loveliness alone,
                        A woman of her gentle sex the seeming paragon."
                     
                  
               
               Arthur recited it beautifully all through, and when he got to the last two lines— 
                     
                        "Her health! and would on earth there stood some more of such a
                           frame,
                        That life might be all poetry and weariness a name,"
                     
                   he seized Mrs. Dulany's hand, and pressed it to his lips, and exclaimed, "The
                  health of Rosalthe Dulany." Everybody clapped their hands and cried out vivat, and drank off their bumpers. Mrs. Dulany
                  smiled, but her pale cheeks crimsoned: "Arthur, you're too bad!" she said,
                  gently.
               "Don't you believe in love, Mrs. Dulany?" asked Col. Von Lingard.
               "Certainly I do. I think it the most powerful of all human impulses," replied
                  Rosalthe, after a pause. She continued in a low voice, "I myself have known the
                  fullest and the happiest love, so long as God allowed it to me. But, Col. Von
                  Lingard, I do think that that strongest of passions should not absorb the whole
                  life, as some women and some men encourage it to do. As animals, love is the end
                  of life; but as immortals, it is not—at least not love of any mortal. A woman has
                  to continue in existence immortally, even if no other atom is conjoined with her,
                  here or hereafter. Novalis asks, 'Ist die Frau der Zweck des Mannes, und ist die
                  Frau ohne Zweck?' (Is woman the end of man's life, and is woman without any object
                  in living?) I think not. It has been said by Helmholz, 'Man's existence is but a
                  ripple on the surface of time;' and I think individual man and woman's
                     mortal existence but a ripple upon their immortality. Sir, we are
                  accountable to our Creator for ourselves, our souls, whether we are loved here or
                  unloved. In a certain sense, each individual is a separate, immortal, responsible
                  atom of vitality, whether we belong to a cluster of atoms, or pass on alone in a
                  solitary orbit of our own. It is happier to love and be loved, but it is not
                  necessary."
               "There comes the steamboat," called out old Mr. Foster from the shore of the
                  little islet.
               "Ah! let's hurry home to get the mails," said Emma; "I expect letters to-day—one
                  from Annis at least, I know!"
               The party soon collected their shawls and other paraphernalia, and hastened down
                  to their boats, in which they were quickly ferried over the lake to the mainland,
                  where they awaited the landing of the little steamboat.
               Emma got a seat on a stump of an old tree, and made rapidly a fine sketch of the
                  lake and the approaching steamboat, which somewhat consoled her for the fiasco of the one on the island. The other members of
                  the party looked over her shoulder, commented on the view, the skilfulness of her
                  pencil, and strolled around generally while awaiting the boat's arrival.
               Benny had not ventured to approach Emma, but at last he stole up, and whispered
                  behind her:
               "For God's sake, Emma, forgive me! I will promise never to offend so again. Don't
                  be angry with your old playfellow, who has loved you all his life, and would die to save you from
                  harm, or to spare you any grief in the world."
               Emma turned her head slightly.
               "Well, I tell you, Benny Dandridge, you must not try French manners with me,
                  because I sha'n't stand it. I like you well enough when you behave yourself; but
                  you know I never did let you take any sort of liberty with me. I used to box your
                  ears for you if you did, and I will now, too."
               "Very well, Emma," replied Benny, "you are welcome to do so, if you want to; but I
                  will be glad if you will pardon me this time. Won't you shake hands?"
               "No, I won't shake hands, because I am busy with my hands; but I'll be friends,"
                  said Emma, nodding her head unceremoniously.
               Benny gave a long sigh of relief. He did hate to have anybody angry with him,
                  especially Emma.
               The boat drew up to the shore, and the scene was soon full of bustle and
                  confusion. Mrs. Dulany had the mail for the house taken in, and the party
                  adjourned there to read their letters and periodicals, everybody taking their
                  separate parcels to their own apartments to enjoy them in quiet.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               OLD Mr. Foster had proposed a hunt. All the gentlemen agreed to go except Arthur
                  Lalande. There did not seem to be any question about his choice in the matter. It
                  was tacitly assumed. It seemed to Benny Dandridge that Arthur would not go. He
                  recalled Emma's words on the island, and seizing an opportunity, he asked the
                  silent Louis Stillman "why Arthur Lalande seemed so very indolent? He won't hunt
                  with us, nor ride, nor row, nor do anything."
               Louis replied briefly, "Seven years ago Arthur Lalande was the foremost in all
                  manly sports; but during the war, in rescuing me, when I fell badly wounded in a
                  rush at Chickamauga, he got a bad sabre cut, which has produced an aneurism, that
                  may be fatal at any moment. He dare not make exertion, or endure any fatigue. His
                  life hangs upon a thread."
               "Good God!" exclaimed Benny, truly shocked; "you don't tell me so. Lord! what
                  a—"he checked himself, as he was about to say, "what an infernal scoundrel I have
                  been!" But he said, in a changed tone, "Poor, dear little Emma! and she idolizes
                  him. It is very sad, really."
               "Very," laconically replied the silent scout.
               "I would like you to tell me all the particulars," said the loquacious Benjamin,
                  sitting himself down amiably for gossip.
               "That's all. I don't remember anything more than getting this wound in my skull,"
                  and, parting his hair, Louis showed the silver trepanning. "Arthur saw me fall,
                  and springing forward to parry the next cut, which would have finished me, he got
                  his wound. That's all I know. He has never been good for anything since; while I,
                  you see, have got all straight again, with this bit of silver roofing over my
                  brains."
               "Poor Arthur! poor fellow!" soliloquized Benny. "He is a real good
                  fellow, too, and Emma so fond of him."
               Benny rose and walked away meditatively. That evening began a new phase in his
                  behavior towards Emma and Arthur. He treated her with the cool consideration of a
                  brother, while he became absolutely tender in his manner towards Arthur.
               Emma was quite pleased at this change. Arthur took Benny's devotion with his usual
                  careless bonhomie and gemüthlickeit.
               
               Benny nearly overdid it though, for Emma grew rather jealous of his interference
                  with her prerogative of attendance upon Arthur, and she snubbed Benny about it,
                  saying, on one occasion,
               "Indeed, Benny, you are very good, but I can't let anybody do that for Arthur but
                  myself."
               "Very well, Emma," said Benny, with wonderful humility, "I know; I don't want to
                  interfere with your rights, you know; but if I can be of any use to you and
                  Arthur, well, I should like it."
               "Of course," replied Emma, "and I'll ask you when I need you."
               So Benny had to be content with this promise. He sobered down wonderfully for a
                  few days, in consequence of Louis's communication, probably; and if he determined
                  to be resolutely on his good behavior, with a vague, ulterior thought that Emma
                  might become a beautiful young widow at any moment, nobody knew it but
                  himself.
               Miss Clementina continued her tatting and her espionage upon Athalie. At the most
                  unexpected moments the tap-tap of her ebony cane would be heard approaching the
                  parlors, whenever Athalie and Col. Von Lingard were there. Mrs. Dulany, too, began
                  to look with some anxiety upon the progressing intimacy between these two guests
                  of hers. She felt responsible for Athalie, and she was very fond of her; but there
                  had been nothing overt as yet that she could notice, or make the foundation of a
                  private talk with Athalie.
               Mr. Foster was very much occupied in getting ready for the proposed grand hunting
                  expedition. He and nine other men of fortune owned a small steamboat before the
                  war, which they used to man with their own servants, hiring a good engineer by the
                  month from New Orleans. The hold of the boat was fitted up as a kennel for their
                  dogs, and the lower deck filled with stalls for horses. The party always took
                  twenty horses and one hundred and sixteen dogs with them, and they would go off
                  for a couple of months, shooting, fishing, hunting, up the Ouachita; the Red
                  River, far into the Indian Nation; down the Atchafalaya, immortalized by
                  Long-fellow; through the streams and bayous, sometimes far out into the Gulf of
                  Mexico, red-fishing and catching pompino and devil-fish. They would sometimes quit
                  their boat and pack their knapsacks, when they would go to shoot birds on the
                  broad prairies of the Attakapas, or to hunt deer and wild hogs in the dense
                  forests of the lowlands of Louisiana. It was these annual expeditions that had
                  furnished Mr. Foster with his wealth of hunting stories, of which Emma Lalande
                  complained often so bitterly, and to which Miss Clemmy listened with extreme
                  delight. The little steamboat, Louis d'Or, had been hidden up the Red River above
                  Shreveport during the war, and Mr. Foster had only recently gotten her down on the
                     lake, and was superintending some
                  needful repairs on her at this very time.
               In the meanwhile the rest of the party amused themselves as well as they could
                  with billiards, croquet, cards, chess, books, music, and conversation. On the
                  bright, beautiful afternoons which come like bits of summer so frequently, in a
                  Louisiana winter, they boated, or they rode on horseback or drove through the
                  interminable forests or along the lake shores. Benny had his famous white Arabian
                  mare, Odalisque, sent up from New Orleans, and persuaded Athalie to ride her, as
                  Emma positively declined mounting "a strange horse." Beautiful as an houri Athalie
                  looked on the milk-white steed, whose tail and mane flowed like floss silk as she
                  tossed her head and sprang lightly off with her slight burden. Whenever Athalie
                  rode her, Col. Von Lingard was never very far away on such occasions. Athalie
                  enjoyed her rides, as Miss Clemmy could not possibly accompany the party, and so
                  for several hours Athalie felt released from surveillance. She had no intention of
                  failing in duty, but the knowledge that Miss Clemmy was watching her every
                  movement had a bad effect upon her wilful temperament, and almost prevailed over
                  her own good sense in suggesting possibilities of outwitting and outmanœuvring
                  Miss Clemmy. She began to let Col. Von Lingard have opportunities to approach her
                  and to monopolize her attention and conversation—opportunities of which he was
                  never loth to avail himself. Benny commenced to see that Col. Von Lingard was
                  quite a fascinating man, and altogether too attentive to his beautiful
                  cousin-in-law. One evening, after returning from a long ride, in which he had
                  escorted Ellen Fortier, and Col. Von Lingard had been attendant upon Athalie, he
                  said to Mrs. Deslondes, finding her alone in the drawing-room, just before the
                  rest joined her for dinner,
               "Athalie, did you ever read 'Bertram'?"
               "'Bertram!' what, the play?" responded Athalie.
               "Yes."
               "No; but I have seen it acted. Why do you ask, Benny?"
               "Only because it is such a dreadful tragedy, brought about by a wife's
                  infidelity," responded Benny. "It made a great impression on me."
               Athalie looked at him with flashing eyes, and bit her under lip, then, saying
                  lightly,
               "I never took particular interest in the play. I went with Emma Lalande once to
                  see it, and she cried, I remember, and made her eyes ridiculously red over it. It
                  did not affect me at all."
               It was Benny's turn now to flush up and wince under Athalie's glowing glance and
                  cool manner. He made no rejoinder, however, as Col. Von Lingard just at the moment
                  entered the apartment, bringing a bouquet of brilliant berries and holly leaves
                  tied with Spanish moss in his hand, which he presented with a complimentary word
                  to Athalie.
               She took the little bouquet, held it to her lips a moment, as if inhaling
                  fragrance where Benny knew there was none, and therefore regarded it as a caress
                  of Col. Von Lingard's winter-posey, in bravado of him and his attempted warning.
                  Then Athalie deliberately divided the bunch of leaves and crimson berries, and
                  walking in front of the large mirror which reached from the ceiling to the floor
                  of the drawing-room room, she fastened one group of leaves coquettishly in her
                  hair and the other on her bosom. Benny was compelled to confess to himself that
                  the crimson and green was very becoming to Athalie's hair and corsage, and he
                  turned away with a half smile at her semi-threatening expression of eye and the
                  perverse compression of her red lips. She meant him to understand that he was not
                  to watch her, and that she intended doing just as she pleased. Benny understood it
                  without words.
               Life was smooth and often monotonous in this secluded country-home of Mrs.
                  Dulany's. Life is generally monotonous everywhere. One does the same things every
                  day. It is impossible for humanity to endure perpetually successive shocks of
                  novelty and adventure, and incidents do not occur in any mortal life every hour of
                  every day. Civilization has toned down the exuberance even of natural savagery.
                  One no longer has the ardent though painful excitement of seeking for food and
                  shelter and warmth which a savage experiences. Existence is provided for, and life
                  is a level plane everywhere among people who don't have to work for their living,
                  and so rich people are very frequently bored from lack of desire or interest in
                  any thing. 
                     
                        "'Morgen wie heut'
                        In ewige Zeit,'"
                     
                   exclaimed Emma. "I declare, I don't think 'Waldensamkeit' would suit me, or
                  'freut' me always."
               "My dear wife," responded Arthur, taking his pipe from his lips, "you ought to
                  learn to smoke cigarettes or a nargillah, and then you would have a delightful
                  Nirwana always prepared for your mercurial nature to take refuge into."
               "Pshaw! I am not a Hindoo," said Emma.
               "No, you have nothing Aryan in you, mignonne; you are French from the crown of
                  your head to the tip of your little foot," replied Arthur, philosophically,
                  stuffing a fresh supply of perrique into his pipe.
               "My dearly beloved," continued Arthur, "don't you remember Charles Lamb's lines on
                  the Forest Scene?"
               "No," replied Emma, briefly.
               Arthur waved his meerschaum gracefully in the air, and spouted the following
                  verses:— 
                     
                        "What sports have you in the forest?
                        Not many; some few, as thus:
                        To see the sun to bed, and see him rise,
                        Like some hot amourist with glowing eyes,
                        Bursting the lazy bands of sleep that bound him;
                        With all his fires and travelling glories 'round him.
                        Sometimes the moon on soft night clouds to rest,
                        Like beauty nestling on a young man's breast.
                        And all the winking stars, her handmaids, keep
                        Admiring silence, while those lovers sleep.
                        Sometimes outstretched in very idleness,
                        Naught doing, saying nothing, thinking less,
                        To view the leaves, thin dancers upon air,
                        Go eddying 'round; and small birds, how they fare,
                        When mother Autumn fills their beaks with corn
                        Filched from the careless Amalthea's horn;
                        And how the woods berries and worms provide
                        Without their pains, when earth hath naught beside
                        To answer their small wants.
                        To view the graceful deer come trooping by,
                        Then pause, and gaze, then turn, they know not why,
                        Like bashful younkers in society;
                        To mark the structure of a plant or tree,
                        And all fair things of earth, how fair they be.'"
                     
                  
               
               "Well, well," interrupted Emma, laughing, "there is at least one true line in
                  that, for you do 'naught,' Louis Stillman says 'nothing,' and Conrad 'thinks
                  less.'"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               OLD Mr. Foster said that day at dinner that the steamboat Louis d'Or wouldn't be
                  in order for at least two weeks. Her boilers had to be overhauled and patched, and
                  he would be compelled to write to "the city for a workman to do it properly." The
                  gentlemen all looked gloomy when this pronunciamento was issued from the foot of
                  Mrs. Dulany's table. At least all did, save Arthur, who wasn't to go. He continued
                  cracking nuts for Athalie with unperturbed countenance.
               "Oh, dear," sighed Benny, "I am very weary of squirrel and bird shooting."
               "Well," exclaimed Emma, vivaciously, "why don't you all go on a deer drive or bear
                  hunt, or something? Go to-morrow. We are all worn out with croquet and billiards.
                  We women will be delighted to have a whole long day of entire repose and abandon."
               "You know very well that Arthur is not going," retorted Benny, maliciously.
               "O, Arthur! We can shut him up in his own apartments with Trollope's last, and we
                  will send his meals in on a tray to him," laughed Athalie.
               "I wish you oppressively strong-bodied fellows would go off for a
                  day," put in Arthur, gravely, laying a fresh supply of nuts on Athalie's plate.
                  "Mrs. Deslondes, you eat nuts like a squirrel. I believe you could live on nuts.
                  You had better furnish me with a plateful and a pair of crackers, as well as the
                  novel; then I can send you back on the tray a sufficient supply for two days, if I
                  am to be shut up."
               Athalie nodded her head. She had just taken a bite from a banana, and wouldn't
                  speak with her mouth filled.
               "Von Lingard," continued Arthur, "I hope you will bring back a pair of antlers or
                  a panther's skin!"
               "Are there panthers in these forests?" asked Von Lingard.
               "Lots!" said Arthur. "Lots of panthers, no end of wildcats, legions of wolves,
                  myriads of bear, innumerable deer, swarms of racoons, hundreds of opossums, flocks
                  of wild turkeys, and birds of all sorts, from snipe and woodcock up to swans and
                  flamingoes! We can provide you with every variety of beast or fowl respectable to
                  shoot at. I hope you'll bring back at least a turkey tail to make a fan for—"
                  Arthur paused, looked at Athalie, whose fair face flushed; then coolly ended his
                  tirade—" a fan for—Aunt Clemmy."
               Everybody smiled except Miss Clementina, who did not relish being dragged into any
                  amicable association with Col. Von Lingard.
               The colonel bowed gallantly. "I shall be most happy if I should be so fortunate as
                  to lay my trophies at Miss Dandridge's feet.".
               Miss Clemmy bridled her head, exclaiming, "Nonsense! What makes you such a fool,
                  Arthur Lalande?"
               "Nature, nature, dear auntie!" responded Arthur, gayly, "unadulterated
                  nature!"
               Miss Clementina shoved back her chair rather tempestuously. Mrs. Dulany rose!
                  instantly, and summoning the ladies, Benny sprang to the door, opened it, and the
                  gentlemen, after bowing the ladies out, sat down again to their wine, listening to
                  Mr. Foster's stories, and eagerly discussing the practicability of a good deer
                  drive on the succeeding morning. Mr. Foster promised to have horses, dogs, guns,
                  and attendants all ready by the break of day.
               "Von Lingard, you will have to ride one of Rosalthe's carriage horses. He is
                  steady and stands fire!"
               "Very well, Mr. Foster. Anything you choose."
               "And I," said Benny, "will try Odalisque."
               "She has never been under fire," said Arthur. "She'll break your neck, Benny!"
               "She will have to learn," replied Benny. "Might as well begin."
               "You ought to tie fire-crackers, and pop them under her nose and about her feet
                  first," said Conrad Stilman.
               "Bother! she'll learn!" rejoined Benny.
               Just at this point of time, music was heard from the drawing-room, and Athalie's
                  superb voice broke out in a merry Spanish romancero.
               
               Von Lingard rose. "Let's go to the ladies, Dandridge!"
               "A votre service!" Benny dashed off his glass of
                  wine, and sprang up from the table. The move being made, the gentlemen adjourned
                     en masse.
               
               As they entered the parlor, Athalie changed her measure, and striking a prelude,
                  she sang magnificently that passionate cry of despairing love, Beethoven's "Ah,
                  Perfido!"
               Her limited audience was spellbound. Col. Von Lingard leaned against the wall at
                  the side of the grand piano, with his arms folded across his breast. As Athalie
                  stopped at the conclusion of her song, he looked at her. Their eyes met. Hers were
                  full of tears.
               Arthur Lalande was sitting on a sofa, with his head bent on his hand. He drew his
                  hand hastily over his eyes to conceal the drops that had gathered there under the
                  influence of the plaintive tones.
               "For Heaven's sake, Benny!" he exclaimed, "sing us something grand or gay, will
                  you? Athalie is too dolorous!"
               Benny instantly assumed the music stool which Mrs. Deslondes vacated now, and sang
                  Rossini's "Cujus Animam," from the Stabat Mater.
                  Benny's voice and touch were admirable. Then Benny sang Schumann's "Lotus Flower"
                  with exquisite taste and expression. Emma listened, with her hand gently caressing
                  Arthur's brown locks, as she leaned near him on the sofa.
               The party divided after this into groups, some to play at cards. Athalie and Col.
                  Von Lingard sat down at the chess-table.
               Arthur called the two Fortier girls and Benny to his game of whist.
               While Emma and Louis Stilman played euchre against Miss Clemmy and Conrad Stilman,
                  Mrs. Dulany flitted in and out amongst her guests for awhile; she then settled
                  down with a piece of embroidery by the centre-table, from whence she surveyed the
                  whole scene, being continually called on from one or the other card-tables to
                  settle disputes and quarrels over the tricks. There was no quarrelling over the
                  chesstable, however. Athalie and Col. Von Lingard played on in perfect silence.
                  Athalie never looked up from the board. Her cheeks were flushed with the loveliest
                  color. She was transcendently beautiful,
                  with her long eyelashes cast down. Col. Von Lingard sat leaning his head on one
                  hand, half concealing it from the populated end of the room, and one would only
                  hear an occasional low word from his lips of "échec." Athalie glanced up into his face once as he uttered the
                  talismanic word, but her eyes fell quickly. She moved her queen to a safer
                  position. It was a long game, but Col. Von Lingard won it; yet
                  Athalie was a good player—a pupil of Paul Morphy. She ought to have played better.
                  She pushed the board from her with a slight movement of irritation. Col. Von
                  Lingard smiled.
               "You see I have a little the advantage of you," he said, meaningly. "I am
                  calmer."
               "You have more skill, but you will not find it so easy to defeat me in
                     all games," said Athalie, proudly.
               "Do you treat all conquered creatures very unmercifully, Mrs.
                  Deslondes?" asked Col. Von Lingard. "If not, I yield without any attempt at
                  resistance, and cast myself upon your mercy unconditionally; or will it be
                     væ victis?"
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               MRS. DULANY was up at dawn on the following morning, seeing that the huntsmen had
                  hot coffee and cold bread, with other comfortable comestibles, for a breakfast
                  before starting. The rest of the household were wrapt in silent slumber, somewhat
                  disturbed by the yelping of the hounds held in leash outside of the gates, and the
                  experimental sounding of horns by the impatient huntsmen. Col. Von Lingard made
                  his appearance in a full hunting suit of green, with gold facings. Benny sported a
                  suit of English red. While the others were all clad in heavy clothes of homespun
                  Confederate gray, stout and capable of resisting the attacks of bushes and brier
                  patches. Old Mr. Foster was greatly excited, galloping about from one to another
                  of the attendants, speaking to the dogs, looking after all preparations, and
                  carrying his horn, made from a neatly-scraped cow's horn, suspended from his
                  shoulder, in his hand, ready for the parting blast. Louis Stilman was the subject
                  of much chaffing from his companions, on account of his resolute and earnest
                  attention to gathering about him what seemed the most useless and unnecessary
                  articles.
               "Mrs. Dulany, will you give me a few pins," asked the quiet Louis, "and a needle
                  and some thread, and a piece of sticking-plaster?"
               "Certainly," and Mrs. Dulany soon produced the requisite articles.
               "What the mischief do you want with those things, Louis?" demanded Benny, with
                  curiosity, seeing Louis draw out of his capacious pocket a small housewife, such
                  as were found so useful for every Confederate soldier. Louis proceeded to stick
                  his pins and needle in their appropriate place in the pincushion, disposed of his
                  hank of thread and his bit of plaster, wrapped up his housewife and put it back in
                  his pocket coolly, before he replied to Benny:—
               "I am an old scout. I always take such articles with me. Some of you fellows may
                  get hurt or shoot one another accidentally. I wouldn't like to have a stand near
                  you, Benny; you shoot too wild for me."
               "Pshaw!" said Benny; "I took the prize in Paris for shooting. You are like a
                  dragoon making display of his instruments before a battle."
               "No, this is only to be a battue," said Conrad
                  Stilman.
               "Now, Cato, give me the piece of light grass rope I ordered you to fetch me," said
                  Louis, without deigning to take further notice of the remarks of his companions.
                  "Here, wrap it in a coil and hitch it there behind my saddle to that strap. Now
                  for the poncho. Strap it up tight. Aint that a beauty, Benny? I got it in Texas;
                  paid two hundred and fifty dollars in gold for it to a Mexican; it was his
                     serapé. It will turn water like oil-cloth,
                  and is so warm and light."
               "That is a beauty," acknowledged Benny, surveying the blanket with
                  the eye of a connoisseur. It was dark gray in the centre, surrounded with a deep
                  border of narrow alternating stripes of jet black and fiery crimson. "That is real
                  Mexican; rare and valuable as an Indian cashmere, in its way."
               "More precious to me," replied Louis, vaulting lightly on his saddle
                  without touching the stirrup, and gathering the reins in an instant.
               "Ready, now, Mr. Foster!" sung out Benny.
               Mr. Foster raised his horn by its dangling tassels, put it to his lips, and blew
                  vigorously. The dogs howled and yelped dolorously, the horses snorted and pranced,
                  under the excitement of the noise, the cool air, and fear of the spur. Odalisque
                  put back her ears, and had a mind to try a run, then changed her ideas, tossed her
                  head till the long flossy mane streamed like white silk all about her neck, put
                  her head down, and gave a series of deer-like bounds, which nearly unseated Benny,
                  so the laugh turned on him. They were all in high spirits, and laughed at very
                  small matters. Mrs. Dulany stood watching the train of riders, dogs, and
                  attendants until they were hid from view by a turn of the road. "I hope they may
                  have good sport and no accident," she said to herself as she turned back into the
                  house.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE day wore on at the Wilderness. The ladies lounged in their respective
                  apartments. Arthur went off on a quiet fishing excursion with a little negro boy
                  for escort and sole attendant. Emma wrote letters. Athalie spent nearly the whole
                  morning practising a new aria. The Fortier girls had their crochet-work and
                  tapestry. Ellen was crocheting a purse for Louis Stilman, and Sophie had a pair of
                  slippers under way intended for the handsome feet of the handsome Conrad. Mrs.
                  Dulany was shut up in her studio very busy on a new picture, whose subject she
                  made a temporary secret of. She told them when the picture was done they should
                  see it, and she would narrate the story connected with it also. When she joined
                  the ladies at luncheon, they were all curious to know how the mysterious picture
                  was progressing.
               "Very rapidly," said Mrs. Dulany.
               "Just give us the least hint of its subject, won't you?" persisted Ellen Fortier. "Is it a portrait or landscape,
                  a picture of a man or woman?"
               Mrs. Dulany smiled. "It is both a landscape and a portrait—a view, with a woman in
                  it."
               Ellen's curiosity was vehemently increased, but she knew she could get nothing
                  more from Mrs. Dulany, as that lady quietly turned the conversation upon another
                  topic.
               "I suppose our huntsmen will be back to late dinner," observed Mrs. Dulany. "I
                  have ordered dinner at eight instead of our usual hour of six. That will give a
                  margin for stragglers. They can't hunt well with dogs after dark, and they were
                  not intending to make a fire hunt."
               "No," said Athalie; "Col. Von Lingard said they would certainly be back to
                  dinner."
               "I am always uneasy," said Emma, "when so many men go hunting and shooting
                  together. Unskilful marksmen are dangerous neighbors on a close stand."
               Athalie's face flushed, then paled. She bit her lip, however, and repressed any
                  open expression of apprehension.
               "Well," said Ellen Fortier, "I suppose they all know how to shoot pretty well,
                  except may be the Prussian colonel. I know the Stilmans do, and Mr. Foster."
               "I am not so certain about Benny!" exclaimed Emma.
               "Bah! Benny shoots well. He has shot leopards in Syria, and lions in Africa, and
                  tigers in India," said Miss Clementina, rapping indignantly on her musical
                  snuff-box. She knocked so hard that the box started off on its peculiar tune, a
                  waltz of Arditi's, and played away merrily. Miss Clemmy deposited it on the table
                  till it had played out its brief repertoire.
               
               "I forgot I had wound it up," she said, half apologetically.
               The ladies sat in silence until the extemporized concert was ended. They were used
                  to Miss Clemmy's ways.
               The afternoon passed away. Sunset brought Arthur back with a basket of fine
                  fish—one of which, a large trout, he insisted upon having weighed then and there.
                  The ladies came out to see the fish weighed. It was a very large trout of four and
                  a half pounds.
               "That is the great grandfather of the trouts here," said Arthur. "That little imp,
                  Orange, took me to a lake back in the swamp that had never been fished in before,
                  I believe. Such a time as we had getting through the bushes and brambles!"
               "Did you enjoy your lunch?" asked Emma, lifting her hand and running it through
                  the long light silky locks which fell rather heavily upon Arthur's forehead.
               "Oh, yes, at least Orange did. He devoured the greater part of it. It was a
                  pleasure to look at him over the potato pies. He ate a pie and a half in addition
                  to nearly all the sandwiches, pickles, and jams with which you had crammed my
                  basket. Mrs. Dulany," said Arthur, "I think Orange will die tonight, unless he
                  possesses the digestive apparatus of an ostrich."
               Orange, who was standing by, looking with interested and important eyes at the
                  weighing of the trout, grinned at this dire prognostication, until every white
                  tooth in his head was visible.
               "Law! Mars Arthur! I'm hungry gry for my dinner now. I kin eat agin without any
                  sort o' trouble."
               "Then you are a metamorphosed ostrich or cormorant. You have only been evolved to
                  one higher state of existence, Orange!"
               "Dun know nuthin about that, Mars Arthur, but I knows when I'm hungry, and when I
                  isn't," responded the young hopeful.
               Emma carried Arthur off with her to their room, that he might rest awhile before
                  he bathed and dressed for dinner, and the ladies all separated to their
                  toilettes.
               At half past seven they were reassembled in the drawing-room, all looking their
                  loveliest. Athalie was resplendent in blue satin and pearls.
               Arthur stood before the fire with his watch in his hand.
               "They are late in returning," said he.
               Emma held her hand to her ear. "Hark!" she said. "I hear the sound of hoofs coming
                  down the lane now."
               In a few minutes the trotting of horses was heard by everybody, and Mrs. Dulany
                  hurried out on the verandah to meet the hunters. It was dark, and she could not
                  distinguish the individuals. She only saw a number of men and horses, conspicuous
                  among them Benny's white mare, Odalisque.
               "Welcome back," she called, as the party rode up to the door. "I am really
                  thankful that you have all got home safely!"
               "But we are not all here, Mrs. Dulany!" said Benny. "Col. Von Lingard got lost
                  somehow, and Louis Stilman went off to look for him, and he hasn't got back
                  either. We all searched in a body for him as far as we could, blowing our horns
                  and firing our guns off, for an hour and a half, until it grew too late to do
                  anything, so we thought it best to come home. We shall start out again by
                  daybreak, if the colonel and Louis don't get out before then. It was of no use to
                  stay there to-night. It was looking for a needle in a haystack in that immense
                  forest and in darkness."
               Now as soon as Benny made the announcement Mr. Foster and Conrad Stilman and the
                  attendant freedmen all began to talk and explain how everybody had warned Col. Von
                  Lingard not to stray off out of sight, and not to leave his stand; and how Louis
                  Stilman wanted to be put next him, but wasn't, for Conrad was stationed there
                  accidentally; and how Conrad said Von Lingard got so excited over the crying of
                  the hounds that he galloped after them like a crazy man; and how Conrad called
                  after him that he would certainly get lost, and sure enough Conrad never saw him
                  again.
               Mrs. Dulany listened in silence to the hubbub of voices. She was very much
                  disturbed and rather vexed at her uncle and Conrad and Benny for leaving a
                  stranger in such a predicament, but she repressed her feelings, made them describe
                  exactly the portion of forest in which they had last seen Von Lingard, and where
                  and when Louis Stilman started off to search for him.
               Then, turning suddenly away, Mrs. Dulany went out among her freedmen, and sent for
                  a dozen men who had been born on the plantation and knew the woods.
               "Men," she said, "a gentleman—a stranger—is lost in the woods while hunting
                  to-day. He was seen last ten miles off near the old Indian Ferry. You know the
                     woods. I will give ten dollars apiece
                  to every man who will go out and search faithfully for this gentleman. I fear he
                  may be lost in quagmires and sloughs, which you know abound in that part of the
                  forest. If he would remain quiet, there would be little danger, but I fear he will
                  not. He will try to get out, and his horse may lie down, or he himself do so. Then
                  there are alligators in the sloughs, and wildcats, bears, and panthers you know in
                  these woods, and he is without fire or matches, as he does not smoke."
               "We'll all go, mistress," said the foremost freedman; "we'll search all night, and
                  bring back his bones, if nothing else."
               "Go, then. Tell Rena to give you some bottles of whiskey, and take food and
                  fire-horns with you. God grant you may find the poor gentleman! I don't feel
                  anxious about Mr. Stilman. He is an old hunter, and he knows the ways to spend a
                  night or even a day or so, without danger, even if he may suffer discomfort. As
                  you go past, tell the engineer Tom to make up the fires and to blow the whistle of
                  the gin-house every half hour through the night, so you can keep the bearing of
                  the plantation in this dark night."
               As Mrs. Dulany turned to go back into the house, she felt a cold hand grasp her
                  arm. It was Athalie. She had followed Mrs. Dulany out into the Quarter, her
                  splendid satin dress trailing in the dust and over the dewy grass. She grasped
                  Mrs. Dulany's arm convulsively, and tried to speak, but only gasped for breath. At
                  last she said, hoarsely,
               "You are frightened! You think him in danger!"
               Mrs. Dulany hesitated, then said in a low voice, "I do! but there will be no means
                  spared to find him; if he will only stay quiet, which he may, you
                  know—if he is sensible, he will—he will only suffer some discomfort,
                  and will certainly be found to-morrow at farthest.
               Athalie released her arm, and turning suddenly sped swiftly to her own
                  dressing-room. Summoning her maid, she said, "Here, take off these things—give me
                  my dressing-gown—I have a headache—I don't want any dinner. Tell Mrs. Dulany
                  please to excuse me!"
               The maid obeyed. Athalie, throwing herself on a lounge, bade her good-night. As
                  soon as the girl was out of the room, she sprang up, bolted the door, then dropped
                  prostrate on the floor, with her face buried in her arms, and her bright golden
                  hair streaming all over her. Miss Clemmy came to the door. Athalie heard the
                  thump, thump of her ebony cane along the hall until it paused at the door.
               "Athalie! Athalie!" called Miss Clementina.
               Athalie did not answer. Miss Clemmy called vainly, then stumped away in dire
                  wrath.
               Mrs. Dulany came too to the door. Athalie rose and opened the door. She looked
                  haggard and pale.
               Mrs. Dulany took her hand.
               "Athalie, your hands are cold as ice. Have you a chill? Are you sick?"
               "Dear Mrs. Dulany," said Athalie, "please let me be quiet. I am subject to sick
                  headaches. I feel very ill, and must be left alone, and must be quiet. Please make
                  everybody let me alone to-night."
               Mrs. Dulany said nothing. She kissed Athalie.
               "Have you all that you can need?" she asked.
               "Everything. I only want to be quiet."
               "Good-night, then. I suppose, if our huntsmen come in, you will probably hear it.
                  Shall I fix some bromide of potassium for you?"
               "No! no! nothing!" said Athalie. "Good-night. I only want quiet."
               Mrs. Dulany left her, and Athalie threw herself on her bed, sleepless and
                  watchful. Wild prayers fell from her lips, and wilder tears from her eyes. She
                  looked at her clock, and began to count hour after hour, "as one who watches for
                  the morning."
               Mrs. Dulany and her guests gathered sadly around the dinner-table, with its two
                  vacant seats.
               There were no games and no music that evening: a slight attempt at desultory
                  conversation, a feeble effort at liveliness, and everybody was glad when the
                  signal was given to retire by Mrs. Dulany.
               A half hour afterwards, Mrs. Dulany returned to the drawing-room in her
                  dressing-gown. She had fresh fuel put on the fire; she had fires made in the
                  vacant rooms of Col. Von Lingard and Louis Stilman; then, taking a book, she tried
                  to read, listening and starting at every sound. The night wore away. Towards
                  daylight, Mrs. Dulany lay down on a sofa and threw a shawl over her feet, and
                  finally dropped into a restless slumber.
               Athalie was not sleeping; she was kneeling at her window, gazing out upon the
                  lane. Daybreak, sunrise found her there still. Her maid came to the door. Athalie
                  unbolted it. "Come, dress me, quickly, Sallie! Any news from the men?"
               "No, madam, no news yet. Law! didn't it sound frightful all night to hear the
                  whistle blowin' every hour? an' it is blowin' still. Gracious me! I hope they
                  hears it out in them big woods."
               "I suppose they can," said Athalie, wistfully. "Give Tom this five-dollar note,
                  and tell him to blow it as loud as he can."
               Mr. Foster told Mrs. Dulany that the party had kept together nearly all day, and
                  had pretty fair sport; they had killed four large deer; and that towards sunset he
                  was riding near to Col. Von Lingard when a herd of wild swine dashed past them,
                  started by the dogs; that Lingard started off in pursuit, excited by the chase. He
                  had just been talking of wild-boar hunting in Europe. Mr. Foster said he stood up
                  in his stirrups, and called as loudly as he could, "Von Lingard, don't go; it is
                  dangerous hunting such a herd of wild hogs, and it is time to go home!" Von
                  Lingard turned and waved his hand, crying out, as he urged his horse in the
                  pursuit, "I'll be with you in ten minutes; just let me take one shot at this huge
                  old boar!"
               Foster said he halted and stayed where he was, expecting to hear Von Lingard's
                  shot, and to see him returning, but he did not come back. He halloed, fired off
                  his gun, blew his horn—afraid to move, and yet anxious to search for his missing
                  companion. His shots and his horn brought all the rest of the scattered members of
                  the hunt to him, but not Von Lingard. Then the others had started to search for
                  the colonel, marking their paths as they rode, so as to rejoin Foster. They had
                  searched as far as they dared until nightfall, when they all gathered again around
                  Mr. Foster to hold a council. Then they
                  decided they could do no more that night, and they would go home and renew their
                  search at daybreak. But Louis Stilman said he would not quit the woods. So he took
                  some crackers and a canteen of whiskey, and said he was going to continue looking
                  and shooting all night, if possible: the moon would rise at one o'clock, and he
                  had eyes like a panther. So they had left him, considering him very obstinate and
                  very unwise.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               LOUIS STILMAN knew that he could trust his own skill in woodcraft. He had been
                  brought up almost on the edge of this forest, and knew every landmark in it. He
                  knew the sloughs and lakes and bayous. He was an old and experienced scout, and
                  well accustomed to prowling about in the darkness. So, taking the bearings of the
                  place where Mr. Foster had last seen Von Lingard, he started out, as soon as the
                  hoof-beats of the party died away, to search on his "own hook." He
                  had still an hour of dim twilight. He rode as long as he could see the hoof-prints
                  of Von Lingard's horse; then they were lost at the margin of a deep bayou, thickly
                  bordered with short, tufted grass. There was no sign on either side of the bayou.
                  Louis rode up and down, then swam his horse across and examined the other side. No
                  sign. The bottom of the bayou was boggy in spots.
               "I hope to God he has not got into quicksand!" muttered Louis to himself, after
                  riding for a hundred yards on either side of the bayou in both directions. He sat
                  on his horse to think. There were the hoof-prints on the other side, leading down
                  into the water, and there they ended.
               Louis got off his horse and fastened him to a bush; then, taking off his coat,
                  climbed up into a tree which overhung the stream at an angle of nearly forty-five
                  degrees. He crawled out upon the very top, and lying flat down, he gazed up and
                  down the bayou. About three hundred yards below, he saw that the bayou branched
                  into two forks around a small island thickly filled with bushes and set with long
                  grasses. The vegetation looked thick and undisturbed, but Louis, gazing with the
                  keen sight of one habituated to watching, and with educated vision, fancied he saw
                  symptoms of the grass being crushed down on the hither side of the island. Getting
                  down carefully from his reconnoitering position—not by any means either a safe or
                  an agreeable one, for he had to lie flat along a not very stout tree-top—Louis
                  swung himself back to terra firma, mounted his
                  horse, and rode down the bayou until he got opposite the island. He was convinced
                  the grass had been trampled down. Taking off his clothes, and
                  fastening them on his horse firmly, he seized the bridle and drove the horse into
                  the stream; then, plunging in himself, holding the bridle in his teeth, he and the
                  horse soon swam over the narrow water. As Louis set his feet on the island, he
                  recognized again "hoof-marks," clear and distinct, amid a number of hog-tracks.
                  They led down the island to the lower end, where a huge log lay across the other
                  fork of the bayou, forming an extemporized bridge to the main land or ridge
                  opposite. Here, again, the hoof-marks ceased, as well of hogs as of the horse.
               "So," said Louis, "he has followed the hogs. They dashed into the bayou; so did
                  he, not knowing how deep it was; the hogs turned to the island, being pursued, and
                  he has swum after them: he could not help it after getting in the water—the horse
                  was probably unmanageable, the current strong, and he a heavy man. They have all
                  reached the island, because the horse-tracks have still followed the hogs down the
                  island. No horse would have done that, if not ridden. The horse would have stopped
                  to eat these rank grasses if Von Lingard had not been on his back. There was some
                  effort to get up this bank, at any rate, I see; then the hogs have taken the water
                  again, and gone over to the other ridge, and Von Lingard has gone over, too. Let's
                  see! I shall walk over the log, and swim the horse."
               Louis did it. Sure enough, on the opposite shore he found the marks quite fresh
                  again. He stopped, put his clothes on—beginning to feel chilled from the cold air
                  of night, now fast coming on; then he walked forward, leading the horse, carefully
                  observing the foot-marks, stooping down to feel them when it began to grow so dark
                  he could not see them distinctly. They led him on a half mile further, when,
                  suddenly turning a small canebrake and thick brier patch, he saw, quietly feeding
                  a few yards in advance of him, Mrs. Dulany's iron-gray carriage-horse, with saddle
                  and bridle still upon him. Raising his voice in a loud halloo, Louis called, "Von
                  Lingard, where are you?" He heard a faint reply on the farther side of the
                  canebrake. Crashing through the thicket, Louis got to the place near where the
                  voice sounded. "Where?" he called.
               "Here!" responded the feeble voice of Von Lingard. Louis hastened to the spot.
               Von Lingard was lying with his head half supported by a tree, pale and
                  fainting.
               "Good God!" exclaimed Louis, "Von Lingard, what is the matter? and how did you get
                  to this infernal place?"
               Von Lingard said feebly, "Give me some water!"
               Louis took off his canteen, poured some water and a little whiskey in it, and gave
                  it to Von Lingard. He drank it feverishly, gulping it down in long swallows.
               "There!" he said, when Louis took the tin cup away from his lips, "I feel better;
                  but I am bleeding to death, I think. The wound in my leg—see! I tried to bind it
                  with my handkerchief, but it is bleeding terribly. The boar struck me with his
                  tusk, but I killed him; there he is."
               Louis saw, about fifty yards off, the dead wild boar, a huge animal, with
                  formidable tusks. But he had not time to look long at it. Von Lingard groaned and
                  turned white again.
               "For God's sake, Stilman! can't you close the wound better?" Louis threw his
                  horse's bridle over a branch.
               "In one minute, Von Lingard! I can't see—it is too dark. I'll have a fire in a
                  minute."
               Louis ran and gathered an armful of dry moss from a tree near by, another of dry
                  leaves, then a few bits of old dry branches, then with his powerful arms he heaved
                  a large log lying near by clear around by one end, and piled these combustibles against it, then,
                  taking his gun, he shot into the heap, once—twice; a slender coil of smoke rose
                  from the pile. Louis knelt and fanned it with his hat until a light flame burst
                  out. Throwing some more branches on the blaze, he soon had a brilliant flame, an
                  enormous bonfire, which made the dark forest brilliant and light as day.
               Von Lingard lay with his eyes closed, his lips very pallid. Louis came and lifted
                  him up. "Can you help yourself at all, Von Lingard? I want to get you close to the
                  fire. Put your arms about my neck. I can drag you so, if I can't lift you."
               Von Lingard put his arms about Louis's neck, and Louis half lifted, half dragged
                  him close to the fire, beside which he had made a bed of moss, and over it he had
                  thrown his saddle-blanket. Von Lingard sank down, faint from his effort. Louis
                  laid him carefully down on the heap.
               "Take a little more whiskey and water. Now, then, let's see the leg!"
               Louis found his left limb badly torn, and bleeding still very profusely. He untied
                  the handkerchief which Von Lingard had fastened on.
               "If you had tied it tightly above the knee," said Louis, "it would have done more
                  good; and that is what I shall do. I am surgeon enough to know that."
               Taking a bit of stick, Louis tied the handkerchief above the knee, and passing the
                  stick into the knot, he made a tourniquet of it, drawing it tightly, until the
                  blood ceased to flow. He waited a few minutes to see if it had ceased to flow from
                  the wound.
               "I think it does not bleed now," said Louis. "Now, then, for a little more
                  surgery! It is well for you I have got my little soldier pincushion along, that
                  you all laughed so at this morning."
               Louis washed off the wound with a little water, so that he could examine it, which
                  he did very carefully. Lifting his head at last, with a sigh of relief, he said,
                  "Well, it is not an artery, thank God! and I can manage a flesh wound. An eighth
                  of an inch more, and the beast would have struck an artery, and you would have
                  been done for, Von Lingard! But as it is, it will soon be well. I attended much
                  worse wounds when in the army."
               While Louis talked so much more than his wont, to encourage his patient, he had
                  got out his silk thread and needle and bits of sticking plaster. Von Lingard
                  winced when the sharp needle went into his leg, but he set his teeth together and
                  uttered not a sigh even until Louis had stitched up the long wound. Louis then
                  laid occasional bits of plaster over the wound, then took his own handkerchief,
                  his cravat and Von Lingard's, and joining them together, tearing the handkerchief
                  into strips, he made a tolerable bandage. Then he cut the bloody clothing off the
                  wounded limb and threw it away. Then he put his saddle, covered with his own coat,
                  under Von Lingard's head, spread his thick poncho over him, and stirred up the
                  fire.
               "Now," said Louis, "if you will be quiet and try to sleep a few minutes, I'll
                  picket the horses and prepare for the night."
               "How did you find me?" asked Von Lingard, faintly. "You have saved my life."
               "Well," replied Louis, "I am glad enough to find you. Go to sleep. You can hear
                  all about it to-morrow morning as well as to-night."
               Von Lingard closed his eyes. He was extremely exhausted, and the dressing of the
                  wound, and the cool wet bandages Louis had laid upon it, soothed him. The fire and
                  the thick blankets warmed him. He saw Louis moving quietly about, picketing the
                  horses at a little distance off, so they would not disturb Von Lingard by their
                  champing and feeding through the night. Then Louis came back and looked at Von
                  Lingard by the blazing fire-light.
               "He is asleep! Lucky for him that I was obstinate to-night," thought Louis. Then
                  he thought of Mrs. Dulany's comfortable house and the disturbed party who were
                  sitting around her hospitable hearth at this very hour.
               "I wish I had some of her good tea for this poor fellow," thought Louis. "Well,
                  sassafras will answer on a pinch, or spicewood, if I can find it, just as well or
                  better. I think I saw a spicewood tree the other side of this canebrake."
               Louis vanished now from out the circle of fire-light, but soon returned bearing in
                  his hand a branch of glassy green leaves. "The next thing is to get something to
                  boil some water to make tea in," said he. "I have made clay bowls
                  before now of this white clay. If I can find only a black jack ridge, there'll be
                  good white clay not far off. There is always plenty of clay in these second bottom
                  lands—real kaolin." He took a blazing torch from the fire, and prowled around for
                  some little time, until he came across some clay. He then walked back to the
                  bayou, got some water in his thick felt hat, sat down by the fire, and soon had
                  kneaded the clay with his fingers into the consistency he desired. Then he moulded
                  a sort of rough bowl out of it. "It will bake while I take a nap," thought Louis,
                  "but I might as well have a soup-pot and a clay pipe out of it. I have only three
                  cigars left; I shall have to make some kinnikinnick of them. And I'll need two
                  flat tops for my pots." He completed his pottery-ware, raked aside the cinders,
                  carefully depositing his clay bowls and rough-looking pipe in the hot ashes; then
                  he piled on the glowing coals and wood all over his extemporized furnace. "Now,
                  bake! but not too fast," said Louis. "Now, there's sumach and willow to be gotten
                  for my kinnikinnick! I'll go back to the bayou; there's willow there, and sumach I
                  saw near by." He gathered his willow and sumach. Glancing at a gleaming
                  tree-trunk, as he passed back to the fire, "Hickory chicken, and plenty of it!" he
                  exclaimed. Taking out his knife, he cut off a quantity of this delicious edible
                  lichen, which Confederate soldiers all know so well. "That's fine!" said he, as he
                  deposited his acquisitions near the fire.
               Louis, putting his twigs of sumach and willow in a safe place to dry by the
                  warmth, looked around to see if there was nothing more to be done. Von Lingard was
                  asleep. Louis took a parcel of Spanish moss and threw over his shoulders, which
                  felt rather cool without his coat, put his head on Von Lingard's saddle, stuck his
                  feet close to the fire, folded his arms over his breast, and went to sleep. He
                  could sleep like a cat—just when and so long as he liked. In his dreams he went
                  back into Mrs. Dulany's parlor. "Miss Ellen has the trump," he muttered. "It is the Queen of Hearts! Don't you
                  see?"
               "Sleep like oblivion came over all."
               The moon rose clear and full. Her rays, striking full on Louis's face, roused him.
                  He sat up, rubbing his eyes, not realizing, for the moment, his situation. He had
                  been dreaming of his old camp-life reminiscences, awakened by the necessities of
                  the present moment. The fire had burnt low, and he was rather cold, too. He rose
                  and heaped on more wood, and then turned to take a look at Von Lingard, who was
                  still asleep, from exhaustion as much as anything else. A slight frown would
                  contract his brow from time to time, as if his leg was giving him pain. Louis
                  lifted the heavy poncho from the leg, and dripped with his hands a little water
                  upon the bandage, so gently he did not wake his patient. Louis was an experienced
                  nurse for the wounded. The contraction passed away from Von Lingard's forehead.
                  The water cooled the fever of the wound. Replacing the heavy poncho so that it
                  would not press upon the wound, Louis turned to the fire. "I think I'll examine my
                  porcelain furnace," he said to himself. He raked away the ashes and burnt-out
                  cinders. He found his earthenware of a glowing red. "So! that's good!" muttered
                  Louis. "Now, get cool, will you? I might as well fix some tea to boil, and put on
                  my soup and let it simmer down. It will be all the better for cooking slowly until
                  daybreak."
               Louis took his hunting-knife and skinned a portion of the boar that was lying not
                  far distant, cut off some neat collops to barbecue, then a good piece of lean
                  meat, without any fat, for his projected soup. He washed his "lichen" very
                  carefully. Then he examined his branches of spicewood for the tea, and the sumach
                  and willow for his kinnikinnick. Finding his bowls not yet cool enough for use, he
                  employed himself in rubbing up his three cigars, his willow and sumach. Then
                  mixing it thoroughly, he piled it up on a broad dwarf-palmetto leaf for use. He
                  had already used a large fanshaped leaf as a platter for his raw meat. By the time
                  the kinnikinnick was made, the two bowls were cool enough to use. They were not
                  very symmetrical in proportions, but they held water, and that was all Louis had
                  aspired to. He put water on to boil in both, and as soon as it boiled, he put a
                  good handful of spicewood or yupon leaves in one, and laid his tile-shaped top
                  closely over it, so that the leaves could steep. Then he shredded bits of meat and
                  portions of "hickory chicken" into the other bowl, adding a cracker or two to the
                  mass to give it a little flavor of salt, and to make it more nutritious. Then he
                  put the tile on that bowl, and set it carefully on some dull embers to stew
                  slowly.
               Louis sat near the fire, on the end of one of the burning logs, after he had
                  finished his small domestic arrangements, with his arms folded, occasionally
                  pushing the logs closer into the fire with his foot. He was trying to plan some
                  way to get Von Lingard home the following day.
               "He can't ride, that's certain; nor walk, either. And I can't leave him, to summon
                  assistance; and we can't stay here. I could live in the woods for a week alone;
                  but with a wounded man, it is not to be thought of. If I can only find a
                  linn-tree, to-morrow morning, I think I can manage to fix some sort of a sled, and
                  his horse is a carriage horse, fortunately, accustomed to drawing weights. I think
                  I can rig up something!"
               Louis felt rather cool about the shoulders without his coat, so he preferred
                  sitting up over the fire to going to sleep again, as it was near daybreak. He sat
                  staring into the fitful flame, thinking over his short but eventful life, when Von
                  Lingard stirred, groaning from the pain of his wound.
               "Hallo! Von Lingard," called out Louis, "leg hurt much, old fellow?"
               "It hurts a good deal," replied Von Lingard. "It is so stiff, and I am thirsty as
                  der Teufel!"
               Louis laughed. "I expect you are. Well, I have a cup of tea for you—the best thing
                  you could have anywhere! but it is without sugar. If it was daybreak, I might find
                  a wild beehive, and get you some honey, or, at any rate, some pods of
                  honey-locust. But not being able to see distinctly, you'll have to drink it
                     sans sucre."
               "I never take sugar in my tea," said Von Lingard, "so it is all right for me,
                  without."
               "Well, here it is." Louis slipped the tile off his bowl of spicewood, and dipped
                  the cup of his drinking-flask into the steaming, aromatic liquid.
               "Take care! it is boiling hot," said Louis, cooling it with his breath. He gave it
                  to Von Lingard, who drank it eagerly.
               "That is delicious, Louis," he said; "do give me some more, if you can!"
               "Give you as much as you like!" said Louis, gayly. "Lots of my tea-plant grows in
                  these woods, and there is the bayou full of water, and plenty of logs for
                  firewood, so drink ten gallons, if you like, 'mein guter
                     kammerad.'"
               Louis refilled the little can, and handed it to Von Lingard, who sipped it as if
                  he liked the flavor.
               "What is it, Louis?" he asked.
               "It is the yupon or spicewood, a good substitute for tea, as we Confederates
                  found, and a most admirable febrifuge. Now, if you feel hungry, Von Lingard, as I
                  expect you do, I will give you a cup of broth. Here is a possible spoon, which I
                  have manufactured from a joint of cane, which you will have to make the best
                  of."
               Louis took up his hot soup bowl by using a thick handful of moss to shield his
                  hands, and transported it to Von Lingard's side, then he gave him the long slit
                  joint of cane to eat it with. "Here's a cracker out of my pocket," said Louis.
               Von Lingard leaned on one arm, and after a few experimental attempts succeeded in
                  conveying a mouthful of the hot, savory soup into his parched mouth. Louis smiled
                  when he smacked his lips.
               "Why! what is this? It has the flavor of oysters and mushrooms; very peculiar, but
                  very nice!"
               "That," replied Louis, "is a Southern delicacy called 'hickory chicken,' and a bit
                  of your wild boar, stewed together."
               "Hickory chicken! Well, it is very good. I like it better than real chicken."
               "It is an edible lichen," said Louis.
               "Louis, how full of resources you are! It surprises me!" said Von Lingard, still
                  eating his soup and munching his cracker. "You have really furnished me with a
                  most comfortable breakfast."
               Louis laughed. "Pshaw! Any Confederate
                  soldier could have given you such a breakfast in these forests. I lived once for a
                  week on hickory chicken while in the army, and in North Carolina never had
                  anything else to drink except yupon sweetened with honey. But now as you are awake
                  and have breakfasted, tell me your adventure, while I prepare and eat
                     my breakfast."
               Louis stuck his collops of boar's meat on pointed sticks, and set them up before
                  the fire to cook. As fast as they cooked on one side, he would turn them on the
                  other until he had them nicely browned and crisp.
               Von Lingard watched him with curiosity, then when Louis had gotten a fresh
                  palmetto leaf and laid his hot collops on it, and began his repast with an
                  additional cracker and a portion of the bowl of soup, Von Lingard told him that he
                  had dashed after the herd of wild hogs, and followed them into the bayou, not
                  knowing it to be so deep, as they had forded so many sloughs during the day. He
                  had plunged his horse boldly in. The hogs turned towards the little island, and
                  his horse, finding a current in the bayou, swam that way too, and he had scrambled
                  up on the island, still following the hogs, then across the arm of the bayou to
                  the side from which he had started. The hogs were making a detour. After reaching the other side of the bayou, he had shot once
                  and struck the large boar. It ran back towards him and frightened his horse, so
                  that he swerved as Von Lingard fired a second time. Springing off his horse in
                  order to take better aim, he fired once more. The boar charged him with great
                  fury. He sprang aside, missing the blow of the tusk, and loaded again as rapidly
                  as he could. He lifted his gun again, and again the boar charged. His gun snapped
                  fire in one barrel, and the beast struck him in the leg. Then, as is customary
                  with the animal, it ran off beyond to make another charge, when, as he felt
                  himself sinking from the blood flowing out of the wound, he had fired at random,
                  and the shot struck the hog, which fell dead just as he fainted away from
                  weakness. When he came to himself, he had made an effort to bind up his leg with
                  his pocket-handkerchief. He tried then to get to his horse, but it had strayed off
                  beyond his power of pursuit—"and I should have died here, Stilman, but for you, I
                  truly believe!"
               "No!" said Louis. "The forest would have been scoured to-day until you were
                  discovered, dead or alive, but you would have suffered a great deal more than you
                  will now. I expect there are men searching for us now. I have certainly heard all
                  through the night at intervals the whistle of Mrs. Dulany's gin-house engine. She
                  would not rest, with us in the woods. I hope some of the men may reach us, but as
                  soon as it grows light enough to see I shall try to rig up a sled to haul you home
                  on, for you can't ride."
               "How can you manage that?" asked Von Lingard.
               "If I can find a linn-tree and get some bark, I can do it easily, as you shall
                  see. But see! The beasts of prey are attracted by the scent of that dead boar! The
                  wolves have been prowling about all night, but they were afraid to venture in the
                  fire-light! Have you not heard them howl?"
               "I thought I did!" replied Von Lingard. "Good heavens!" he continued,
                  shudderingly, "if you hadn't been here they might have set on me, attracted by my
                  blood!"
               "Not while you were alive. They are great cowards unless they are very, very
                  hungry; but there are worse enemies than wolves in these forests. See, in the
                  corner of the canebrake, the glittering eyes; that is a wild-cat! I will shoot
                  it!"
               Stepping forward within pistol range, Louis drew his pistol and fired, the
                  creature gave a shrill scream, sprang forward, and rolled over and over, fiercely
                  tearing the ground with its sharp claws in its death-agony. When it was dead,
                  Louis picked it up by the bushy tail and carried it to Von Lingard.
               "See, its skin will make you a cap, and be a souvenir, if you want one of this
                  delectable night!"
               Von Lingard laughed. "I don't think I shall need any souvenir; but I shall like to
                  have the skin for a cap."
               Just then Louis was attracted by a snort of terror from the horses, which he had
                  picketed at a short distance near a group of trees. They were pulling away from
                  their stakes, and one was crouching nearly to the ground, squatting like a
                  hare.
               "Good Lord!" exclaimed Louis, springing to seize his gun, which was lying near
                  ready loaded, and thrusting Von Lingard's gun into his hands, together with a
                  cartridge, "here's a beast! Look at that horse! There is a panther about!"
               "A panther!"
               "Yes, a panther! Look sharp, Von Lingard! No one knows where he will spring. I
                  don't see him yet. Yes, now I do. In that tree just beyond the horse. Don't you
                  see his eyes? You can't see the body. He is crouched on that large branch. Steady
                  now!"
               Louis strode forward and fired first one barrel, then the other, into the tree.
                  The panther sprang out. Louis leaped aside, snatched Von Lingard's gun out of his
                  hands, and fired again. The panther had stopped an instant to gather himself for
                  another spring. The last shot hit him. He stopped, and turning bit at the wound.
                  Louis fired again, hitting him in the fore shoulder, as his head was turned. The
                  panther screamed in rage and fell, but tottered up.
               "Load up, Von Lingard," said Louis, kneeling down, with his hunting-knife
                  unsheathed and bare in his hand. "If he springs, I will take him with this, but
                  get the gun ready. You can use your hands."
               Von Lingard loaded as fast as he could. The panther gathered up its strength and
                  made a desperate spring. Louis caught the blow on his arm, and in an instant drove
                  his knife up to the hilt in the creature's body. The panther tore his
                  shirt-sleeves, and then fell off to the ground, dying.
               "Give me the gun! These beasts are dangerous to the last breath of life," said
                  Louis. Taking the gun, now reloaded, Louis jumped back and put the muzzle to the
                  panther's open mouth, as it was screaming and grinning with rage, and fired down
                  its throat. It was killed instantly.
               "Whew!" said Louis, "I'm glad that's over!" He sat down and wiped his face on his
                  sleeve.
               "Did it tear your arm?" asked Von Lingard, anxiously.
               "No; gave me a scratch or two—just drew blood. The woollen shirt and knitted
                  undershirt saved me. He is a noble
                  fellow, though, Von Lingard! His skin is worth taking back! As soon
                  as I get rested, I'll skin him and the wild-cat. By the time I get through, it
                  ought to be daybreak. Better keep the guns loaded, though! You can load both; here
                  are the cartridges."
               Louis handed the guns and the pistol to Von Lingard to reload, and then, rolling
                  up his sleeves, he began to skin the panther and wild-cat, which he accomplished
                     secundum artem. Von Lingard was so much
                  interested in watching him that he nearly forgot the pain of his wound. Louis had
                  gotten through his self-imposed task of flaying the wild beasts, and had hung the
                  skins up on the branch of a tree; as the first rays of sunlight crept through the
                  tree-tops.
               "Thank God! here's daylight," exclaimed Louis. He hastened to the bayou to wash
                  his hands and arms—an ablution was extremely necessary under present
                  circumstances—and then went off to look for a linn-tree. He found a large one.
                  Taking his sharp hunting-knife, he reached his hands up higher than his head, and
                  drew a line of circumvallation around the smooth trunk, cutting it over and over
                  until he had cut down to the sap-wood of the tree; then he scored the bark
                  longitudinally in strips of two inches wide; then inserting the point of his
                  knife, he peeled the bark off. It lay all around the tree in long narrow slips. He
                  gathered them up by one end, and, allowing the rest to trail, he dragged the
                  bundle of flexible strips near to the fire.
               "What are you going to do with that, Louis?" asked Von Lingard, with
                  curiosity.
               "Make wattling for a cane sled," replied Louis.
               His next movement was to secure two small logs of nearly equal size and
                  length.
               "If I had only a hatchet," sighed Louis, "or even a decent tomahawk—but I shall
                  have to make out with our hunting-knives. Fortunately, mine is a large bowie, and
                  of best steel. Now for the cane!"
               Louis attacked the cane thicket, and soon had a dozen large, stout canes lying in
                  a row, all stripped of their leaves and sprouts, and chopped off to about ten feet
                  in length. He placed his two logs on the ground, about three feet apart, chopped
                  out a bit from near the ends of both logs; into these he fitted two smaller poles,
                  and then he tied these four pieces of wood firmly with his grass rope, laid his
                  canes carefully on the top of his cross-pieces, put two other poles over these,
                  and tied them firmly together. Then he took his linn-bark strips and wattled the
                  cane from end to end. He got a strong pole and tied it in the middle of the end he
                  intended for the front of his sled. He tied on cross-pieces for swingletrees, and
                  then with the bridle-reins, saddle-girths and grape-vines, and some bits of rope
                  he had left, he manufactured a rough harness, into which he fastened the two
                  horses, who were accustomed to pulling draughts. He gathered a quantity of moss
                  and heaped it on the sled, then he laid the skins of the wild beasts on the moss,
                  his poncho over that, putting both saddles on the head of the sled as a pillow,
                  and then he said to Von Lingard, "You had better take a little more soup, and a
                  drop of whiskey and water, and we had better make a start. It is getting late in
                  the day, and we have at least twelve miles or more to go. I am afraid you will
                  find it rough, especially in the woods, but it is the best we can do, and after
                  five miles I think we will strike a plain wagon road used for hauling wood, which
                  will be smoother."
               Louis drove the sled near to Von Lingard, and lifting the wounded man in his arms,
                  he aided him to get upon the sled, which was accomplished with a little effort and
                  wincing on the part of Von Lingard. Louis arranged him as comfortably as he could
                  on the sled, put the wounded limb in good position, wetted the bandages, laid his
                  canteen of whiskey and water where Von Lingard could reach it, spread the blanket
                  he had been lying on over him, then, taking the bridle of the near horse in his
                  hand close to the jaw, he gave the word and a touch of a long cane, and the sled
                  began to move. Von Lingard set his teeth hard at the first rough pull, but Louis
                  moderated the steps of the horses, and they proceeded at a slow, steady walk
                  through the open forest. In places where the road was not clear, Louis would halt
                  the horses and go before, smoothing away obstructions as well as he could. They
                  got on slowly, but still they got on, and Von Lingard's courage rose, though his
                  strength declined. Louis talked as gayly as he could. Von Lingard was surprised at
                  the brightness of his mind, and the extent of knowledge displayed by the "silent
                  scout." He made some allusion to Louis's great talent for silence "in
                  society."
               Louis laughed. "The truth is, Von Lingard, I never knew how to talk to women. They
                  always abash me, especially that splendid Mrs. Deslondes. She is so beautiful and
                  dazzling, it takes a man's breath away to look at her!"
               "So it does;" and Von Lingard fell into a reverie, which was disturbed by Louis
                  remarking,
               "You'll be a hero to all those women, when I get you home, Von Lingard. They'll
                  pet and coddle you to death."
               "A very sweet sort of death to die!" laughed Von Lingard. "Not an unpleasant
                  anticipation; but the truth is, Louis, you are the real hero of my adventure. I
                  got myself into great trouble, and you got me out."
               "Pshaw! they won't think that. They'll never think to notice me. I'm very well;
                  not wounded, nor even very tired. Yes, there's one besides Mrs. Dulany who may
                  notice me," and Louis thought of Ellen Fortier.
               Louis had gotten the sled out of the woods into the wagon road before sunset.
                  "Now," he said, "we are all right. I have been guided by the sound of the
                  gin-whistle, so far. Now I know where we are."
               "Hist! I hear a horn, and a gun fired on the left," said Von Lingard.
               "Yes, they are out searching for us. Give me a gun, Von Lingard." Taking the gun
                  and stepping to one side, Louis fired quickly two shots in succession. Then,
                  taking his horn, he blew the tattoo call.
               "They'll know that, if it is Mr. Foster or Benny," he said.
               Louis was right. They had not gone a mile further before a white horse dashed
                  through the bushes, and Benny was before them, across the road, on Odalisque. He
                  gave a cheerful "hurrah!" when he recognized Louis, but his face fell when he saw
                  the sled with Von Lingard extended on it.
               
               "Good Lord! is he dead, Louis?" Benny exclaimed.
               "Not quite," responded Von Lingard. "Would have been but for Louis, though."
               Benny sprang off his horse, and grasped Von Lingard's hands in both his.
               "Don't shake too hard, Benny," said Von Lingard. "I'm rather fragile just at
                  present."
               Benny put his horn to his lips, and blew a loud, merry recall. "Mr. Foster and
                  some of the men are not far off," he said. "I heard their horns only a few minutes
                  since."
               Benny's call was replied to from different points in the forest, and soon man
                  after man emerged from the dark forest, all full of eager curiosity and interest.
                  Some had been searching all night.
               Mr. Foster was overjoyed. He had been very self-reproachful about letting Louis
                  stay alone during the night. There was a hubbub of voices round the sled—laughing,
                  rejoicing, congratulating voices—and clearly through it all, every half hour,
                  whooped the gin-whistle a sad, plaintive cry.
               "Those women are scared to death about you and Louis!" said old Mr. Foster. "I
                  never saw Rosalthe more anxious, and as for the others, they are just crazy with
                  apprehension! But now what are we to do, Louis? You must be worn out! Let me, or
                  Benny, or one of the men, lead the horses and sled, and you take my horse."
               "No, mine!" said Benny, springing from Odalisque, seizing hold of the bridle of
                  the carriage-horse from Louis's hand.
               "Well, let another man go to the other side, then. It will be steadier, and I'll
                  ride and overlook you," said Louis.
               Louis vaulted on Odalisque. Benny and one of the men guided the sled, and the
                  procession moved on. It reached Mrs. Dulany's house about nine o'clock at night.
                  The ladies were all on the veranda, awaiting them. Louis had requested Mr. Foster
                  to gallop on in advance and explain everything, so as not alarm them
                  unnecessarily. Mrs. Dulany and Emma and Arthur rushed to the gate to meet the
                  sled. They greeted Von Lingard eagerly and warmly, asking a thousand questions.
                  Then four men lifted the colonel up by the corners of the blanket, and bore him
                  steadily and gently into the house, into his own apartment. Von Lingard saw
                  Athalie's beautiful face, convulsed with emotion, bend over him for a moment, and
                  then he fainted away, perfectly exhausted with fatigue. The doctor was sent for,
                  and prescribed perfect quiet and rest. Mrs. Dulany ordered everybody out of the
                  colonel's apartment, except herself and Arthur Lalande, and they two shared the
                  watches of that night. But once, leaving the room during the night, Mrs. Dulany
                  caught glimpse of a dark-robed slight figure stealing hastily away. Evidently it
                  had been watching outside of the door. Mrs. Dulany attended to the matter she had
                  come out to see after, and then went through the hall into the wing where
                  Athalie's room was situated. A dim light burned there. She entered the room.
                  Athalie had thrown herself down on her knees by the bed, and lay with her gleaming
                  white arms stretched out, her hands clasped, and her head buried in the coverlet,
                  smothering her sobs.
               "Athalie," said Mrs. Dulany, sternly, "Athalie, get up. Go to bed! This is no way
                  for you to be acting. Do you wish to make a scandal?"
               Athalie lifted her head up, and turning her tear-stained face towards Mrs. Dulany,
                  said,
               "Rosalthe, I'm past caring for anything! Tell me, will he die?"
               "He? No! No idea of his dying—it is only a flesh wound. He'll be up in a few days.
                  For God's sake, Athalie, consider yourself—don't expose yourself to all the world
                  and even to his contempt by any folly now, which you will be the
                  first to regret. Here, let me take your hair down, and get into bed. I'll bring
                  you some bromide of potassium to put you to sleep. You are wretchedly
                  nervous!"
               Mrs. Dulany took the combs and pins out of Athalie's glittering hair, and half
                  lifted her into bed. Then she poured a few drops from a tiny vial, and put it to
                  her lips.
               "Drink!" she said; "I have just given Col. Von Lingard a good dose of it."
               Athalie drank it off without a word. She had yielded in silence to Mrs. Dulany's
                  commands as meekly as a child; now she crossed her hands on her bosom and closed
                  her eyes. Mrs. Dulany sat by her, softly passing her hand over her bright hair,
                  until Athalie's regular breathing showed that she really slept without feigning.
                  Then Mrs. Dulany went back to Arthur and the colonel, her heart full of
                  trouble.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               COL. VON LINGARD was most carefully nursed by Mrs. Dulany, who was very tender and
                  skilful in a sick-room. Her step was so light, her touch so gentle and so velvety,
                  her voice so low and so pleasantly toned, and yet with all the exquisite
                  gentleness of her manner and temper one felt that there was a steel mainspring in
                  her will. She was firm and decided, as one always should be with sick people, and
                  though infinitely considerate, she was never weakly indulgent. Col. Von Lingard
                  began to understand in his two weeks' close confinement to his own bed the reasons
                  for the implicit faith and confidence, as well as for the inexpressibly tender
                  love Mrs. Dulany's friends all manifested towards her. She was a strong woman, but
                  perfectly feminine, making no effort at masculine affectations. She valued her
                  womanhood highly. She reverenced her own sex. She had her ideal of womanhood, and
                  she lived up to it. It taxed her every power to its utmost to do this. She never
                  unsexed herself, and her friendship was most highly valued and sought after by
                  noble men as well as by noble women. Mrs. Dulany was never idle. Her small white
                  hands were always busy in some work of art or necessity. She used her needle as
                  skilfully as she did her paint-brush, and she loved her needle. It was often very
                  consolatory to her to sit with her sewing and think or talk with her guests. She
                  spent many hours now by Col. Von Lingard's couch, sitting and sewing either with
                  her embroidery or on the never sufficiently accumulated female treasures of muslin
                  and white linen. Col. Von Lingard was fascinated often to the forgetfulness of
                  weary hours of pain by her brilliant, changeful conversation. Her reading was
                  immense in extent, her experience in life
                  varied, her judgment sound, her taste very perfect. She was a most delightful
                  companion to be shut up with in a monotonous life. She read aloud well and with
                  deep feeling, was a good German scholar, and used to read all the old and new
                  publications to Von Lingard in his own tongue. The gentlemen were all very
                  attentive to their imprisoned companion, and the ladies used to send him flowers
                  and nice messages, so altogether the colonel was as comfortable as a man could
                  well be under such circumstances. Sometimes, as he heard the sweep and rustle of
                  her silk and satin trained dresses as Athalie passed his door to go to dinner, a
                  hot longing would come into his heart, and would send the blood to his head, as he
                  yearned for a sight of her beautiful face, or to feel the satiny touch of her
                  white hand. Once, as he heard her approaching when there was only a servant in the
                  room, he complained suddenly of the heat of the room, and asked to have the door
                  set open for a few minutes. Just as it opened, Athalie swept past, radiant in
                  loveliness, splendidly dressed. Von Lingard raised himself upon one arm and gazed
                  eagerly on her. As she came in front of the door, her head turned in surprise at
                  seeing it open, and her eyes met the ardent glance of Von Lingard's. A brilliant
                  smile broke resplendently over her lovely countenance. She stopped for an instant,
                  saying in her sweetest tones,
               "You are very much better, Col. Von Lingard?"
               "Very much, and I shall improve as fast as possible in order that I may be
                  restored to the charming society of the drawing-room," said Von Lingard, with a
                  smile. "Mrs. Deslondes, sick people and captives are indulged in their caprices.
                  Won't you give me the flower you wear in your corsage to-day? It is a great
                  favorite of mine—the daphne odora."
               Athalie took the flower from her breast-knot, stepped inside the door, and laid it
                  in Von Lingard's outstretched hand."
               He lifted the flower to his lips, murmuring "Thanks!" The sound of Miss Clemmy's
                  ebony cane was heard slowly stumping down the hall, and Athalie sprang lightly out
                  of the door, and walked straight on, before the enemy had gotten upon the field of
                  action.
               "You may shut the door now," said Von Lingard to the servant. "The room is
                  cooler."
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THERE was quite a little excitement when Mrs. Dulany announced one morning at
                  luncheon that Col. Von Lingard would make an attempt to join the party in the
                  parlor that evening. He would not be able to sit up at the dinner-table, but would
                  try to spend the evening, he hoped, on the sofa, if the ladies would permit of his
                  reclining in their presence. The ladies were all charmed to learn that the colonel
                  could come amongst them. He was very agreeable, and they had missed him very much
                  indeed. There was a little consultation between Emma and the Fortier girls and
                  Athalie, and then Emma announced their intention of making "a fête of the occasion—in German style." Benny and Mr.
                  Foster were to go out in the woods and bring a quantity of hawthorne and firewood
                  branches, which were brilliant with their crimson berries at this season; also
                  some holly boughs and a mass of gray Spanish moss, and plenty of the long glossy
                  evergreen vines of the cocculus, with its scarlet fruit, and also plenty of cedar
                  and laurel sprays; and Arthur and Louis and Conrad were to help them make garlands
                  and wreaths to decorate the apartments; and they were to have dinner earlier and
                  to have a collation served in the parlor on a table, to be wheeled in at a certain
                  signal, and Athalie was to sing, and they were all to make themselves as beautiful
                  and as charming as possible to welcome the colonel back to life again.
               Mrs. Dulany smilingly acquiesced in the arrangement, and everybody started off in
                  high glee to fulfil these self-imposed tasks. Mrs. Dulany went into her
                  green-house and stripped her handsomest flowers of every bloom. She was cutting
                  some exquisite bunches of the lovely wax plant, when Emma dashed into the
                  green-house, all sparkle and animation.
               "Mrs. Dulany, we would prefer the studio to the drawing-room, if you have no
                  objection. We can make it so much more picturesque and bowery. May we?"
               "Well, take the studio. Only I must go and set aside my wet picture on the easel
                  now."
               Mrs. Dulany went up into the studio and put her painting utensils safely away,
                  dropped the crimson curtains which shut off the alcove and organ, had several
                  easy-chairs and lounges added to the already comfortable furniture of the light,
                  spacious room, then resigned it into the hands of her guests. In a few hours the
                  room was metamorphosed into a perfect bower. Garlands streamed over the windows
                  and were festooned across the apartment, until they made a lovely drapery of
                  greenerie. The chandelier was hidden with evergreens, and lights, under Mrs.
                  Dulany's artistic direction, were distributed so as to produce an almost
                  fairy-like effect. Hanging baskets of flowers and roses were suspended profusely,
                  and a few bright-colored curtains displayed so as to heighten the brilliant tone
                  of color. A circular table was set behind the curtains in the alcove, splendidly
                  adorned with glass and silver and flowers and fruits, on which the collation was
                  to be spread and to be revealed like enchantment at the given signal. A luxurious
                  lounge was wheeled into the best position in the room. Athalie threw her
                  handsomest cashmere over the end of it, to lay over the hero's feet, and Louis
                  brought in the panther skin, which he had had beautifully dressed and lined with
                  crimson flannel. He spread that down by the side of the couch.
               "I have got the cat's skin, too!" he said. "But I don't know where to put that. It
                  is too little."
               "Oh, here! Give it to me! I'll spread it on this footstool," said Emma, eagerly.
                  Louis handed over the wild-cat's skin, and Emma displayed it to its best
                  advantage, with the bushy tail hanging very prominently down in view.
               "Now," said Louis, "you ought to have some hickory chicken and yupon tea, and then
                  you would be all right!"
               Emma laughed and said, "They could dispense with those Confederate rate luxuries just now. Do you know, Louis," she
                  continued, "I never mean to eat corn bread again as long as I live? I had so much
                  of it in war time."
               Col. Von Lingard was quite surprised when, leaning on Louis and Benny's arms, he
                  was conducted that evening into the brilliant lights of the studio. He put his
                  hands to his eyes.
               "My eyes are fairly dazzled! It is like fairy-land! What is this? What have you
                  done here? You said we were to go to the studio! How very, very beautiful! What
                  does it all mean?"
               Louis and Benny supported him to his couch, adorned with the panther skin and
                  Athalie's shawl.
               "Lie down first, and we will tell you."
               The dazed colonel submitted in silence, and then Mrs. Dulany stood by him and took
                  his hand kindly in hers, as she said,
               "It means, dear colonel, that we are happy to have you safe amongst us, and that
                  we have made a little fête of the occasion."
               Mrs. Dulany was beautifully dressed in the full costume of a trained velvet gown
                  and diamonds flashing everywhere about her hair and arms. As she ceased to speak,
                  the soft tones of the organ in the alcove rose on the ear, and Athalie sung a
                  joyous allegro aria, to which she had set some simple words of welcome appropriate
                  to the hour. The aria ended in a full chorus, sustained by all the company, in
                  which the phrase, "We welcome, welcome, welcome thee," was repeated in a fugue to
                  very beautiful music, even if it was not to be ranked in the highest order of
                  poetry as regarded feet or metre. The tears rose in Von Lingard's eyes. He was an
                  impressible German, and he pressed Mrs. Dulany's hand fervently as she held his
                  still kindly in her gentle clasp. As the song ended the performers trooped out
                  from behind the curtain, and Von Lingard was surrounded with the whole bevy, all
                  talking, laughing, and shaking hands with him. The ladies and gentlemen were in
                  full evening dress! Athalie was beautiful as a dream in her white tulle with green
                  and silver trimmings. She had a wreath of green and silver flowers in her hair,
                  illuminated by butterflies of emeralds and diamonds; her neck and arms were bare,
                  a necklace of emeralds and diamonds fitted close around her throat, then strand
                  after strand of glorious pearls fell one lower than the other down to the middle
                  of her low bodice. Her bands of sleeves were fastened by a simple button of
                  emeralds, set round with diamonds, and her waist ribbon was clasped by a rosette
                  of the same jewels in front, while the ends of the broad sash fell in a huge bow
                  at the back. Emma looked more like a firefly than ever in a crimson moire with
                  jewels of gold; while the Fortier girls, according to Louisianian custom, were
                  dressed in simple white tulle frocks, without jewels, only a flower in their hair
                  and a ribbon about their waists. Miss Clemmy even condescended to be gracious. She
                  too was in grand array, and carried her favorite snuff-box in her pocket, which
                  played "Hail to the Chief," and Mendelssohn's "Es ist verstimmt in Gottes Rath,"
                  which she set off for the colonel's entertainment at the very first available
                  opportunity. That was after the collation had been wheeled in and partaken of, and
                  everybody had set down as usual to cards, and Athalie was playing chess with the
                  colonel once more. Miss Clemmy started the music-box then, and the colonel found
                  it so convenient to have it going on playing while he talked in a very low tone to
                  Athalie. He begged Miss Clemmy to wind it up again, when it had run itself down,
                  and she delightedly did it. Then the box played merrily away, and everybody
                  quarrelled and laughed as usual over the cards, and Col. Von Lingard played chess
                  very badly indeed, and talked a great deal more than he had ever done at that game
                  with anybody. Athalie played excitedly; her eyes were gleaming like stars, and her
                  lips were red as if with fever. She did not talk much nor look up very often, but
                  she seemed quite interested and contented. Mrs. Dulany glanced carelessly towards
                  the chess-players as she was sitting at the card-table, and her large eyes grew
                  sad in their expression; a slight frown contracted the usually serene brow, but
                  she went on playing her hand, and they kept up the festival until midnight, when
                  Mrs. Dulany said the colonel must retire—and the Fête of Welcome ended.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               IT was not long before Col. Von Lingard reassumed his usual place in the little
                  society. He still limped, and had to use a stick to aid him in locomotion,
                  otherwise he got along very well, and his lot was quite enviable. Everybody was
                  kind and considerate towards him; even Miss Clemmy had laid aside her provoking
                  system of espionage while he was still an invalid, and Athalie was charming and
                  more beautiful than ever. But Mrs. Dulany kept watch over all. She seemed to think
                  matters had gone as far as was good for Athalie. She had a sharp medicine in store
                  for her wayward friend, and she thought it time now to interfere. She told the
                  Fortier girls early one morning that as the boat was going over the lake, she
                  thought it would be a good opportunity for them to pay their long-promised visit
                  to Mrs. Lawson, who lived across the lake, and she proposed that Louis and Conrad
                  Stilman should escort them over and return on the second day following. She found
                  the weather would not continue "bright long. There were signs, precursors of
                  change already."
               The girls were much pleased to go for a brief visit to their friend, and so Mrs.
                  Dulany saw their valises packed up and a luncheon basket prepared, and the four
                  young people started off in high glee on their expedition. The day continued fair,
                  but towards evening began to look gloomy, and the night set in gusty and rainy.
                  The boat had returned after depositing its precious freight at Mrs. Lawson's gate,
                  so Mrs. Dulany had no anxiety about the safety of her absent guests. Miss Clemmy
                  complained of neuralgia in the face, so she did not appear at the dinner-table, as
                  usual. Mrs. Dulany found her small circle reduced to the Lalandes, Benny, Athalie,
                  and Col. Von Lingard. They all felt rather gloomy, owing to the absence of the gay
                  Fortiers and the Stilmans, and the weather, too, affected everybody's spirits.
                  Arthur gave utterance to a tremendous
                  yawn as he threw himself on a sofa after dinner.
               "Do talk, Emma, or, Athalie, sing or do something. Such weather makes an
                  impressible fellow desperate. I am duller and stupider than any owl that ever
                  caught mice in Mrs. Dulany's woods."
               "Don't exert yourself in making superfluous explanations, Arthur," said Athalie,
                  laughing. "It is a self-evident fact that you are dull this evening, and I believe
                  we all are, except Mrs. Dulany," turning to Rosalthe as she spoke.
               Mrs. Dulany smiled. "I have a proposition to make to you all," she said. "Will you
                  come to the studio and spend the evening with me? I have a new picture to show
                  you, and a tragic story to tell you, if you like to hear it."
               "O, yes! O, yes!" was eagerly vociferated by the united voices. So Mrs. Dulany
                  ordered lights in the studio, and she and her guests were soon gathered there
                  around a cheerful fire, which blazed and crackled in defiance of the roar of
                  stormy winds out of doors. Mrs. Dulany drew an easel forward into full light, and
                  then lifting up a picture which had been leaning with its face turned to the wall,
                  she placed it on the easel. They all gathered around to examine it. It was a very
                  pretty picture, but very simple; a dark pool of water, surrounded by tall trees on
                  three sides of it. The fourth was clear and open to view. Here the water rested
                  against a low sunny bank of green grass, and just beyond the bank the sunshine,
                  most artfully managed, struck on a low white marble cross in the foreground, on
                  which one could distinguish, by looking closely, one single word. It was
                  "Lettice." The water was dark and deep. At the extreme perspective of the pool a
                  few bits of board formed a rustic bridge, and a narrow bayou ran under this; the
                  outlet of the pool fringed like the pool with immense poplars and huge willow
                  trees until they were lost to view in the distance.
               "What is the name of the picture?" asked Emma.
               "'The Water Hole.' My story is connected with it. It is a real tale. I had that
                  cross put there myself. The spot is on one of my river plantations about fifty
                  miles from this."
               "It is a very artistic picture," said Von Lingard. "That water is good. It is so
                  deep and so still. What reflections you have caught! And the trees! They stand so
                  gloomily about it. There is something very dark and merciless about that pool.
                  What is it?"
               "It makes one shudder like looking down into a deep, dark well," said Athalie,
                  shivering, and drawing her shawl about her bare shoulders.
               "Only that one little bit of streak of sunshine on the grass and cross. Mrs.
                  Dulany, you tried to give Rembrandt effects," said Benny.
               "I painted what I saw, and what I knew. As I told you, this is a real place. I
                  painted it on the spot, that is, I made the sketch from which I furnished this on
                  the spot. But will you hear the story?"
               They resumed their seats. Mrs. Dulany opened a drawer, took out a roll of
                  manuscript, and sitting down near a lamp, began to read.
               
                  "THE WATER HOLE.
                  "I, Rosalthe Dulany, née Dérochet, was born
                     in what I consider the very garden spot of Louisiana, in the beautiful
                     Attakapas country. As may be seen by my maiden name, I am an Acadian by birth.
                     With us Acadians the ties of blood and country are as strong as they are
                     amongst all persecuted people, such as Jews, Poles, and Hungarians. We never
                     forsake, disown, or neglect a compatriot under any circumstances of life
                     whatsoever. I must be pardoned for dwelling a moment here upon the
                     characteristics of my peculiar people. Whatever of good, or truth, or talents I
                     may possess I owe to my French blood, and I am passionately attached to my
                     race. With my peculiar ideas as to the extent to which civilization
                        ('progress,' so called) promotes greatness or happiness, I may
                     be pardoned for challenging history to show a people who, under the same
                     circumstances, have been more worthy of admiration and imitation than always
                     have been and are the Acadians. The civilization of to-day, which, I contend,
                     is bent upon the destruction of all old landmarks and guides, and
                     is prone to extinguish all the poetry of our natures (which is the
                     very essence of all love), of religion itself, tells me that the
                     Acadian and his descendants are 'away behind the age.' I thank God that there
                        is yet a people, a remnant of a people, who are
                     behind this age, who do yet preserve the memory of their fathers
                     and cherish their example, who do yet 'worship God, who is a spirit,
                        in spirit and in truth,' and whose simplicity of God-worship is
                     only a part of their 'daily walk and conversation,' and of their communion with
                     each other! The characteristic of the Acadian is simplicity—simplicity of
                     wants, simplicity of language, simplicity of manner, simplicity of trust,
                     simplicity of honor, and fair, open dealing with his fellow-man. If this
                     original, cardinal characteristic has been in any wise modified, it has been
                     through contact with his wiser(?) brother of Anglo-Saxon
                     origin—with Americans.
                  You know the origin of the Acadians as a distinct people—a small colony,
                     fleeing from the trammels of civilization in the Old World to the rock-bound
                     coast and the grand old forests of America, yet clinging to their fatherland
                     and their king with all the love and trust of dutiful children. The brightest
                     page in history tells you how that little colony, called Acadia, or Petite
                     France, occupying the province now known as Nova Scotia, with blind faith in
                     their king, fought the enemies of France as long as there was a 'hope of
                     victory, and, when overpowered,' preferred exile from their homes to
                     allegiance, in any form, to Great Britain. Even when overpowered, and to all
                     intents and purposes abandoned by their king and country, the most
                     their tyrant victors could force from them was a promise of
                     neutrality; and that promise simply made they kept in the simplicity of perfect
                     good faith, such as was never displayed, before or since, by any other people.
                     Neutrality was very irksome to them, a very hard condition, made harder by the
                     events which rapidly followed its exaction; but those who broke that vow were
                     driven to it by the perfidy of 'Albion,' as they still call England. They hate
                     her yet! That same perfidy drove them from homes reduced to ashes, exiled
                     without cause. Love for France brought them, ten years after their dispersion,
                     beneath the flag of France in the wilds of Louisiana. What difficulties, what
                     dangers, what griefs did they not
                     encounter and overcome in their weary, weary tramp from ice-bound Canada to
                     semi-tropical Louisiana? Who but the brave, the resolute, the hardy would have
                     undertaken to surmount them? What chagrin, what disappointment must they not
                     have endured to find, on their arrival in Louisiana, that the weak monarch, for
                     loyalty to whom they had sacrificed everything, for whom they had even borne
                     the disruption of family ties—for their loyalty was a part of the religion of
                     this poor, proud, true people—their king was too poor in purse, too
                     short-sighted in policy, to welcome them to their new home! How heartrending to
                     such a people must it have been to know, as they did soon after their arrival
                     in Louisiana, that their king had secretly donated them as so many chattels,
                     and the whole of the sunny land they had come to dwell in, 'to his very
                        dear cousin, the king of Spain.' Three men of the colony, one of them
                     an ancestor of mine, M. Le Sassier, went to throw themselves at the feet of the
                     French monarch, entreating him not to sell Louisiana and 'his French
                        people' to Spain. But the errand was fruitless, and the Acadians were
                     helpless. Crushed and sorrowful, in spite of all this discouragement, they
                     yielded strict obedience to the power which, for a time, ruled them. They did
                     not like Spain, but they hated only England. They lived very retired lives, and
                     applied themselves diligently to agriculture, which had been their occupation
                     in their lost Acadia. Amidst all the mutations, produced by the indecision of
                     kings, through which poor Louisiana passed so often in little more than fifty
                     years, until a limit was put, in 1815, to this chequer-board play of monarchs
                     by the real sovereigns of America, the United States—from their
                     first appearance here in 1765 until this day, have the Acadians, as a people,
                     whilst loving quiet pursuits and the arts of peace, been loyal and lovingly
                     true to Louisiana.
                  No mind capable of appreciating innate beauty and individuality of character
                     unadorned by art can fail to find pleasure and food for reflection in tracing
                     the history of this people, who in language, in grace of person and manner, in
                     religion were French, and yet the children of Nature—a people who, from an
                     inborn appreciation of what is noble, had, as embodying a vital principle, for
                     motto, 'Les Acadiens detestent les
                     mensonges.' Scorning duplicity, carrying their hearts in their open
                     hands, yet compelled to witness and become the victims of the double dealing
                     and corruption of those whose morals and ideas of honor had not
                     been improved by education, it is not to be wondered at that so
                     many of those honest Acadians should have preferred and should have taught
                     their children to prefer the seclusion of their rustic homes to the field of
                     letters and the glitter of courts. Such seem to have been the principles of
                     this people. We first know of them as hunters, trappers, and fishermen in the
                     primitive island of Nova Scotia, and to-day we find them just as unwilling as
                     they then were to attract public notice, as much now as then disposed to avoid
                     pomp and ceremony of living, and the society of those who seek after these
                     things, and now more than ever, since the recent vicissitudes of fortune which
                     they have borne in common with all true Southerners, are they cultivating
                     modesty of living, frugality, and kindliness of manner. Still more closely are
                     they given to tilling their own lands, watching their herds on the prairies,
                     and to hunting and fishing. They need so little to live upon! The poor Acadians
                     had never the money needed for very extended education, had they even valued
                     it. They had barely the means of subsistence. Their whole wealth, when they
                     came here, consisted of their own brawny muscles and the exceedingly scant
                     implements of agriculture which the colony afforded.
                  Surrounded and harassed by the Indians, whom French blindness and English greed
                     had made their enemies, having witnessed the execution of Lafrenière, of
                     Villeré, of Noyan, of Milhet, and others for having dared to doubt the power or
                     good-will of Spain toward them, whilst the flag of France still floated from
                     every mast and every flag-staff in the colony, their cup of sorrow must have
                     indeed been overflowing when the hated British, stretching their arms, had left
                     to France and Spain of all this sunny land only that portion of Louisiana
                     'lying south of Manshac.' How could such a people have the heart to seek
                     wealth, or think of place and preferment under such circumstances? How do
                     otherwise than shrink away from 'civilization,' and pray, as they did in their
                     churches, that they might always be 'TOO POOR' to attract the attention and
                     excite the greed of their enemies? Still were they brave, chivalrously ready to
                     resent personal affront, and the first to respond in arms when the honor of
                     France called them. As sharpshooters and frontiersmen among the Indians, their
                     courage was excelled only by their patient endurance of hardship and fatigue.
                     They fought under Gen. Jackson bravely, and, alas! their blood has watered
                     every field which has added lustre to the late unfortunate war. They are
                     naturally disposed to peace, but to them, in their words, 'Tous les proscripts
                     sont frêres, qu'ils soient victimes des Grecs ou des Anglais, et le genie de
                     l'infortune a partout la même poesie de langue.' From New Orleans, in 1815, to
                     Manassas and Sharpsburg, to Chancellorsville and Fredericksburg, to the
                     Wilderness and to Petersburg, to Shiloh and to Mansfield, look, and ask the
                     survivors of those battles whether the sons of the Acadians shrank from the
                     dangers shared by their brother creoles of Louisiana. Ask for the graves of
                     Monton, of Armand. Even in times of peace scions of Acadia have been
                     conspicuous among us. Were there not Martin and Landry and Heberts? We do not
                     blush for our record there, in Attakapas, where my people first colonized—a
                     choice region, with the beautiful Teche and Grand Lake on one side, and on the
                     other a vast prairie of inexhaustible fertility, skirted by the Gulf of Mexico,
                     which gave them boundless hunting and fishing-grounds, and the invariable
                     reward of tillage. Here in the most genial clime of earth, where they were
                     sheltered from the chilling blasts of winter, and in summer fanned by delicious
                     breezes from old ocean, it is no wonder that a whole generation should have
                     lived and died, believing that 'Eden had been regained,' and they
                     had watched with some jealousy the coming of people of another
                     tongue to share that paradise with them. It was in the midst of these people
                     that I found my happy childhood's home
                     on the banks of the Teche, and I try to thank God often for having cast my
                     birth-right among those from whom the agriculturist may take lessons, princes
                     learn politeness, and philosophers gather wisdom. It is a lovely land, mine!"
                     (Mrs. Dulany paused for a moment, and wiped away a tear from her eyes, then
                     continued her reading:—)
                  "Content in their humble dwellings, copied still in their architecture from the
                     quaint old 'maisonettes' of Acadia, they dread debt, are temperate in all
                     things, hospitable to strangers, invariably and intuitively courteous and
                     polite, Catholic in religion, and constant in the sincerity of their
                     attachments. I can readily forgive them if, as a people, they are
                     'behind the age' in letters and art, and I can even cherish the
                     example which they offer, in many things, to 'Latter-day Saints'
                     of the progressive school. Their language is unwritten, and is not
                     to be rendered intelligibly to-day to 'outsiders.' It is French, which in
                     Acadia was provincial and distinct of its kind and in its idiom, but to-day,
                     after some blending with the French of Gascony and St. Domingo, its chief
                     peculiarity consists in the abbreviation of words, and its
                        directness of object. I would call it
                        clipped French, which must be heard to be
                     understood, and I must not fail to say that even limited education
                     destroys most of its peculiarity. It is musical, and beautifully expresses
                     grief or joy.
                  To give you some idea of the simple hearts of my people, I will tell you about
                     my mother, who was a Parisian. My father, an Acadian of wealth, had been sent
                     abroad for education to 'la belle et chère
                        France;' he had married there, and brought my mother home to
                     Louisiana. Well, my mother took a great fancy to a young Acadian girl, who was
                     very pretty and amiable, and mamma thought to please her by making her some
                     little presents. The first thing she gave her was a silver
                        thimble. Armandine was delighted. A silver thimble was a rare and
                     costly possession for an Acadienne. She wore
                     it proudly to church on the following Sunday, and she came weeping to my mother
                     on the next day, entreating her not to be vexed with her for returning the
                     silver thimble. She said it made all her young friends cold and envious of her,
                     and she could not bear to have anything different from or better than her
                     neighbors. Mamma took back the poor little thimble. I have it yet. She often
                     told me the incident, and advised me always to remember the courtesy and
                     simplicity which belonged to the Acadian nature. When I was a very small girl,
                     I was taken to Armandine's wedding. She married a neighbor's son named Michel
                     Bondrot. Michel was already quite famous in the community for his good temper
                     and his native skill as a violin-player. No ball was complete without Michel
                     Bondrot. He really did play wonderfully well. I have danced many a night and
                     many a Sunday evening to Michel's music. We were all Roman Catholics, of
                     course.
                  I remember Michel's wedding. How fine the bride was in her white cotton gown!
                     How extraordinary the elegance, dignified ease, and courtesy of old Bondrot,
                        père, clad in Attakapas cottonade! How gay
                     the interior of the maisonnette, the chief
                     room of which, fifteen by fifteen feet square, could have furnished ed space
                     for twenty couples of no other race than the graceful and active, but
                     fastidious and painstaking Acadians, who found room to waltz, gallop, and dance
                     controdances, without the loss of a ribbon or of a single loop of lace. They
                     lost no part of their coiffure, for the belles of Petite Cadie found no need of art in their head-dresses. Every
                     guest vied with the other as to who should pay to the beautiful bride the most
                     respectful 'obéissance.' Ah! the lovely French manners! the charming petits soins! It seems to me that love is not love
                     which does not demonstrate itself by considerations and small kindnesses. But
                     then allowance must be made for my preferences. I am French, and the cold
                     English customs and the careless American fashions oppress me. I have been
                     always accustomed chez moi to such sweet
                     tenderness, such lovely politeness. I remember how shocked we all were when on
                     this occasion a young man (Bondrot said he 'was of Gascon descent') dared
                     venture to the veranda of the house, smoking a cigarette. Old Bondrot saw and
                     met him, and drawing himself up to his full height of stature and dignity, he
                     said to him, sternly,
                  'Jeune homme! Sortez de la! Je suis maitre chez moi! Un gentilhomme ne fumera
                     jamais dans la presence des dames!"
                  The old man's words and manner so offended the young man that he mounted his
                     horse and rode rapidly away, leaving his sweetheart in tears! I have been so
                     diffuse in talking of my people, because it was just the fact that I belonged
                     to the race which interested me and gave me some peculiar power of knowledge of
                     the story I am about to relate. When I married I left the Attakapas, and was
                     never much among my own people until at the death of my father, when I
                     inherited his maisonnette, which I still
                     retain, and where I go usually for three summer months every year. When I
                     returned home after an absence of many years—I was abroad a good deal with my
                     husband, whose health was feeble—I found many changes amongst my old Acadian
                     friends. Armandine Bondrot was dead, and Michel, left alone with one daughter,
                     had married a second time—an American woman who did not understand or
                     appreciate Acadian ways and manners—and Michel and his daughter were not very
                     happy now at home. Lettice, the daughter, was about sixteen now, and quite as
                     beautiful as her own mother had been in her youth, but I found she was not so
                     intelligent nor so sweet as Armandine. There was something immature and obtuse
                     in Lettice. She always reminded one of a beautiful dumb beast. Old Michel, as
                     they now called my young Michel, still found his principal joy in his violin,
                     and Lettice did one thing well—she danced beautifully, and had the French love
                     for society and gayety. Yet Lettice was a hard-working girl. She milked her
                     fifteen cows twice a day regularly. She spun her eight hanks of fine thread,
                     which she also knew how to dye skilfully, and how to weave on her poor little
                     hand-loom, into the stout but fine red Attakapas cottonade, which her father
                     sold to the New Orleans merchants for a dollar a yard. Madame Bondrot, the
                     stepmother, gave the poor girl little rest. I felt sorry for Letty, but could
                     not help her much, except by gifts of ribbons and bright-colored dresses, such as suited her ingenuous tastes.
                     Though we were rich, my father had never separated himself from his poorer
                     brethren. They all visited us upon the footing of perfect equality. Their
                     manners were perfect, though their homes were poor, and their living
                     principally of rice and vegetables, with the milk and butter from their herds
                     of cattle, and fish from the rivers and sea. After my father's death I lived as
                     he did. My neighbors came and visited me at their will, and I always called on
                     every one as soon as I was established chez
                        moi every summer. I do still. It is French custom for the stranger
                     to call. They say, that it is for him to choose his society. Of
                     course every one is glad to see a stranger. That is also Acadian simplicity, I
                     know! My husband had an estate, our principal one, on the river in a parish
                     adjoining this. During his life we spent most of our time there. I never go
                     there now, but at this period we were living there. M. Dulany had a number of
                     fine cattle to take to that place from our prairie grazing farm, and he induced
                     old Michel Bondrot to accompany the cattle with other herdsmen up to the
                     plantation. Bondrot was quite pleased with the aspect of the country, and said
                     he would return in the fall with a lot of cattle of his own, which he thought
                     he could dispose of to advantage.
                  We had many neighbors near our plantation. They were principally American. I
                     found them very kind, but there was one that I never liked. His name was
                     Tilney, a Dr. Tilney. He lived but a few miles from our place. He had come
                     there many years before, my husband said, and established himself as a country
                     doctor on one of the estates in the neighborhood. He was a man of considerable
                     ability, but hard and wicked countenance, and of rough and rude manners. He was
                     shrewd, and had managed to make money and to buy in by some legal trick the
                     estate on which the owner had hospitably given him a home when he came to the
                     parish poor and needy. It was a very disgraceful transaction, and my husband
                     dropped all intercourse with Tilney after it. I used to hear continual accounts
                     of his wickedness and cruelty to his negroes, and of his swindling transactions
                     with everybody who attempted to deal with him. He lived in the most openly
                     depraved manner—was a practical miscegenationist.
                  I never saw him except that sometimes I would pass him as I drove out in my
                     carriage on the public road. By some accident Michel Bondrot met with Tilney,
                     and agreed to furnish him with some cattle in the following autumn. My husband
                     warned Michel, when he learned this, against having any dealings with Tilney,
                     and Michel promised that he would not carry out the proposed arrangement. Poor
                     Michel, however, did not live to see the fall. He was drowned in a squall off
                     the coast; he went out on a fishing expedition, and never returned. I was
                     grieved to learn of his death, and sent his widow and the pretty Lettice a full
                     supply of mourning clothes, which was valuable to them. Imagine my surprise one
                     day, in riding, to meet old Dr. Tilney sitting in a new buggy dressed in fine
                     black clothes, and sitting by his side, in a red silk dress, my pretty
                     Acadienne, Lettice Bondrot. She bent forward and spoke to me eagerly. I was so
                     surprised I scarcely responded. The next day the fine new buggy drove up to my
                     door, and Lettice, accompanied by a little negro boy, got out. She had come to
                     pay me a visit, according to our French customs. She told me that Dr. Tilney
                     had come down himself to Petite Cadie to see
                     about the cattle her father had agreed to sell to him, and that he had seen her
                     at work at her spinning-wheel. With many blushes Letty then went on to say that
                     he had come again after the first visit about the cattle, and again; that the
                        belle mère could not agree as to the price
                     to be paid; and that after much time had been spent, haggling over the price of
                     the cattle, the belle mère and Tilney had
                     come to terms. And then how surprised Letty was when the great American
                     gentleman, with those bags of gold and silver, had asked the belle mère for permission to marry Letty. At first
                     Letty said she thought she did not wish to be married to so old a man, and to
                     one whom she did not know. But the belle mère
                     grew very angry and beat her, and treated her so badly that at the end of a
                     week Lettice gave in to her wishes, and she was married by the curé on the following Sunday, just in her new black
                     frock that I had sent her; and then she had come away with Tilney, and he had
                     given her some beautiful clothes, which she would show me when I came to see
                     her. She said she was 'not so very happy, though she no longer had to spin, or
                     milk the cows. Judy did all that, but'—and here Letty's face began to cloud
                     over and her lips commenced to quiver—she was "afraid of Judy! Judy did not
                     like her, and Judy's children were very naughty, and said they had more rights
                     there in Dr. Tilney's house than Letty had. She was sorry she had not run away
                     from her stepmother and come to me instead of getting married, but she did not
                     know where I lived exactly. She had gone one day to my maisonnette, and asked where I was, but no one could tell her.
                     Now she was married, and the curé said it
                     would be a mortal sin to run away from her husband. She had asked him about
                     it.' Of course I gave her as much good advice as was possible for me to think
                     of under the circumstances, and she went away at last smiling and comforted,
                     with her hands full of chocolate bonbons, contented as a child with pretty
                     clothes and confections. My heart was full of misgivings in regard to Letty's
                     future life. I knew no good of old Tilney. She had evidently been sold to the
                     old debauchee by her stepmother, just as she sold the cattle that he purchased
                     at the same time. It was something in his favor that he had at least married
                     her, and conformed so far to outward morality. But the Acadians have the strict
                     French idea of protecting the honor of young maidens, and better than the
                     French idea of the necessary chastity of married women, and Tilney had to marry
                     Lettice, or the whole community would have risen in vengeance against the man
                     who would betray Michel Bondrot's daughter. I went to see Letty shortly after
                     her visit. I was struck with the wicked expression of Judy, who opened the door
                     to allow me to enter the rude and disorderly house. The house was good enough,
                     and there was furniture sufficient for the simple mind of an Acadienne to
                     consider it very fine indeed. But everything was tawdry and out of place, and
                     not very clean. Poor Letty had not the
                     intuitive taste nor the intellectual brightness needful to know how to keep all
                     around her in neat order and symmetry. Some women have this faculty. Put them
                     in a hovel, and in a little while there will be felt a different atmosphere of
                     cleanliness and order. In my refugee life in Texas, I found the tents of some
                     women have an atmosphere of refinement and an air of home about them. It was a
                     curtain looped in a certain way, or a bower of green branches before the
                     entrance, some little grace there was always; and in others, without this
                     ingenuity, skill, and making shift, there would be, with the same materials,
                     the most squalid discomfort. As I have already said, Lettice was not 'an
                     intelligent,' as Kant calls it. She was just a handsome domestic animal. She
                     could tie a ribbon on her hair, or arrange a knot of flowers very becomingly,
                     and could do hard work, milk cows, attend a dairy, and spin or weave. I felt
                     interested in her on account of old association with her family, but found I
                     could do little for her besides being generally kind and considerate towards
                     her. About this time my husband's health required a change; so we were
                     compelled to shut up our house and go abroad. We returned in 1861. Of course I
                     lost sight of Letty in this interval. I saw her after my return. We all moved
                     away from the river in obedience to the orders of Beauregard in 1862. We came
                     out to this place first. Then in '63 we went to Texas. The Tilneys, I was told,
                     had gone on to Texas the year previous. One of our neighbors on the river, of
                     whom my husband thought highly, was a Mr. Innisford. He was a man of family,
                     had a very interesting wife and children. In going to Texas, we found ourselves
                     one night near where Innisford was living. It was a place just within the
                     borders of Texas, that he had leased for a term of years. As soon as Mr. Dulany
                     heard the name from a man laboring in the field whom we stopped to make some
                     inquiries about the road, he sent a servant to tell Innisford that we were
                     camped near and would be glad to see him. He returned with our messenger, urged
                     our coming at once to share his humble cottage, for a few days at least. We
                     declined going into the house, but we camped in the woods near him for a week,
                     to let our tired trains rest after the long, weary travel of nearly two months.
                     My tent was quite comfortable, and my husband's health seemed to be benefited
                     by the unwonted exposure and gypsy life we had been enduring. I, too, was
                     astonishingly well. I had grown quite stout, for me, and was as brown as Lady
                     Queen Ann who sits in the sun, as the children sing in their play. It was a
                     strange life. I often recall it with wonder. We gained much valuable experience
                     in it, nothing more, as events terminated. However, I do not regret it. I
                     learned the ancient Acadian lessons over again, of frugality and contentment
                     with little, for money would not buy luxuries for us. They were not to be
                     obtained at any price. So I appreciate now food, fire, shelter, plain clothing,
                     the prime necessaries of life, as I never should have done but for this
                     experience. Innisford gave us news of all our neighbors who had fled to Texas.
                     Among others I asked for the Tilneys. What Innisford nisford told me I have
                     woven into a connected narrative, so will read it as I wrote it down.
                  John Caldwell had been a chum of Innisford at the Virginia University. He was
                     younger than Innisford, and graduated later. Just about the time we sailed for
                     Europe, Innisford received a letter from Caldwell, saying he had inherited a
                     small fortune of about thirty thousand dollars, and he wished to invest it in
                     planting, if possible, in Innisford's neighborhood. The lands in that parish
                     were quite famous in Louisiana as good cotton lands. Innisford invited John
                     down on a visit, though he thought it very doubtful whether he could succeed in
                     making such a purchase as he desired in the neighborhood. There were no lands
                     for sale. Caldwell accepted the invitation, and came down to Innisford's
                     house.
                  One bright morning John Caldwell took his gun and said he would go to shoot
                     ducks in the lake. To get to the head of the lake he had to go through a piece
                     of forest, and just out of that he came upon the pool called The Water Hole.
                     This was a curious deep pond, not more than a quarter of a mile in diameter,
                     almost circular in shape, caused by its peculiar formation. It was made by a
                     violent circular eddy or whirlpool during an overflow. The river rushed in,
                     breaking through all levees and banks, formed a fearful eddy in this spot, and
                     hollowed out a deep, cup-like basin for itself, which had remained ever since.
                     The Water Hole was deep and very dangerous. It was always full, as it seemed to
                     be fed by springs at the bottom. Its height never varied. Winter and summer it
                     fathomed more than thirty feet in depth right at the shores, which went down
                     precipitously without shelving at all. It had only one outlet, a narrow
                     tortuous bayou, which took off its surplus waters. Trees had grown up all
                     around it, except on one side, which was the more dangerous, since it seemed to
                     meet the clear, dark water in a most enticing way, with a close, smooth, grassy
                     edge. Many an unwary cow and horse found his death in this deceitful spot. They
                     would be enticed by the clear water, and putting in their front feet, as the
                     manner of animals is, to drink, they would go sheer down, and find themselves
                     instantaneously compelled to swim for life. Sometimes they would succeed in
                     scrambling back on the shore, but often they did not, and they would be
                     drowned. There were ugly tales connected with this spot. More than once the
                     coroner had been called to hold an inquest over bodies discovered floating in
                     this pool, who had evidently met their death by foul play. I myself saw the
                     body of a man of middle age lying upon the grass by the pool, with the marks of
                     an axe on his temples, and tightly clutched in his dead grasp the cuff of a
                     fine white linen shirt. He had been drawn out of the water by some passers-by.
                     These and other still more fearful accidents or premeditated murders had given
                     a bad name to the Water Hole. The negroes were superstitious about it. None of
                     them would pass it after nightfall alone, if they could avoid it in any way.
                     John Caldwell was walking along, carelessly whistling, his gun upon his
                     shoulder. As he approached this place he heard the cry of a woman's voice at
                     the Water Hole. 'Jack,' it said, 'Jack! Come here, Jack! Oh, Jack! my poor Jack!' Hastening through the brushwood
                     intervening, John Caldwell saw a woman kneeling close to the edge of the pool.
                     Her hands were outstretched, and she was clapping them violently together, and
                     calling, in tones of endearment, encouragement, and fear, to a beautiful yellow
                     water-dog which was on the other side of the pool, but now swimming with
                     tremendous energy, and evidently in mortal fright, trying to reach the shore
                     where the woman was kneeling. Caldwell's quick eye took in the situation in a
                     minute. The woman's voice was broken now by sobs of alarm and distress as she
                     continued to call her dog. Tears were streaming down her face, as she said,
                     'Oh, Jack! you will be killed right before my eyes!' Caldwell saw just behind
                     the dog, and on the point of seizing him, an enormous alligator in the
                     eagerness of pursuit. It had its head raised high in the water. Caldwell
                     stopped, took quiet and deliberate aim with his gun. He had to be careful, as
                     the dog was in a line with the reptile. The dog swerved a little to one side.
                     The alligator made a rush forward with all his force and power at the dog. At
                     that instant John fired—the aim was sure. The alligator was struck. He sank
                     instantaneously, as the custom of that creature is when wounded. The dog gave a
                     short yelp of affright, and swam harder than ever towards the shore. In a
                     moment more he was at the shore, and his mistress had seized him by the
                     forelegs and hauled him on to terra firma.
                     She patted his wet head and caressed him fondly, talking to him in French
                     patois. The dog lay down panting on the ground. He was too tired and exhausted
                     to do more than wag his tail in response to his mistress's joy. John stood
                     tranquilly surveying the scene with some curiosity. The woman seemed to
                     recollect on a sudden that she had not yet thanked the preserver of her dog's
                     life, and she turned quickly towards John Caldwell. For an instant he felt
                     dazzled as she looked up in his face with a smile of gratitude. It was surely
                     the most beautiful face he thought he had ever looked upon in woman. It was
                     Lettice Tilney. She thanked him for his opportune aid, sat down on the grass by
                     her dog until he should be rested, and John sat down too, after a moment's
                     hesitation, on the grass near her. Letty talked freely, prattling with a
                     childish naïveté of all she knew. John had
                     never been accustomed to this sort of a woman. In a little while she had told
                     him who she was; had asked who he was; said she knew Mr. Innisford; had told
                     John all about Petite Cadie, where she used
                     to live, and how she loved 'Jack' so much, because she had brought him, a
                     little, wee, wee puppy, from her father's house in Attakapas; how naughty Jack
                     was in going into the water when she had tried so to keep him out of it; and
                     that she had only walked out there because she wanted to get some Muscadine
                     grapes, 'they were plenty in the woods;' and that she was afraid of this Water
                     Hole. 'It was a bad place. Judy said there were spirits—evil spirits—about it
                     at night. They had been seen in the moonlight. A man rising out of the waves
                     with his head all cut and bleeding, and a woman with her child on her breast,
                     all phantoms, but they rose out of the water and walked upon the land in the
                     moonlight.' Lettice shuddered as she told of it, and rousing her dog up, said
                     she must go.
                  'But you are not afraid now, when I am here?' said John, rather sentimentally,
                     in his boyish folly.
                  'O, no!' The beautiful face glowed. 'O, no! not when you have the gun. You are
                     such a strong man! I am not afraid, but I must go home. Come, Jack. Au revoir, monsieur.' Letty saluted him with
                     graceful politeness, and started to go away.
                  John blushed, then stammered out—
                  'Will you permit—may not I see you home? It will be safer, you know.'
                  'Sans doute! Without doubt, sir, if you
                     wish,' said Letty, with a brilliant smile. 'I shall be very glad. I live not
                     far from this. I will show you the road. Ah, see! Jack has run on. He knows the
                     road home very well. He has intelligence, Jack has!'
                  John thought the mile he had to walk with this beautiful childlike woman the
                     shortest mile he ever walked in his life. When they reached the gate Lettice
                     invited him to enter, in accordance with the usual style of country
                     hospitality. She said her husband would be pleased to see him. Tilney was
                     sitting on the open veranda, smoking his pipe. When he saw his wife enter,
                     accompanied by the young stranger, he rose up from his chair, and advanced to
                     meet them. Letty hastened forward and said,
                  'A gentleman, a friend of Mr. Innisford's, who has come to see you.'
                  Tilney had heard of John Caldwell, and his thirty thousand dollars that he
                     wished to invest, and he received the guest therefore quite politely. He knew
                     how to behave himself decently, when he chose to do so, so that he made quite
                     an agreeable impression upon John. Tilney asked him to take a drink, gave him a
                     good cigar, and was overflowing in politeness. John declined the invitation to
                     remain to dinner, but promised to come another day. He felt as if he must see
                     Letty again. With a lingering glance at her, he rose at last, and took his
                     leave, promising to come again soon. He 'must go now and kill some ducks for
                     Mrs. Innisford.' Tilney told him the place where he would have the best chances
                     for good shots, and John lifted his hat to Letty, shook hands with Tilney, and
                     departed. Letty's face haunted him. Wherever he turned he saw it. He talked of
                     nothing else to Innisford but of how beautiful she was, and asked every
                     question he could think of about Tilney and her brief history, in order to make
                     Innisford talk of her.
                  Innisford did not like John's enthusiasm about old Tilney's wife at all. He
                     spoke of it to his wife in confidence that night, but she laughed at his
                     anxiety.
                  'Pshaw! It is only a young man's fancy for a pretty face. Lettice is a very
                     good, modest sort of a woman, though I don't think she cares much for old
                     Tilney. She is afraid of him, and that will keep her all straight.'
                  Innisford said no more, but he resolved to speak to John and caution him about
                     seeing too much of the Tilneys, either husband or wife.
                  
                  But in a few days John went again to the Tilneys. He took a brace of ducks that
                     he had just killed.
                  'It is only polite to do so,' he said to himself, 'as the old fellow told me
                     where I should find the ducks, to take a brace to him.'
                  Tilney accepted the ducks very graciously. John's coming just chimed very
                     advantageously with a project he had been forming to try to get John, with his
                     thirty thousand dollars, to invest with him as a partner. After several visits,
                     he managed to introduce the topic of his lands and property, and to discuss the
                     probability of his selling out one-half of his estate, if he could meet with a
                     purchaser to his liking. John listened eagerly, made many inquiries about the
                     land, negroes, &c. &c., and it ended in Tilney's taking him all over
                     the plantation and exhibiting the whole estate. It certainly was a valuable
                     property, and not unreasonable in price, it seemed to John. While John talked
                     with Tilney he was watching Lettice, who was sitting on the gallery, sewing,
                     and talking occasionally in French, to her dog Jack, who lay stretched out at
                     her feet, half asleep in the sunshine. John thought he would give thirty
                     thousand dollars, and his life to boot, if she only could belong to him. He had
                     fallen desperately in love with Lettice Tilney, though he did not, as yet,
                     acknowledge it to himself. Letty was entirely unconscious of the effect she had
                     produced on this 'si charmant jeune homme.'
                     But she thought John was 'very nice—very nice, indeed.' And she was glad to
                     think her husband would have such an agreeable and amiable partner as John. And
                     she told him so, when Tilney went out to give some command necessary on the
                     plantation, and John walked up to where she was sitting, and stooped to pat
                     Jack's head.
                  John made up his mind at that moment that it would be a very safe investment
                     for him.
                  So John Caldwell was easily persuaded by Dr. Tilney to invest his thirty
                     thousand dollars in buying half of Tilney's land and negroes. Tilney had
                     manœuvred too much for himself at last. He was very keen and unscrupulous, but
                     he had gotten beyond his depth in dealing with 'McIntyre and Bros.,' and after
                     trying every possible dodge allowed by the intricate civil law of Louisiana, he
                     found himself fairly cornered by his pertinacious Scotch merchants. He had to
                     pay up, or to lose his property. He lost no time, therefore, in endeavoring to
                     convince John Caldwell that to purchase half of his land and to invest with him
                     was the very best disposition he could possibly make of his money. Innisford
                     was rather doubtful of the prudence of the arrangement, and had half persuaded
                     John not to enter into partnership with Tilney, whom he regarded as thoroughly
                     unscrupulous and cunning, to say the best of him. But John thought of Letty's
                     black eyes, and that he would be near where he might see her at least, and he
                     yielded to the temptation, arguing stoutly against Innisford in regard to the
                     uncertainty and danger of the investment. Tilney represented everything
                     apparently in the fairest manner. John told Innisford that Tilney was 'a very
                     good old fellow,' in spite of his dubious reputation. So John Caldwell found
                     himself an inmate of the house in which Lettice Tilney lived. There was no
                     premeditated evil in John Caldwell. He never intended to commit any crime; but
                     he was facile, impressionable, and slid into sin almost without his own consent
                     or volition. Just now, he had no other thought in regard to Lettice but that it
                     was pleasant to see her, agreeable to hear her talk, as she did sometimes with
                     a strong French accent in her pretty broken English. Very sweet John found it
                     to watch her graceful, naturally coquetish little ways. Lettice was not a woman
                     of strong intellect nor will. Tall, slight, willowy in figure, with tiny feet,
                     and hands having long and slender fingers, rounded and tapering, with nails
                     shaped like almonds, the joints of her supple, well-turned limbs all rounded
                     delicately, with an elastic step which made her undulate in a sort of
                     serpent-like way as she moved about her house; with her straight-chiselled,
                     almost too regular, features; her dark, lustrous, languid eyes, which had a
                     gleam of passion and a fiery spark way down in the pupil, like the momentary
                     glitter of a fire-stone; with her perfect pale cream-white skin; without a
                     shade of color, except in her scarlet lips, red as a cleft pomegranate; with
                     her heavy shadowy mass of satiny, straight, purple-black hair, which fell below
                     her knee, when it would sometimes drag its great coil from out of her comb
                     where she had tucked it up, Lettice Tilney was a dangerously seductive and
                     beautiful woman. With all the ardor and all the languor of her own climate and
                     race incarnated in her, she was an enchantress to draw men's souls out through
                     their eyes, and then wickedly to trample them beneath her feet; not from
                     malevolence, but from weariness and satiety. As a child grows weary of its
                     plaything, so would Lettice weary of any too long-continued emotion. Lettice
                     could not be strong, even in wickedness. There was no strength in her of
                     passion or of good. She reflected the will of others with whom she happened to
                     be cast. She had a sort of childlike obstinacy, but no firmness either for good
                     or evil. A sort of person that a student of human nature scarcely considers
                     responsible; she was so very obtuse, and yet she was so graceful and so
                     pretty.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               "THE Confederate war began. As I told you, we, that is, my husband and I, were
                  abroad until the fall of 1861. When we returned, the Tilneys had removed to Texas.
                  John Caldwell had accompanied them there, seen them established in such poor way
                  as refugees were enabled to be established anywhere at that period, then he
                  returned and joined the army in Virginia. He fought very bravely, I was told,
                  under Jackson; got a severe wound in the breast, which incapacitated him for
                  active service; so he succeeded in getting over the river and rejoining the
                  Tilneys in Texas. His health improved under rest and the kindly nursing he
                  received from Letty, and he got so strong, though never entirely well, that he was
                  able to assist old Tilney about the farm and in many ways. Then began a tale of
                  passion, and miserable strife against it. Tilney was weaned of Letty. There really
                  was nothing in her but her great beauty and some goodness of nature. She was not deft enough to please him,
                  nor as skilful about the house as the quadroon woman, Judy; and then Judy's
                  children gave her immense power over their unworthy father. He cared for his
                  children. Tilney was generally cross, and sometimes even cruel to Letty. He would,
                  not unfrequently, beat her, or throw his boot at her, if she was not quick in her
                  movements to serve him. Judy hated her with the jealousy and passion of her race,
                  and with the feeling of rivalry naturally engendered by the position of the two
                  women. John saw this, and his heart, which was naturally noble, turned to Letty in
                  anguish of pity and love. Amongst Tilney's slaves was an old African woman, who
                  was considered as a sort of priestess amongst her people. She was a
                  frightful-looking old hag. I saw her several times. In spite of all my labors in
                  endeavoring to teach our slaves, and to relieve them from degrading religious
                  superstition, they all believed in this old Wana. If any illness came to them,
                  they would smuggle old Wana over to free them from conjuring or evil spirits,
                  though it was rather a belief in and fear of mortal wickedness than spiritual, I
                  found in their minds, in reference to the power of Vaudooism. They were afraid of
                  each other, and what they meant by conjuring, or 'tricking,' as they phrase it,
                  was poisoning, or influence of philters and potions either for good or evil. I do
                  not, myself, doubt the potency of many of their powders and herbs. They know
                  herbs, the powders made from which will stupefy, will soothe, will excite passion
                  or irritation; and they use them skilfully to their own ends. I will only give
                  example of the power of musk and of vanilla to excite sensual emotion, so well
                  known to medical men; and so, being wise in these qualities of plants and other
                  natural substances, these Vaudoo women have great power over their fellows, and
                  some of them are wondrous Mesmerists also. I know enough of this devil-worship
                  Vaudooism not only to hate, but to fear it. Judy had recourse to Wana's arts,
                  first, for a philter or powder to keep her master on terms with herself, then for
                  means to get control over Letty and over John. I have always believed that half
                  the excitement and miserable passion of these two unfortunates was due to Judy's
                  powders and potions. She kept John in an unnatural condition by keeping small bags
                  of powders in his pillow, where it would affect him continually at night; and
                  Letty she half stupefied with anodynes, producing languor and want of will. Letty
                  had too little will, any how. Have you never seen Vaudoo bags and charms?
               They are often quite pretty, made of bright-colored cloth, sometimes of silk or
                  satin, with quilled ribbons around them, something like a lady's satchet for
                  perfuming her gloves and linens, and sometimes they are tufts of feathers,
                  curiously tied and twisted together; sometimes they are little bags, completely
                  covered with feathers sewn upon them. They are of different sizes. I have seen
                  them from an inch to a foot in length, and they are by no means innocuous, as many
                  suppose. There are many hellish rites connected with this religion, amongst others
                  that of human sacrifice, especially of infants, is undoubtedly ascertained to be
                  often practised by these deluded people. Wana was a little withered old
                  monkey-looking creature, who walked bent nearly double, leaning on a large stick,
                  which the negroes believed to be possessed of great curative powers like the staff
                  of the Prophet Elijah. She had small, deep-sunk, wicked eyes, scarcely more
                  visible than a glowing spark in the deep twinkled orbits, a very large flat nose,
                  and a dreadful mouth, whiskered like an animal's, and she had a good deal of beard
                  on her chin. She mumbled in talking, from want of teeth, but she had still two
                  horrid tusks of eye-teeth projecting from her thick lips like swine tusks. Her
                  fingers were like bird claws, so slender and tapering, and so wrinkled they looked
                  as if made of rhinoceros' skin. Her head shook continually, as if with palsy, but
                  she walked still lightly and briskly. Altogether she was not a pleasant object to
                  behold, there was such an uncanny wicked aspect about her. She reigned like a
                  sovereign over all the negroes. They spoke always most deferentially and with
                  bated breaths to 'Aunt Wana,' or of her. There is no service so humble as that of
                  dread and superstition.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               "AN immense primeval forest of pine and cedar trees extended for miles back of the
                  Tilney plantation. Letty had discovered a spot deep in the woods, where she had
                  made for herself a peaceful place of refuge, to which she often fled, like a hare
                  to its form, from the harassing petty strife and ceaseless contention, the peevish
                  bickerings of her daily life. It was a mile deep in the woods, sheltered by thick
                  bushes of weeping ash and prickly musquite, which grew profusely matted with
                  clambering grape-vines in a close thicket all around a central open spot, thickly
                  carpeted by the continuous droppings of the fragrant pine leaves, shed year after
                  year, perhaps since centuries, from the tops of the lofty trees, which canopied
                  and overspread it, a hundred feet above. It was very lovely there, especially in
                  the evening, when the long slanting rays of the sun glittered and glimmered
                  between the lofty columnar trunks, falling in showers of red gold everywhere
                  through the interstices, lighting up the heavy masses of the ancient cedars,
                  tipping with points of light the ends of the white-flowered ash, and lingering
                  lovingly on the golden bloom of the aromatic musquite, while the low ferns
                  flaunted and waved along the margin of a tiny streamlet, which was scarcely
                  visible as it wound along, rippling over the pine roots and over mosses. Letty
                  would sit there hour after hour, when she could manage to escape from Judy's
                  prying eyes, or her husband's ceaseless tyranny. She would watch the strange birds
                  wheeling about the 'chapparal bushes,' the buntings, warblers, the lovely
                  fly-catchers, with their long, bi-forked, rose-colored tails, graceful and
                  beautiful as birds of paradise, and their sweet, loud song; the wonderful flowers
                  in which Texas is so rich; the gorgeous butterflies; and as the night came quickly
                  on, and stars would peep out, great swarms of fireflies would fly up from the
                  grasses and the bushes, where they had been hidden during the day, and wheel all
                     about like intoxicated little fairies;
                  and often too she would see the luminous beetle, with its blazing epaulettes of
                  phosphorescent, pulsating fire, creeping over the skirt of her gown or across her
                  pretty little outstretched feet. Letty loved all these things. She felt an
                  affinity, a oneness with all nature, with insects, birds, animals, flowers,
                  plants, trees. Hers was a simple spirit. She did not need much to be very happy,
                  for she had that rare capacity for joy which belongs to childlike creatures,
                  negroes, animals, French people. Germans possess it to some extent—Americans and
                  English people very rarely. Letty inherited it from her Acadian mother—that mother
                  whose joyous, homely youth had been danced away in the short, bright summer
                  moonlight nights of the Attakapas. Her infant dreams had been animated, and her
                  bits of baby feet made to move even in slumber by the merry sound of her father's
                  violin. She received from her parents this heritage of joyousness, which had been
                  nearly crushed and beaten out of her by her wretched married life. She was not
                  very sensitive; she had no exquisite sensibility, refined by education and
                  sentimentality. She was not capable of very transcendental or analytic thought.
                  She was not much educated; she read pretty well; she wrote fairly, with few
                  mistakes in her spelling, and those she made had a sort of delicacy in them; but
                  her spelling was not worse than that of many great ladies used to be, and Lady
                  Rachel Russell herself could not write tenderer things than Letty used to think
                  of. But Letty was naturally obtuse. She was a beautiful, tender, soft, loving
                  animal of a woman, with wondrous sympathy and affinities, and powers over other
                  animals. The cats crawled upon her trailing gown as she walked or sat about her
                  house; the dogs came and laid their heads upon her knees; a pet squirrel would
                  come down from his tree and eat from her hand; little chickens nestled in her
                  bosom eagerly; and the fowls ran after her every time she ventured out into the
                  yard. Even the horses would rest their heads on her shoulder; the cows lowed after
                  her, and the calves and the sheep ran pell-mell when she entered the fold to lick
                  the salt from her rosy fingers. Letty loved all animals. She would not kill even a
                  spider when she could avoid it, and was not afraid of the slender, glittering
                  grass snake as it glided along over her path. On this evening she had taken
                  advantage of her husband's absence and of Judy's pinketing, and had quietly stolen
                  to 'her place in the woods,' which she thought no one knew of but herself.
               She was very wretched. She sat down at the foot of her pine tree on the soft,
                  heaped up leaves, and putting her hands up to her face, she sighed long and
                  heavily, she was so dreary, so spiritless. The tender light and joy of John's love
                  seemed to have died out of her during his long absence. A month today since he had
                  gone up to the salt works beyond Tyler. The roads were heavy, the ox teams slow.
                  It might be weeks before he could get back. The depression of her spirit was
                  greater than she had felt it even in the blankness of her life before she knew
                  John Caldwell. Letty was not very religious, but she had some vague perceptions of
                  moral duties. She was a foolish, simple thing. If her husband had been decently
                  kind to her, given her a few pretty clothes and trinkets, old as he was and
                  disagreeable as he was, she would have been true to him. But he tortured her all
                  the time. Judy watched her, hated her. Judy's children were impertinent to her.
                  Her husband laughed at, and encouraged them in it. She had no friend in the world,
                  none. Her stepmother was selfish, absorbed in her own family. She would not listen
                  to Letty's complainings. She said 'it was Letty's want of proper spirit; that if
                  it was she, she would soon settle Judy's hash, and make old Tilney stand about.'
                  Letty couldn't. She didn't know how to begin. She was neither strong nor wise. In
                  all the world 'John' only was kind to her. 'John!' She whispered the name softly
                  again and again to herself as she sat there in the gloaming, with the last sunset
                  rays shimmering over her, as she sat with her back to the tree, weaving some long
                  pine leaves in and out between her fingers. 'John, dear John!' She fancied she
                  heard a movement behind her. She turned her head to see, but there was no one,
                  only the long shadows playing on the brown earth, so soft and fragrantly covered.
                  'It was a bird,' she said, and turned back again to her resting-place. But just
                  then a shadow fell over her, a man knelt beside her, his arms were flung around
                  her. 'Letty, my Letty!' Letty's head sank on his bosom, and the cry
                  of surprise on her lips was checked in its utterance by John's kisses. Letty
                  behaved like a mad thing. She threw her arms around his neck, she kissed him a
                  thousand times, she wept, she smiled, she laughed. 'John, 'John!' was all she
                  could say. At last, when the tempest of her joy had spent itself in caresses, she
                  questioned him of his journey, of the salt, of his adventures; told him all that
                  had occurred, since his departure, in their household, where her husband had gone
                  to—everything she could think of. She chatted on out of the fulness of her heart,
                  as innocent as a child.
               John answered as gayly as she asked, seemed glad he had come just then, when he
                  found Letty alone, and told her how he had ridden on in advance of the wagons,
                  leaving them to follow on the morrow. They talked and talked; the night grew dusky
                  around them; stars peeped out, and fireflies flew up from the thickets. Letty
                  caught a luminous beetle, and made John watch the pulsating light on its
                  shoulders. She sat close, close to him, at last in silence. John pressed her more
                  and more closely and ardently to his side. He put up his hand, took Letty's comb
                  out of her hair, and shook the dark, flossy mass all about her shoulders. Letty
                  laughed at this. John laid his head on her bosom, and drew the shining veil over
                  his and her head. Letty kissed him. John sprang up, suddenly pushed her from him,
                  and, striding off from her a little way, leaned against a tree, hiding his face on
                  his hands. It was the crisis of their lives. Good and evil angels battled in his
                  soul for empire. He remembered everything, his promise to Innisford, his duty to
                  this poor childish woman, his engagements with Tilney, God, virtue, and the world.
                  John Caldwell thought of all this, but passion surged in his veins, his face burnt
                  like fire. He looked towards Letty. She sat with her hands crossed in her lap looking anxiously at him. It was light
                  enough to see her beautiful, anxious face, the dreamy brown eyes, stretched
                  widely, like a grieved fawn's; glittering with tears they seemed in the dim
                  starlight. Her long, straight, heavy hair fell over and around her till it lay
                  upon the ground. 'John, oh John!' she whispered, deprecatingly. With a smothered
                  exclamation of 'D—n't!' John Caldwell turned slowly towards her. His steps
                  quickened as he drew nearer. He threw himself on the earth beside her. He clasped
                  her in his arms. He kissed her hands, her knees, her bosom, her eyes, her hair,
                  her lips. He drew her to him. The night was dark, closing fast around them. Letty
                  sobbed on John's breast.
               Two hours later, Letty Tilney stole into her husband's house with unsteady,
                  noiseless steps. Judy was extended on the kitchen floor, asleep in a drunken
                  stupor. Her children were snoring loudly in their shanty. There was neither fire
                  nor light. Letty made neither up. Hastily taking off her clothes in the darkness,
                  she slipped into her bed. Alas!
               Letty's dreams that night were feverish. Agonizing joy and agonizing shame mingled
                  in them.
               John returned home on the next day after Tilney had gotten back from
                  C. He came in with the wagon of salt from Tyler. His face was very pale. He seemed
                  broken down by his long journey. He was very quiet and silent, looked like a man
                  exhausted from long illness or the strife of passion. He scarcely spoke to
                  Letty.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               TILNEY returned in high spirits. He had made a good sale of his corn, receiving
                  from the quarter-master stationed at C—— a quantity of cloth, sugar, and calico in
                  barter, for Tilney was not enough of a patriot to take Confederate money in any
                  shape, either bonds or notes. The Texans, from the beginning of the war, refused
                  paper money. They had a direct trade with Mexico, and Mexico will trade only for
                  gold or silver. As the quartermaster had no specie, and needed the corn, he
                  yielded at last to Tilney's obstinacy, and bartered with him such goods as the old
                  man saw fit to take in return for his produce. Tilney knew that he could readily
                  sell to the people about him such articles of luxury as these at an advance of
                  forty or fifty per cent., receiving from them gold or silver. So he stroked his
                  wise old head more persistently and caressingly than usual, on his return, and in
                  his self-gratulation even went so far as to kiss Letty and give her a broad red
                  ribbon for her hair. Judy's black eyes flamed with anger when she witnessed this
                  unusual and lover-like attention from her master towards his wife. Her jealous
                  rage was scarcely appeased when, an hour later, Tilney entered into the kitchen,
                  put his arm around her capacious waist, and saluting her brown cheek quite as
                  affectionately as he had done Letty's lips, he presented her with a couple of
                  yellow and red Madras kerchiefs for her head, and enough of white cotton to make
                  each of the three children a new shirt and frock. Judy at first turned her head
                  disdainfully aside, but yielding at last to the brilliant splendors of the
                  handkerchiefs kerchiefs and to Tilney's tender caresses, she smiled, and throwing
                  her arms about his neck, she kissed the old man warmly. Just at this moment, John
                  Caldwell passed by the low window of the kitchen, and glancing in, involuntarily,
                  was an unexpected witness of the affectionate scene. The blood flushed up quickly
                  in John's face, and his eyes flashed as he beheld it, and thought that in a few
                  moments Letty, his Letty, must be subjected to the degraded embraces of this
                  depraved old man. John quickened his steps almost into a run, and never paused in
                  his rapid stride until he found himself again in the deep pine wood, and threw
                  himself down on the spot where he and Letty had met the night before. He covered
                  his face with his hands, and groaned aloud. Tears began soon to trickle through
                  his fingers, and the powerful young man threw himself prostrate in a burst of
                  passionate grief which convulsed his whole frame. 'Oh, Letty! Letty! My God! I
                  have been no good friend to you, and yet I love you—love you, my darling! and it
                  sets me wild to look at that old devil! God! I could murder him! My fingers itch
                  to get at his hypocritical old throat!' John raged awhile in his impotent grief
                  and indignation, mingled as it was with jealousy and passion, until his convulsive
                  sobs and sighs gradually died away as the softer recollections induced by his
                  surroundings surged uppermost in his soul. His thoughts traversed with electric
                  speed over his whole life before and since he met Letty that day, registered in
                  his memory—the day at the waterhole. He thought of his innocent youth; of the true
                  friendship of Innisford; of his earnest entreaties and melancholy forebodings; of
                  his promise to Innisford; of his lamentable failure to keep that promise. He tried
                  to convince himself that it was impossible for him to act otherwise than he had;
                  that he could not even now get any settlement of the affairs of the partnership
                  out of Tilney; that it would be cruel to quit Letty now, after all that had
                  passed; that it was his duty as a man to stay near her, to protect her as far as
                  he could, now that she had a dearer and nearer claim upon him: 'For she is mine—my
                  wife, in the sight of Heaven,' said John, 'sold to that old devil! She is nothing
                  but a slave to him; put even below the feet of his negro slave.'
               It was late before John got back to the cabins. The lights were all out, the
                  kitchen fire carefully covered over with the raked-up ashes. He uncovered the
                  coals, threw on a few pine fagots which he found lying in a corner. The fire soon
                  blazed up merrily. Looking about, he spied at last, on a little table in a corner,
                  neatly covered with a coarse, white, homespun towel, a plate of cold sliced pork,
                  a piece of corn bread, and a cup of cold imitation coffee made from parched meal,
                  a little sugar, and a small pitcher of milk; in a saucer were a few spoonfuls of
                  blackberry jam; a small sugar-cake shaped clumsily, but carefully, in the shape of
                  a heart, and pricked all over with a fork in the baking. He recognized Letty's
                  thoughtfulness and consideration for his comfort in the poor little cake, and he
                  warmed his corn coffee and ate his supper with a heart filled with emotions of
                  agonizing tenderness, pity for Letty, and of devouring jealousy and hatred towards
                  Letty's husband. As he bent over the fire coals, after his meal was ended, he seemed to see written in the
                  flickering flame the words George Innisford had said so solemnly, '"Thou shalt not
                  covet thy neighbor's wife." Harm will come of it—harm will surely come.' With a
                  shudder, John roused himself, shook himself like a huge Newfoundland dog as if to
                  shake off disagreeable thought, and crept into his rough bed—a few naked boards,
                  covered with a couple of gray blankets. Even there Letty had thought of him. There
                  was a nice soft pillow, covered with a white slip, for his head. Letty had taken
                  one of her jaconet frocks—remnant of her former finery—and made this slip, with
                  broad ruffles all around it. That very day she had stolen into John's room and
                  laid it secretly on his bed during his absence. John kissed the pillow, and laying
                  it beneath his head, passed his arm underneath, and clasping the other above his
                  head, went to sleep, embracing Letty's pillow. But he said no prayer that night.
                  He began as usual, 'Our Father who art in heaven,' then stopped. 'I can't be a
                  hypocrite. I am not fit to say a prayer, and I don't want to do any better!' He
                  hugged the pillow closer and dropped asleep.
               When Judy went to smooth up the bed the next morning, she observed the fine
                  pillow, and examining it closely, she recognized the ruffles she had so often
                  washed of one of Letty's finest and most cherished gowns. 'Umph!' said the
                  mulattress, 'the charm's a workin'.' She took the Vaudoo bag out of the head of
                  the palliasse, and ripping open the pillow, she stuffed it in that, then replaced
                  the pillow on the bed. John began again to complain of the drowsiness which had
                  beset him so before he went up to the salt-works, and from which he had been
                  entirely free during his brief journey. Letty, too, was languid, spiritless; 'out
                  of sorts,' Tilney said. Poor Letty soon began to be very much 'out of sorts." She
                  had headache all the time, was wretchedly weak and miserable. She lost appetite,
                  flesh, buoyancy. Judy watched her like a serpent ready to spring, awaiting her
                  moment. She knew very soon what ailed Letty. 'Pretty soon,' she muttered, 'pretty
                  soon I'll have the madam turned out o' this here 'stablishment, an' then my
                  chillun 'll have room to spread and stir 'bout.' She assumed new manners towards
                  Letty—cajoling, conciliatory manners, coming often to offer her such poor dainties
                  as she could command, watching her like a hawk; and when she was obliged to attend
                  to duties which took Letty out of her supervision, she put her eldest son, Juba,
                  on watch over Letty. One evening Juba came running to his mammy, who was occupied
                  in doing some washing. 'Mammy, Miss done gone out."
               'Where?'
               'She done gone inter de woods. I's afraid to follow her in dar, dere's bar and
                  painters dar.'
               Judy took her hands out of the hot suds, and wringing them dry, wiped them on her
                  apron. 'You stay here den, Juba, until I come back, and watch the clo's, so the
                  dogs nor nuthin 'sturbs 'em. I'll be back in a minit.'
               Judy started off in a walk which soon changed into a fast trot down the field
                  after Letty, going, however, so that she would not intercept Letty, nor be seen by
                  her. Letty sauntered leisurely along in the feeble, listless mode she had fallen
                  into lately, looking neither to right nor left, no longer stopping to notice the
                  butterflies or birds and wild flowers, as she used to. Yet there was a light in
                  her eyes and a flush on her cheeks that she had not had resting there for months,
                  not since John's return from the salt works. Letty's soul was torn by conflicting
                  emotions of shame, love, and joy. For that morning, as she had turned away in
                  disgust from her breakfast, her husband had come to her, gazed into her quivering
                  face, and chucking her under the chin, had laughed coarsely as he said, 'So, my
                  girl, you can't eat your breakfast, hey! I guess I'll have to send for Dr.
                  Stearns, or will his old mammy answer your purpose better? hey?' Letty's face
                  flushed all over as she understood for the first time what ailed her. Her husband
                  was a physician, and recognized her symptoms. Letty felt it was true, and her
                  heart gave a great leap and throb of joy, as she felt that there was a little life
                  beneath it, so close to it, a life which sprang from hers and from—John's. Tilney
                  saw the sudden irradiation of Letty's countenance, and the better nature within
                  him was roused for a moment. He bent quite softly over Letty as she sat, and
                  kissed her forehead. 'Letty, if you'll give me a good, bouncing boy, I'll be a
                  better man, and make you a happier woman!' Letty said nothing. She sat there
                  motionless, catching her breath strongly and hysterically. Tilney went to the well
                  and brought her a gourd of water and held it to her lips, and patting her on the
                  shoulder, said:
               'There! there! Be a good girl! It will all come right!'
               Letty burst out into a fit of crying, but her tears were not from sorrow. Tilney
                  gave her a few drops of hartshorn in a teaspoonful of water, and left her,
                  advising her to go and lie down and quiet herself. Letty lay quiet all day. She
                  had heard John's steps as he came in to dinner with Tilney, and John had asked
                  Judy where she was. Tilney had answered with a laugh and a coarse reply, giving
                  his version of Letty's indisposition. John asked no further questions, but ate his
                  dinner in silence. As he passed Letty's door, before going out to work after
                  dinner, he paused, looking carefully around to see if any one was near; he found
                  that he was alone. He heard the voices of Tilney and the men in the cattle-yard,
                  and Judy was berating her children in the kitchen. John lifted the latch, and
                  opened Letty's door a little way. 'My darling!' he whispered, 'are you very
                  sick?'
               Letty started up from her bed. She was lying down, with her long hair streaming
                  over her shoulders. 'No, dear John! not very sick.'
               John ventured in, threw his arms around her, and kissed her.
               'My darling! my darling! I have just heard from—him—' John could not
                  say 'your husband.' The words choked him. 'My Letty! my own! can't you meet me at
                  the old place in the woods some time this evening—late? I'll go there and wait
                  till you come. I must see you, my darling!'
               Letty whispered 'I will' very faintly, burying her head in John's bosom to hide
                  her burning face. John pressed her close to him, kissed her hair, and fled,
                  hearing Tilney's footfall on the outer step of the porch. Letty got up and shut to
                  her door, and lay down again, covering up her head with her hands and her long hair. Late in the evening,
                  about the time that Tilney usually rode out to look after the cattle, she rose,
                  dressed herself carefully, and stole out softly, hoping to escape Judy's prying
                  eyes, or expecting at any rate that Judy would think she was only going for a
                  walk. Juba had been ordered to watch her, however, and when he saw from the corner
                  of the yard, where he was engaged in the manufacture of mud pies, that Letty crept
                  quietly out of the front door while his mammy was busy in the backyard, he ran and
                  told Judy of the prisoner's escape.
               The lovers met in their old trysting place in the pine wood, and Letty sobbed out
                  her tale between blushes of shame and smiles of joy upon John's breast. He soothed
                  and caressed her, and when they parted at last Letty's cheek was flushed, but
                  dimpling with smiles. She had cast aside all fear for the future. John had sworn
                  to 'bide with her, come weal or woe, at least until her troubles were over." He
                  knew, when he made the oath, he would find it hard to keep. His light wound was
                  entirely healed. He had only leave on furlough for three months, and the officers
                  had begun to be strict in looking after missing or delinquent men. But he set his
                  teeth, and made the oath which comforted Letty, and which he resolved to keep as
                  long as there were impenetrable forests and vast prairies to hide in. So
                  Innisford's prophecies were all being fulfilled. John had committed every crime he
                  so sadly foresaw. He had lost his honor as a man and a soldier for this woman's
                  love—the wife of another man. Near by, hidden in the thicket of scrubby bushes,
                  the lovers, had they been en garde and watchful,
                  might have seen two glittering eyes, black as night, but lit with fire of Erebus,
                  bent upon them in eager, fiendish joy. Judy had tracked her prey to its covert.
                  Now she only waited the proper moment to strike death to both; or, at least, death
                  to John and shame to Letty. The lovers parted, and Letty hurried home, drawing her
                  thin shawl around her no longer willowy form. Judy slid out in the dusk and
                  followed her, creeping along in the deep shadow of the fences. Letty was at the
                  supper-table that evening, and ate her supper of milk and hominy with apparent
                  relish. Tilney came in, and, throwing a small brown paper parcel on the table
                  before her, said, 'There, Letty; I went into C—— this evening, and got that d—d
                  quartermaster to let me have a few pounds of coffee for you. It is worth its
                  weight in gold, my girl; so take care of it and make it go as far as you can.'
                  Tilney's voice and manner were kinder than Letty had noticed them since the
                  earliest days of their miserable marriage. The only tender point in the man's
                  nature had been touched. He loved his children, half animal as he was, and he was
                  interested now for Letty. Letty gulped down her milk with a choked sob, and
                  controlling her trembling voice, shaken by her consciousness of guilt, she thanked
                  him. Tilney kissed her forehead, and turning to John, who sat at the table eating
                  his supper, he nodded knowingly, and winked his eye. John felt a surge of
                  tempestuous hatred rush through him. It made him quiver, as he sat half hidden by
                  the table, with his head bent down over his bowl of imitation coffee. He uttered
                  an exclamation, 'D—n!' and pushed his chair back, as if the very hot drink had
                  burnt his mouth, then, rising hastily, he muttered something about looking after
                  the mules, and hastened out of the room. Tilney's conjugal felicities were more
                  than he could endure with patience.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               AMONGST the neighbors of the Tilneys in their new home was a man named William
                  Moore, a wild, reckless sort of a man, who spent his whole time in hunting and
                  chasing in the woods and on the prairies. He was a worthless fellow, given to
                  drink and every bad habit of life. He had a pack of bloodhounds, which were so
                  dangerous that they had to be kept leashed with strong chains, with which he used
                  to hunt deer, and chase long-eared mule rabbits, and I heard it said he sometimes
                  would run down a negro or an escaped prisoner, either from the jail or other
                  places where they were kept during the war. His great occupation and chief
                  delight, when I saw him, were to chase conscripts. I have met him sometimes on the
                  prairie, rushing by at full speed of his mustang, with his fearful pack running
                  after him, with their red tongues hanging out, as they followed him at full speed
                  silently, for they don't bark or yelp or give tongue in coursing, like other dogs.
                  I would shudder to see them. I had a horror of the man, and of his dogs. He was a
                  man over fifty years, with long, grizzled, shaggy hair and beard, always dirty and
                  disgusting to appearance. I often heard people say, 'William Moore would do
                  anything for five dollars.' He was a man without morality or virtue of any sort,
                  except a sort of bull-dog courage and brute force. He had a quarrel with old
                  Tilney about some personal matter, and Moore was a man who never forgave.
               Months passed on. Judy's vengeance was not yet ripe. Letty, as time advanced, sank
                  more and more into a stupid lethargy of mute sufferance. She had grown very
                  silent. Never was heard song from her lips, as in former days. Even when Judy and
                  Tilney had been most cruel, one could sometimes hear from her lips, when alone,
                  the gay chansant of her Acadian home. She
                  scarcely ever spoke to any one. She moved slowly, and without spirit or life,
                  about her necessary duties. Tilney was kind to her now, but she never lifted her
                  eyes to his, or looked into his face. She did his bidding like a dumb slave, and
                  she clung to John with a clasp of despair.
               The months passed—six—seven months. Letty's time of trial was approaching. Some
                  small offence she gave to Judy precipitated the sword upon Letty's head which had
                  been suspended over it so long a time. One evening Letty was sitting in her own
                  room, sewing, her heart full of dumb wretchedness, when the door was violently
                  thrown open, and her husband came in, his face pale and set with fierce rage. He
                  made one stride to where she sat, and seized her by the arm, jerked her from her
                  seat, and cast her forcibly against the floor. He stood as if he meant to crush
                  her under his feet. He lifted his foot and kicked her; but he did not stamp upon
                  her, as Letty expected, and as he for an instant meant to. She gave a low cry of pain and fear. Tilney drew back
                  his foot.
               'No, God d—n you! get up, vile woman! I'll not kill you right off. I'll torture
                  your life out of you. I'll make you die by inches, till you'll pray to be put an
                  end to. I know all your tricks, and the deceit of that d—d scoundrel! I'll be even
                  with you both! Mark me! No man nor woman ever wronged Jack Tilney and escaped
                  vengeance, and you won't. Get up!'
               Letty struggled to rise, but she was not able. Tilney had hurt her. She sank with
                  a moan back on the floor. Tilney seized her by the shoulders, dragged her up, and
                  flung her violently on the bed. Letty screamed as she fell. The physical agony was
                  too great for constraint. John heard her. He had just come in from the field. He
                  sprang into the house, and dashed in the plank board door by main force. Tilney
                  had bolted it inside.
               'God! are you murdering her?' exclaimed John, as he saw Letty writhing on the bed,
                  and Tilney standing over her.
               Tilney's reply was an oath, and he turned towards John and tried to strike him.
                  John caught his arm, and, grappling him, lifted him fairly up from his feet and
                  flung him out of the room. Tilney fell with a crash. Judy came running, screaming;
                  the children yelled; some of the men rushed in from the lot adjoining the house,
                  on hearing the cries of fright. Judy was hanging on to John's arms, as he stood
                  over Tilney's prostrate body, vainly endeavoring to disembarrass himself from her.
                  The children clung around his legs, biting and scratching like young tigers. Three
                  of the men seized hold of John and held him fast, while others lifted Tilney and
                  bore him off to Judy's room.
               'Let me go!' said John; 'I'll not harm him just now. Let me go!'
               "No," said the men, "you must go away out of the house now, until you get cool.
                  What was you an' the ole man a fightin' about, anyhow?"
               'God! let me go!' shouted John, almost beside himself, as he heard Letty moan.
                  'He's killed her, I believe!"
               'Lord! who is it he's done killed?' asked the negroes, still holding John in a
                  grasp he could not escape from.
               'Letty, I tell you! Letty!'
               'Now, look here, Mass John! 'taint none o' your bizness to go to interfarin'
                  'tween a man an' his wife. Wimmen have to be licked sometimes to keep 'em
                  straight. I gives it to my wife, sometimes, an' does her good, too. Now, you'll
                  come along with us, an' I'll send Zara up to see arter the mistress.'
               They were resolute; so John had to yield and be marched out of the house,
                  ignominiously pinioned on each side by a powerful negro man, with the third
                  walking behind him, ready to aid if the prisoner showed any insubordination. They
                  took him down to a cabin not far off, and upon his agreeing to keep quiet, they
                  sent the woman Zara, a kind creature, to see after Letty.
               'For God's sake, come back and tell me how she is!' said John, beseechingly, to
                  the woman.
               John spent an anxious half hour walking up and down the narrow log cabin, watched
                  by the three captors, when Zara returned with comforting intelligence. She said
                  Letty was better; that the fall had given her intense momentary pain, but she had
                  fallen on her arm, and had only sprained her wrist a little. She had bathed it and
                  pulled it straight, and wrapped it in cold cloths, and Letty was lying quiet now.
                  Tilney, she said, was still in Judy's room, and his head was hurt, but not so very
                  much, Judy said.
               'Men,' said John, 'I'll give you ten dollars apiece if you'll let me speak only
                  once to Letty. You can go with me to the door, and I'll come right out of the
                  house, and I give you my word I'll not speak to or see Tilney to-night.'
               The men consulted together, and consented, if John would 'fork over the money
                  right off,' to grant his request.
               'Well, go just with me to my room, and I'll get you the money; then you'll go to
                  Mrs. Tilney's room with me.'
               They agreed. John gave them the money out of his trunk, which he unlocked, taking
                  advantage of the moment to slip his revolver into his pocket, as they examined the
                  silver pieces one by one, for they would not take paper money. They insisted on
                  Mexican dollars. Then they accompanied John to Letty's door. He went in alone.
                  They heard him speak in a smothered tone, and listened to Letty's whispered reply,
                  but they could not catch the words.
               John said, 'My darling! are you much hurt?'
               'No!' whispered Letty, 'not much now! But he's going to kill me. He said so. I
                  know he will. I am so afraid!'
               'Don't be afraid!' said John. 'Can't you let me carry you to Zara's cabin? She'll
                  look after you, and I'll watch over you, and it is more than that old devil will
                  dare to do to come near you. To-morrow, if you are able to travel, I'll take you
                  away from here—some place where you'll be safe.'
               Letty made no reply, but held out her arms. John took her up and walked slowly and
                  carefully out of the door, carrying her past the astonished negroes, who, however,
                  made no effort to stop him, but followed in his wake to Zara's cottage. John laid
                  Letty down on the humble bed.
               'Zara,' he said, 'you belong to me, you know, not to Tilney. If you'll take care
                  of Miss Letty I'll give you your freedom, papers and all, when I go away from here
                  with her.'
               Zara said, 'Sure, I'll do it an' thank you, too, master, 'specially if you'll stay
                  about and keep us from harm.'
               John laughed lightly and pulled out his revolver, and made the cock click as he
                  held it.
               Zara shook her head approvingly. 'All right, sir! I'll do my part.'
               John dismissed the negro men, making oath not to go near the house where Tilney
                  was, and the men believed him, knowing he would not be likely to quit Letty.
               He sat down outside the cabin all night, revolver in hand.
               But Tilney never came near him. Judy kept him informed of all of John's
                  proceedings.
               The next morning John got two horses of his own from the stable-yard, put Letty's
                  saddle on one of them, and his own on another. He sent one of the men into the
                  house for his trunk, which he placed in the care of one of his own negroes. He
                  took out a considerable sum of money he
                  had in his trunk in a bag, and fastened it around his waist. Then he made Letty
                  eat some breakfast, tied her sun-bonnet and shawl on her, and lifted her into her
                  saddle, taking her bridle reins in his left hand. She said she was able to ride,
                  and she was very impatient to get away. She was in mortal fear of Tilney. John
                  carried her off through the woods ten miles to William Moore's shanty, where he
                  thought he could rely on Moore's cupidity to keep Letty safe for awhile until he
                  might seek a better asylum for her.
               Moore was lounging before his shanty when John rode up with his unwonted
                  companion. In a few brief sentences John explained the position of affairs. Moore
                  gave a shrill whistle, then a laugh.
               'So you have got into a fine mess of a quarrel! Well, bring her in. Women make the
                  devil's own broth in this world, I do believe! Down, Jingo, down! Out of the way,
                  Towser!' speaking authoritatively to his dreadful dogs, who came sniffling around
                  John rather maliciously. William Moore led the way into his rough shanty. But it
                  was a paradise to Letty. She felt safe with John and this great wild man, and his
                  fierce dogs guarding the hovel on the outside. So she smiled and cowered down
                  almost cheerfully near the fire, which Moore struck into a fresh blaze, throwing
                  on some pine knots and kicking the embers together with his foot. She was very
                  tired and very hungry. She ate eagerly of the bread and meat Moore proffered
                  her—corn bread and fresh venison—which he kept his larder always supplied with,
                  when it was in season, by his hunting.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE next morning Moore and John Caldwell started off to ride into C—— to buy some
                  more delicate provisions needful for Letty, as John thought. They left Letty safe
                  in the care of the big dogs, which Moore turned loose on the outside of the hut,
                  warning Letty not to venture out during their absence. They had gotten within a
                  few miles of their destination—John had begun to be cheerful, laughing and talking
                  with wild Bill Moore—when, just as they entered a dark forest road, which lasted
                  for two miles, they espied a man riding leisurely on in front of them. Will Moore
                  had been saying something about Tilney, and John replied with an oath 'that he
                  would like to kill the old devil. He would give five thousand dollars if he was
                  dead and out of everybody's way.'
               The man riding before them turned his head. It was Tilney. John recognized the
                  long, shaggy, gray locks.
               'God! it is Tilney!' he exclaimed.
               At the same instant, Tilney saw who his pursuers, as he supposed, were. Wheeling
                  his horse suddenly round, he drew out his pistol, and shot at John. The bullet
                  whistled past John's head, and buried itself in a maple tree just behind him. John
                  spurred his horse forward, and fired his revolver at Tilney. Tilney wavered in his
                  saddle, but grasping the mane of his horse, he fired again, this time hitting John
                  in the right arm. John seized his pistol in his left hand, but his aim, from the
                  awkwardness of handling of the weapon, and from weakness caused by loss of blood
                  which begun to flow from his wound, made him miss Tilney. The next moment, both
                  combatants were lying on the ground, fallen off their horses, both fainting from
                  severe wounds.
               'Devil!' said William Moore, 'here's a nice kettle of fish!'
               Springing from his horse, he went to John Caldwell and freed his foot from the
                  stirrup, where it was still dragging, and looked at John's arm, whence the blood
                  was slowly oozing. William tied it up with John's handkerchief; then, leaving
                  John, he went up to Tilney. Tilney had fallen clear of his horse, and was lying
                  over on his face in a dead swoon. He was shot in the shoulder. The bullet had
                  passed through, breaking the collar-bone and coming out behind the shoulder blade.
                  As Moore turned him over on his back, the old man sighed and opened his eyes.
               'Still alive! d—n you!' muttered Moore. 'I'll just finish you, and make Caldwell
                  pay me the five thousand dollars!' and the ruffian pulled out his hunting-knife
                  and cut the old man's throat as coolly as if it had been that of a buck. Then he
                  wiped his knife on his victim's coat, and put it back in the sheath. Then he
                  proceeded to rifle Tilney's pockets of their contents. While he was engaged in
                  this work, John Caldwell came to his senses, lifted himself upon his left arm, and
                  called feebly to Moore.
               'God, Moore! is he dead?'
               'Yes,' said Moore, 'dead enough! I finished him! so you'll have to shell out the
                  five thousand, old fellow!'
               John groaned and sank back on the ground. 'My God, Moore, how could you do it in
                  cold blood? The man was a fiend, but he was old.'
               'Bother! d—n your softheartedness! You wanted him dead, and he is dead, and I am
                  going to have my money; but we had better get out of this! Can you ride?'
               'Yes.'
               'Get up, then. Let me catch your horse for you. Now, let me help you.'
               Moore put his hand out to aid John in mounting. John shrank back from the touch of
                  his bloodstained hand. Moore laughed, seized John with both hands, and pushed him
                  up on to the saddle.
               'Booh! you are very squeamish. What is it to you, if I don't mind?—and I
                     don't mind. He wasn't fit to live. I did a good job in putting an
                  end to the old miscrayant! But ride up; we must get on back home. Come! I know a
                  way through the woods.' Moore dashed the rowels of his huge Mexican spurs into his
                  horse's flanks, and fled, by a path known only to himself, the nearest route to
                  his shanty. John followed as closely as his pain and weakness permitted.
               They made some excuse to Letty for John's having shot himself accidentally with
                  his pistol. Moore had some skill in treating wounds. He soon dressed John's arm,
                  so it was comparatively comfortable, then went to rest himself. John tossed on his
                  rude bed of hay and skins, in fever from his wound, harassed with mental anxiety
                  and anguish. Letty sat by, soothing him as well as she could; but sometimes John
                  would push her away from him, as if he almost loathed her; then he would snatch
                  her to him and cover her face and hands with burning kisses of love and
                  despair.
               
               'Letty, Letty,' he moaned, 'you have cost me dear, my Letty!'
               William Moore slept quietly as an infant, with his arms peacefully crossed over
                  his breast. He had no instinct of conscience nor of remorse. He had lived with
                  Apaches and fought with Mexicans too much for that.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               IN the afternoon of the day following, John was lying on his pallet, groaning from
                  the pain of his wound. Letty was cooling the bandage on it with water. William
                  Moore was sitting on a bench outside of the shanty whistling to his dogs, which
                  were grouped around him, waiting eagerly for the trimmings and entrails of a
                  raccoon that Moore was engaged in skinning and preparing for the pot au feu. Suddenly there rose up a great noise of
                  barking of dogs and shouts of encouragement of men from the forest beyond the hut.
                  Moore laid down his 'coon' and knife and listened intently. Then he sprang to his
                  feet and bounded into the hut.
               'Save yourself, John! I hear the cry of Joe Beaver's cursed dogs, and I recognize
                  the voice of the sheriff, Albert Tyler. They have found the old cuss's body, and
                  have put the dogs on our trail—and, d—n 'em, they're on us. Look out! I'm
                  off.'
               Snatching his gun from the corner where it was standing, catching up his
                  powder-flask and shot-pouch, Moore leaped out of the opening in the logs which
                  served for the back window, and was out of sight in a minute. Letty stood with
                  blanched face and clasped hands.
               'What is it, John? What is it?' she asked.
               John groaned and drew the covering up over his face; he whispered,
               'I can't dodge, Letty; it is no use. I shot Tilney, but I did not kill him. I did
                  not shoot until after he shot me twice.'
               'Was he killed?' and Letty's face grew ghastly wan as she asked the question.
               'Yes.'
               'By Moore?' asked Letty.
               John hesitated. 'I can't say, Letty, if I knew. I fainted dead away when I was
                  shot, and fell off my horse, and when I came to myself Moore was with me and
                  Tilney was dead.'
               "Oh, John! hadn't you better hide? Listen, they are nearly here. John, oh, hide!
                  Come, I can help you. Oh, try to get away! I'll turn the dogs loose, and they'll
                  keep 'em back awhile! John, try to get away!' Before John could stop her Letty was
                  out of the house in the midst of the fierce dogs. They growled and seemed about to
                  spring at her and tear her into pieces. But she went boldly up to the two
                  fiercest, put her hands on the chain which held them, and threw it loose. The dogs
                  sprang out free. Letty spoke to them, and they seemed affected at the sound of her
                  voice. They sniffed around her and crouched at her feet. In a few minutes she had
                  the whole eight loose. Then she sprang back into the door of the hovel and barred
                  it firmly. She uttered a cry of despair, though, when she saw that John had made
                  no attempt to move from his pallet.
               'It's no use, Letty,' he said; 'I couldn't get a hundred yards if I were to try,
                  and I must bide my fate here. I would have killed Tilney in fair fight if I could,
                  but I'll swear I never murdered him in cold blood. If I am taken, I will say that
                  much, at any rate, for myself.'
               Letty wrung her hands. 'Oh, John! oh, John! this all for me! Oh, if I were but
                  dead! before you ever got into this dreadful trouble, and all for me. John! my
                  John!'
               'Come here, Letty.' Letty sat down by the bed. John put his head on her shoulder
                  and his well arm around her. 'Letty, my darling! I hope it may all come out right!
                  But if it don't, try and make your way to Mrs. Dulany. You'll find my money hid
                  under the straw mattress of this bed.' Letty sobbed. She hardly heard what John
                  was saying to her, but the words came back to her and served to guide her poor,
                  distraught mind in the hour of her greatest emergency. Now the baying of the
                  approaching posse of dogs and the cries of the men drew nearer. A moment, and
                  Letty heard the growls of Moore's dogs as the strangers surrounded the house.
                  Their dogs and Moore's plunged into a grand fight in an instant.
               'Come out, Moore! d—n you! come out!' yelled the men as they struck on the window
                  and door with their whip-handles, afraid to dismount on account of Moore's dogs,
                  renowned for their savage fierceness.
               'Go to them, Letty!' said John; 'open the door!' Letty, trembling in every limb,
                  crept to the door and opened it. The men were threatening with dreadful oaths to
                  burn it down and smoke Moore out of his lair, wild beast that he was.
               Their countenances changed when, instead of Moore, the pale, shrinking form of a
                  woman stood before them.
               'Who are you, and where's William Moore?' demanded the leader, the sheriff of the
                  county. Letty hesitated, then replied, tremulously,
               'I am Lettice Tilney, and I don't know where William Moore is.'
               'Oh ho! so you are Lettice Tilney, the wife of old Tilney! And what are you doing
                  here in William Moore's cabin, when your husband is lying murdered on the
                  roadside?' asked the sheriff, sneeringly.
               Letty burst into tears.
               'Indeed, I did not know about it. My husband beat me, and I ran away from him day
                  before yesterday, and came here with John Caldwell.'
               'Umph! and where is John Caldwell?'
               'Inside here, sick,' replied Letty.
               'Call off your dogs, then, and let us in. Shoot the brute's mark!'
               Letty stepped out, and called to the dogs. She was too much frightened not to obey
                  literally. Owing to her strange power over animals, the dogs obeyed and came to
                  her, growling hoarsely. Letty put the chains on their necks; as she did so,
                  weeping hysterically.
               'Shut up, woman!' said the sheriff, 'we don't want you; we want William Moore.
                  This is his handkerchief we got off the bushes near where Tilney lay dead, and the
                  dogs have tracked him straight here; and we mean to have him. A poor old man shall
                  never be murdered in broad daylight, in this county, and the murderer escape, if I
                  can help it. Let us in!' The sheriff got off his horse now, and pushed by Letty
                  into the house. Finding John in bed, he questioned him closely about William
                  Moore, and about his own wound. They had brought Tilney's pistol with them. They
                  had found two barrels of it discharged.
                  It was a revolver. The rest were still loaded. The pistol had fallen beneath the
                  murdered man, and Moore had not moved him from off it as he turned Tilney over on
                  his back, so he had left it lying under the body, and the sheriff had picked it
                  up. The bullets were of a peculiar conical shape. One of the men who had
                  discovered the body, and had notified the sheriff, knew Tilney's bullet mould. He
                  had shot with Tilney's pistol in C—— at a match there not long before. It was a
                  peculiar pistol, of a very long range. Firearms were very valuable at that time in
                  the Confederacy, and Tilney had boasted of and shown off his pistol in C—— to a
                  good many people. The sheriff had found that a bullet from Tilney's pistol had
                  penetrated the trunk of a maple tree near the road. He had seen no traces of the
                  other bullet. He had examined the body of the murdered man, and discovered the
                  wound in the shoulder. 'But that wouldn't have killed him,' said a physician along
                  with the posse. 'His throat was cut.'
               As the sheriff talked with John, seeking explanation of his and Letty's being
                  there, John told him frankly he had had a quarrel with Tilney about his wife, and
                  had brought her off with him to Bill Moore's.
               The sheriff said, 'I'll have to arrest you, Mr. Caldwell, though I have no
                  particular cause of suspicion against you but your being here in Moore's house and
                  in company with Tilney's wife. I know Moore was about when that old man was
                  killed, because that cut of the throat, the doctor says, was made with a
                  bowie-knife, and a big one; and we found on the bushes this handkerchief; it was
                  dragged out of Moore's pocket as he made off from the place, I have no doubt, for
                  we showed the rag to these dogs of Beaver's, and they followed the scent straight
                  as a bee-line right here. It can't be long since Moore left here.' The sheriff got
                  up off the bed where he had sat down while the other men had been searching inside
                  and out of the shanty for traces of Moore, and walked to the back window.
               'Halloo!' cried he suddenly; 'bring them dogs round here under this window. Here's
                  fresh foot-tracks!'
               The men called the dogs, and showed them the trail.
               'Bring his own dogs!' shouted the sheriff.
               'Let the woman bring them! We daren't go near them!' shouted the men in reply.
               'Mrs. Tilney,' said the sheriff, 'you'll have to aid the law. Go unloose the dogs,
                  and fetch 'em here.'
               Letty shrank back in horror. 'Oh! I can't, indeed I can't!' she sobbed.
               'Madam, you must!' and the sheriff took her by the arm, and forced her to the
                  door. 'Unloose the dogs!' he said, sternly. Letty threw the chains loose without a
                  word. The dogs whimpered around her, but snarled if anybody else came near. 'Lead
                  'em round under the window,' said the sheriff. 'Start 'em on the trail.'
               Letty led the largest dog by his collar round the house to the back window. The
                  dog put his nose down to the fresh footprints of his master, and uttered a long,
                  piercing howl.
               'All right!' said the sheriff; 'take your hand off, and let him start. The others
                  will follow. Then go after the dogs, and bring back William Moore, dead or
                  alive!'
               The dog started off from Letty's hand like an arrow loosened from its tension on
                  the bowstring. His companions joined in the cry, and the chase began. Beaver's
                  dogs followed hard after the others, and the men all went, except the sheriff, one
                  other man, John, and Letty.
               They made John get up, put on his coat, using only one sleeve; the other hung over
                  the wounded arm. They were resolved to take him to the county jail.
               'Oh, please let me go, too!' pleaded Letty, weeping pitifully.
               'No, I'll send a man and a woman to look after you, because we may need you yet as
                  a witness in this here transaction. You'll stay here, as you are none too fit to
                  ride, I can see,' said the sheriff.
               So Letty was left alone, in spite of her entreaties—even getting down on her
                  knees, imploring to be taken with John—but the sheriff was inexorable. From the
                  next house, about five miles off, he sent two negroes, a man and a woman, ordering
                  them to stay and watch Letty Tilney until he wanted her presence. So John was
                  carried off to jail.
               They caught Moore the next day, having chased him down with his own dogs. The
                  posse brought him back in triumph to C——.
               There was an immense excitement aroused by the murder of Tilney. 'An old man,' the
                  people said, 'a stranger, and abandoned by his worthless young wife!' for Judy's
                  tongue was clamorous. She told all she knew, and more than she knew. The public
                  feeling was exasperated against John and Letty as violently as against Moore.
                  Though Judy's testimony could not be admitted as evidence against a white man in
                  court, it did its work outside.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE trial came on that same week, as court happened to be in session. Judge
                  Baylor, who presided, was a quiet man of excellent judgment, a great free-mason,
                  and a trustworthy citizen. Every one had confidence in his integrity and good
                  common sense. John had a fair chance of justice before him, but circumstances were
                  strong against both John and Moore. Innisford lived in the same county, and soon
                  heard of the condition his unfortunate friend was in. He came immediately to C——
                  to see what he could do in John's behalf, because in spite of appearances he could
                  not believe John Caldwell guilty of cold-blooded murder; that he might have had a
                  fight with Tilney and have killed him in the heat of passion, he judged very
                  probable, knowing what he did of John's feelings towards Letty. Innisford was not
                  permitted to see John while the trial was pending. He came regularly to the
                  court-house, however, and it added no little to John's pain to see day after day
                  the pale, haggard, anxious face of Innisford among the crowd who pressed into the
                  court-room every morning. It was a very interesting trial. John and Moore had good
                  counsel provided, who did all they could to unravel the tangled skein of evidence,
                  but it grew blacker and blacker for both of them. Judy proved the illicit connection between John and
                  Tilney's wife, the quarrel and its results in John's flight with Letty. Letty was
                  brought under guard and forced to confess that John and Moore had quitted Moore's
                  shanty together on the morning of the murder. Her beauty and despair made a great
                  impression on the jury. By the skilful questions of John's counsel, both she and
                  Judy were forced to give involuntary evidence of the wretched life she had led
                  with Tilney. The surgeon who had examined John's wound in prison produced the
                  bullet which had caused it, and which he had extracted. It was Tilney's bullet!
                  That was clearly proved. The surgeon also testified that it was impossible for a
                  man wounded as the prisoner evidently was, to have dismounted from his horse, to
                  have walked fifty yards, dragged Tilney off his horse, and cut his throat. The
                  shot in Tilney's shoulder, he said, was not a mortal wound. John acknowledged
                  coming across Tilney, and that they had exchanged pistol shots. He said he had
                  fainted and saw no more. He refused to answer any more questions. He said he had
                  no direct evidence as to who cut Tilney's throat. He did not see it done—did not
                  know when it was done. When he came to himself Tilney was dead. He did not go near
                  him. He never was nearer to him than the distance of a pistol shot. He
                  acknowledged his love for Tilney's wife, and that the tyranny with which her
                  husband treated her had made him hate Tilney, but he said he never would have
                  killed the man in cold blood. He might have done it in the heat of passion.
               Moore contested that they could not prove the handkerchief found to have been his.
                  It had no mark. It was a common bandanna handkerchief that was plentiful in any of
                  the stores. The dogs following him were not sufficient proof. They might have
                  taken an accidental trail. He acknowledged starting out with John, but said he had
                  dropped behind, and when he came up he found John lying insensible on the roadside
                  and Tilney dead. He did not know who might have passed by and robbed Tilney, as he
                  was probably also insensible, and lying wounded as John was. As for the cut having
                  been made with a large hunting-knife—he had one, but plenty of other men had
                  hunting knives as well as he. John Caldwell had no knife except an ordinary pocket
                  knife, which the surgeon said could not have made the cut. The defence was very
                  ingenious on the part of the prisoners, and though the popular feeling was
                  deepened against Moore, the jury were divided, and on the judge's summing up they
                  brought in a verdict of not guilty against Moore, and of manslaughter, at the
                  furthest, against John. There was a roar of disapprobation from the crowd when the
                  verdict was announced. The excitement was so intense that the judge ordered the
                  prisoners to be taken back to jail and guarded against the fury of the populace.
                  The men were reconducted to jail. Moore was in high spirits, laughing and joking
                  with the sheriff and officers. John had to be carried, on account of his wound. He
                  was quiet and sad. Innisford was permitted to visit him. He was terribly agitated.
                  He had just heard a rumor that alarmed him greatly. He was told that one hundred
                  men, armed to the teeth—desperate men—were lying in wait in the forest beyond C——.
                  In case the court decided in favor of the prisoners, they meant to take the law
                  into their own hands and lynch the prisoners. They were led by one Hughes, a
                  nephew of Tilney's. Innisford knew what Texas Regulators were, and he went to the
                  sheriff and told him of the rumor. The sheriff said he would double or treble the
                  guards, and do all he could to protect the prisoners. Innisford told John what he
                  had heard. John turned pale.
               'Innisford,' he said, 'you have been true and good to me. You would have saved me
                  if you could have done it, I know, but it was my fate to love Letty! I love her
                  still, but it may be I shall not get out of this alive! I swear to you I did not
                  kill Tilney. I shot him, but I did not cut his throat. He shot me twice. What I
                  said at the court is true, so God have mercy on my miserable soul! But I don't
                  believe I will escape. I have the presentiment I shall not. Promise me one thing!
                  If they will hang me, as they will if they take me, don't let me die
                  a dog's death. If you can—before the rope is swung up—give me a drop of quick
                  poison! Will you? It is my last wish!'
               Innisford refused, but John pleaded, and before Innisford quitted him he had
                  promised to do what John asked in extremis.
               
               The night passed quietly. The judge wrote out an order for Moore's release and for
                  John's commitment to the penitentiary for five years that night, and sent it to
                  the sheriff. The next morning at daybreak the sheriff went to the jail, where he
                  had had a double guard kept all night, to fulfil his orders, but he found the jail
                  surrounded by a hundred armed men, and his guards prisoners. He was seized
                  himself, and, in spite of his protests, was locked up in one of his own cells.
               'Don't make a fuss, sheriff,' said the leader Hughes. 'We don't want to hurt you,
                  and we don't mean to have any night work, or to do this thing in a corner. We mean
                  to keep order in this county, and not have men killed every day on the high road.
                  Those two men murdered my uncle, no matter what the court says, and they shall
                  swing for it this very day!'
               After disposing of the sheriff and his men, the lynch gang waited quietly around
                  the jail until ten o'clock, until the citizens all came from their breakfasts and
                  life was stirring all through the little town. The jail and court-house occupied a
                  square of open ground right in the centre of the town, and there were some tall
                  trees planted around the square to shade it. There was soon an immense concourse
                  of people in the square and about the jail. Innisford ran to the square, mounted a
                  horse-block, and made a vehement appeal to the crowd to help him to protect the
                  helpless prisoners, and to keep up the majesty of the civil law. But his eloquent,
                  impassioned pleadings were in vain. He might as well have spoken to the wind as to
                  the stolid crowd who listened to him. Their sympathies were all with Hughes and
                  Tilney. Soon the hundred men formed themselves into an orderly body. No one moved
                  to stay them, nor to speak to them, except Innisford. He sprang down from the block, and hid his face in
                  his hands, shuddering as heavy blows were heard proceeding from the jail, and a
                  cry as of a chained wild beast broke wildly from William Moore's lips, as the huge
                  oaken door of the cell was stove in, and the resolute men seized hold of John and
                  of his companion. John said not a word, uttered no cry; except when the man took
                  him roughly by his lame arm, he winced. 'Take the other arm,' he said; 'that is
                  wounded!' The man let go the wounded arm and seized the other. John walked feebly
                  between them. They put Moore and John on horses, tying their feet below the
                  horses' bellies, and then formed the sad procession. They marched solemnly,
                  without word or outery, around the square, the crowd looking on. Some
                  faint-hearted men turned away, sickened at the sight. Moore cried, struggled,
                  cursed, blasphemed, begged, entreated abjectly for mercy. Not a word was answered.
                  Silently they were marched to their doom. John's face was pale and his lips were
                  set hard, but he said nothing. The horses upon which they were tied were led each
                  under a tree with outspreading limbs, upon which two ropes had been noosed. The
                  gibbets were ready for the victims. Hughes came forward: 'If there is a preacher
                  in the crowd, let him come forward and say a prayer for these men.'
               There was no preacher, but Innisford stepped out.
               'For God's sake!' he said, 'let me speak to Caldwell! He is my friend!'
               Hughes made way.
               'Speak!' he said, 'but don't speak long. We have no time to spare, for the
                  military will be here in two hours, and our work must be done.'
               Innisford put his arms around John, as he sat bound on the horse.
               'John,' he said, as the tears streamed down his face, 'John, is there anything I
                  can do now for you?'
               'Do what you promised. You have done all you could. Take care of poor Letty, if
                  you can, for my sake. Kiss me, and good-bye. I deserve to die. I broke God's laws,
                  but I did not kill Tilney. Kiss me, and give me that.'
               John bent his head down. Innisford kissed him. John opened his lips. Innisford's
                  hand went towards his mouth. It was only a gesture of farewell, the people
                  thought. 'God help you, John, and forgive me!' said Innisford.
               He stepped back. Hughes resumed his hold on the bridle, took the noose, as it
                  swung loose, and put it over John's head. John swayed in his seat and sank forward
                  heavily on to his horse's neck.
               'He has swooned,' said the crowd.
               Hughes gave the signal. At one instant both Moore and John were hoisted in the
                  air, and the horses were led from under them. Moore struggled convulsively. John
                  fell heavy and straight, without the movement of a muscle, and hung a dead
                  weight.
               'He died easy, any how,' said the crowd, beginning to disperse. 'The other fellow
                  had a hard time.'
               Innisford succeeded in getting the bodies after they had hung an hour. They were
                  cut down and given to him. Hughes flung the keys of the jail on the ground,
                  saying,
               'You had better let the sheriff out,' and galloped off.
               The military came, but too late for any use. Hughes was gone, and no one could or
                  would identify any man of the Regulators.
               The next day Innisford started to find Letty, according to his promise to John.
                  After the trial she had been sent back to Moore's shanty. Innisford found the
                  negro man and woman there, but they told him that in the night after the men had
                  been hung, Hughes and six others had ridden up to the shanty and told Letty,
                  sternly, what they had just done, and they ordered her to leave the county and the
                  State immediately, unless she wished to share the same fate.
               The woman said, 'Letty was very scared; that she had gotten right up out of bed,
                  and put on her clothes, her sun-bonnet and shawl, in a sort of a dogged way,
                  saying,
               'Yes! John said I was to go to Madame Rosalthe. I will go.'
               She got on her horse, taking a small bundle and some bread and meat with her, and
                  she had gone off in the night, they did not know where to. Innisford started off
                  in search of her. He travelled every road to the Texas line, and could find no
                  trace of her. So he had to give up the search after spending two weeks in it. He
                  went home, and was very ill for several weeks from fatigue and grief. His wife
                  told me that in his delirium he raved continually of John, and he said,
               'It is prussic acid, in a globule, I tell you! It is the quickest way to die.
                  Don't hang him! Have you no souls, men? The Lord forgive us all!'
               She never could make any sense out of his ravings, but from what I heard from him
                  and others afterwards, I did. I was told by the surgeon who saw the bodies after
                  they were hung, that John's face was perfectly calm and white, not surcharged with
                  blood, as is usual in suffocation, and that there was a strange smell of burnt
                  almonds about him.
               'I think,' he said, 'he had taken prussic acid, and died instantaneously. He did
                  not suffer much.'
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               AS soon as Innisford was able to do it, he came to see me. I was living very
                  quietly about fifty miles off from C——; was very much absorbed in the care of my
                  husband, whose health was fast failing. I saw no one but the physician in
                  attendance, and read no papers except the Houston Telegraph. It was in that I saw,
                  about three weeks after Letty's flight, a meagre account of the trial and its
                  succeeding incidents. I was anxious to hear more about it, especially on account
                  of Letty, and had just dispatched a servant on horseback to take a letter to
                  Innisford from me, when he rode up to my door. He was looking wretched, and was
                  much overcome by his feelings when narrating the melancholy story to me. He had
                  been in hopes that Letty had come to me, but she had not been seen by any one. I
                  put advertisements describing her, and offering rewards for any information given
                  concerning her, in all the local newspapers; but we never got any news of her. My
                  husband died. The war was ended by Lee's surrender. We refugees returned to our
                  desolated homes. I arrived at the house of a friend who had preceded me, about three miles from my river
                  plantation. It was in August. The whole country had been lying fallow, without
                  fences or habitations, since the beginning of the war. The houses had all been
                  burnt during the march of Grant's army on Vicksburg. My own, I knew, was burnt,
                  but I had a desire to look upon its ruins. I had spent many happy hours there
                  during my brief married life. I borrowed a saddle-horse from my friend, for there
                  were no longer any carriage roads or bridges left in the country. A servant man
                  accompanied me. When I reached the spot where my gate formerly stood, I told the
                  man to ride on and see if any of the negro quarters were standing, for I wished to
                  be alone when I first surveyed the ruins of my home. I had left some of my most
                  trustworthy slaves on the plantation, and I hoped some of them might still be
                  living. Among them was Dorcas, the plantation sick nurse, a most excellent, kindly
                  mulatto woman, in whom I had always reposed much confidence. The weeds and bushes
                  were grown up higher than my head on horseback, so that I made my way through them
                  with considerable difficulty, until I reached the spot cumbered with the débris of my once spacious home. I had been quite
                  brave up to that moment, but at the sight of the crumbling ruins laid in piles of
                  ashes, bits of brick and white marble scattered all around me, my strength gave
                  way. I put my hands up to my face and wept bitterly. I had wept myself calmer, and
                  was lifting up my head to look about me further, when I heard a rustling among the
                  weeds which covered what was once my flower-garden, and soon the tall bushes
                  parted near me, and Dorcas emerged from them. She had a small bundle in her arms.
                  When she got close to me, I saw it was an infant that she held, a white child six
                  months old. Dorcas was overjoyed to see me, and told a history of her trials and
                  hardships during the war. Then she picked up the child, which she had laid down
                  under the shade of a tree near by, and said,
               'Mistress, you'll have to take this poor baby. Its mother done dead, and I've done
                  all I could for it till now.'
               'Whose child is it, Dorcas?'
               'Miss Tilney's.'
               Then Dorcas told me all she knew. It seemed that Letty, frightened nearly out of
                  her senses by Hughes's threats, and almost insane with grief, had fled to
                  Louisiana, thinking she would find me there where I had lived. She did not know of
                  my removal to Texas. She had travelled only by night, letting her horse feed in
                  sequestered spots during the day. She had slept herself during daylight,
                  occasionally venturing out of her secret paths to buy some bread for herself and
                  food for her horse. She never approached a white person, but she got food and
                  assistance from the negroes, who would even let her warm herself at the cabin
                  fires. So she had fled for two months, until one cold, wet night, Dorcas said, she
                  heard a faint knock at her cabin door, where was the only light visible in the
                  deserted quarter, and, on opening it, she found a woman standing before it,
                  holding a horse's bridle. Both horse and woman looked worn out and exhausted by
                  long travel. It was Letty. She asked after me. Dorcas told her I had gone away to
                  Texas. Then Letty threw her hands up, and screamed and wept. Dorcas said her brain
                  was clearly disturbed. She could not make out exactly what she wanted, but she
                  made her come in, sent her old husband out to take care of the horse, then she
                  busied herself with Letty. As soon as the light fell full on her face, Dorcas
                  recognized her as Mrs. Tilney, whom she had seen visiting me. Letty sat now on a
                  stool before the fire, apparently stupid from fitigue and pain. Dorcas saw that
                  she was very wet and cold. It had been raining nearly all day. Dorcas stripped off
                  Letty's wet clothes, and put some of her own coarse, dry clothes on her. She
                  rubbed her feet and her hands, and made her get into her bed, and covered her with
                  blankets. Letty was in a shaking chill. She had submitted without a word to all
                  that Dorcas said and did for her.
               'Lord! mistress,'said the faithful woman, 'it was the pitifullest sight to see
                  her! She warn't nothin' but skin and bone—and in her condition, too! Her baby was
                  born before mornin'. I worked on her as well as I knowed how, poor creetur! and
                  with sage tea and bread I managed to keep her alive. She didn't notice her child
                  at all, at first; but when I put it in her arms and it cried, she giv a leetle
                  screech, an' hugged it up, and cried over it. Then she begun to get better. She
                  was a mighty strong constitution of a woman, for she had rid all the way from
                  Texas on horseback, an' that would 'a killed most women dead. I had managed to
                  pick up a cow out of the woods—one o' yourn—an' I had kept her hid. My ole man
                  made me a little bit o' cow-pen in the woods, over on the mound, an' I used to go
                  over an' milk her there every day, so I had milk for the child an' the
                  mother.'
               To make Dorcas's long story short, Letty had recovered her strength so as to walk
                  around, and seemed to be quite happy nursing her babe, which was never out of her
                  arms, 'but her mind was never exactly right about other things.' Dorcas said she
                  would sit for hours with her eyes fixed, her arms mechanically clasping her child,
                  and never move her eyes from the floor, or from the ground, if she happened to be
                  out of doors. She seemed to have no recollection of anything that happened in
                  Texas. If Dorcas asked about her husband, she would shake her head and frown, and
                  say, 'Judy'll hear you!' If Dorcas mentioned me, she would say, 'Yes, I am to go
                  to Madame Rosalthe. He said it.'
               If Dorcas asked 'who he was that said it,' she would blush and laugh,
                  and play with her baby's fingers. Dorcas asked her what was the baby's name.
               She looked up quickly, and said almost angrily,
               'You know it is Jean—mon petit Jean.' Dorcas did
                  not know this was French for John, so she called the child Jan.
               The child was delicate, and they had trouble with it. It would sometimes have
                  convulsions, and Dorcas told me its back was rather crooked. The hardships its
                  mother endured had told upon the child.
               Letty was fond of taking her babe and walking out into the woods about the
                  plantation, and Dorcas let her go, always keeping a watch over her to see she did
                  not wander away too far. These poor old negroes were very good to Letty, no one
                  ever came to disturb them, and they all
                  lived on together quietly. Dorcas had fitted up, in a poor way, a room in one of
                  the cabins for Letty, and she seemed quite satisfied. She said, 'Madame Rosalthe
                  would soon come home, and she would wait for her here.'
               Time passed on. It was just three weeks before my return that Letty took her child
                  and went out to walk as usual, one fine morning. She did not come back at noon to
                  dinner, so Dorcas started out to look for her. She called to her loudly, 'Miss
                  Letty! Miss Letty!' but no response came. Sometimes Letty would imitate her, and
                  reply sportively to her, 'Aunt Darkey! Aunt Darkey!' but this morning there was no
                  answer to Dorcas's cry. Dorcas went on searching by the former old road. Seeing
                  footprints like Letty's, she followed them. They led her through the wood, down
                  the road to the Water Hole. The child lay wrapped in Letty's shawl, at the foot of
                  a tree about one hundred yards from the pool, and on the pool Dorcas saw floating,
                  face downward, as the bodies of drowned women always do float, poor Letty. Dorcas
                  went to the edge of the pool, and managed to catch a portion of her frock-skirt
                  with a hooked stick, then by main force she dragged the body to the shore, and
                  hauled it out of the water. Letty was dead. Whether she had fallen in
                  accidentally—her foot had perhaps slipped, as she stooped to drink—God only knows.
                  Dorcas carried the child home, and she and her old husband dug a grave and buried
                  Letty near the pool. They had not strength to bear her away from it.
               'Else, mistress, I'd a buried the poor thing decenter, in your own flower-garden,'
                  said Dorcas.
               This was the story Dorcas told me. I received the orphan child in my arms, and
                  bore it back with me to my friends. In a few days, after seeing about making
                  provision for Dorcas and her husband, and rewarding their fidelity and humanity, I
                  took the packet to New Orleans, and from thence to my maisonnette, taking the child with me. The infant had a very lovely
                  face, but it was deformed—it had curvature of the spine. It is un petit bossu, but very intelligent and winning. I
                  gave it to a very dear friend of mine, who devotes her life to the care of orphan
                  foundlings. I had given her a house near mine, on the Vermilion Bay, for the use
                  of herself and her orphans. She lives there yet, with four other ladies who assist
                  her. I changed the name of the little child, not wishing to have any painful
                  remarks made in its hearing by our Acadians. Everybody in la petite Cadie knows the Mother Blanche and her little flock, and
                     le petit bossu is a universal favorite, and
                  comes in for a double share of friendly gifts and courtesies. When I am at my
                     maisonnette, in summer, I spend many of my
                  hours with Blanche and her children."
               
               "Is it Blanche Bénit you speak of?" asked Emma, who was visibly weeping over the
                  latter portion of Madame Dulany's tale.
               "Yes. Blanche Bénit, la mère Blanche," replied
                  Mrs. Dulany. "She is a widow, still young, and very lovely, but she has withdrawn
                  entirely from the world, and given herself up to this work of charity."
               "What a Protestant she is!" said Arthur.
               "Yes! a Protestant, but I have no prejudices," said Mrs. Dulany.
               Athalie had not spoken, had scarcely moved during the partial reading and partial
                  narration of Mrs. Dulany. She sat looking into the fire, her hands clasped in her
                  lap, lost in thought. Col. Von Lingard was quiet, too, and so was Benny.
               Arthur roused himself, with an affected laugh.
               "Bless me, Rosalthe! you have given us all the blues with that tragic tale. Phew!
                  Let us go to the dining-room and have a hot punch and some oysters, and get put
                  into better spirits!"
               Emma sprang up, and Mrs. Dulany, smiling, put back her manuscript, and led the way
                  into the dining-room. All the others followed, except Athalie, who said she had a
                  slight headache, and would beg leave to retire. Col. Von Lingard looked at Athalie
                  as she quitted the studio, but he did not speak to her. He followed Arthur and
                  Benny, who were talking and laughing as they descended the staircase to the
                  dining-room.
               "Rosalthe, don't you think the blessed Blanche a little crazy yet?" asked Arthur,
                  stirring his punch.
               "Good heavens, Arthur, how you talk!" exclaimed Emma.
               "Ah well! I know she is a saint, and all that. But I saw her last summer in her
                  snowy white gowns and all those dreadful little children about her, and I regarded
                  her as still a little cracked," said Arthur, mischievously.
               Mrs. Dulany laughed. Arthur was a privileged person, and said what he pleased to
                  her.
               "Mrs. Dulany," said Benny, seriously, pouring out a wineglassful of steaming punch
                  from his little tankard, "do you know I really do believe in one constant,
                  enduring, even if hopeless love."
               "So do I!" observed Von Lingard, sipping his hot punch with a teaspoon.
               Rosalthe looked at the two men steadily, and answered thoughtfully, "I like the
                  teaching of the Swedenborgians on this subject. They say that the soul must be
                  educated in this life for the perennial 'conjugi-al' love of the
                  next; that the love for one must be carefully encouraged and
                  developed. I have the same dislike to the dissipation of emotion and the depravity
                  of imagination inevitably produced by inconstant and ephemeral loves, that I have
                  for bodily impurity and debauchery. Coquetry and love of change are destructive of
                  all the higher and finer sensations of the soul and affections. And inasmuch as
                  mental corruption is worse than physical, so do I hate frivolity and inconstancy.
                  And it is better to love one unhappily than to love many successfully, or not to
                  love at all."
               "Don't you think the Germans teach a very low and unworthy idea of love in their
                  books?" asked Emma. "They make their heroes and heroines experience a half dozen
                  passions for different people, and then wind up with a very homely marriage and a
                  picture of 'Dutch still-life.'"
               "They are true to love, as Goethe said of himself, but not to love's object," said
                  Arthur.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE maid had fixed the nightlamp which always burned in Mrs. Dulany's
                  dressing-room, and had bidden her
                  mistress good-night. Mrs. Dulany lay in a semi-conscious state, between sleeping
                  and waking. She had been powerfully moved herself in narrating the story she had
                  told that evening to her guests. Memories had been stirred painfully in her soul,
                  and she was trying to calm herself before sinking into slumber. It was late,
                  almost two o'clock. She had heard the clock strike hour by hour, in her
                  half-trance, when there came a knock at her door.
               "Rosalthe! Mrs. Dulany!"
               It was Athalie's voice. Mrs. Dulany arose and unlocked her door. Athalie entered,
                  carrying her night lamp in her hand. She was in her night-dress, her bare feet
                  thrust into her soft chamber slippers. She had thrown a dressing-gown of bright
                  flannel over her white nightgown. Her magnificent hair streamed over her shoulders
                  down to her knees. Her face was flushed and her eyes swollen with weeping. Mrs.
                  Dulany told her to come in, and she re-fastened the door. Athalie set her lamp
                  down on the table, and, clasping her hands together, said, with quivering
                  lips,
               "Rosalthe, you told that story to-night with a purpose; I understand; but I am in
                  that condition of mind when one has lost the power to will—and you must save me,
                  save me from myself, from my own heart, Rosalthe!"
               Athalie put up her hands and wept bitterly. Mrs. Dulany was an artist as well as a
                  woman, and she could not help thinking, "What a study for a Magdalen!" But she was
                  a tender woman, too, so she simply took hold of Athalie's hands, and drew her
                  towards her.
               "How cold you are, Athalie!" she said; "you are in a nervous chill. Come, get into
                  my bed with me, and let me cover you up warmly, and give you a few drops of
                  camphor water. Then I'll talk to you."
               She drew off the flannel gown from Athalie, and took off the slippers from her
                  white feet, and made her get into the bed. Then she got some camphor drops for
                  her, stirred up the fire, and warming the flannel gown, she wrapped it around her
                  cold feet, just as if she was comforting a child. Athalie's convulsive sighs grew
                  slower and rarer. Then Mrs. Dulany got into the bed herself, and put her arms
                  around Athalie. Athalie buried her face in Mrs. Dulany's warm bosom.
               "Oh, Rosalthe! Rosalthe!" was all she could say.
               "Athalie," replied Mrs. Dulany, "I know what you are suffering, and what you want.
                  Listen to me. You must go away from here while"—she hesitated, then said, "You
                  must go for awhile until you are stronger. You belong to me for another month, you
                  know. By that time your husband will be returned, and you must go home." Athalie
                  shuddered in Mrs. Dulany's arms. Mrs. Dulany continued firmly: "There are times in
                  the lives of all of us weak mortals when others, calmer and more cool, can judge
                  what is best and right for us to do. You are safe with me, Athalie. You know that.
                  Uncle's steamboat is in order now. He is to make a trial trip with her to-morrow,
                  preparatory to the grand hunt. I shall direct him to run into the Red River and
                  down the Atchafalaya. You will go with him—Benny shall go, too. You and Benny will
                  take the boat across to Vermilion Bay, and Benny will accompany you to my maisonnette on Vermilion Bay. You must go there to
                  Blanche Bénit. It will do you a great deal of good. I have some old servants at
                  the maisonnette, and old Henriette, my Acadian
                  housekeeper, lives in one wing of the house. She is a devotee to her religion, and
                  quiet as a mouse. She will give you protection, but not companionship, which is
                  what you will wish. There are plenty of books there, but you will find your chief
                  medicine in the society of Blanche Bénit, and her little suffering orphans. She
                  lives not more than a mile from the maisonnette.
                  You know her story. A young widow with a handsome fortune, who has devoted herself
                  to the care of sick children, incurable foundlings, who could not have such tender
                  attention in the asylums of the cities. Blanche is the most perfect character I
                  have ever known among women. It strengthens me to be with her. I have often
                  thought, Athalie, that there was something in the idea of the Swedenborgians about
                  the emanations and atmosphere of certain people; nothing impure or unrighteous can
                  exist in the atmosphere which surrounds Blanche Bénit, and yet she is the
                  incarnation of tenderness and loving kindness. I shall only write recommending you
                  to her love and care. You need tell her nothing of your peculiar trial. It is not
                  necessary. Confidences on such points often only weaken. You will derive good from
                  her and strength from her every hour that you pass with her. Such nobleness as
                  hers does its ministering silently, but most surely. It is thus that women can
                  help each other towards right. Will you go, Athalie?"
               "Yes, I will go."
               Mrs. Dulany continued, "Benny will leave you and return here. It is better you
                  should be alone. 'The sick soul must medicine itself.' You will find health in the
                  salt breezes, and meditation will grow calm and sweet in the presence of the vast
                  sea. You will see something of my simple-hearted people, too. There is a pony
                  carriage, if you should wish to drive. Your maid can pack your things to-morrow
                  morning. The boat will leave at noon. You can have a headache until you set off
                  quietly. I will make your adieux properly. It is best to avoid partings."
               Athalie was silent. Her heart rebelled, but her reason said Mrs. Dulany was
                  right.
               "I will do as you say," she said, tremulously. "But, Rosalthe, you will write me.
                  I should like to know"—she hesitated—"I should like to know how all are here."
               "I will write you regularly, Athalie, and tell you everything," said Mrs. Dulany.
                  She was too wise "to seek to quench the fire of love with words." She knew "the
                  more thou dammest up, the more it burns." Her morality was high and pure, but it
                  was not fierce nor pharisaic.
               The plan was carried out more easily, because Col. Von Lingard, after a restless
                  night, had slight fever from his wound, and sent an apology for not appearing at
                  the breakfast table. Mrs. Dulany said to the rest of her guests that Athalie had a
                  fancy to visit another friend, and would go off on the Louis d'Or with Mr. Foster
                  and Benny that morning. Miss Clemmy was still suffering from her tooth, and did
                  not notice anything much outside of her own ego.
                  Benny came into her room, where she was
                  sitting with her face swathed in flannels, and told her he was going off with Mr.
                  Foster, but would return to take her back to the city. She was satisfied for him
                  to go. Emma was loud in her regrets at Athalie's departure, but her own visit was
                  nearly over to Mrs. Dulany, so she kissed Athalie au
                     revoir with more equanimity than she could otherwise have done.
                  Arthur complained more than any one. "Why couldn't Athalie stay as long as they
                  did?" Athalie laughed and wept a little as she made her hasty adieux, and with a
                  parting glance at the curtained window of Col. Von Lingard's apartment, where he
                  lay, unconscious of what was passing, she went on board the Louis d'Or. Mr. Foster
                  gave the order, the steam whistle blew—and Athalie was gone.
               When Col. Von Lingard came out to dinner that evening, Mrs. Dulany gracefully made
                  Athalie's adieux to him, and her regrets at not being able to express them in
                  person.
               It is a good thing that the best of women can be rather hypocritical in
                  emergencies. When a woman of the world chooses to be calm and to conceal emotion,
                  it is difficult to throw off her mask by any contre-temps. Few men have the power of apparent indifference that
                  most women can assume at will. Col. Von Lingard was startled. His face crimsoned,
                  but Mrs. Dulany was perfectly cool and unembarrassed. He asked where Mrs.
                  Deslondes had gone.
               "To visit a friend below," said Mrs. Dulany, and changed the conversation so
                  dextrously that Von Lingard did not know how to introduce the subject again.
               He asked Emma, in the course of the evening, the same question.
               "Athalie? She is gone to see a friend, Blanche Bénit," said Emma, carelessly.
               "And where does Blanche Bénit live?" persisted the colonel.
               "She lives on Vermilion Bay, but she never receives visitors except those sent her
                  by Rosalthe," said Emma, meaningly. "Blanche has a children's asylum down
                  there."
               The colonel asked no more questions. He was very unhappy over Athalie's sudden
                  disappearance, but he felt that he was helpless. He could not intrude upon Blanche
                  Bénit or upon Athalie either. He did not exactly know what he would
                  do.
               "Does Mr. Dandridge go, too?" he asked.
               "No! Benny comes back immediately to the city, I believe."
               "Is there no town nor any inns near there," inquired the colonel, "where this
                  blessed Blanche lives, if anybody should wish to see her?"
               Emma laughed mischievously. She could not help it. Then her face grew grave.
               "No, Col. Von Lingard; there is no village very near. The Asylum is on Rosalthe's
                  estate, and is far off from any thoroughfare. I would not advise any one to
                  venture there without an invitation from Rosalthe. It would probably offend her
                  greatly."
               Col. Von Lingard said nothing more. He felt there was something he could not
                  understand in this sudden movement of Athalie's, but he was only a man in the
                  meshes of a net woven by very intelligent women, and he felt himself fettered in
                  on every side.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               ATHALIE arrived at the maisonnette late in the
                  evening. There was no sound of life about the low, wide-spreading house, built in
                  French style, with wide verandas and broad eaves running all around it. There was
                  a hall in the centre of the house, and rooms branched off from it on both sides
                  and from the back of it, making a one-storied, or half-cross building. The rooms
                  were large, but the ceilings were low, and the front was painted a dusky red on
                  the outside. Inside it was gayly frescoed, every room being different. Mrs. Dulany
                  had remodelled the interior according to modern ideas of convenience and comfort.
                  There was no lack of graceful draperies and delicate hangings. But the furniture
                  was old and carefully preserved. Spider-legged tables and straight, stiff chairs
                  abounded, but there were light, soft sofas and lounges and easy chairs also
                  interspersed among the antique furniture, which seemed in quaint keeping with the
                  simplicity of the whole establishment. Each room had a gay French clock on the
                  mantel shelf, and one of the long, gilded, compartment mirrors that were used in
                  French houses a hundred years ago. The chandeliers which hung with cut glass
                  pendants from the ceilings were intended for wax candles, and bougies were in all
                  the branches attached to the walls. It was as old-fashioned and sweet as possible
                  everywhere.
               Benny kissed Athalie and told her good-bye. He had to hasten back in the hired
                  hack to catch the train that night, after seeing her safe into the salon of the maisonnette.
               
               "M'lle Henrietta will take care of you," he said.
               M'lle Henrietta came forward, courtseying profoundly, to receive Madame's guest.
                  The old woman was rather agitated at this irruption on her privacy, but Benny
                  tossed her a letter from Madame out of his pocket, as he hastily shook hands and
                  ran back to the carriage.
               "Not a minute to lose, Pierre," he said to the coachman. "The train passes in an
                  hour, you know."
               M'lle Henrietta picked up the letter and read it. Then she slowly turned round and
                  walked into the parlor, where Athalie had thrown herself into a fauteuil.
               
               "Will Madame Deslondes go at once to her apartment, or will she have tea
                  immediately?" demanded the housekeeper.
               Athalie looked up at the little, old figure which stood reverently before her. It
                  was a queer little body, very small in stature, scarcely larger than a child of
                  ten years of age, dressed in black serge gown, with white apron and coif, a sort
                  of secular nun's dress. A rosary hung from her side, and a bunch of keys on a
                  steel chain depended from her girdle. She held a piece of knitting in her hands.
                  The ball of yarn, white and soft, showed from her apron pocket. She had a kindly,
                  withered little thin face, with tiny black eyes, like a squirrel's, so bright and
                  round were they.
               "Ah, M'lle Henrietta," said Athalie,
                  extending her hand, "I am glad to know you. Rosalthe said you would take care of
                  me for a while."
               "Certainement!" replied the little woman, "if
                  Madame will graciously permit."
               "Oh, I shall be only very glad," said Athalie, with a sigh. "I think I should like
                  to have a fire and a cup of tea in my room, if you will be so good."
               "Dans un instant!" and the housekeeper trotted
                  off on her wee feet in a quick, quiet little way, that instinctively suggested the
                  resemblance to the mouse that Mrs. Dulany had called her, in speaking of her.
               It was not very long before Athalie was inducted into her charming, old-fashioned
                  apartment, with its dressing-room, whose windows opened right out on the view of
                  the Bay of Vermilion. Athalie heard the roaring and dashing of the surf on the
                  beach at the foot of the high hill upon which the maisonnette was built. The sound of the waters and the murmuring of
                  wind and wave were soothing to Athalie. There was a strong, pure feeling in the
                  salt atmosphere. She breathed long, leaning at her window, looking out on the
                  illimitable sea. She seemed to inhale fresh and different life. In a half hour,
                  M'lle Henrietta returned to Athalie, bearing a small salver of tea and hot
                  buttered toast and delicately fried oysters, and a silver dish of little gateaux, and candied fruits in a glass saucer. She
                  apologized for the fare, as she said,
               "Demain, they would hope to present Madame
                  something more dainty, but that was what she had to offer her to-night."
               "M'lle Henrietta," said Athalie, while she was eating her solitary supper, "how
                  shall I get this letter from Mrs. Dulany to Blanche Bénit?"
               "Ah! that is bien facile—very easy. Madame Bénit
                  lives near here, not a half mile. Tiens! You can
                  the Dove's Nest see by withdrawing your curtain, Madame!"
               "The Dove's Nest! is that what you call her place?" asked Athalie, with some
                  curiosity.
               "Oui—certainement, un
                     joli nid d'oiseaux. It is a fine nest of little fledglings! But
                  Madame will see for herself. She doubtless intends to visit Madame Bénit?"
               "Yes. I think I'll go to-morrow," replied Athalie. "Rosalthe made such a point of
                  it," she said to herself in a low voice. "Can you send the letter early to-morrow,
                  so as to announce my coming?"
               "Ah, yes! there will be no delay. Madame, be content. The letter shall go before
                  Madame awakes. And the reply shall be here."
               Athalie gave Rosalthe's letter to M'lle Henrietta, and then finished her
                  supper.
               Athalie was weary, and the tea was very appetizing in the tiny Sevres cup, and the
                  toast really was delicious. She ate heartily, and praised everything offered her,
                  to the unfeigned delight of M'lle Henrietta, whose little black eyes glistened,
                  and a queer little smile broke over her thin lips. But she was very quiet and shy,
                  "a real mouse incarnated," said Athalie, with a smile. Athalie said she would like
                  her maid to come to her early, as she felt weary, and thought she could sleep. She
                  had not slept soundly since the evening in the studio. She had undergone intense
                  emotion. She had made a violent struggle, and her body was as weary as her mind.
                  She was nearly stupid now from the blessed reaction of grief. Her nerves were
                  absolutely numb from overwork. She felt as if she had really gotten into a blessed
                  haven of rest, an enchanted atmosphere, full of healing and balm. She went to bed
                  and fell asleep almost instantaneously, counting the low thud—thud of the waves as
                  they dashed on the beach below.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               AT her déjeûné the next morning Henrietta handed
                  Athalie a card with a few words written on it in pencil by Blanche Bénit, saying
                  she would receive Athalie at any hour that might be convenient to her during the
                  day.
               Athalie tied on a broad sun-hat, took her gloves and parasol, and said she would
                  walk down on the beach, and go at once to the Dove's Nest, whose low roof she saw
                  glimmering out from its garden of trees and flowers, in full view.
               "The road is direct. Madame cannot miss it," said Henrietta.
               Athalie sauntered along the beach. She was listless and dispirited. She sat down
                  several times on bits of driftwood, and wasted some hours in melancholy musings,
                  as she gazed blankly on the wide waste of waters rolling and heaving at her feet.
                  She was a prey to vain longings—a yearning for the presence, the sound of the
                  voice, the touch of the hand of the man she loved so madly, whom she had fled from
                  forever.
               At last, rousing herself up with a profound sigh, Athalie walked quickly forward
                  and unlatched the little white gate, which opened into the pretty gardens of the
                  Dove's Nest. She found herself in a large inclosure, shaded with forest-trees,
                  carpeted with well-kept green grass. Little winding paths were cut out among the
                  trees, and strong swings, a see-saw with seats fixed on the ends, a go-cart, and
                  other children's toys for outdoor play, were scattered about. A tiny Manx pony was
                  feeding on the tender grass of the lawn, and a huge Newfoundland dog lay basking
                  in the glorious sunshine. Athalie felt a little nervous at the sight of the dog,
                  but seeing a bell-handle near the gate, she retraced her steps and gave it a
                  strong pull. The bell tinkled, and the dog lifted up his head for an instant at
                  the sound, then buried his nose again between his huge paws. He was evidently not
                  ferocious. As the bell ceased to sound, the hall door of the long, low cottage
                  opened and a lady advanced towards the yard gate. Athalie had time to take a
                  minute survey of her before she reached the spot where she awaited her coming. She
                  was about Athalie's height and near the same age. She was dressed in a gown of
                  plain, soft, white linsey, made rather short, showing neat ankles, and feet shod
                  with black kid slippers. The gown was made high in the throat and long sleeved. A
                  white linen collar, tied with a black cravat, gave a finish to the throat, and
                  long white linen cuffs reached from each small wrist to the elbow on the arms. Her
                  golden hair, which must have curled and been very abundant, was cut short, and
                  brushed up on the temples and brow in natural flat curls, which were barely
                  visible under the narrow fluted frill of a white close cambric cap, which was tied
                     under her chin in a large widow's bow
                  of wide muslin. But the face! Athalie stood transfixed by its beaming beauty. The
                  complexion was that of a fine lily, with the faintest touch of rose on the cheeks
                  and chin. The features were good, delicate, and pure, but it was the expression of
                  the brow and eye and smiling mouth that was entrancing, the face was so calm and
                  serene, and the lovely smile so radiant. It seemed as if there was a halo of
                  innocence and chastity playing about the golden head with its snow-white cap.
               She advanced to Athalie with both hands extended, and in a voice like a soft, low
                  flute note, she said,
               "Chère madame, Rosalthe bids me receive and
                  embrace you as herself. Be welcome!" Putting her arms around Athalie, she kissed
                  her first on one cheek, then on the other, French fashion.
               Athalie returned the embrace warmly.
               "Blanche Bénit! truly the blessed Blanche!" she said. "You look as if 'your very
                  presence might bring healing,' as Rosalthe said."
               "Did Rosalthe say so?" asked Madame Bénit, with a pleased smile and a slight blush
                  of gratification. "Ah, she is a flatterer! You will know me for yourself, I fear.
                  But come in!"
               Athalie walked by her side. Blanche still held her by one hand, as if she was
                  leading a child.
               "Then," said Blanche, "tell me of Rosalthe. She is well and happy with her gay
                  friends? We miss her so much! We look forward impatiently for her coming to the
                     maisonnette. But she never comes till the
                  first of June, then she stays with us till November. Her coming makes the great
                  festival of the year to us! Go away, Beppo!" to the dog, who had slowly risen,
                  yawned and walked to them, putting up his noble head to be caressed. Athalie
                  patted his head, and the dog wagged his tail. Blanche smiled. "You like dogs? So
                  do I. We Acadians love animals, and are said to have peculiar power over them,
                  especially over dogs and horses. This is the house pet. I don't keep small dogs,
                  for fear of their being cross to my children, but they all love Beppo!"
               Blanche had led Athalie across the vine-shaded veranda into the hall of her
                  cottage. It was very simply furnished with furniture made of stained wood, plain
                  settees and chairs, and tables of the same. They looked as if made by the village
                  carpenter, so plain and unadorned was the fashion of their framing, but each
                  settee and chair was nicely cushioned with crimson covers on them, and also on the
                  tables. On one table stood a vase with a magnificent bouquet of flowers—some
                  hot-house flowers. Blanche lifted the bouquet out of the vase, dried the ends of
                  the stems from their lingering drops of pure water, and giving it to Athalie,
                  said, "Receive the greetings of my children in these flowers gathered for you.
                     Soyez la bien venue, chère madame!"
               Athalie pressed Blanche's hand, and lifted the flowers to her lips. Blanche said
                  then, opening a door at the side,
               "Will you enter here? This is the only salon we
                  have. It is the play-room of my children."
               Athalie stepped forward into the large, well-lighted room, one whole side of which
                  was glazed in windows opening down to the floor. This side looked out into the
                  garden.
               "I think sunlight and air so invaluable for children, especially sick ones," said
                  Blanche Bénit. In each corner of the room was a large case, filled with flowers,
                  blooming, and in fine order. Blanche said, pointing to them,
               "Your flowers came thence. Each child has its own pot of flowers in the cases,
                  which it watches with great interest and delight, and each one pulled his own
                  flower this morning to form your bouquet."
               The floor had no carpet, but it was clean and well waxed. There were two
                  fireplaces in the room, defended by close wire fenders. There were bright fires
                  burning in these, and the children were grouped near them, though the room was
                  comfortably warm throughout. At one end of the room a colored girl sat sewing on
                  some child's clothes, rocking a cradle with her foot. A sleeping child lay in the
                  cradle. A poor, little, thin, pinched face it had, but it lay quite peacefully
                  now.
               "It has been very sick, chronic effects after having had measles in the city,"
                  said Blanche Bénit, "but it is getting better in this pure, salt air, and with the
                  aid of a salt bath. I hope it will soon be quite well."
               Children of all sizes and ages were in the two groups. Athalie counted fifteen
                  little suffering mortals who bore the sad aspect of illness and poverty on their
                  pale faces. They were sitting about two ladies who wore the same costume as that
                  of Blanche Bénit, except the widow's cap. These ladies wore their own hair plainly
                  folded about their heads. They were pleasant, but homely-looking women, evidently
                  French, by their features and complexion. One of them spoke English, with a strong
                  accent, however, to a girl of six, who was lying in a small gocart by her side,
                  watching eagerly the process of manufacturing a new doll's dress, which the lady
                  seemed very busy about, and almost as much interested in as the children; the
                  doll, quite a large one, lay on the floor at the lady's feet. She was telling the
                  children a fairy story, as she worked at the doll's dress.
               A boy not far off was hammering some blocks of wood, by the aid of a few tacks,
                  into what he called a "house and a table for the doll." Two larger boys were
                  playing dominoes in a corner, another had a humming-top, and some more had
                  marbles.
               "I believe," said Blanche, "it is very essential, in treating children for
                  disease, to keep them amused and cheerful as possible. So sometimes we are rather
                  noisy here, but we are always polite. Stop hammering for a few minutes, Frederic,
                  dear!"
               The child ceased instantly, and laid his small hammer down.
               "He has hip disease," said Blanche, "but he uses his arms bravely. He will be a
                  great silversmith or carpenter some day. N'est ce pas, mon
                     Frédéric?"
               The boy smiled, and looked up hopefully in Blanche's face.
               "He suffers much, mon brave garçon," said
                  Blanche, laying her hand tenderly on the child's head.
               "But the mother Blanche is good to Frederic," said the smiling boy. "It is nicer
                  here than the city. I do not like the city."
               The little girl was partially paralyzed, Blanche said, that for whom the doll was
                  being dressed. And so she went on through the affecting catalogue of childish
                  sickness and misery. Every child was a sufferer in that room, some hopelessly afflicted. But they
                  were all happy for that moment. Blanche led Athalie out of the play-room into the
                  large dormitory, with its twenty little cribs, each covered with a snowy
                  counterpane, and having its one small down pillow. At the two ends were larger
                  beds adorned in like manner.
               "One of the beds is mine," said Blanche Bénit, "and the other is occupied by one
                  of the ladies who assist me in caring for the children." She opened a door near
                  the bed she designated as her own, and showed Athalie a room surrounded with
                  clothes-presses and chests of drawers for the linen of the household. Adjoining
                  this was a small dressing-room, simple as the rest of the establishment in its
                  furnishing, which Blanche said was "her own little apartment. Each of the ladies
                  had a similar one."
               "Now," said Blanche, "you have seen all of my house except the kitchen and
                  offices, and the infirmary, which I keep on the other side of the house. I have
                  only two very sick children to-day: One mon petit
                     bossu, Michel Bondrot, who has disease of the spine, and has dreadful
                  attacks of convulsions from it. He was very sick all night, but is better now. He
                  is an angel of patience and goodness. And the other a child in fever from an
                  ulcerated arm."
               The infirmary was opposite the dormitory, but had fewer beds in it. It was warm,
                  and the light came in shaded through coarse linen curtains of dark color. It was
                  carpeted with thick rag carpeting, and Blanche's footstep fell light as a
                  snowflake as she entered the door.
               "I have put thick straw beneath the carpet to deaden the sound," she said.
                  "Children need dim light and silence when very sick; they are so nervous."
               Blanche led Athalie to the bed where the child lay with fever. She was asleep.
                  Blanche touched her forehead lightly. It was wet with the soft dew of
                  perspiration.
               "The fever is passed off, Dieu merci!" said
                  Blanche. "Sister Cornelia, please give her the drink I prepared when she wakes."
                  Another lady, sitting sewing near by, nodded her head. She, too, bore the costume
                  of the Order of the Mère Blanche.
               Blanche bent over the couch of the other patient with infinite tenderness.
               "Mon pauvre enfant! mon petit fils! brave garçon! vous vous sentez mieux, mon
                  Michel?"
               Blanche's voice was soft as a cooing dove over its young one.
               "Ma mère Blanche, ma bonne mère Blanche," whispered the small pale lips of the
                  child she bent over, and the boy put out a feeble little hand as if seeking for
                  Blanche's. Blanche kissed the little hand, and took it in hers. When she turned to
                  Athalie there were tears of tenderness in her eyes.
               "He has been so ill," she said. Athalie was much affected. She felt
                  her own eyes growing moist. She had been completely carried away by all she had
                  seen. The fountains of compassion, of maternity, which lie deep in every woman's
                  heart, had been stirred up, and her whole soul swelled within her as she stood
                  beside Blanche and looked into the face of "Letty Tilney's son," for she knew it
                  was he without question. The child lay huddled up against his soft pillows, his
                  head buried in his breast, his breathing still labored from the violence of the
                  convulsions he had had during the past night, but it was a sweet face that turned
                  itself a little upwards, and large dreamy brown eyes lifted themselves to look at
                  Athalie. The eyes were wells of light, tender and soft. The child looked at her
                  steadily. He seemed pleased with her appearance, and he smiled as he saw the
                  bouquet of flowers in her hand.
               "Michel gave you the white roses," he said. "Pretty lady, is Rosalthe coming?"
               "He is very fond of Rosalthe," said Blanche; "he never forgets her."
               "Rosalthe will come in the spring, Michel," said Athalie. "She sent me to see you
                  now, because she could not come herself."
               The child seemed content. He held out his trembling hand to Athalie.
               "Pretty lady," he said, "kiss Michel."
               Athalie bent over the child, and kissed him on the forehead and upon his small
                  sweet mouth. Hot tears fell from her eyes as she did it, and a vow rose from her
                  heart and was registered on high. Athalie was safe. She had sworn never willingly
                  to meet Col. Von Lingard so long as she was the wife of another man. The sight of
                  the poor child had finished Rosalthe's work. Rosalthe was a wise, wise woman.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               ATHALIE stayed with la Mère Blanche and her children until after sunset. She
                  waited till she saw the children at their comfortable but simple dinner in the
                  warm refectory, about the round table with its twenty high-seated chairs, some of
                  which were softly cushioned for the support of the weakly backs and tender arms.
                  Blanche and the ladies waited upon the children, and fed those unable to feed
                  themselves. Athalie tied on one of Blanche's large white aprons and drew a pair of
                  deep cuffs over her silk sleeves, and she, too, assisted Blanche to serve the
                  children. They had good nourishing food, and plenty of it, with a nice apple
                  pudding for dessert. Oranges and bananas were the fruits given to them; they grew
                  in the gardens, and were had for the gathering. After the children had been fed,
                  and their pinafores taken off, they were left under the surveillance of the
                  colored girl and one of the ladies for awhile, and Blanche, Athalie, and the other
                  three ladies had their dinner in a small room adjoining the refectory. They had
                  the same sort of food as the children, except that they had a bottle of light
                  claret wine added to their dinner and a cup of black coffee after it. Athalie
                  listened to the children's evening hymn at sunset, and the simple chanting of the
                  Lord's Prayer by the Mother Blanche and her assistants. It was the only religious
                  service of the establishment at sunrise and sunset to sing the child's hymn and
                  chant the Lord's Prayer. Then Athalie kissed Blanche and told her "good-bye" for
                  that night. She walked home full of thought. She had been carried out of herself
                  into the vast world of suffering which she had heretofore ignored entirely. Her
                  own life and aims seemed so paltry now, when she contrasted trasted them with Blanche Bénit's. "I am not worthy
                  of health and life!" she said to herself. The next morning she returned to the
                  Dove's Nest, complaining of feeling lonely at the maisonnette. She asked Blanche if she could not make room and work
                  for her amongst her children for the few weeks she had to remain. Blanche
                  laughingly assented, but she said, "Athalie must put off her silk gowns. She would
                  spoil them in waiting upon and nursing the sick little ones." She would loan her
                  "one of her own linsey gowns and aprons to wear."
               "And the cap, too, Blanche?" said Athalie, gayly. "The cap, too, mind!"
               "Yes, and the cap, too; but what will you do with this mass of radiant hair?" said
                  Blanche, touching Athalie's magnificent chevelure.
               
               "I shall plait it in two long Chinese tails down my back," laughed Athalie, "and
                  set the cap over it."
               And so she did. The children were all much amused at the transformation in
                  Athalie, and little Michel Bondrot, to whom she had shown great favor, clapped his
                  hands and called her his jolie nouvelle maman.
                  Athalie was fairly installed in all the interests, wearinesses, joys, and fatigues
                  of her new office. It did her a great deal of good. The fever of her heart was
                  cooled. All that was pure and womanly in her was being developed and drawn out.
                  The emanations of these children's pure souls and the sight of their suffering
                  bodies produced emotions which were all true and natural. The stimulus of her
                  artificial hotbed life in society began to die out.
               "Blanche," said Athalie, one evening when they were sitting together, after the
                  children had had their suppers and were being undressed and put to bed by the
                  servants, under the superintendence of the ladies, whom Blanche called her
                  "sisters"—"Blanche, I wish you would tell me the story of your life."
               Blanche was occupied as usual, for when not actively engaged her fingers were not
                  idle. She was knitting socks and woollen shirts for the children. She had even set
                  Athalie to work with her crochet needle at little sacques for the girls' use. All
                  of M'lle Henrietta's knitting was done for the children, too. Blanche made
                  everybody work about her. The little Michel alone was allowed to stay near Blanche
                  until she was ready to put him to bed herself. The little fellow sat propped up in
                  his chair on wheels. He was busy drawing on a transparent slate figures of men and
                  animals. He was very much amused with his work, and every now and then would call
                  upon the "Mother Blanche," or "la petite maman,"
                  as he now fancifully termed Athalie, to look at a chef d'
                     œuvre.
               
               "I think Michel will be a painter, a great, illustrious painter, some day," said
                  Blanche tenderly, looking at a figure he held out for her to see. The little
                  fellow's lustrous eyes sparkled. The prophecy pleased him.
               "I will paint the Dove's Nest and the Mother Blanche, and la petite maman, and Rosalthe, too!" he said, nodding his head
                  sagaciously, "when I grow strong and can walk, and I can learn from Rosalthe. She
                  knows how."
               "Please God, you shall," said the mother Blanche.
               "My story," she continued—then after a pause, "well, Athalie, it is not much to
                  tell. I was born near here, on my father's plantation, for I am an Acadian. I was
                  brought up near Rosalthe. We were much together, and she always had great
                  influence over me. I married Edouard Bénit, and went to live in New Orleans. I
                  adored my husband. He was my light, my joy, my life! He was worthy of the devotion
                  with which he inspired me. He loved me very tenderly, and we were very happy. We
                  were young, passably rich, and healthy, and we had two lovely children. I used
                  often to pity poor Rosalthe, whose husband was so feeble and consumptive. Ah! we
                  do not know how suddenly trouble falls! My husband took the pernicious fever. I
                  took the infection from him. My whole household was ill with this plague. I awoke
                  from my delirium to find my husband and my children dead and buried. I don't see
                  why God spared me. I relapsed into my delirium, and I was crazy, they told me, for
                  six months. When I recovered my senses and was allowed to go out, I spent all my
                  days at the tombs of my husband and children. I would go there at dawn, as soon as
                  the gates of the cemetery were opened, and I would remain till they were closed. I
                  would lie there, between the graves, in a lethargy of grief and despair. No one
                  could console me. I would listen to nothing. Rosalthe was abroad travelling with
                  her husband. I did not know she had returned. I should not have cared if I had
                  known it, I was so indifferent to everything. I cared for no one. One day I was
                  sitting stupidly at my graves, when I felt a hand on my shoulder, and looking up I
                  saw Rosalthe. She was nearly weeping, but she spoke to me sternly. I did not speak
                  to her, nor even salute her. She took hold of my arm, and put her other arm around
                  my waist and lifted me to my feet. She is very strong.
               "She said, 'Blanche Bénit, come with me. You have work to do. You must sit here no
                  longer!' and she began to draw me away with her. She hurried me down the pathway,
                  and made me get into a carriage she had in waiting. I did not resist. I sat there
                  stupid. The carriage rolled away with us, square after square. At last it stopped.
                  Rosalthe got out. 'Come, Blanche!' I followed her, not knowing what else to do. It
                  was the Foundlings' Hospital, and there were many children sick there then.
                  Rosalthe led me in among the children. There was a baby lying in the cradle, a
                  baby about the age of mine—my darling Jeannie. It had flaxen hair and blue eyes
                  like Jeannie's. It was crying bitterly. Rosalthe stooped down and took the baby up
                  and laid it in my arms.
               "'It has no mother, Blanche! These children have no one to care for them, save
                  from charity. God has taken your little ones to himself, but he has left you all
                  these. See, Blanche!'
               "I pressed the infant to my heart, and burst into tears. After that I only went
                  once on Sunday afternoons to visit my graves; the rest of the days I spent at the
                  Hospital. Then Rosalthe proposed to me to let her fit up this old farmhouse, where
                  I could take some of the most delicate of the children who could not get well in
                  the hot city. The officers of the hospital were very glad to let me take them. So Rosalthe fitted this place as you
                  see it, and I came here. At first I had only a few children, but gradually I got
                  twenty, and now I generally have as many as that. Then I got these ladies to help
                  me. They are Acadians, too, and I pay them a small salary. I use my own means, and
                  what I lack Rosalthe supplies. I have been here now ten years. Even during the war
                  I was not disturbed. No one comes this far out of the world. I have become
                  contented—even happy—in my work. I never forget my darlings, who are with God, but
                  I take care of God's children here. It is not a very great deal! Only a mite of
                  woman's work; but it has saved my reason, if not my life, and many little children
                  have gone back strong and well from here who would have died, or remained wretched
                  invalids in the city. I think I average ten a year who are sent back well to the
                  city hospital."
               "But, Blanche, is it not a trial for you to nurse these children well, and then to
                  send them away from you and receive strangers in their place?"
               "Yes, it is, oftentimes; but it is best for the children, when they are strong and
                  well. They have advantages of learning in the city which I cannot give them, and
                  then when they grow older they have openings in life which I could not give them.
                  I am not learned, nor have I time, nor would it be well, to teach sick children;
                  therefore, I teach them nothing except to be good and obedient, and to play, and
                  get well."
               "And to love," said Athalie.
               "Yes," replied Blanche, with her beaming smile, "and to love. But I keep some, who
                  are incurable: my poor Sylvie, who is paralyzed; and mon
                     petit bossu," laying her hand on little Michel's head; "he will never
                  leave the mother Blanche."
               "Ah, non, jamais," said the boy, looking up with
                  a brilliant smile. "I shall never be sent away, on account of this," and he put
                  his little hand on his humped back. "That is good!"
               Athalie turned her head away to dash off a moisture which gathered over her eyes
                  at this motion of the child.
               Blanche kissed him.
               Athalie spoke to Blanche in English, which Michel did not understand.
               "Blanche, do you think it right to speak so of his affliction, and to call him by
                  that name—the little hunchback?"
               "Yes," said Blanche; "it is better for him to grow accustomed to the thought used
                  in words of endearment than to hear it, as he must in after life, as a term of
                  monstrosity, if not of contempt."
               "Oh, Blanche, how wise you are! the wisdom of the serpent and the harmlessness of
                  the dove," cried Athalie.
               "That comes from living with little children all the time," said Blanche,
                  seriously. "One learns so much from them."
               Athalie smiled.
               "How noble Rosalthe is!" said she.
               "Yes, indeed she is," exclaimed Blanche, warmly.
               "A woman can do so much for other women when she wills it," rejoined Athalie.
               "I must put Michel to bed," said Blanche. "Come, my darling, my good, patient
                  little bossu, kiss la
                     petite maman, and put by the beautiful drawings for to-morrow."
               "Oh, love! oh, tenderness of woman! how omnipotent!" thought Athalie as Blanche
                  disappeared, dragging the little wheeled chair with its suffering contents into
                  the dormitory.
               Directly she heard Blanche's sweet voice rising from the dormitory, while little,
                  feeble, shrill children's voices tried to sing with her, tremulously following her
                  leading:— 
                     
                        "Saviour, who, in Bethlehem's manger,
                        Laid thine infant head to sleep,
                        O'er the child, the sick, the stranger,
                        Send thine angels watch to keep.
                        Give us, softly, rest and slumber;
                        Cool our veins from fever's heat.
                        While our simple prayers we number,
                        Breathe on us a blessing sweet."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               ATHALIE had been three weeks with Blanche Bénit. Interested in the little
                  incidents of every day, she had almost lost sight of the outer world. She was
                  reminded of it, however, by the weekly package of letters which was forwarded to
                  her by Mrs. Dulany, who faithfully fulfilled her promise of writing to Athalie
                  full accounts of the world she had quitted. She now received a letter from her
                  husband, commanding her to rejoin him in the following week in New Orleans. She
                  read it, and laid it aside. Then she broke the seal of Mrs. Dulany's lengthy
                  epistle. She wrote:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR ATHALIE:
                           
                           "I am so glad to see from your letters that you have derived all the
                              good I thought you would from the society of la mère Blanche and her
                              children. She has precisely the same effect on me as you describe her
                              influence affects you. I need not tell you, my Athalie, how often and
                              how tenderly you are in my thoughts; how many earnest prayers I
                              breathe for your strengthening and your peace of mind. We all speak of
                              you frequently. My guests now begin to scatter. The gentlemen
                              (including Arthur [to Emma's intense anxiety] and Col. Von Lingard,
                              also, who was considered well enough to join the expedition) have
                              returned from a trip on the Louis d'Or to the Indian Nation. They
                              hunted and shot and fished, and have come back laden with
                              trophies—antlers and skins and Indian baskets—having enjoyed
                              themselves greatly. Arthur, Emma, and Dandridges return to New Orleans
                              to-morrow. Conrad and Sophie are announced as fiancés. He has received permission from her parents.
                              Ellen has flirted Louis Stilman, and is now apparently épris of Sam Lawson, who followed her
                              here. He is a sentimental youth, with brown locks, who plays the
                              guitar and sings—not to be mentioned in the same breath with our noble
                              Louis, so manly and true. But Louis is too impassive and silent ever
                              to be a favorite with ordinary women. I think he feels Ellen's
                              desertion, but he is wordless as an Indian.
                           "And now, my Athalie, to speak upon the matter nearest to you, I will
                              not conceal from you that, had it not been for me, Col. Von Lingard
                              would have sought you, or at least endeavored in some way to
                              communicate with you. I discovered this; and one day, recently, I
                              sought an opportunity, and, acting for you as I would for my own
                              child, Athalie, I frankly spoke to him on this subject. He is a
                                 noble man—worthy of your
                              esteem and true regard. He was evidently much surprised and affected
                              at what I said to him. He did not pretend to conceal his love of you,
                              or his intention to seek you, if possible. He had heard of your
                              domestic unhappiness, and, strange fancy!—those Germans have such
                              strange ideas, you know—he seemed to think it possible to persuade you
                              to quit your husband; to go to Indiana; to remain there six months,
                              and take advantage of the lax law of divorce of that State, and then
                              to marry him at the end of the year. I told him that was an
                              impossibility; for you, though not a strictly religious person, were a
                              churchwoman, and therefore regarded marriage as a sacrament. He still
                              argued that he thought he might remove all your 'prejudices.' We talked a long time. I
                              convinced him at last that he could probably render you very
                              miserable; that he might be powerful enough to induce you to listen to
                              him; but that, knowing you as I did, it would be at the price of your
                              self-respect, and consequent self-reproach and eternal wretchedness.
                              He wept at what I said. In fine, after much entreaty, he promised 'on
                              his honor' not to try to see you, but to go out of the country. He is
                              going back home. Louis Stilman is going with him—he says, 'to hunt
                              wild boars in the Hartz Mountains.' I have become much attached to
                              Col. Von Lingard, and shall see him go with regret; but it is best so.
                              My Athalie, the laws of morality lie at the very basis of man's social
                              life and happiness. Like all the eternal laws of harmony and life,
                              they press sometimes hardly on individuals. We make so many mistakes.
                              But in these cases the individual must rise up to the highest plane of
                              self-immolation, for the good of the race. One must emulate our Lord,
                              and be willing to suffer for the welfare of the whole. Believe me, my
                              Athalie, the fine joy the delicious exaltation, one feels in such an
                              heroic offering upon the altar of God, for the love of man, is greater
                              than any brief excitement of delirious gratification of natural
                              passion. I demand of you, Athalie, in the name of womanhood and social
                              chastity, this sacrifice of yourself. I know you will make it.
                           "I do not profess, my Athalie, to be a woman without preferences, but
                              I say boldly, I am a woman without prejudices. I do not, therefore,
                              speak to you in the usual technical or cant phrases about the
                              'holiness of the marriage tie, and religious duty, &c.,' though I
                              feel the weight of these obligations profoundly. I say this, my
                              friend, married as you were, and to the man you were joined to, in
                              your ignorance, your youth, your beauty, I say it was, it is, a
                              dreadful sacrifice. And that you should, with the passionate woman's
                              heart that you have, learn at some time in your life what love is,
                              that I recognize as natural, nay, as even inevitable. I do not
                              reproach you. I sympathize with you. I pity you from the depths of my
                              deepest tenderness. The man you love hopelessly is worthy of your
                              esteem. Rejoice for that, my Athalie, that you have not loved
                              unworthily or an unworthy object. But I believe profoundly that woman
                              owes all, or most of her present liberty and social influence to
                              monogamy, to the conservation and respect of the laws of Christian
                              marriage. Passion, my Athalie, is but a brief delirium. The tender
                              friendship and confidence which build themselves up atom by atom in
                              the daily intercourse and mutual dependence of the husband and his one
                              wife cover this Christian land with happy homes, with peace, with
                              content, with virtue. The woman who betrays her marriage vow, under
                                 any circumstances, strikes a blow at the happiness and
                              honor of her whole sex. It is the sin against womanhood that makes the
                              crime of such conduct. God, who is so merciful, might forgive, but the
                              woman who follows her own headlong passions drives a dagger into the
                              heart of every other woman. She robs her sex of its rights, of its
                              purity, its holiness in the eyes of man. She destroys the ideal of
                              womanhood. It is the worst sort of murder. It is murder of the spirit
                              of the highest, not only in herself, but in the man who receives her,
                              in the man she forsakes, in all men's hearts, in all women's
                              consciences. It is lèse de corps, if
                              I may coin a word. It saps the foundations of the temple of family
                              life. It would be better for you to be burnt at the martyr's stake, my
                              Athalie, than do this thing. No woman can live, or has a right to live
                              for herself alone, but for all women especially, and then for all the
                              world. And as for the brief joy, the fleeting delirium of gratified
                              passion, I do not deny, my Athalie, that it is a joy to love and to be
                              beloved, but, dear, the bitterness would come after, and truest joy
                              and the most lasting is in doing right. I do not think
                              lightly of you, my dear, because you have found you were but a woman,
                              with a woman's feeble, loving heart. I love you better; but even as a
                              fractured limb is the stronger for its knitting where it was broken,
                              so you must be the stronger because you have been weak,
                                 because you have been tempted. Look at this thing in
                              the bitter light of others' experience! Should you ever marry this
                              man, how long would his love, for which you sacrifice everything, be
                              yours? A year, perhaps. Nothing is permanent but what is pure! The
                              best love of few men can bear the trial of entire possession. Satiety
                              comes, it must come to man. It is not so with woman, most
                              mercifully not so, else how could woman bear her lot of necessary pain
                              and mere physical suffering? Any good woman loves still more and more
                              the man for whom she suffers, the father of her children. But unless
                              the bond which fastens the man is built upon positive esteem and
                              faultless purity, Athalie, it perishes inevitably. The man may be held
                              by his honor, but not by his love. A woman so proud as you, so tender
                              as you, would repudiate that cold bond. You would free any man from it
                              scornfully, even while your poor heart broke. If your heart must
                              break, let it break in the path of right. Die, my Athalie, but be true
                              to yourself.
                           "My tenderest love to Blanche and the little Michel. God forever bless
                              and sustain you, my Athalie!
                           
                              "Your friend,
                              "ROSALTHE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Athalie wept as she read this letter. She kissed it. "I will be true, Rosalthe,"
                  she murmured, but her tears flowed abundantly.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               TWO months after Athalie's return to her own home in New Orleans Emma Lalande wrote to Mrs. Dulany.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "New Orleans.
                              "MY DEAR ROSALTHE:
                           
                           "I have not written you for several weeks because I have been so
                              miserably anxious and occupied with Arthur. You know that after our
                              return Arthur consulted Drs. Stone and Chopin about the condition of
                              his wounded leg. They examined it, and said, if he was willing, they
                              thought they might perform an operation of excision, which might
                              relieve it altogether. At the same time they did not conceal the risk
                              of it from him. Arthur resolved to undergo it. I was dreadfully
                              alarmed. I have not known an hour's rest since the operation was
                              performed, a month ago, until now, when my darling husband is up once
                              more, weak, but convalescent, and, thank God, will now be restored to
                              health and to his former strength. Arthur has borne everything with
                              his usual gaieté de cœur, and
                              perfect goodness of temper. But he is overjoyed at being well again,
                              and says he means to wait upon me as never did any cavalière servante upon his bella donna. Ah! he does not know what a
                              joy it is for me to wait upon him! I shall be jealous of his strength,
                              I expect! Benny and Aunt Clemmy have been just as good as they could
                              be. Benny has sat up night after night with Arthur, and Aunt Clemmy
                              has stumped in every day, on her ebony cane, with flowers and fruits,
                              and one of her best musical snuff-boxes for Arthur's delectation.
                           "You heard of Athalie's trouble. Her husband, stricken with paralysis,
                              lies perfectly helpless and almost dumb, and is wholly dependent upon
                              Athalie's attention for his very existence. You know hired nurses are
                              not to be trusted. Athalie meets her responsibilities nobly. She
                              learned a good deal from Blanche Bénit. She receives no visitors save
                              her most intimate friends and the doctor who attends Mons. Deslondes.
                              The doctor says his case is hopeless, but not immediately dangerous.
                              Men live often five, ten, twenty years in this condition. Poor
                              Athalie! but she seems quite calm, and apparently has no interests
                              outside of the mournful silence and shadow of her husband's room. You
                              know I always say exactly what I think; so I think it
                              would be a good thing for the Lord to take Monsieur
                              Deslondes out of this wretched world! Now, scold! I don't care if you
                              do, so you continue to love
                           
                              "Your méchante
                              
                              "EMMA.
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S.—Louis Stilman writes Arthur that he is delighted with Col. Von
                              Lingard's home, and what the English call 'his people.'
                           "2d P. S.—Benny is in (real) love with Arthur's pretty
                              cousin, Eugenie McLane—just out. She has red hair and
                              blue eyes, but so pretty."
                        
                     
                  
               
               Athalie's life was a changed and darkened life now. As Emma wrote, she resolutely
                  devoted herself to her half insensible husband. She never quitted his shadowed
                  chamber, except for absolute needs of existence, for food, and for a breath of
                  fresh air, without which she could never have endured the fatigue and utter
                  wearisomeness of those long days of silent watching and the still longer nights.
                  She almost forgot how to talk, for, except the few words she exchanged daily with
                  the physician when he came on his diurnal visits, and an occasional glimpse of her
                  very few intimate friends, she saw no one except her servants. Her whole life was
                  centred on the half living form lying so helplessly, so motionless, on her
                  husband's bed.
               The beautiful hair was plainly folded back from her face; the trailing, rustling,
                  silken robes exchanged for those of more homely fabric; the lovely voice was
                  hushed; not a sound broke the intense stillness of this childless mansion, where
                  one lay dead in life, and the other stood barren of hope, with all life's roses
                  crushed beneath her feet. Athalie never asked anything about Col. Von Lingard,
                  though she knew Rosalthe corresponded with him. From the moment her husband was
                  brought to her, still and convulsed from the paralytic stroke, Von Lingard's name
                  never passed her lips, nor willingly did she permit the thought of him to come
                  into her heart. It made her feel as if she was a murderess to think of Col. Von
                  Lingard; and if, sometimes in the long night watches, the remembrances of the past
                  would come and force themselves unbidden on her reluctant mind, she would fling
                  them from her with horror, murmuring often, "Letty Tilney! Letty Tilney! I must
                  not forget you!"
               She was resolved not to become the slave of vain desire. That is a terrible,
                  fearful slavery!—the true Promethean vulture, gnawing on one's very vitals. And we
                  are such creatures of habit that one can do much by strong resolve to keep one's
                  self unfettered, and to avoid, even in the affections, the encouragement of "a
                  line of least resistance," as Mr. Herbert Spencer calls it. It is a fearful
                  struggle, that against a powerful passion. Many a soul goes down under it—the
                  ceaseless, ever-recurring fight against aching, longing love—love, which has as
                  many heads as the hydra; and when one lies down contented that the dragon is dead,
                  crushed at last, one wakes to find it hissing with a hundred living heads,
                  everywhere in one's life, in one's inmost soul. "A wounded heart, who can heal?"
                  The Maker of the heart can, and constant employment out of one's self; constant
                  living in the life of others; ceaseless occupation, physical as well as mental.
                  These help to give tone and strength to the pierced heart, so that, in time,
                  gradually peace and calm come to the most tempestuous passion.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THREE years had passed since the first villeggiatura at the Wilderness. Once more
                  the holly branches shone in the vases, and brilliant fires were flashed back from
                  the mirrors on the walls.
               Mrs. Dulany's guests had not yet assembled in the drawing-room before dinner.
                  Rosalthe had gathered all of our old acquaintances about her: Conrad and Sophie
                  Stilman, with their little daughter; and Arthur and Emma, and their infant son;
                  and Benny Dandridge, with his bride; Aunt Clemmy, with her ebony cane and her
                  resplendent diamonds—all a little the worse for wear. Ellen Lawson and her husband
                  had been prevented coming, but Louis Stilman was expected that day, and another
                  friend whose name Mrs. Dulany had not mentioned to any one yet. And lastly, Athalie Deslondes, in her
                  light mourning—for she had laid aside her bombazine crape and was wearing
                  silks—purple and black, with white trimmings; her husband had been dead more than
                  one year. Athalie had been faithful and good to him, and had really grown to care
                  more for him in his helplessness than she could have once deemed possible. She
                  really wept for the object of her tender care, whose image, forlorn and helpless,
                  had entirely replaced that of the tyrannical master before whose frown she had
                  once so trembled. She had never heard anything of Col. Von Lingard; she never
                  asked anything about him, and no one spoke of him.
               Rosalthe stopped at her door, as she passed by, and flung in a handful of white
                  roses.
               "Wear your purple silk, and put these roses in your hair, Athalie," she said,
                  popping her head within the door of Athalie's dressing-room.
               Athalie smiled—a faint, weary smile.
               "Pshaw! what does it matter what I wear? But, of course, if you wish it, Rosalthe.
                  I'd rather have la mère Blanche's white linsey frock, though; but you are not
                  willing for me to assume it. Yet I think I shall, eventually."
               "No, you have other work in this world."
               "I wish you would tell me what, then, and stop speaking
                  enigmatically, Rosalthe."
               "Well, I will tell—let me see—to-morrow, if you ask me," said Mrs. Dulany, with a
                  smile.
               "It's a promise, mind!" called out Athalie after the disappearing head.
               "Tres bien," and Mrs. Dulany went off singing, 
                     
                        "The church bells are ringing, the village is gay;
                        And Lilla is decked in her bridal array.
                        She's wooed and she's won
                        By a proud Baron's son,
                        And Lilla—Lilla—Lilla's a lady."
                     
                  
               
               Athalie looked lovely in her purple silk and white roses. Her face was not quite
                  so radiant as formerly, but there was a nobler and sweeter expression upon it than
                  it had worn before. She sauntered listlessly in the drawing-room. The lamps were
                  not lighted. It was a fancy of Mrs. Dulany's not to have the drawing-room
                  brilliantly lighted until while she was at the dinner-table. Her guests always
                  found a Rembrandtish chiaro oscuro of firelight in the parlors when they assembled
                  before dinner; then the blaze of the dining-room lamps had an enlivening and an
                  artistic effect.
               Athalie walked up to the fire and stood before it for a moment; then, finding
                  herself alone, and seeing the piano opened invitingly, she sat down before it. Her
                  fingers wandered dreamily over the keys, then her voice rose, and she sang in low
                  half tones these words of an old song:— 
                     
                        "Thy name was once the magic spell
                        By which my heart was bound,
                        And burning dreams of light and love
                        Were wakened by that sound.
                        My heart beat quick when stranger tongues,
                        With idle praise or blame,
                        Awoke its deepest thrill of life,
                        To tremble at thy name.
                     
                     
                        "Long weary years are past and o'er,
                        And altered is thy brow;
                        And we who met so fondly once
                        Must meet as strangers now.
                        The friends of yore come round me still,
                        But talk no more of thee;
                        'Twere idle e'en to wish it now,
                        For what art thou to me?
                     
                     
                        "Yet still thy name, thy blessed name,
                        My lonely bosom fills,
                        Like an echo that has lost itself
                        Among the distant hills;
                        Which still, with melancholy note,
                        Keeps faintly lingering on,
                        When the joyous sound that woke it first
                        Is gone, forever gone!"
                     
                  
               
               Athalie's voice sank into trembling silence. She bent her head down on the
                  pianoforte, and wept, silently.
               "Athalie! my Athalie!" She lifted her head with a start; but before she could turn
                  she felt a pair of strong arms around her, and she was clasped passionately to the
                  breast of Ernst Von Lingard.
               It was all Rosalthe's doing. She had written for him, and he had just come.
               This villeggiatura ended with a wedding. Blanche Bénit wrote a loving letter of
                  good wishes, and little Michel sent a pretty shell he had picked up on the beach,
                  and a piece of paper on which he said he had drawn "a tree with Beppo under it."
                  Athalie put the letter and shell and bit of scrawled paper into her jewel-box,
                  with the diamonds Miss Clemmy and Rosalthe and Emma had given her for her corbeille.
               
               FINIS.
            
         
      
   
