
    ----CITATION----
        Guthrie, M. J., Mrs.. The Silver Lining, or, Fair-hope Prospect .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6576
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The silver lining, or, Fair-hope prospect
             
                THE SILVER LINING; OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT. BY MRS. M. J. GUTHRIE. PHLADELPHA: 1872.      PREFACE. IT has been the author's design to relate a true story, which may exert a good influ- ence in softening the heart, warming the affections, and elevating the soul; showing forth the wonderful goodness of Divine Providence. How well she has succeeded is for the kind reader to judge. However strange it may appear, never- theless it is true, all the characters repre- sented in the following pages have lived, have suffered, have felt the night-dew of grief and the sunshine of joy.       CONTENTS. CHAP,                       PAGE. I. FREE THOUGHTS,    .  .  ..   .  .   9 II. CHLDHOOD'S MUSING, .  .  .    .  .  28 "I. THE EXHBITION  .  .  .  .  .     3 IV. LOVERS' TRIALS,     .  .  .  .  .  46 V. THE ADVENTURER).   .  .  .  .     63 VI. THE RETURN HOME,    . .  .     .  81 VII. TRUTH OF THE LOVE OF HOME   .  .  .  . 8 VIII. LOVE'S LABOR WON, .    .  .   .  .  97 IX. WAITING BY THE RIVER    .  .  .  .  . 116 X. FANCIES; OR, CORA LOST IN THE DISTANCE,  . ) 129 XI. THE RIVER OF LIFE,  .     .   .  .136 XII. LIFE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT,    .   .  .  142 XIII. HOPE, THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS, .  ... 148 XIV. PASSING AWAY, .   .  .  .   .   .  157 XV. A HUNDRED YEARS ROM Now,    .  .  .  . 163 XVI. PICTURE OF LIFE,   .  .  .   .   ..  176 XVII. BURDENS OF LIFE, .   .  .  .  .  .  . 192 XVIII. CONCLUSION,   .  .  .         .  198      THE SILVER LINING; OR FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT. CHAPTER    I. FREE THOUGHTS. WHAT blessed restoration there is in the sleep and waking of thought!  Palaces of hope and happiness which had tumbled into ruin at eventide, are rebuilded ere morning by these beneficent magicians. With a feeling of restlessness which forbids restraint, when tired of the fierce conflicts of life or of study, our thoughts love to plunge amidst sylvan shades and rustic scenes, there to feel exalted and refreshed by a closeacquaintance with Nature in her original glory and magnificence. The most insignificant incident, and no less the most stupendous' achievements in the accomplish- ment of this work, have been the result of deep thought, and this subtle jewel Thought has taken me by the hand this morning, and led me along 2     10      THE SILVER LINING; the path of, time, fgown thick with thorns of grief and flowers of joy. It has led me to commune with and condemn the past, and to span the broad ocean and traverse continents in a moment's time. Even as the mind wanders back so far do we pause and linger at many a well-remembered spot-land- mark along the weary march of time. We think of many a happy school-day which has passed swiftly in our onward flight, and we only pause when, the school-days ended, with many a tear and fond regret, we bid adieu to the dear old schoolmates, to enter upon the busy scenes of out- door pleasures. This world would be a happy world indeed, from the worldly point of view, and the Utopia would be as nothing in the comparison, if the warp and woof of ordinary existence were like the fabric of fiction, but history and beauty follow us in our recreating tour as we make the attempt to visit the bustling city with its crowded inhabitants, each struggling in selfish aims of ex- istence, the remains of its beautifully sculptured temples bursts upon the astonished vision of the traveller, and the soul grows sick at the wretched- ness presented in glaring contrast to wealth and poverty, and the ripple of this mystic river, thought aims to show the capitalist the wretchedness of the poor, and the virtuous, the character of the de- praved-a festering ulcer which is eating into the   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     " life of society, corrupting purity, destroying all trust in man. -What a genuine relief it is to leave all this and become lost amid the depths of some vast forest. How changed the picture! -The fields, with the tall grass gently waving with every passing breeze; the limpid streams picturesquely winding their silent course through mossy banks; the mighty monarch of the forest and the green, refreshing thickets inviting repose, and the far-off clouds of feathery gold,--all throw a soft, pleasing feeling of enjoyment over the senses, sinking into oblivion every thought of the outside world, like fertile golden clouds floating on a silver sea. Up the long and rugged paths, which the slave of business would never dream  of following, passing rocky hills and briery cliffs, the top of a mountain is reached, and then a scene of vast magnificence bursts upon the vision of the untiring wanderer, as the whole country is laid out like a map at his feet, and a feeling of sweet satisfaction fills his breast as he drinks in the beauties of nature unal- loyed. A lover of nature in riding over a region of country is almost victimized with sceneries of no limited boundaries. How many different species bend under our feet while crossing an ordinary field. The great number of wild plants which are often assembled in a single meadow, seem to a poetical mind as something more than a result of mere accident of nature. The lover of nature     12      THE SILVER LINING; follows the devious paths of a rough country, and destroys the snares set for their destruction. They live in harmony with created things, and hear all the voices of the woods and music of the streams. Evening calls them out from their retreat to pursue another varied journey among the fairy realms of vegetation where pleasurable emotions fill their thoughts, and ere she parts with them curtains the heavens with splendor and points out the dark clouds with silver lining. You who cannot see God: in the natural scenery of land, where every leaf and every rock bears the impression of His handiwork, or in the firmament, go to the sea and meet your Maker-view the majestic grandeur of His presence THERE. Fathom its depth; calcu- late its breadth; estimate its power, and ask yourself if human laws could control them. Walk along the seashore at noonday or twilight, and how various are the emotions that arise while treading the crowded thoroughfares of any of the renowned cities along the Atlantic coast! What reverie, too, one has when gazing there, and listening to the surf, as it unceasingly and uintiringly rolls up and back upon the sandy beach! We fancy our- selves upon its bosom, or, spanning it, landed upon some foreign shore. The deep rolling surf seems like, plaintive music as the waves come to and fro upon the coast; the feathery spray descends like a misty veil, enveloping surrounding objects; and 9   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    13 'the little delicate shells are crushed beneath our wayward feet. Standing there, lost in reverie and rapt in enjoyment, does any feeling of solitude there force its way? Let Niagara have its thousands and Saratoga its tens of thousands, mine be a cot beside the sea, mingling with the universe and tasting of the sweets of solitude. Oh, Solitude, we no longer ask where are the charms that sages have seen in thy face! We. only piteously ask where is thy face? This beach swarms with people. Far off, the white sea sand is alive with little black heads floating in the sea. You cannot walk out without a dozen pairs of eyes fastened upon you, and there is no such thing as drowning yourself, though you wish it as much as "Johnny Sands" wished to save his wife, for a dozen balls bobbing up and down on the waves and about you are the heads of strong swimmers, who would be sure to dive and wrench you out by the hair of your head if it would stay on. Just think what a dripping, for- lorn set the bathers are coming up out of the sea. But in we go with a leap and a bound to begin with, and come near tumbling head first into China, from not counting on the resistance of the water. Uh! how cold it is, and how irresistible. In the twinkling of an eye all the conceit is gone out of you. The sea will stand no nonsense. It 2*     "    ,THE SILVER LINING; beats you about. It knocks you down. It takes your breath: It streams into your ears. It pours into your mouth. It rushes up your nose. You are almost drowned. Who would have thought it was so salt? You try to swim, and down you go plump, and up you scramble again, and strong arms pull you one way, and the strong sea sends you another way, and everybody is screaming at the top of their voice out of pure excitement. So- you come out all dripping and drowned. But oh, the salt in your hair! And oh, the amount of water your bathing-suit absorbs, and without a particle of respect for your coat of many colors, you think no more of your wardrobe than did Daniel in the lion's den. And when you come out, never "Solomon in all his glory" was arrayed like one of you, no matter how you went in. Who dare say that women are the slaves. of fashion? Go to Cape May, for instance, and see what objects they are willing to make of themselves before angels and men for the sake of a little free, wild fun, a little wholesome self-forgetful excite- ment. And when you are once more clothed and in your right mind, and staring at the great ocean lying still and majestic below yo&, can you believe that it is the same sea that played such mad pranks yonder? Beautiful and solemn sea, we know you!"Roll on, thou deep and dark blue t      OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    15 ocean ;" we have rolled with you, and for all your stately steppings, you can be as playful as a child. Reader, if you have never been within the limits of old ocean, go with us in thought to the seashore, and for one moment mingle in the society of the thousands that visit there. Thousands of strange faces there meet your gaze. Thousands pass you upon the busy thoroughfares, crowd you and dine with you at the same hotel. Gaslights, brilliant and beautifying, stream from gilded chandeliers; costly carpets awaken not the sound of a footfall. Youth and gayety there revel in bliss, while all that is most enchanting develops a silver lining. The land, the ocean, once so illimitable and incom- prehensible, are mere atoms to our understanding now. Gradually we forget the present and the past-they have no allurements for us now; for, leaving off mortality, our thoughts have taken flight into the mighty far-off future, where there are no tear-drops, no broken heart-strings, and no tumult save the undulations made by angels' wings as they glide through the silvery clouds, and their voices as they hover around the golden city and sing hosannahs to the Highest, with shouts of never-ending praise that every dark cloud has a silver lining. The writer in strolling around on a recreating tour, accidentally found herself in the city of     16      THE SILVER LINING; "Brotherly Love." Meeting with some friends, they proposed to visit a place of summer resort. They started for Cape May, to inhale a fresh breeze from the great Atlantic, and to enjoy the festivities and many attractions of the place. We soon made its circumference, and saw its varieties, animate and inanimate, its beauties and its de- formities; where we could look upon the stately and the beautiful-in the arts and magnificence of fashion, the policy, the power, the prospects and pleasures of the many visitors, where much useful information iS gained; for in one short week, if  -person makes human nature a study, he or she can learn volumes. Here are those who have become suddenly rich, and do not know how to act; and there are those with declining fortunes, with. marriageable daughters who are anything but lovely, possessing a good supply of affectation, with a readiness to faint at a moment's notice. As we stood upon the pebbles of the mighty ocean, we were impressed with the thought that it was more of reality than in sailing over the pebbles of the great ocean of human incredulity. Decep- tion was not there, as we cast our eyes around to look upon those near us, as the breakers ever and anon presented them to our vision. We caught a glimpse  one who had stood by our side, struggling beneath the ocean's waves, that had   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     17 carried him beyond the bravest of his sex, when at last he sank to rise no more. The devouring appetite of the restless waters consigned him to the solitude of that ocean desert, dark, heaving, bound- less, endless, and sublime, where travellers find no path before them and leave no track behind. His fair form was carried beyond the confines of the tomb, to seek in haste another home, where his sleeping dust reposes by the Father of Waters, while his free spirit wanders amid the bowers of eternity and basks in the smile of its God. "We gazed upton the glorious sky And the green turf around, And thought that when we came to die, We'd want to rest, beneath the ground, And the sexton's hands our grave to make Where the rich green turf should break." Wending our way from the sea, we reached Philadelphia, and as we passed through that dusty city, we were more fully than ever impressed with the belief that "God made the country, and man made the town."  "God saw everything that he had made, and believed it very good." The Al- mighty Creator, the perfection of wisdom  and goodness, acknowledged the beauty of this world in which man reigns pre-eminent, and of which he himself was God's last and most perfect work. Surely as our minds grow in wisdom and in good- s     18     - THE SILVER LINING; ness, they will open more and more to the beauty that meets us at every step, that reigns above, around, and beneath us. We experienced new delight when we again inhaled the fresh air, and feasted our eyes on the beautiful scenes along the Brandywine, where we opened our ears to the sweet sounds of nature's harmony divine, near the sunny meadows, green fields and babbling brooks along the Brandywine, where lives one who dreams of imaginations, and has pictured to an audience memory's painting. Shall it when we meet again, Be on the Airy Mountain Farm, Or farther North, near the glen, By the noted Brandywine? Kind reader, in our meanderings along old ocean in real imagination, think how beautiful our Heavenly Father has fitted up earth as a residence for us, and how far exceeding all that we can con- ceive of must be the splendor of Heaven. An old writer says "We are all creatures of circum- stance," and circumstance leads me to say that weeping has had more work in this world than laughing, and trouble has ruled more than joy. People go yearning along unsatisfied; they are filled with calamities; all their life is at times darkened. Oh, what need there is that up out of   OR,. PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    19 all this darkness and sadness there should be exalted some image that writes upon itself, "I am the God of Comfort," and to every dark cloud there is a silver lining. Truly we havein our wanderings along the sea, and from the mountain summits, been walking over ground hallowed by the presence of Infinity. He has been guiding us in the green pastures, and beside the still waters, and through the pleasant places of earth. We have traced the working of God's hand in the petals of the tiny flower, in the foliage of the mighty oak, and in the rustling talk of their clustered leaves we have listened to nature's praises. He has led us up from the low- lands of ignorance, and placed us on higher and holier ground. We may no longer listen to the warbling birds, watch the changing seasons, or trace the order of the universe, without ascribing to Him all honor, praise and glory. Into the boundless regions of science we have wandered, wild and free, and are now roaming about among the mystic shades of thought. Often we have wandered down the highway of life, and through the pleasant by-paths, and paused beside the foun- tain whose limpid waters sparkle like molten silver in the sunlight of prosperity; and tasted of the rosy wine of existence, and have drunk deep of pleasure's cup when not a cloud obscured our     20      THE SILVER LINING; pathway-have dallied among 'the golden butter- cups, and in their shadows foretold a sunny future. But they tell us that trouble lurks in every joy, that these paths of glory lead but to. the grave; 'they tell us, too, of another path with fewer wind- ings, and of a cross upon the wayside at which all the burdens of life fall off; of a crown in the end, and a Friend more faithful than a brother. They tell us that every dark cloud hung out shall turn forth its silver lining, and of the Infinite One, who is more true to us than all the' glittering ensigns and flaunting banners that dot the broad highway of life. We would not tell you of the days of toil and labor, of the weary head, the disconsolate heart, the portentous omens of failure, but only gently whisper that perseverance and energy are the magic wands to whose touch the bars and bolts of darkness yield, and the glorious light reigns su- preme throughout the realms of thought. But 'we think of the past and the experiences of life, with its many pleasing associations; our minds wander back to that delightful spot where first we drew our breath. We long to repose among its beautiful bowers, to listen to the brooks that mur- mured a thousand times sweeter, and to the echoes that were softer, than any we have since heard. There is nothing on earth so enchanting as the   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    21 scenes of our earliest youth: we think of the time when, in the innocence of childhood, we first lisped Mother; we live over again in fancy those inno- cent, happy days; and we love to linger amid the flowers of our childhood's experience, around which cluster so many of life's purest joys-unmixed by the selfishness and intrigues of mature age. But experience teaches us that life's pathway is not all , strewn with unfading flowers. On the couch in the sick chamber, or perhaps in the dungeon, lies a form writhing in the agonies of physical pain; perhaps a kind and devoted parent, a dear friend, a cherished companion, a child of special promise. What pen can describe one's feelings as one looks upon those dear ones with the palor of death upon them? What magic power can restrain the tear started by such associations? Oh, what agonizing thoughts chase each other through the burning brain! They lead us to the portals of the new- made grave; we see through them the winding- sheet, the sable throng gathered in the habiliments of mourning-the vacant chair-a loved voice mute in death; a cheerful companion for ever gone; hopes and aspirations obscured in the tomb. A solemnity is cast over earth's .brightest joys, because any moment that which we looked upon as the joy of many years may suddenly be snatched from us. But earth's sorrows are lightened by the 3     22      THE SILVER- LINING; silver lining putting in robes of sunshine the consolation that Faith will bring us to the end of earth's trials in Heaven's own rest. It was at the close of a warm summer day; the sun, that had been shining with unwonted brilliancy through the cloudless sky, was now sinking slowly to his rest, and all nature exulted in his beams. The midday light is dazzling in its glory; but there is some- thing lovelier far, in our estimation, in the chas- tened glow of evening, even the misty, clouds, and the heavy clod of earth catch something of its radiant coloring. This evening we gazed with peculiar feelings; it carried us in spirit to the bedside of one very dear to us: we had watched his eagle spirit in the days of health and strength, and sometimes striven to rise on his lofty faith. We had watched him like the glorious orb before us sink unclouded into rest, and at the rising of the southern sun his spirit rose to join the innumerable throng on high; shedding a chastened light even on the feeblest of those who waited around his couch. But in this hour of trial there was one left to us still, to whom our thoughts soon reverted and a dull, heavy cloud of weakness and weariness rested over that loved one-a dear mother! Hers had been an April day of heavy showers and dewy, trembling sunbeams; but now the mist seemed   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      23 gathering around as if her sun were to sink amid clouds and darkness; and in a moment least looked for the scene changes: instead of health, her spirit is wafted beyond the river where the surges cease to roll. "Where in all the bright forever" sorrow ne'er shall pierce the soul, where she now mingles with the loved of long ago. But what a consola- tion day by day brings us from  the verge of that river she has so lately crossed, that in a few more fleeting years all will be changed, and though we walk in the midst of trouble, the dark clouds of sorrow shall show forth their silver lining in full- ness of joy and pleasures for evermore! and what a hope we have beyond the grave, that when those few fleeting years have passed away, then, if pre- pared, we'll clap glad hands together in Heaven, where parting is unknown! Long years ago, before we came to learn What sorrow was, or separation meant, Which quenched the stars that never could return, To guide our firmament. And now that Faith has bridged this dark abyss, And unto death sweet revelation brought, We see the other world joined on to this, Much nearer than we thought. Our angels slipped from out our mortal hold, With love's last kisses quivering on their breast, Beneath our lips their lips grew strangely cold, And we clasped hands with death. [.'     24       THE -SILVER LINING; These gracious cords that bind the soul about, And into finite hands are freely given, Are NEVER broken-only lengthened out, Uniting Earth and Heaven. These vacant chairs around the lonely hearth, Mute signs of what the heart is doomed to bear, Are henceforth sacred places in the Earth, For angels have been there. To better care and never-ending bliss, These priceless treasures meekly we resign, Our Father claims them as for ever his, Yet once we claimed them ours. We cannot think of them and Heaven apart, For there we know our angels have a place, And walking as we have done heart to heart, We must meet face to face. The looks by which we knew them best, Familiar forms that still in dreams we see, And though in strange apparel they are dressed, They are not changed to me. Their absence makes these habitations dull, Earth's gold cannot these golden links repair, But Heaven! Oh, Earth is far more beautiful, With our beloved there. 'Tis but a step and on some sudden night, Our feet shall slip away from death and sin, And stand before the door where floods of light Shall be our welcome in. The narrow isthmus we shall soon have crossed, To meet our angels on the other shore; And when we mingle with the loved and lost, We shall be home once more.   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      25 Still the shifting hands of time roll around, and our willing feet wander into winding paths. Sitting before our cheery fires we have almost left this world and have wandered in the spirit land, wrapped in our sad communions. It is then that grief seems engrafted into our natures, and we look beyond the Great Unknown to the river of time for the silver lining. And yet as years roll on, we have recovered from our sorrows, and are once more a busy actor in life's drama, while the grief of yesterday is but the memory of the past. Many, many times do we compare our lone and isolated lot with what "IT MGHT HAVE BEEN," had it pleased a wise and beneficent Providence to have willed it otherwise, but in the language of the poet, God pity them both and pity us all,  Who vainly the dreams of youth recall; For of all sad words by tongue or pen, The saddest are these: IT MGHT HAVE BEEN." But in the days that HAVE BEEN, we Have seen the youth whose bounding heart Beat high with honors far ahead, With buoyant soul called to depart, And take his place among the dead. In days of pleasure, we have seen A husband inA his prime, Yield to death's stern demand, And powerless as the hand of time, Buried beneath life's common tread.  .  *   3*     26       THE SILVER LINING; And in days of sorrow we have seen A mother's loved form Turn pale and wither at the grave, And sink alike beneath the wave. Then ask us not for smiles to-night, Our thoughts are with the absent ones, They are thronging around them now, And with them comes a sigh, Sweet dreams of Long Ago. But enough of this-the subject engenders too many sad and painful reflections ; and ialthough a retrospective view of our past life may be a gloomy one, let us hope that in the dim, uncertain future there is still some happiness in store for us; that in the desert of this world there is some bright oasis, at whose spring our thirsty souls may drink unsparingly of the sweet waters of happiness and contentment. But let us pass on till we convince you that every dark cloud has a silver lining, and in the mighty future there are fairer prospects shining beyond the clouds, where there is no sickness, sorrow, pain or death. Autumn's leaves are round us dying, And their spirits floating nigh, Whisper, "Time is swiftly flying ;" Truth and beauty flitting by, Tell the living THEY MUST DI)E   OR, FiIR-HOPE PROSPECT.       27 Yet the future is before us, Other pleasures are in store, Choicer than the summer bore us ';i ' From the distant fairy shore. Though truth and beauty flitting by, Tell the living they must die. Those who this effusion readest, Know that time will surely bring, If the boon thou fully needest, Happiness upon his ywig. Happiness that shall be lasting As the branches of the oak, Though the night her shadows casting, Frosts and mildews may provoke. Winter comes before 'tis Spring, Every life some pleasure knows, Spring ere summer birds can sing, Borne on quick and rapid wing; Joy shall blossom like the rose, Present grief bright joy shall bring, All shall find some sweet repose.     28     THE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER II. CHLDHOOD'S MUSING. IN a small but neat village (it may have been in the old Keystone State), in the pleasant summer month of May, was born a black-eyed maiden, whom, for the sake of convenience, we will call Cora Roxenar. Ethereal spring had come arrayed in her bright- est, loveliest garb. The air was redolent with the fragrant breath of flowers; the birds twittered from every limb and tree-top, and the earth re- sounded with the busy hum of life. The little village was situated in a small, se- cluded vale below, and from its sequestered position and natural beauty we shall call it Pleasant Valley. May, the beautiful prophetess of summer, had come with her bright, warm, glorious days, her sunny skies, her delicate flowers; and all nature re- bounded from the icy grasp in which it had been held so long, and broke forth into a glorious anthem of praise for the birth of our heroine, over which the family were singing the cradle-song. What an unlucky day was that on which she was   ;   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    29 born, to bring into the world such a miserable creature as Cora. The family of -which she con- stituted a member consisted of six children, three smart, intelligent boys, and three would have been smart girls, had Cora not been at that time con- sidered "nothing but a mere shadow." At six years of age she was sent to the village school, which seminary stood upon the summit of an elevated hill, a short distance from a rough and crooked pike, more commonly distinguished as the Old Horse-Shoe turnpike, directly north-east of an enterprising borough. Fun lurked in every dimple of our heroine's cheek, and sparkled in the depths of her bright black eyes. Pride looked from those darkflashing eyes, and was shown in the carriage of the head. Many a weary day was spent within the walls  of that little old school-room, striving to obtain knowledge; hour after hour, and day after day, found the pupils sitting around the old broken ten- plate stove, endeavoring with all possible zeal to keep themselves comfortably warm; with scarcely any window-glass in the sash, to protect the little ones within from the fierce, cold blasts of hoary- headed winter; while in summer they were unmer- cifully exposed to the intense heat of old Sol-the beacon of day pouring in upon them through the !         - , \      ..     30     THE SILVER LINING: old shattered walls, making it feel somewhat like the yawning abyss below.        \ At each succeeding term of school, the pupils made this their accustomed visit; smoked their smoke of intelligence, talked their childlike talk, and then started for home as ever and anon they were daily dismissed. Cora was very irregular in her attendance at school, and was consequently a dull scholar. De- tained from school by declining health, being of a delicate constitution, and, as we said previously, nothing but a "mere shadow," her youthful days were not employed in study. Her chief object was always to have some nonsensical trick in view, that she might create laughter in their old-fashioned school-room, she being for ever in the eye of her teacher, while on her return home from school in the evenings she was always the object of some merriment. From the age of six years till she reached her twelfth year, she was of a wild and careless disposition, caring for naught but amuse- ment. Having a brother younger than herself, who was tainted with the same wild turn, they were generally found in the street along with the rude children of the small town. Their father, rather a resolute old gentleman, formed the opinion that they were becoming ungovernable, and undertook to bring them under subjection. Being a merchant,   OR, FAIR-tiOPE PROSPECT.    31 and kept closely confined, they rather had the ad- vantage over the time-honored gentleman. "Listen! Your father is coming," echoed from a group of young lads and lasses, who were eager with excitement to apprise their companions of the near approach of their father, who was carefully sliding along on the glass-slippered snow to where a merry group were enjoying the festivities of the excellent skating. "Where are Chester and Cora?" exclaimed the father., All surprisingly answer, "We don't know! have not been with us." All the while one of their number, a student of medicine, was doing all in his power to help them away from the violence of an angry father. But to make good their escape was their aim. Soon they reached home, and a kind and indulgent mother wove carefully around their bed that night the cord of protection. Next morning they were to be seen plodding their way up the long winding hill, till they reached its lofty height, where they entered the long, square-desked apartment of, their school- room.  , The first day Cora went to school; the teacher asked her if she could spell Girl. "Yes, sir." "Well, how do you spell it?" "O, just as other folks do." It was evident that Chester was a good subject     32      THE SILVER LINING; for the culture of bad habits, bad company, and uncontrollable effects of erroneous faults. How- ever, time passed away, and as the wheels of the Old Potentate rolled around, it brought to Chester many changes; it drifted him far beyond home influence and home discipline. How fast one mis- fortune follows in the track of another! Night after night their beloved mother would watch for her children's coming. One night she waited till after the little clock on the marble mantel had pealed forth the hour of midnight, for the coming of those she so dearly loved. We cannot hope to tell you how the heart grows sick and faint with suspense and weary waiting, This intensified, undefined, unsought-for knowledge of coming evil, was a philosophy whose labyrinth of theories and practice puzzled and confused her, and the eyes- those eyes of wondrous depth and beauty-were lifted trustingly to the youthful faces of those children; though then both children of sorrow, yet precious as her heart's blood, and dear as the apple of her eye. For them she toiled, for them she saved, trusting that there was a rift in those dark clouds that would unfold a silver lining; that the angels would walk with them through life in their weak humanity. Life brought to her the great high tide of enjoyment, yet it also brought to that mother the black wave of despair which   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     33 often threatened to engulf even the little straw of hope that appeared to her bright, joyous and beautiful in their lives in its fathomless depths. At this eventful period in the history of Cora's life, she scarcely ever thought that there was an omnipresent God who was watching all her actions, and who would appear against her in the day of reckoning. She fairly hated her life. It was so uneventful, so stagnant, so monotonous, that she grew tired of it; but she knew that it would never' do for her to deviate from "the even tenor" of her way. And she laughed gayly; but in a moment her old dissatisfaction would creep back into her blue eyes, and she was ever ready to envy any one, though her life was not one of such unmixed hap- piness as to be coveted or envied by the least among the greatest. In the summer of 1858 Cora was attacked with typhoid fever in its worst symptoms. Nine weeks she was confined to her room with this loathsome disease, the gate of heaven closed against her, and about to enter the dark valley of the shadow of death with no fair prospect of being saved. Oh! reader, what a trying hour! No tongue could tell or pen portray the feelings and anxiety of her parents (who were both pious) for their child's salvation. The daily attendance of two skillful physicians gave her up a victim to death's 4     34     THE SILVER LINING; icy hands. But to every dark cloud there is a silver lining, and a new life fairer than any yet dawned for her, her inner heart was touched, and God in his providence restored her to health and the world, for some purpose best known to himself. She had a hidden sympathy, and tender memory of her own, after all, which quivered and woke to new life, and up and down through the corridors of her soul pealed the glad, happy thoughts set to the sweet musical rhythm of her restoration, which, though unspoken, was breathed in every action. Kind reader, do you for a moment reflect upon the history of your past life? Have you not suffered upon the bed of sickness, or have your days that have long since passed into oblivion been days spent in pleasure and the full enjoy- ment of health.? Have you not experienced the clouds of sunshine and of sorrow in your journey through life? We might answer affirmatively that we were all born and have lived in an oratorio of praises of nature, flowers, birds, mountains, sun and moon, still our pathway through life has been more or less strewn with thorns and briers. In this world we cannot expect life to be one long season of sunshiner; it has its dark and dreary storms. Should we always be surrounded by the pleasures and enjoyments of life, we would fail to   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    35 recognize the goodness and wonderful display, of 1  divine providence: we could not as fully appre- ciate His beauty as it waves in the branches of the F  trees and green blades of grass, as it haunts the depths of the earth and sea, and gleams out in the     hues of the shell and precious stone; and not only I these minute objects, but the ocean, the mountain, I   the clouds, the heavens, the stars, the rising and setting sun, all display His handiwork. The uni- verse is his temple of art, and we cannot lift our eyes without feeling ourselves encompassed with his goodness and beauty on every side. He feeds the families of countless myriads swarming over this great universe. He pours his light from innumerable suns to innumerable rejoicing plants; he waters them everywhere in a fitting moment; he ripens the food of globes and of nations and gives them fair weather, and from age to age, amid the beauty, the sunshine, and the magnificence of nature, he seems to sing throughout creation ,the glorious song of his own divine joy, in the eternity of his patience and the abounding goodness of his love. What a family hangs on his sustaining arm; the life and souls of infinite ages and uncounted worlds! Let a moment's failure of his will to do good occur, and what a sweep of death throughout the universe! How stars would reel, and planets     36      THE SILVER LINING; expire, and nations perish; but from age to age no such catastrophe occurs-the earth still rejoices in a, renewed beauty and a redoubled plenty. How painful is it to think of the vast multitudes who are living in the midst of God's unbounded love, surrounded by all the luxuries of life, and yet are unthankful for all these great and nume- rous blessings that he has bestowed upon us that we may live and be happy! Kind reader, hearken, hearken, God speaketh to thy soul, Saying "O, thou that mov'st" With feeble steps across this earth of mine, . To break beside the fount thy golden bowl, And spill its purple wine, LooK UP to heaven, and see how, like a scroll, My right hand hath thine immortality In an eternal grasping I Thou that lov'st the songful birds and grass underfoot; and also what change mars and tombs pollute, God is the end of love! O thou that sinnest, grace doth more abound than all thy sins; sit still beneath his rod. And count the droppings of his victim blood, And seek no other God.   IOR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    37 L CHAPTER III. THE EXHBITION. CORA, after gaining sufficient strength from the :  severe attack of fever, was permitted one afternoon of a quiet summer's day to venture out and breathe from the atmospheric region the breath of life, and she now felt sensibly her long siege of confinement from the scenes of the outside world. Her reco- very was very rapid, and at the end of two months she was again sent to school. Many of her former schoolmates rejoiced in the returh of their once wild and careless companion. But she was no longer careless and unconcerned; her mind was deeply impressed with her past life, her brain was bewildered, and refused to dictate her movements, every day of the past seemed to haunt her, and there was no peace for her. She was continu- allyin distress and trouble. She now, for the first time, thought herself one of the most miserable creatures living. It seemed to her she was fast steering into hell-that dread abode of all the wicked, the lake that burneth with fire and brim- stone-outer darkness, where there is weeping and gnashing of teeth, where the fire is never quenched. 4*     38      HE SILVER LINING; She thought every hour was bringing her nearer i   eternity. And how dreadful to be a sinner! Darkness appeared before her for ever, sin for ever, woe for ever, and death for ever. She continued in this state of mind for several weeks, keeping all her trouble to herself, finding no comfort but at the throne of grace, where she was taught to kneel when a child. She continued in prayer, with the thought that a praying soul could never be lost. Soon she began to see a bright cloud breaking through the starry heavens, revealing to her sight that blest abode far above the skies, convincing her that every cloud of trouble and trial has a silver lining. Peace came to her, and she was assured that she was a sinner pardoned, reconciled, saved, and now, whatever dreadful things conscience tells her, Jesus says, "Thy sins are forgiven thee; go in peace." What a happy change! Her place at Sabbath- school and church was scarcely ever afterwards found vacant. It was now her delight to attend the Sabbath-school and enjoy its sacred privileges. Her past school-days she looked upon with scorn and contempt, resolving in her mind to improve the present opportunities that were presented to her of still attending school; which attendance ever after was very regular, and consequently Cora became quite an apt scholar, which somewhat i '   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    39 puzzled her former companions, so much so, that it was a long time before they could account for the great change. In the winter of 1859 the students were all busily engaged in making the necessary arrange- ments for an exhibition, to be held at the school, for the purpose of procuring maps for their school- room, that the interest in geographical study might be increased; they all rapidly progressed in their new enterprise, each looking forward with bright hopes and ardent desires to the time when they would exhibit themselves upon the stage. One very cold night, Cora and her little sister started for their evening's study, it being their usual custom to meet once a week to practice their studies. The evening was undoubtedly a very unfavorable one for children to be exposed to, the snow and slush; but, all delighted with the new scene before them, they were always very punctual in their attendance. But ah, the sad calamity which followed after! On the succeeding morning Cora's little sister was suddenly attacked with scarlet fever. Two weeks she lay unconscious, with very faint hopes of her recovery. Night after night Cora and her mother sat by her bedside, ankiously watching every move, hoping that a change might come for the better. All her symptoms were those of approaching death. I  '          ..   -     '     40      THE SILVER LINING; It seemed as if a very few hours were between the innocent creature and heaven. Soon her counte- nance began to change and her eyes brighten. With a gaze of fair and sweet bewilderment she looked around upon them-all, as if to say with her feeble voice she was better. A smile of compla- cency expressed the serene fortitude of their minds, and they felt as though one had been rescued from the power of the grave. It was now Sunday evening, the second week of her sickness; their hearts beat with renewed vigor, for the restoration of their daughter (and Cora's little sister). But in the midst of their hopes for one whose health was now improving, on the following Monday morning Cora was suddenly attacked with the same disease; she and her sister both occupied the same room. Cora was uncon- scious of what was passing around her. Soon their father fell a victim to sufferings of the same nature. Three of them afflicted. What was to be done! no one to administer to their wants but a careworn mother. Two weeks more passed away, and their recovery was sure, and in a short time they were all able to join the family circle, and resume the duties of their profession. The proceedings of the exhibition spoken of were very interesting. The evening was one of splen- dor, such an one as the gay and festive people of   OR, FAIR-IIOPE PROSPECT.    41 the village delighted to see. The little school-room was filled to overflowing, all eager to see the per- formance of the bright pupils of B-- School. The proceeds of the evening amounted to a considerable sum of money, the scholars being rewarded by the purchase of two very handsome naps, procured by their much-loved teacher, for whom the scholars ever entertained thehighest respect, and who long since then has passed be- yond that vale of tears, to mingle with the departed who sleep their last sleep beneath the lonely portals of the tomb. From this time on till Cora reached her sixteenth year, she turned her steps to the same old school- room, endeavoring to enlarge her field of knowledge and to become wise and useful. She was generally considered a bright scholar, and as she increased in years there were but few in school who were her superiors. To the no small astonishment and great delight of her teacher, her mother, and herself, she was considered perfection in the art of orthography, and in the whole range of her accomplishments of studies, none were so desirable to her as compo- sition and letter-writing. There was no greater proof of this assertion than the fact that from her earliest education, she sought and found some means of intercourse with those of her friends absent from her. Her letter-writing as an accom-     42      THE SILVER LINING; plishment appeared so simple and easy a task, that she soon fell into a diffuse, careless style. There are hundreds of people in the world who detest letter-writing, yet our life is not given us for a solitary saunter through a pleasant rose garden, and the daily cross may often mean nothing greater or higher than the discharging of an insignificant task. From the savage who plucked one leaf for a challenge, one for a declaration of love, one for a warning of danger, and had the vast forests to select from, the wide prairies to traverse before the messenger reached its destination, to the mer- chant of to-day, who sends a communication flying over the electric telegraph, this need of writing let- ters has been provided for. Where the heavy emigrant wagons once lumbered over the rough western wilds, bearing to waiting hearts the first tidings of home, after months of absence, the swift-gliding railroad train now carries the weekly or daily mail; Cora had not failed to penetrate these western wilds, and sought there many a correspondent; where the broad ocean once rolled like an almost impassable barrier be- tween loving hearts, and the sea voyage was the undertaking of a lifetime, even there she sought for an exchange of thoughts. She found the Eastern lover selecting the choice   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    43 bouquet by which to convey to his beloved his ardent passion, and the maiden returning the dainty messenger. Though years of separation may blot out the face of relative and friend from our memory, letters will form a chain to k'eep alive all the holier and sweeter ties of love and friend- ship. The wide ocean, the vast prairies, the lofty mountains, the stronger bar of years, of time, may stretch between loving hearts, yet a letter will speed from one .to the other, keeping alive the tenderest emotions. Without this link to bind the absent, mankind would grow morose and selfish, when separated from social intercourse with those dear to him. The heart untouched by any word of remembrance or affection would grow hard and cold, and each member of the great human family stand isolated and dreary whenever called upon to part from friends.  Strange that in this earnest, hard-working world we are so ready to weave into the very warp and woof of the lives of others that golden thread of romance which gives the coloring to the whole, and, enveloping them in a veil of mystery which only intensified our interest in them, place them upon a pedestal and call them heroes and heroines! An indistinct idea of this crept into Cora's mind as she sat busily pondering her books. Cora threw     "     THE SILVER LINING; down her pen and looked out, with a new-born light in those dark eyes; beyond the sunset and the purple mountains, into the far-off future, whose radiant gems and priceless pearls it might be hers to gather. And now she can scarcely realize that she was an authoress, as she takes up the magazine and sees her name so plain among the list of con- tributors, and the success she had met with in her writings. How strange it seemed that the old, sweet dreams of her childhood had at last been put into words, and that people called her gifted! One day she received a letter, and a glimpse showed her the post-mark was Philadelphia, where the magazine to which she had sent her article was published. She sat down by her window and with trembling fingers tore open the large yellow enve- lope. Into her lap dropped two ten dollar bills. So much, so good; she could but utter her thanks for her praiseworthy success; she had not been idle all this time, and the bread which she had cast upon the waters was now, after many days, being found again, and her delight was un- paralleled; but to those who are joined to all the living there is a hope in all things, though some- times as we are about to place to our lips the cup of happiness, the crimson flowers of hope withdraw their golden rays reluctantly from the western sky, filling our cup of joy with radiance, leaving the   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     45 clouds sombre and their fleecy paintings with an occasional silver streak bursting forth and then melting away. Many a resplendent scene is enacted by the painting of these clouds. Many a time our spirits would sink in their lonely couch, and the purple blushes of the coming future kiss the boundaries of our transfigurations, when hope raises the veil of night and peeps in upon our conscience ere the chain of meditation is spell-broken, and our XII  thoughts sink to oblivion unknown, obscured by a dark cloud; but soon it floats along, and again the silvery rays render unto the clouds the resemblance of a silver lining. How many a plaintive murmur, or a sad reflection, might be turned into gladness and joy, and life be made happy with contentment; ! i  if the lessons of hope spread before us were properly X -  appreciated, and some new idea born at the obser- vation of every silver lining. Hearts are in heaven which understand this well. O, ye who meeting sigh to part, Whose words are treasures to some heart, O i   Think gently of the dark days to come, When earth hath but for one a home; When dark clouds your heart be binding, Before they turn forth their silver lining; Lest musing o'er the past like me You feel your heart wrung bitterly; When other things have passed away, And have no tone to bid it stay. D E     "     THE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER IV. "OVERS' TRIALS. WE will leave Cora awhile in silence, while she spends a short time at home, and pass on to con- sider another hero of our subject. At the close of a mild day in autumn, when the leaves of the trees had reached the perfect state of their maturity, and beauty gleamed in various hues of crimson, green and gold, Cora was walking in the quiet little woods, but a short distance from the farm-house, where she loved to pass her lonely hours. The sun had gone down in the hazy west, and the soft, mellow twilight followed, the sober, dusky atmosphere, which all around her filled her heart with sadness. She remembered the past, with all its blighted hopes; bitterness and grief weighed heavy upon her heart. With melancholy reflections, she remembered hearing of one who had long ere this departed for the distant west, when in her infancy; and in her reverie she seemed to behold him in all the fasci- nating beauty which had won her heart. For the first time since his absence she wished he might   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    47 return. In the midst of her reflections, she seemed to hear a footstep and a sigh. Darkness had stolen insensibly around her. Night had folded in solemn silence her dusky wing, and when she looked up the outline of a dark human figure which stood near her, appeared dim and indistinct; she started, but a well-known X   voice, choked with grief, seemed to whisper there is a Raynor who will one day reap the reward of thy heart, and possess thee as his own, purchased with a price bought and weighed in thy infancy. One whom we will speak of hereafter spent his childhood in this part of the world, being born but a few steps from Cora's home; they frequently Ad being together in youth, but in her infancy this noble-hearted youth spent most of his time in watching over the cradle of one who became his wife. At the age of eighteen he started from home to earn a livelihood for himself. He settled in a little town in the state of New Jersey-a little, quiet, clean place, dwelt in mostly by men who had retired from the pursuits in which they laid the foundation of their competency; ship-masters who had withdrawn from the rude and wandering lives to the enjoyment of domesticity, and the interests of their accumulations; owners or part owners of foreign vessels; merchants whose first     48      THE SILVER LINING; profits were upon petty articles, notions, &c. There they led their quiet lives. under the roofs of white houses (with green blinds), apparently peace- ably and happy. And, naturally enough, gossip was a recognized avocation in the place, not unlike other petty, one- horse towns. "Give me a dwelling amidst the central roar of the ocean or in the bowels of the growling earthquake, but deliver me from the tongue that never tires and the mouth that is never shut," or the village where gossip exists. We suppose there were persons resident there who could not have rested quietly of a night in igno- rance of what their neighbor had for supper, and who would never have made the attempt to do so if they had not seen during the day the sulky of Mr. D-- passing on some unknown errand. So when it was known that a young gentleman, Master Raynor    , had arrived at the little tavern, bringing with him letters to a few promi- nent citizens, and preparing to establish himself, a creditable degree interest was manifested, and the inquiries wr e frequently made, "Who is he?" "Where is he from?" "What is he like?" "Is he handsome?" and, above all, "Is he wealthy?" And when, a few days after his shining signboard had been displayed, it became known that he would attend a lecture at the town hall on Wed-   ...X wOR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.        49 nesday evening, curiosity was fluttering in many a. breast. The comments made that evening upon Master Raynor's appearance were of course various. The impression of him was that of a well-looking, well- dressed, and apparently well-trained young man, with no apparent characteristics distinguishing him from other young men in a similar station. He had something to say on wall topics, and usually said it well. On the whole, he was an interesting companion. One afternoon, on a summer's day, he was cordially invited to accompany several of his new acquaintances, who had made the necessary ar- rangements for a few hours' recreation on the wild Atlantic Ocean, amid the waves of the mighty deep. In a few hours they started, merry and delighted; they soon found themselves gliding down the vast stream, when lo! all of a sudden, they come in contact with something tossing to and fro amid the iinbounding waves, at first ap- pearing like the fragments of a vessel; advancing a little, they discovered it to be a huge whale. Quick as thought, the huge monster wheeled his course after them; and it was only with hard labor and fast oaring that they succeeded in making good their escape. Master Raynor was all this time busy, with course after them; and it w o     50     THE SILVER LINING; bucket in hand, dipping the running water from their boat, which was evident would soon carry them beyond the surface, and they would fill a watery grave; but they fortunately escaped the ferocious animal. When they reached land, they strolled across the commons a short distance to a first-class confectionery, where they were thrust into the presence of a party of lads and lasses, who were waiting the arrival of the boat to convey them over to New York City, where they would attend a social hop at Congress Hall. With a little persuasion Raynor and his acquaintances joined the party, and soon they were on their way,  the boat making slow progress, from some cause   i unknown to the passengers; but it was evident they would not reach the city at the expected time. In their little company was a young and beauti- ful lady of unusual talents, who was on her way  home to the city, having been on a visit to her sister in Albany. While there, Millie became acquainted with a gentleman of respectability and education-Edgar F--, who was quite interested in her welfare, and when the parting came he could hardly speak some awkward phrase of adieu.  Edgar soon found himself alone, and the thought struck him that he, too, might have an immediate and pressing summons to New York. And then, a conversation with Millie on the boat would be r;   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    51 better than to lose sight of her before he should express to her his love. So the first intimation Milhe had of his presence on board the boat was when he found her looking out over the waters to the full moon that rose before her. Her start and change of countenance, as he addressed her, might well have been described. The fact was, it was the first moment in which she suspected his feelings for her, and the idea brought with it a feeling of dismay. "Miss Millie," he said, speaking earnestly, "grant me time to prove to you my love, nmy devotion, in which I fear you do not yet believe." "No, Mr. Edgar," answered Millie, calmly, "a knowledge of your feelings could not alter my decision. It is based on my own." He arose hastily, and moved a few paces from her. Passion, love, anger swelled and strove stormily within him. He turned and walked again to her side, looking down almost in wrath at her still face, looking out seaward. "At least," he said, "I may ask the reason of this strange decision, that will not allow even a chance of change." "That, sir, you have no right to ask," she auswered, meeting his gaze with eyes proud as his own. "No right!" cried he, vehemently, "no right i             ,     52      THE SILVER LINING; to question a decision that must darken my whole life?' I have a right, by the love I feel for you; to demand some frankness from you." He paused, feeling that passion was carrying him too far. Millie's calm was broken up now, and she, too, spoke with rapid vehemence. "I do not acknow- ledge your right, yet I will answer you, since you have forced me to it. I could never feel true respect, far less love, for a main who lives for no purpose-who seeks only his self-gratification." "And that character you mean for me?" he inquired, with frowning brow. "Your own words-your own indolent, aimless life, describe your character, not I," she answered. "Enough, Miss Millie," said Edgar, bowing haughtily, "good evening," and he hastily left her, with such feelings raging withim him as no- thing till now had given him a hint. For hours he sat upon the deck, with hat drawn  down upon his brow, and chin resting on his hands, looking far away. In the dark watches of the night a new and strange experience opened for 'him. The recollection of . the past scene faded away. Sometimes it is granted a man to look back upon an hour in which he stood thus with the full knowledge of the parting in two ways, one to be chosen and the other left for ever. And Edgar thought, "Except a man be born. again he      .       .   OR, FAIR-ROPE PROSPECT.    53 cannot enter the kingdom of God;" and in the midst of this dark cloud, there was for him in the future fair prospects. In Millie's heart, too, conscience was not silent that night. Like many reserved people, when urged to speech, she had said more than she in- tended, more than she could justify to herself. "What right had I to speak?" she murmured, tossing sleeplessly upon her pillow. She was stirred to her very heart by the love that had been avowed so unexpectedly. Had she known this, she would have judged him differently all the while. Somewhere late in the night, Edgar roused him- self, to notice that something unusual was taking place, or had taken place, upon the steamer. Men passed to and fro, not noisily but with something intense in the quietness and rapidity with which they moved. He caught a few words from two men passing near him. Rising, he moved towards a figure in whose voice he recognized the captain's. "Captain," said he, "it seems to me something is the matter. Is it an accident that has occurred, or a danger threatening? Can a mere passenger be of use to you?" "Ah, it's you, Master Edgar!" he said. "I did; not know there was a passenger on deck, and didn't mean there should be, yet awhile. But I     54     THE SILVER LINING; may as well tell you now; something has happened. There is fire in the boat, and gaining on us fast, too, in spite of all we are doing, or can do." "Bad for the poor boat, but not dangerous for the passengers, within sight of land, I suppose," said Edgar, in as quiet and unmoved a tone as if the startling intelligence were the most trifling matter of course. "I hope so," said the captain briefly, but not in a very satisfactory tone. "And you are doing all?" "Nothing; it is a case past the water-cure." "'You are not heading for land?" "No landing possible. We are going north as fast as possible, to the nearest landing-place; unluckily, the tide is against us." "At worst, we have the boats and life-preservers plenty." "The boats will not hold half that will want to go in them. We've made rather too much of a cram this time. I tell you, right out, Master Edgar, for I know you are not one of the scary kind. Besides, I want you to help to waken the people quietly. Everybody must come out of the cabin. And all had better be aroused and make ready; yet we mustn't let them think there is any danger." It would be too much to expect that an intima- \ ' .   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     55 tion of even distant and possible danger should be received with perfect calmness and quiet by several hundred people, among whom were many women and children.        S Some shrieks and thysterical outhursts followed the quietest and most soothing communication that could be planned. But the quieting authority of the captain, and his smiling assurance that it was "all right-all right; only they might have to disembark short of New York, and wait for the next boat," as the passengers arrayed themselves and collected their portable properties. As Edgar made his way to Millie's state-room, the door noiselessly opened, an'd Millie appeared, fully dressed. Her pale face flushed crimson as she met him thus face to face; but he was past any feeling of constraint resulting from their last interview.  He gave her the captain's soothing message. She stood -silent a moment. "Only that," she said, "Master Edgar, I know there is something very serious the matter. Do tell me just what it is. I am not so easily frightened by what I know, as by what I am left to guess." Edgar looked at her, meeting the steady bright- ness of eyes charged with courage enough to over- come the terrible shrinkings of fear, strong though that might be, and rightly judged, that to give her full knowledge of their situation was the truest     56      THE SILVER LINING; kindness. He told her just what the captain had told him. "Fire!" She barely whispered it, and he only saw a momentary shudder pass over her; but in one moment more she saw, with terrible distinct- ness, a blazing boat, the horror of a choice between the fiery and watery destroyer, the bitterness of death that might be near. She stood with dilated eyes that saw nothing, motionless as a statue. "There will be room in the boats for all the women and children, if the worst should come," cried Edgar, with quick, reassured confidence. She looked up at him. Even in that moment of great mental agony, she wondered at the light in his eyes, the passing away, as of a cloud from the sky, of the old look of languor and dis- content. "Thank you for telling me," she said. Her voice trembled, but was low and quiet. "And you and all the rest," she inquired presently, "have you the same chance of escape?" "No fear of us men, but that we will find something to float us to safety, if we need it," he answered, cheeringly, hastening away. Millie stood gazing after him a moment, and then, as if inspired by his example, turned to soothe and comfort a poor woman near her, who was crying pitifully in concert with the baby in   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    57 her arms, while her sick husband, too weak to stand, sat on the floor beside her, leaning against her knees. A rattling peal of thunder broke in upon her words, and the heavy roar of rain beat on the metal roof. A sudden storm broke over them. Down rushed .the waters from the sky, ifp heaved the waves from below, as the wind lashed them from their everlasting enemy-fire. Wild shrieks, and exclamations, and tumults, echoed the fearful knowledge that spread from one to another. No time to trust longer to the steamer escaping. With all haste the boats were lowered. They were soon loaded with their freight of women and children, a heavy burden for the boats; but a place must be found for all. They would return as quickly as possible for the second load. Women forgot to care for others, and fiercely struggled to be first in flight. Men forgot to share manly courage, and abjectly -implored to share this chance of safety. NOT ALL, though! The) captain found assistance, not only in his crew, but among the passengers; above all, in Edgar, who with his indolent aimlessness sup- planted by energy, seemed to have leaped through the seething mass, quieting, helping as need be. Millie saw it all. "Not yet," she said, with a quiet gesture of withdrawal, as he sought to place her among the 6     58      THE SILVER LINING; first in the boat. "Let me wait for the others; I cannot go first." There was no time to urge her, for even while she spoke, others thronged forward, the boat was filled to the water's edge and away, and the next one lowered to its place.  "My husband," cried the woman already men- tioned, as she was called to pass down the side, "you must take him; you'd never ask me to leave him behind." "Madam," said the captain, with decision, "the women and children are already an over-freight." "He's sick, he can't be left. I'll stay and be burned with him, before you shall leave him." "It is impossible," urged the captain, still reso- lute, though sorely tried, "it is the last boat, and all must not be risked for one." "He shall go in my place," said Millie, making herself heard with clear decision through the tu- mult. "She is right s He is sick; he must go with her. Oh, Mr. Edgar!" She turned, holding out her hands appealingly. "Make him under- stand, I will not go!" She looked down to see the sick man passed to the place beside his wife, that should have' been hers, to see the boat cast off and be swallowed up in the darkness of the night, and then she turned to the man who stood silent beside her.   Ot, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    59 "It is not so hard," she said, and she smiled as she said it. Then, in a lower tone, bowing her head as she spoke, "Mr. Edgar, I am thinking of the words, 'If thou bringest thy gift to the altar, and there remember that thy brother has aught against thee.' This may be the altar, and the time of sacrifice near. For me, I have judged harshly, when I had no right to judge at all; uttered charges that I know now to have been untrue. Forgive me!" and she held out her hand to him, looking up into his face. He caught her hand with a grasp that pained it. "Millie, Millie!" he cried, with a wild tone at once of joy and pain. With a wild, womanish shriek, she turned and clung to him. Their fiery foe, held prisoner no longer, ran through the cabin and state- rooms. Better the waters beneath than the flames above. "Come," cried Edgar, with quick, sharp deci- sion, and he swept her in one moment to the fur- thest side of the boat. "No time for waiting; no trusting in the coming boats now." Edgar seized from the boat an old chair, in which he seated Millie, and after safely adjusting his life-preserver, he plunged from the deck, seized hold on her with one hand, with vigorous strokes of the other he urged her forward from the dan-     60      THE SILVER LINING; gerous proximity of the flames, which shot up, broad and high, into the heavens. The wonder of that fearful night was not the few who met their death from fire, but the many that escaped. The boats, returning soon, caught one after another from their threatening doom. Among the last was Edgar and his charge. Such a crisis as this might rarely pass without great effects to any one. To Edgar and Millie it was a new starting-point in life. Both had seen clearly in a few hours things undreamed of till then; and Millie, in the new-born humility which her character had till then lacked, utterly reversed the judgment she had passed on Edgar. She was sure that he had always been the truest, the bravest, the most unselfish of human beings; and she had not yet found cause to believe otherwise, for this night was to her the beginning, for him the confir- mation, of a mutual love, strong enough to be the continent of all other loves. Nature's bright lamp hangs in the sky lonely, and still, like them, vainly trying to read the mystery, and see through the glittering star of hope, a fair prospect of unending bliss, and future worth and happiness to them both. Only a rivet was needed to bind still closer Edgar's image. Millie went home filled with new hope and FAIR- hope prospects. A new world had been revealed   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     61 to her. Never was her life so bright and full of joyful anticipations. Millie lived in a heaven of her own, beyond the penetration of those about her, and was happy in her new love. A gay man's smiles, the sound of a winning voice was soon to be hers. He was her sun and moon, her joy by day and night, while she was one of the most obscure of planets that Fate had placed in his orbit, a star, that the slightest cloud would darken all his life. But the star of hope gleamed out From the prospect fair and dim, The hand of time brought her about, And gave her for ever to him. Millie and Edgar soon after shared together the unending bliss of married life. His kindness, Though seeming on the desert cast, Arose with bloom-and fruit at last. May the tie that linked them endure unweakened throughout life, and the love that dared so much be only refined and exalted by the cares and troubles from whiph no life is free. Master Raynor returned to his place of abode next day, with thoughts revolving in his mind that he had witnessed a scene and engaged in a freak that time could not efface from his memory. This was his last visit in Riverton. He took his de- parture next morning for his home in Middleton, 6*     62       THE SILVER LINING; where he spent a short time, and the following winter went to  Philadelphia and enlisted as a regular soldier in the navy of the United States. We would not tell yoh hopes are fickle, Or that friends wi soon forget, Love, if genuine, ilasting, Savors not of sad regret.  Winds from off the mighty ocean Tell us, in their whispers sweet, Hearts in sympathy commingle As the waves and sunshine meet. Love is not a seeming fancy, And life not a, vain regret, Hearts that love will love for ever, And they never can forget.   f      . FOR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    63 CHAPTER V. THE ADVENTURE. IT was in the fall of 1854, a cold, bleak, No- vember day, that the vessel left Philadelphia for parts unknown, with Master Raynor and a friend of his on board the vessel of war. Several weeks elapsed, during which time they experienced some   . severe hardships and trials naturally belonging to a soldier's life. Neither was constituted in form or strength to endure the storms and trials incident to times of war; and they were, to their hearts' content, fast finding it out. While sailing down the Great Mississippi, To where war's rude blast was blown, On St. Louis' citadel of stone, By precipice and tower they sailed, Where King William's victorious legions hailed, By muniment and bastion rode, Where iron hoofs war-horse trode; By battlement and casement sped, Where Frenchmen unto death were led. All this time the brave heroes were resolving in their minds to make good their escape, out upon the wild prairies. /                  -     G4      THE SILVER LINING; Where farms, like ribbons of green and gold, Streaming far inland, and upwards unrolled, By glittering church spire and gleaming town, Where the broad Mississippi his flood pours down. Watching a favorable opportunity, they succeeded in freeing themselves from the bondage of soldiers. One cannot describe the joy they felt at their escape, although homeless and friendless. They travelled from place to place in pursuit of employ- . ment, being smitten with the love of fame, and finally halted at one of the old-fashioned farm- houses of the West. Everything was on a generous scale, from the rolling prairie with its billowy ravines down to the haystacks and big wood-pile near the door, and the newcomers thought "that truth is stranger than fiction." They had spent the December day since sunrise in hunting up and establishing a boundary line of travel. Hence they were in ex- cellent spirits as they sat down to a smoking hot supper. Mr, Clifton, with his two smart boys, waited for no ceremony, and the two wanderers followed their example in satisfying their keen appetites with savory morsels. While sitting at the plain but well-spread table, two handsome daughters were bustling around the kitchen, and replenishing the table, while the vigorous mother, with hospitality shining all over her face, was 'f   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     65 watching with care lest they should see the bottom of the cup or plate. They had nearly eaten their way through to victory, and some had pushed back to rest on their laurels, and to take a sly glance at the damsels, when the door opened, and in stepped a man of medium stature, intelligent face, and about forty-five years of age. "How are you, David?" said their host; and, turning to them, exclaimed in his hearty tones, "'Strangers, this is Mr. Le- claire." Thus introduced and challenged, Leclaire gazed solemnly into their faces. Seeing expec- tation there depicted, and learning their story, he uttered, "Necessity is the mother of invention, and do not be misled by the glitter of fame or popular applause." After an hour's conversation, they left their hosts and sauntered about among the distant realms of curiosity to where their fancy led them, finally concluding to invest the small amount of money in their possession in a large grocery business, in which for a time they succeeded quite well. Master Raynor soon became acquainted with the fact that his partner was acting the part of a rogue, and consequently it was best for them to dissolve partnership, Raynor being satisfied that disappointment' lurks in many a' prize. He was now left to choose .his own fortune.     "    'THE SILVER LTNING; The grandeur and sublimity of the scenery of the new-found country would have held his soul spell-bound in the intense appreciation he would have felt for its sublime beauty, but now he was led to murmur with a shudder, Oh, how wild and desolate!" He would look up into the heavens, where the stars were glittering cold and bright against the dark blue dome, and at the moon which was looking down upon him with such a calm, cold light, and would wonder if He who held them in the hollow of his hand and guided them so wonder-. fully in their course, would have any thought for him. Was He the same kind, tender, loving Father he once trusted in? And if He was all love and compassion, why had He made it necessary for him to go out into the wide world, which seemed to Raynor so cruel and unfeeling? He thought of the future stretching up to him so lonely and so dreary, and to him the time dragged slowly and wearily along; it seemed as if the years would never have an ending. As his hope was stricken and his joy all gone out, he de- termined to make the circumference of the United States; after which he turned his steps in a south- western direction, reaching the most unsettled part of Missouri, where he made a temporary settlement, spending six years in the state. It was late in December-almost Christmas-   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    67 when he returned to the Indian State. He, how- ever, engaged in speculation for a time with praise- worthy effects, buying and selling cattle, herding cattle on the prairie, and at intervals carrying on his trade, which he was thorougly master of. Two years previous to the breaking out of the war, he was appointed county assessor and census-taker, in the counties of Calloway and Clay, Missouri, spend- ing his leisure time in Liberty, where he made him- self very prominent among the ladies, and became an especial favorite. They entertained a high esteem for him. During his sojourn here he became personally acquainted with a Mr. Neil, who resided several miles from town on a large plantation, as they commonly term their farms in the South. This was one of the wealthy farmers and a very pious man, with a family of two daughters, who were handsome, intelligent, and amiable young ladies. Several months passed away, when Raynor be- came intimately acquainted with the family; his heart yearning all the while in the direction of that family, for the friendship of Elenora; who was a helping and a loving heart to her father, through the long years that flowed on in different ways. Through prosperity and adversity, good report and evil report, she was utterly generous and earnest   g     68     THE SILVER LINING; in her care for her aged father, never doubting, never judging him harshly for any forgetfulness. Both were their mother's children, full of char- acter, generous and kind; and moreover each child  was the child of many prayers. Elenora had established a great influence over her father. He  was willing to give her anything that she might ask for, even to the part of his kingdom. He delighted in her magnificence, style and grandeur. He was lavish with his money. His two children had their thousands.  Elenora's heart and affections were intently fixed on Raynor, though he knew in his simple, happy life that she had engaged herself to another long before her acquaintance with Raynor. Always distant but courteous, Raynor had never shown her that he thought her more than a mere passing acquaintance. One beautiful Sabbath morning, Raynor hap- pened to call on his way to church, to which he thought he would accompany Elenora. She imme- diately despatched the servant for her horse, whip, saddle and bridle, which was the usual way the Missourians had of going to chFrch. After services were over, she was accosted by her intended husband, whose wish it was to accompany her home, as had heretofore been his custom; but she refused him, on the ground that she had com-   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    69 OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    69 pany. Raynor overheard the conversation, and declined his further service; he accompanying her sister Joe home. After dinner, Raynor and Elenora were having a private conversation, when the affair was dis- cussed, he honestly and candidly informing Elenora that he had no serious intentions, and of her duty? to fulfil her prior engagement. After great per- suasion, she finally gave her heart to him who long had tried to win it. Time passed rapidly away, when an intimacy sprung up between Master Raynor and Josephine. Elenora was a perfect lady- affable, mild and win- ning, though not a great talker; but Joe, unlike her in this respect, was a perfect chatterbox, full of spirit, and quite lively. The latter was about fifteen years of age, with black hair and eyes, and very pretty features, which were seldom in repose. Raynor had heard nothing from home for more than two years. One evening, while he was par- ticipating in the festivities of a ball in the town of Liberty, the landlord sent a servant in haste with a letter to him. His partner and he had taken places for the next set of cotillons, when he was tapped on the shoulder by the gentleman of the house (in which they were enjoying his hospitality of the light, fantastic toe), who handed him a letter. Hastily opening it, he had read but a few 7     7 O     THE SILVER LINING; lines when he exclaimed, "Oh, my mother!" dropping his head upon the shoulder of his be- trothed bride (who stood near him), with such moans of unspeakable grief that she led him into an adjoining room and closed the door, that no other eyes might look upon the anguish of her lover, whose shoulders rose and fell with the great sobs that shook his frame. Speaking to him of his distress,he handed her the letter, when she read therefrom the sad news that his mother was NO MORE. "Oh, my dear mother!"' he cried, and, forgetting all around him, he threw his arms around her neck and wept bitterly. Suddenly the waiter announced Ithat there was a carriage in waiting at the door, to convey him to his boarding-house. On his arrival there, he at once went to his own room, and gave way to the sorrow that was almost bursting his bosom. In the morning he had attained some degree of, calmness. He entered the sitting-room occupied in common by himself. The landlady on hearing the door open looked up, and was at once shocked by seeing Raynor enter looking pale as death, and wearing the traces of deep grief upon his brow. A mother's love, who can measure it? A mother's prayers, who can tell their value? There is a value and significance in them, which' only those who have lost them' can fully realize. Her   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    71 place cannot be filled by another, be she ever so good. A bright example of this assertion was manifested in the happy home of his father. Oh a mother's love, measure it not! Boundless is it as the sky, pure and free as the crystal stream Every one should honor and cherish it as the dearest blessing heaven ever designed to bestow. Only those who have lost such a friend can fully appreciate her love. A long period having intervened since the death of Raynor's mother, and although her decease was a most painful providence to him, yet, however pensively he lamented her departure, he tried, in humble resignation to the will of God, with patience to bear it, remembering that we too, like her, must pass the solemn ordeal of death. The consent of Miss Joe's parents having been sought and granted, every necessary arrangement was made 'for the union of the two in the sweet bonds of matrimony, the ensuing fall. But "call is-not gold that glitters, neither are all expecta- tions realized, as there is many a slp 'twixt the cup and the lip." Raynor being an early pioneer in the wild State of Missouri, he had grown up, politically speaking, with the country, and we believe really had her interest at heart. During her struggle in time of the rebellion, Raynor, to keep the good faith of his     72     THE SILVER LINING; intended father-in-law, entered the Confederate ser- vice as captain of a company, encamping some five  miles distant from the residence of Mr. Neil, daily  visiting his betrothed bride and spending a few hours in her company. We suppose it would not interest you a bit to have us relate the whole particulars of Raynor's visits, to and fro, so we'll only say that in good time he arrived safely at the camp of:the Confede- rates, and was warmly welcomed by the general and the crowd of boys that had gathered around him; a greater part of whom were natives of the county, for the boys from the states had not begun to arrive very thickly, although it was not long before they came pouring in as thick as bees around a bee-hive. There were some Yankees there, scattered around like plums in a pudding, and like them, they were the life of the camp, and who, like the boy when he got into the molasses barrel, were wishing, " O, for a thousand tongues!"Some of them had made their homes in the country for some time previous, and, like Raynor, thought they were going to sup- port a good cause. They lay in this spot about four weeks, every day receiving numerous recruits, until at last their general had quite an army gath- ered around him, and had begun to think of taking offensive movements against a large body of Yan-   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     73 kees that were encamped some ten miles away on the plains, and who, report said, every day were about ready to attack them; but, owing to some reason, the attack was not made. One day the scouts would bring in word that theirforces were not half their number. The next it would be twice as large, and these conflicting stories puzzled them all, from the general down to the nigger cooks, who seemed as much interested in the affairs of the day as were their masters. Several attempts were made to ascertain the exact number of the enemy, but they were unsuccessful, all being foiled by their carelessness or the unwor- thiness of the scouts, to whom was intrusted the duty of penetrating, if possible, their camp-grounds, and finding out their strength and intentions. In the meantime well-grounded suspicion arose that there was quite a number in their camp who were endeavoring to escape from them. One or two had succeeded in entering the boundaries of  the Federal camp, but were not successful in get- ting out again, and it was probable that they had at once been murdered; but as soon as their true character was discovered, it was not at all sur- prising to their regiment that they remained away. Raynor had attempted several times to escape, but was not successful. The whole company under his command were traitors to the Confederate cause, 7*     74      THE SILVER LINING; and they were not at all backward about letting it be known in their whole regiment; and several times expressed their thoughts to the general, that he would never reap any beneficial services from their patriotic actions. One afternoon, about two hours before sundown, the colonel came up to where Captain Raynor and half a dozen others were lying on the ground, and by a motion gave Raynor to understand that he wished to speak to him alone. He got up and walked towards his tent, but before the captain reached it, the colonel came up with him. "Come with me," he said; "the general wishes to see you." "Wishes to see me!" exclaimed Captain Raynor, 'in wonderment; "what can he want of me; and how did he know there was such a person in camp?" "Never. mind now," said the colonel; "you'll find out what he wants when you get to his tent." "All he knows about you," said the colonel, " is what I have told him; I fancy he wants you to go on some undertaking that requires a good deal of caution and cunning. We shall know in a few minutes." Captain R-  revolving in his mind what the general could possibly want, and why the colonel had recommended him in preference to others, they   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    75 went on, and at last reached the door of the tent, where the guard that was stationed before it at once allowed them to pass, when he saw who they were. The colonel lifted his hat as he entered the tent, and Captain R--  did the same, when he caught sight of the general, sitting upon a drum-head, be- fore a box that served him for a table, upon which was spread a map of the country, and which, upon entrance, he was studying intently. He looked up at their entrance. "Well, colonel, is this the captain?" "Yes, general. He is the one I spoke to you about, and I think you will find him brave and in- telligent, and ready to do anything you may require of him." "Very good. You may go now." The colonel again lifted his hat, and then turned and passed out, leaving them alone. For fifteen or twenty minutes the captain remained in the tent, and part of that time the general was talking, and the rest gazing upon the map referred to lying be- fore him. When Captain R---was ready to take his leave, the general said: "If you are successful in this enterprise, you shall be well rewarded. Be cautious, end keep your eye open, for you have a wicked set of men to deal with." * . r'     76      THE SILVER LINING; The captain went straight to his tent, where he found the colonel, who was waiting his return, and he knew by his face the question he would ask. "You will go," said the colonel. "Yes," said the captain. "I am off as soon as I can get ready. I came here for danger and ex-    i citement, and I am glad to get away from camp.  "And to earn, perhaps, a colonel's commission?"    "Maybe, although I do not expect it."        i "You get it if you come back successful, and that you will, if you come at all." I' You must undoubtedly have more confidence in me than I have myself," said the captain. "Certainly I have.  Which horse will you t;e?" "My own-the one I rode here." Half an hour later, and he was out on the plains alone. The encampment of the Confederates was hidden from view, and he thought, when should he see it again? Perhaps never. As we before stated, it was about ten miles be- tween the encampments of the two armies; and about half this distance lived the father of his be- trothed bride. He rode on, and at last entered the timber that grew along the banks of a small brook. It was one of those deep watercourses that are to be found so often in the West, with high banks, by whose side many a traveller had died of thirst,   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    " while far below him he could see the bright, spark- ling water. The sun was just sinking, as he en- tered the thicket and dismounted from his horse. Divesting himself of the garments he usually wore, he undid the bundle that he had with him, and stood arrayed in the uniform of the Federal army. His garments he threw away, and then started again. At every step he expected to encounter a Yankee, for the thicket was always full of them, but he was fortunate enough not to do so, and he rode out into the plains that were held by the enemy. One, two miles were passed, and he hadn't seen a human being. Suddenly he was startled by a loud shout behind him. He turned and beheld a Yankee. "Who are you?" he said. "A scout, like yourself," was the captain's reply. "Have you seen anything of the rebels?" "Not this side of the brook; but they are thick enough beyond. "Have you seen any sign of any?" "Not one."  "Are you going into camp?" "Yes, my time is up." "So is mine; let us go in together." They rode slowly on; and his companion not     78     TfE SILVER LINING; having the slightest suspicion, Raynor told him all he knew, all that he could have learned had he stayed in their camp a week. Now was his time to turn back. How was he to get rid of his companion? If he turned back, his suspicion would be aroused. He could have shot him, but he did not want to do that. Although he was a Yankee, he had not harmed him, and he cared not to take his life. But he must do some- thing, and that quickly. They rode side by side. A thought flashed through his mind. As quick as thought, he placed a pistol to the ear of his horse and fired; and at the same moment he wheeled his horse quickly around, and waited to see no more. The moon was up, and the plain was almost as light as day. He could see and be seen. He rode on in the direction his heart was yearning to see, when he reached the house of his betrothed bride; and was about to alight from his horse, when he was surrounded by a heavy force of Yankees. SURRENDER HE MUST. He caught a glimpse of the image of his heart's fondest affections, entreat- ing them to let him go, but all to no effect. Part of their force were busily at work in re- lieving the house of its valuables, furniture, silver and jewels. All were swallowed up by the hungry Yankees, when orders came for them to return. Hurriedly they consigned their prisoner to one of   OR, FAIR-HOPE 'PROSPECT.    79 the bastiles, where he was confined several months, during which time an attack of fever laid waste his strength, and broke down his robust constitution. For the first time in his life, amid all his sufferings, he seriously felt the need of a Saviour; but, like many others, he says, "At some future time I will seek the Lord." Thousands are now weeping in perdition because they put off salvation till some future time. One is missing here below, and an- other is missing, and they have gone the way of all flesh, and few ask where are they? Have they obtained eternal life? And we who are following after, what progress have we made in the spirit life? Is the soul advancing heavenward? A ship driven before the wind, when the winds are contrary, is in rapid motion, yet may not go forward. So we are admonished not to be tossed to and fro, ihd carried about with every wind of doctrine. As the mariner takes his longitude from the sun or the polar star, so the soul should take its course from the Star of Day, from Christ, the- Sun of Righteousness. 'He that would ascertain his true spiritual position, must look to Christ, who is "the way, the truth, and the life." Should sombre clouds of sorrow rise, And shadows o'er us fall, No earthly balm will satisfy The heart's instinctive call;     80       THE SILVER LINING  Ah! then, indeed, unto this world Our thoughts should not be given, For we a sweet assurance have- There's rest for us in heaven. Should sickness pale the rosy cheek, Or dimness shade the eye; And every pulse that faintly throbs Tells of a time to die; Should every cherished hope we hold Fade like the hours of even, We still have that sweet promise left- There's rest for us in heaven. e    OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    81 CHAPTER VI. THE RETURN HOME. IN the meantime Raynor was released from his confinement of some three months' duration, and returned to his home in the fall of sixty-two. It was early in the morning when the train set him  down in the famous Downingtown, within three miles of his home, and as at the close of the jour- ney he trod again his native soil, the thought occurred to him how little he knew and cared for Miss Joe at present. Along the road down which he had so proudly marched, he now walked wearily, not as he went. His health had gone. The season of the year, too, had changed. When he had gone forth some eight years before, the fields were not so green; but now the bright silvery leaves glistened beneath his tread. All was beautiftl and summer-like. Now over his head and far away, rolled in myriads sparkles of emerald light. The leaves were floating sadly, with a look of peculiar desolation; while across the orchard fierce winds, laden with autumn scent, chased each other till they dipped in the stream with many a 8     82      THE SILVER LINING; curl and tremble, and in the fields' on either side he could see the withering grass beneath. Pursuing his way with feeble care, he stopped suddenly, with a great heart-beat; for there it lay, the home of his childhood, the grass-grown yard, and the old white house, with green blinds, whose picture had never faded in his mind since the day when leaving them, he had thought, perhaps for- ever. There was the old cherrytree, the old orch- ard, and there too, was the pump, long and awk- ward, as he had seen it so many times in his dreams; point by point, it answered exactly to the portrait in his mind. "Ah, how dear to his heart were the scenes of his childhood, when fond recol- lection presented them to view! The orchard, the meadow, the deep-tangled wildwood, and every loved object his infancy knew." His feelings can better be imagined than de- scribed, on entering the house, and not finding his mother; his tale of sorrow was now at an end, when most he felt her loss. As he advanced to greet his kindred, he now for the first time gazed upon the wasting form of his eldest sister. Con- sumption was rapidly doing its work of destruc- tion on her feeble constitution, and it was evident, that she must soon yield to death's summons, and bid adieu to the dearest ties of earth. On the 17th of March, '63, she 'calmly fell asleep in the arms   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROgPECT.    83 of Jesus, leaving behind her a large circle of true, warm-hearted friends and relatives to mourn her departure. Possessed of rare qualities, she had won for herself a circle of warm-hearted friends; ever kind and affectionate in her manners, cheer- ful and forgiving under afflictions, her wealth of affection could only be appreciated by those who knew her best. Her many acts of kindness mani- fested in days gone by, will through life remain green in the memory. of those who have been true to her. Her long and painful illness was borne with calm resignation and cheered by the Christian's hope. When speaking of death, she would say that it was hard to leave those dear to her heart, that attachments had been formed which were hard to sever; yet she was ready and willing to go, and urged her sorrowing friends to put their trust in God. She bade them remember that the longest life was short, and that eternity was without end. We will take no account of the intervening months spent at home, but pass at once to the next spring, six months from tue time Raynor came home. His free vigorous country life had given him back his former health and strength. His iron constitution had triumphed wonderfully over the prison taint, which would have proved deadly poison to a weaker frame; and his springing step     84      THE SILVER LINING; and merry laugh once more made music to his sis- ter's ears. It was about the midsummer, when the sweets and luxuriances of flowers and trees were unusu- ally grateful, that Raynor became interested in business in the city of Philadelphia, where he suc- ceeded quite well in his new enterprise, and soon made for himself a number of friends. In the meantime it was Cora's lot to become personally acquainted with Raynor. In her sim- ple happy life at home, she had taken no note of time, she had left golden opportunities for mar- riage pass by; but when a peculiar sympathy sprung up between Master Raynor and Cora, he revived the fascination of her lost pride. The graceful indolence of his usual manner became a bewitching vivacity; his eyes sparkled with fun, his own withered roses had freshened and bloomed under those which art had so carefully trained. Cora was bewildered; she felt herself to be under the influence of a fascination that might have been exercised over her by a gentleman of her own age. His bright black eyes, black hair and, brilliant smile fastened her eyes upon him, and every instant she found herself discovering some new charm in his face, voice, and figure. Her attention was riveted by his keen wit, which had just enough of spice of wickedness, to be very   OR, FAIR-HOPE PhOSPECT.      85 attractive to a young lady in society; and as he knew the antecedent of her former life and friends, and had a spicy anecdote to relate, the interest was greater. I seek you, Cora, YOU ALONE I seek, All other ladies fair, Or wise or good, may go their way Without MY thought or care. The deep, the low, the moving tone With which I told another's love for me, Interpreted my own. But I, dear Cora, have travelled far and late, And not until youth, and youth's bright hopes are spent, Have found the one I really loved, Ah, who wouldn't wait, To gain with love such measureless content? So after all, we may conclude that love is some- what more than a foolish passion, and ought to exist. Let no couple ever commence housekeep- ing without it. It is like the cloud with silver lining; it lifts up the lowest to the highest; it places them by the side of the bright particular star. It binds us to earth, and when a loved one has been taken from  us it lifts us to heaven. It is like the river of Fair-hope Prospect; in the severest trials it never fails, and in the mightiest floods of affliction it never overflows its banks. There is in the world no other such majestic flow of waters. Often one-half of the vessel may be 8*     386     THE SILVER LINING; seen floating in the Gulf of Despair; while the other half is in the common sea of Fair-hope Pros- pect. Let us consider, the cold icy barrier that society has thrown around its votaries. All is cold, dis- tant, and formal. It is formed but to tamper with, and destroy the noblest instincts of the heart, and in its train we find a load of accumulated evils, ill- assorted marriages, and consequent estrangement is often the result of its former policy. We may sometimes find ourselves coveting the situation of those in higher life, and would think that the crowned goddess who seemed so enchanting was always filled with happiness; but a single glimpse at the inner life of such persons would be sufficient to reveal the utter hollowness of such a life. The approval of thoughtful and judicious friends is worth more than the senseless shouts and cold- hearted applause of the whole world. Almost every person will admit that society demands that certain parties should attain a cer- tain position, and in order to attain this; it becomes necessary to fascinate some old hypocondriac stock- broker; a marriage is consummated, and society is contented, but the sequel proves its fallacy. One of the parties, young, ardent and loving, has pros- tituted the heart's warmest affections at the shrine of mammon, and henceforth that blighted flower   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     87 finds ample amusement in applying flannel band- ages and liniment to the decrepid, to whom she looks up for support and success. Persons should shudder at this idea. The gilded carriage and luxurious carpets can- not ease the pangs of that seared and blighted heart. Anguish and remorse, restless nights and joyless days, are all that the future reveals, oh; what poignant grief, what a martyrdom of self! Society is the viper that inflicted the sting, and  one of God's noblest creature's is doomed to droop and die under the bitter pangs of a crushed and bleeding heart; and why? Because she could not yield to the promptings of her own soul, and fly from such an unholy alliance; it was for fame in society that she underwent this change. How such an one must envy the rural maid, or the sturdy plough boy, who has married the object of her heart's fondSst affection, who is happy in her love and can cast herself with confidence upon his manly breast, and realize that his feelings are those of reciprocated love. If young persons would spend as much time in improving their mind, training their temper, and cherishing kindness, mercy, and other good quali- ties, as most of them do in extra dress and orna- ments to increase their personal charms they would at least be recognized among a thousand     88      THE SILVER LINING; more; their character would be read in their countenance, and there would be less formality and cold-heartedness in the world. Of all orna- ments with which young persons seek to adorn and beautify themselves, none can for a moment compare with religion. We have thus drawn two pictures; we leave you in meditation, while we pass on to contemplate the truth of the love of home. t   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    89 CHAPTER    VII. TRUTH OF THE LOVE OF HOME. The glowing sunset of an October evening was shining on the fair grounds around Oakland Sem- inary, lighting up the scene of stir and bustle invariably presented by the return of the ladies to their studies after the periodical holidays. The king of day, the source of all light and heat, was about to bid the earth and its millions of inhabi- tants a few hours farewell. The light-hearted, joyous, merry birds had sung their last evening song, and folded up their tired wings for a night's rest upon the tall shade trees that gracefully twined their branches in front of "Oakland." The dusky shades of night were fast settling down, hiding all familiar objects from view. One by one, the twinkling stars made their appearance in the liquid blue above, and Luna, just rising above the hill, made the evening charmingly beautiful. But this evening Cora found herself thrust into the busy scenes of boarding-school life away from home. Though she was always inclined to be con- tented, taking things inithe easiest manner, and     90      TIE SILVER LINING; looking at the bright side of a bad picture; but she had to confess, that this was rather hard, and not in conformity with her usual quiet life at home. She was now at school, and, after some time, she was escorted to her room, to retire and enjoy nature's sweet restorer-sleep. Morning came, when she betook herself to her studies, but not with a free good will or blithe spirit. In order to release her mind from the constant tension, and the loss of home luxuries, more than with any view to self improvement, she commenced to study as- siduously. She selected the most useful books: standard works on science, philosophy and art, as well as a few popular works on the common branches, together with an unusual taste for logic. The experinpt had the desired effect, for she soon fonnd herself improving rapidly, which served to divert her thoughts into a forbidden channel, and thoughts of home died away. On her first entrance into the school-room, many strange, staring faces seemed to meet her first glance in the large, square-desked apartment. The number of students altogether did not reach three hundred, nearly all of whom  boarded in the building. No difference whatever was made in education, but those who came last were generally looked down upon by the rest of the girls. They arrived variously: some driven from the country   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    91 in their fathers' handsome carriages, some came from the cars, and some had come from the little  town,-all of whom were kindly welcomed by the Principal of "Oakland Seminary," whose smiling countenance and kind disposition won the good favor of all his pupils. Often as Cora mourned an absent father, a mother's tender sympathy, a noble brother's love, he did not comfort her with the shallow comfortings and the tinkling sounds of man's consolation; but bade her look at separation in the light of reason, and mourn no more. He taught his pupils of a friend better than father, mother, brother or sister. Far up the dizzy heights of thought he led them, and brushed away the mist that dimmed their sight, and ever pointed them onward and upward to the hidden mysteries of God. Students under his care were held with strict discipline. Sometimes, when the discipline seemed too severe, they would indulge in bitter repinings, wicked thoughts, cruel words and angry glances; but they soon learned to appreciate his kindness, and the ever watchful eye with which he shielded them from all harm. The large and spacious garden, picturesquely adorned with a number of trees whose branches waved gracefully over it, anL flowers and shrubbery tastefully disposed around the foot-paths, was their i              * J:     92      THE SILVER LINING; only place of recreation. Without the guardian care of teachers, they could not attempt to pass beyond the large iron gateway. A few hardy flowers glowed in the front 'yard; richly tinted dahas, marigolds, chrysanthemums, &c., still kept their bloom; for the huge old maples and other trees sheltered them like a tent, and flowers always bloomed later there than elsewhere. No wonder! Inside and out of that spacious building, all was pleasant and genial. The fall flowers seemed to thrive upon their professor's smiles. His rosy countenance, as he overlooked them, seemed to warm up their leaves like a sunbeam. Everything was carried through in the best order and style; and as the day declined, the hum of study died away, and always after nine o'clock, per- fect stillness reigned in every room, and not a footfall could be heard in the halls. On Saturday afternoons an unusual bustle was apparent among teachers and pupils, preparing to visit the town; but on Sunday mornings it was as peaceful as the first hallowed day. Not a human sound could be heard in the halls till at the bidding of the church-going bell, and the school bell to bid them hasten to the school-room, where all would congregate, each knowing their regular places; and then, with solemn, demeanor, they would march in   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     93 line, with measured steps, to the house of worship, with their stately principal in front of his army of school-girls. Here Cora spent five weary but useful months, pondering over hard and difficult lessons, which by perseverence she soon became master of. She learned that humility is the great lesson of life; that "he that humbleth himself shall be exalted," is as philosophical as it is spiritual. All that she dreamed of in the broad field of knowledge had its day of feebleness, of darkness and doubt, and the ladder at whose shining top stood the Angel of Fair- hope Prospect, was only planted in the caverns of the dead. But the debris and rubbish of centuries was cleared away from the spring head of learning, and their crystal waters from the fount of litera- ture, and science now leaped forth glad and bright. From all the ignorance and guilt, from all the sorrow and trials, Cora was ever finding help in her teachers, who were communicating and instilling into her cranium all the knowledge possible. There are no blessings which the mind mav not convert into the bitterest of evils, and there are no trials which it may not transform into the most noble and divine of blessings. Fortune, greatness, ye shining emptiness-bubbles floating on the sea 6f time. The despoiler lurks, oh! how near to the surface. The student may not, indeed, take 9     "     THE SILVER LINING; the pleasant pictures from the wall of his study, but surely he takes light from the eye that looks upon them, by cultivating a hatred towards his hours of study, and become a slave to discontent- ment. Home-sickness is a feeling which all students will experience who are away from home; but as great as this slavery is, by a love for study they can cultivate a habit which will entirely eradicate them from home luxuries. They may talk and laugh together in their variegated apartments, but when their paths diverge, and they go up among the eternal hills of God and look off from those solemn pillars of his Heaven, an invisible hand will seem to draw them apart into the stern realities of life, to which man is but a slave. In the meantime, it was Cora's fortune to hear from Raynor, who was now sojourning in Tennes. see, on the eastern slhoic of one of the most beau- tifil livers j America. While absent, his letters were such/as to justify his confidence toward one who, for love of her parents, had given up the dream of her heart in marriage with him, Cora was rapidly improving in her studies, and had become quite a favorite with the teachers; but time, the hoary-headed potentate, brought her many changes, trials and disappointments, and she was ever wishing that she could annihilate time and -space, to be. once more numbered with the happy   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     95 band at home, where every person's thoughts will centre when the mind is weary of the toils of life and of study. How often we hear school-girls express them- selves: "If I were only at home," as though a sight of that loved place would brighten every prospect, lighten every care, and make them better prepared for every ,task. There is a time when home seems dearer than at any other; it is when among those whom we know not, and in a strange land. Then how each little scene that has ever transpired at home, comes quickly to our minds. Then how we long to cross that same old threshold, where we have watched the sunbeams of many a summer play around, and think if we could but be gathered once again within the family circle, that we would care naught for wealth, praise, or education; nothing save the loved ones at home would possess our affections. There is not a place in this world that a true heart loves more than home-most sacred spot of earth. How memory loves to linger around that hallowed spot. i The remembrance of days spent there, the earnest prayers of a gentle mother that her children may not be lead into the paths of wickedness, and a father's kind advice, a sister's boundless love, a brother's care,-all, ALL these combine to render HOME most dear to the absent one. When one has /      .       96      THE SILVEr LINING. been absent from home for a long time, and pre- pares to return, what thoughts of home, and loved ones there, fill the mind with pleasure, and fair prospects of a happy reunion are their brightest dreams.  Many changes may have been made there, yet it is home: a pleasant, well-remembered spot, A LOVELY, HAPPY place. That spot of earth where from each bosom, The first weak tones of nature rose, Where first they cropped the stainless blossom Of pleasure, yet unmixed with woes. When, with their new-born powers delighted, They grew beneath a mother's hand- There, there the quenchless flame was lighted That sparkle for their own native land. r   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     97 CHAPTER    VIII. "OVE'S LABOR WON. WINTER had passed away, and the expiration of the school term was fast approaching, and toward the close Cora advanced slowly with her studies, but her capacity for retaining was great, and what she learned once was hers for ever. The term ex- pired in March, and many a tear fell in memory of days spent there within those sacred halls, with those who had trod with her along the rugged hill of science. The ensuing summer of '65 found Cora again a pupil in the far-famed Normal School of Pennsyl- vania. During this term she made many acquaint- ances and someiwarm friends among the students, where both sexes congregated, but these were con- fined to her own sex; not that she was incapable of -appreciating male excellence; neither was it that there were not most charming specimens of bud- ding manhood to be seen every morning at prayer in the chapel of the Normal Academy, and every hour to be met coming from the recitation rooms; but she was shy; she had her secret, which, even 9*     98      THE SILVER LINING; while frank, free and delightful, many had failed to discover. Passing her window many times a day, going to recitations and returning from her room, was a charming figure, who hid his face under the broad rim of a "sundowner," walking demurely, and looking upon the ground. Cora grew curious to know what eyes'those were which turned in youth- ful meditation toward the bricks of the sidewalk. She came to the door to watch for glimpses of the face; she came to look at the innocent youth as he faced the sidewalk. His form was like a vision of loveliness seen at a castle window. But, notwith- standing the envious sundowner, she saw at length, through praiseworthy perseverance, the face it guarded to her full content. Black, lustrous eyes, shaded and softened by long lashes, and subdued still more by a most enchanting modesty, were the greatest beauty of that face; but sweetness, gentle- ness, intelligence, refinement and a winning, name- less charm, all legible in countenance and form, attitude and step, made him to her very fascinating, but not the most fascinating creature her eyes had ever beheld. It was one of those loveliest mornings in that loveliest of all months in the year, June. The sky was cloudless; the air was pure; nature had fully awakened to her new life. Clad in her regal robes   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     99 of freshness and beauty, she welcomed with her most genial smiles the bright and laughing June, as she advanced to pay her homage. On this morning, a merry band of youths ahnd maidens had gone to the city, about four miles west from this stately school. After promenading through the principal streets for fully an hour, they hastened to the hotel, and who should meet their sudden gaze but the figure represented under the sundowner. Cora and he having been once introduced, they were continually being thrown in each other's path. What was Cora that she shoilld love him, But for feeling of the pain? A face in which should meet The floating views again. Cora went home like one intoxicated. Dark, soft eyes floated between her and her book on the next day and the next. He met her again and again. She often heard him mentioned as one 4f the finest scholars in the Normal Academy. She was tormented nearly into insanity with doubts and fears. She missed all the exhibitions, lectures and literary entertainments, which were a common affair in the town of Millersville, upon which she always calculated to be present, and she did not feel her temper improved at all by the fact; yet, what "can't be cured must be endured."  It was *                  \(     100     THE SILVER LINING; an old and very solacing faxim, from which she derived no great consolatihn. One evening only, during the session, did this student call upon Cora, He was, as we shall sup- pose, a very cultivated person, and had travelled much. He was handsome and brilliant; but that bold, dark eye of his made her shudder. She got possession of such an odd fancy in fifteen minutes after his entrance, that she was absent-minded, and could not have dwelt upon his regards by any lively fascination of manner. The only time that Cora recollected of him officiously offering her as- sistance was at a soldiers' parade. She was badly wedged into a crowd, and the little man, after peeping under her veil, said imploringly: "Allow me to extricate you, Miss." "Thank you," she stiffly replied; "extricate yourself first." So you perceive that it isn't likely that he made many overtures of friendship to Cora. In fact, he conceived an immediate fear of her; he felt that she had read him, and had acted upon her own im- pressions; indeed, he felt forbidden to come in con- tact with her again. Narrowly he watched her, and he could see just how her heart had gone out against him, how every soft tendril of her loving nature was wound around his, baser nature. How softly he swept in upon themes, trying to enchant   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    101 her! How gracefully he took her imagination with him through those mysterious old countries which are given some to see who cannot feel, and denied those who would thrill with rapture to tread the holy ground! With him she floated up the Nile, and in fancy saw the famous Egyptian flowers blooming on the waves. With him she 'ascended the pyramids, and gazed, awe-struck. She joined his caravan and crossed the desert, pursued by plundering Bedouins; thirsted with them, and kneeled with them upon the oasis where the moan- ing camel quenches his thirst. How he wove his magical spell around her imagination! Cora never forgot that evening; she wished she could. None but Cora kept themselves beyond his fas- cination. The circumference and diameter of countries were adjusted to the satisfaction of all. But she could feel how one of those thirsty, inves- tigating natures, drunk with their superabundance of reverence, would throw all considerations aside to be glorified by the love of such a man. The love! ah, if one could have that strong enough and broad enough, and deep enough and high enough to strangle the baser nature, what would not one do to be worthy of it? As he arose to take his exit through the trap- door of matrimony, she thought him a very bril-     102     THE SILVER LINING; liant youth, even like the comparison of rare old "wine on the lees, well refined," something not to be trusted in the cup. But it would be tedious, were the writer to lengthen the narration of him by recounting all the incidents which were the food he fed his passion on. To hasten our story's close, this intelligent and no- ble youth returned home in a few weeks, where,  after four days' illness, he clasped hands with death. In relating the death of this school friend, we are reminded of that beautiful Sabbath afternoon, a few weeks following the one Cora spent in Lancas- ter, that a company of the school girls visited the village graveyard, and, though young and frolic- some, they entered the gateway with grave, medi- tative faces. There they saw the pure white stones, set as sentinels above the mounds, beneath which lay the remains of many a schoolmate. The sun- light fell upon them, making long, bright shadows upon the turf, as it played in soft, bright jets about those graves, as if it loved to linger there; and the girls seemed to be in a deep reverie, unconscious of how their given time was passing. They seemed to be holding sweet communion with the sleeping dust of their departed friends, who had crossed the border of the great future, to which we are all ap- proaching. There they seemed to sport among the   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    103 loneliness of the pale band of sleepers, little think- ing that one more week added to time would num- ber one of their happy little band with the-departed of long ago. It was on the following Sabbath morning that the church bell was heard to toll the solemn warn- ing of the sweet and submissive death of Cora's schoolmate, who only the week before was gay, laughing as a merry, frolicsome school girl, enjoy- ing all the festivities of the season. Now her last remains were to be laid side by side with those of her sleeping companions. Why do so many shudder as they pass that "city of the dead," where so many sweet forms have been laid? There is certainly not a purer, holier place on the wide universe than that quiet churchyard, which ought to keep bright in our mem- ory the thought, that WE TOO were born to die; that we too have a resting-place when earth's pil- grimage is ended, and a home in heaven that is far more beautiful than we can imagine. As we walk through memory's hall, and view the pictures we have hung on either side-pictures of happy hours that WERE TO BE-alas! that the future has never brought them-well may we think that Fair- hope Prospects are blighted-well may we cry, "Crushed hopes! crushed hopes!" But our Fa- ther sends not sorrow to bow us to the earth, but     104     THE SILVER LINING;  only to the foot of the cross. All eathly hopes, joys and ambitions may be crushed, but only that the faith in our Father may be stronger and our hopes more steadfast of one day having the pearly gates of heaven open wide upon their golden hinges, to admit us to that land where there are no crushed hopes. Oh, call not the quiet grave a dark and gloomy place; it is the "portal of glory," and our loved ones lie in its cool chambers of rest. In their sweet childhood, in their golden youth, in the harvest- time of life, in hoary age, we have laid them down to sleep in the quiet resting-place of all the depart- ed. Men of golden locks and new-born babes have alike,put aside life's too often bitter cup, and lain down to rest together. Oh, weary ones, who are now treading life's weary road, remember too that you were born to die; that you may soon join the pale band of sleepers. It is sweet, though sad, to stand beneath the shade of "God's first temple," and gazing upon the mounds at our feet, dwell upon the memory of the loved and lost. We return to the hours of their sojourning with us, and once more seem to hear their voice as of old. But, alas! we only seem to see them, only seem to hear them. Time was gently stealing on, revealing many hid- den mysteries, and some interesting scenes trans-   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    105 piring. It is almost useless to relate the sequel. Many a happy school-day passed swiftly by in l their onward flight. Doubly sad was the parting when many, from that happy band threw  aside their books and girded on the sword and shouldered the musket for their country's sake, and went forth with pale faces, but firm, resolute, brave hearts to subdue their unnatural foe. Here we turn aside, and-drop a tear in memorial bof those (out of the number) who have fallen-those whom time, though it may bring us many changes, will NEVER bring back again. There is nothing of interest to relate of the last days Cora spent at school, and no particular event; but the season was fast drawing to a close when they would be free from school. Graduating day came, the 20th of November. What an eventful day! All the exercises were over, and it only re- mained for the essays to be read. One by one Cora's classmates went forward, and at length her turn came. How she ever managed to do her part before that large concourse of friends, we cannot say. It seemed'as though she was enveloped in a mist; nothing could be seen but her trembling pa- per. It was through at last, and by the murmurs of the committee and the applause of the company, she knew she had done as well as could be expect- 10     106     THE SILVER LINING; ed. At length all was over; diplomas, bouquets and testimonials of approbation given, and they were free to roam at will. Cora returned home, awakening in her mind thoughts for new and pleasant friendship with the idol her young heart had created; at whose shrine it bowed in adoration. She did not guess that time was bringing nearer the expected marriage-- that day by day Raynor's first attractions towards her grew deeper and intenser. Before a month had passed, there was a great deal of hurry and confusion afloat, for Raynor had returned home, and their wedding-day came on swiftly. There was as much gayety abroad as ever, but they could not attend to it. They were married at one of the "' city parsonages," and a carriage awaited them at the door, to convey them to the cars. It had been a cold and blustering day. The' keen and piercing wind with angry vigor swept around into the car-doors, bringing with it each time 'a great gust of snow. Night, so dark, so dreadful and so mysterious, was settling down over the earth about the time they reached Cora's home, where they found in waiting a number of invited guests, who enjoyed themselves while there, and returned home with pleasant memories. Raynor returned in a few days to the busy   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    107 scenes and broad thoroughfares of a southern city, where business of an unusual kind called him. Day by day he became more interested in his busi- ness, the thoughts of home decreasing; but time passed slowly and wearily away with Cora. After six months' absence, a solemn and im- pressive message was despatched to Raynor, in- forming him of the death of his father, hastily bringing him again in Cora's presence; but not as he went, for disease had already laid hand upon his once fair form, and was rapidly hurrying him to another home; but after recruiting from his journey and the woes of travel, he again regained somewhat his usual health and strength. Summer was now nearly over. The trees had cast off their gorgeous garments, and the soft, dreary atmosphere of September had given place to the clearer, more bracing October air. The fields appeared in sober coats of faded green; the winds swept through the desolate woods with dreary moanings, and dry and withered leaves filled the woodland hollow and rotted on the ground. It was at this season of the year, and the begin- ning of the second fall month, the happy couple started for their southern home. But the weather was not cold, and as they approached nearer the southern horizon, the sun shone with brilliancy, and but for the wintry aspect of the woods, all na- * ,     108     THE SILVER LINING; ture would have looked smiling. They reached their destination on Friday, and dined at one of the hotels, amid a crowd of people, who regarded them with undisguised curiosity, ever entertaining the kindest feelings and self-respect toward them. Here on the first day they descended to the dining-room, and bespoke dinner of the very genius of decorum- the solitary colored waiter. No sooner had they crossed the threshold of this apartment than they felt they had mown the first swath in the golden crop of southern impressions. The dining-room, like many other dilapidated places and things they were destined to see in the land of the sunny South, seemed to have been waiting for long years, with just that sufferance of time written on its visage, / for them to come and gaze, ravished with hunger, but unamazed. The preparations of the southern climate, and even the most delectable features of a southern life, is a fact the depths of which they never fairly reached. The roots of it are so deeply buried in the virgin soil of our primary culture, that, without some uprising of experience, it would be difficult to say exactly when, where and how their life begun.    Here upon the balcony they had a grand sight of old Tennessee, and the dizzy height of the great Lookout and Mission Ridge, which circled its   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    109 course in an angle near the city. Here, at least, they had a greater stretch of this ridge from off the balconies. Here, too, they had a more picturesque view-of the passing boats and war vessels, loaded with their ammunition and provisions, with their ruddy fire already kindled for cooking their morn- ing meal. Then the boats of the various artisans and fishermen went by, with those that sold fuel, and vegetables, and fruit, and fish to any household that would hail them. They never wearied of this oft-repeated variety, nor of their travel. They were otherwise content; as concerns this truthfully, it is very hard to say, for we do not know that we shall be able to say with certainty. For all the entertainment it afforded them, it was not a lonely life, and they felt the sadness and calamities of war in the city, in many fine and not instantly recog- nizable ways. The following morning dawned. A warm wind parted the clouds and showed forth the sun-the sun of a fatal day. The roll of the drums awakened the sleepers. The bugle, with the music beating time to the marching army, who were soon discip- lined, all ordered to the front, and a signal, "March!" sounded down the lines, and the troops moved forward over the meadow, where they reached the rising ground. The command to halt again sounded. At the farther side they 10o     "O     THE SILVER LINING; were already drawn out in line of battle. Cora, with a group, stood in silence. The left wing had already engaged the enemy. From the opposite height thundered the enemy's cannon. Was this the foreboding of a coming doom-a morta lpang in the triumph of life? Was it the wild lust of battle? Here and there a man fell from the ranks, but forward they pressed till the gap was not filled, and the long lines were thinning fast. In the rear could be seen a long train of ambulances, to gather and take in the wounded, while the dead, the for- gotten dead, were trampled under foot. The human imagination can picture no sem- blance of the destructive potency of the marked hand of war. It is painful to recall. For weeks, and even months, could be seen the long train of wagons, loaded with pine boxes, piled higher than the human hand could reach, to inter the dead. All changes, all events were for a long period affected by the inevitable calamities of war and the clash of resounding arms. And Cora thus far lived in sympathy, and at frequent intervals pleasantly she would saunter up and down the wide-extended landscape, stop at the old log farm houses, sit upon the porches and listen to the good old dames, with decent caps upon their hair, relate anecdotes of their voyage   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    1" of life; and at these times it was- a singular pleasure to leap from one's doorstep into the swift current of time, and spend a half hour in- formally among the neighbors. The country was serenely romantic, yet unspeakably sad. Remembering the charm that was in her, we often sigh for a renewal of our own vague life there-a shadow within a shadow; but remember- ing, also, her deep melancholy and devastated con- dition, a shiver passes over us, and we are glad not to be there. Like most southern towns at that time, the set- tlement was made up of all kinds of material-all sorts of folks, holding every opinion. Society was exceedingly miscellaneous. More than a dozen states had contributed to make up its people. ,And each person had brought along with them their early habits, and their own views of business, law and religion. When thrown together on public questions, this composition boiled up like a mix- ture of potassa, bitar and soda. Factions of course were formed among those whose early education and habits were congenial. Another general feature consisted in this, that there was no permanency in society. The inhabit- }  ' ants were constantly changing, pouring out and in, like the waters of a river, so that a complete revo- lution took place every four or five months.     "2     THE SILVER LINING; Everybody who remained there expected to re- move somewhere else very soon.   They were merely sojourners, not residents. There was no attachment to or veneration for the past of this oft- forsaken town, because it had no past. The ties of memory reached to other states. History, if you have lived where it was created, is a far subtler influence than you suspect, and the history of this is deepened by every freshly-added association with memorable places, and each fact, each great name and career, each strange tradition, as it rose out of the past for the new sojourners, and shed its lustre upon the present, touched them with a pathos which they could neither trace nor analyze. Another week brought Raynor and his charge within bounds of a home, and a family circle of four constituted the band of inmates who collected around the table, amid the clash of plates and rattle of knives and forks, in one of the fashiona- ble houses of the town, situated Along old Tennessee's billows blue, To where war's rude blast was fully blown; Where boats go gaily sailing through; Careering on, they bounding go, To where the city shines below. Time was ever onward, bringing them many re- verses incident to a commencement in life. Life   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    113 will not be cheated of its due proportions of plea- sure and pain by all the nmagic powers in the world. A solemnity was soon cast over Cora's brightest joys, and the idol of her heart, that she looked upon as the joy of many years, was suddenly plucked from her, in a strange land, surrounded by strangers, where she was called to pass through a solemn ordeal. At the commencement of a promising career in the history of their" lives, how soon and suddenly were their fondest hopes turned to mourning! Sickness was now pervading their household, and it was evident that death must soon terminate Raynor's mortal pilgrimage on earth. Every day he grew worse. Often had she'been made glad in meeting and sad in parting with him; but now the last parting was near at hand, and four weeks later he died of consumption. All his sufferings he bore with Christian fortitude, without a murmur; he was perfectly resigned to the will of God, and when conscious of his fate, he said, "The Lord's will be done." One week before his death, he seemed, to the surprise of friends and those around him, to be better. Consciousness, however, returned in the afternoon, when he asked to be raised up. A flood of sunshine was lighting up the clear blue     "4     THE SILVER LINING; sky, and the view of earth and sky which he loved had seldom looked more beautiful. Fondly, stead- fastly he gazed around, and then, as if satisfied with his farewell to the glories of earth and sky, he lay down. On the morning of his death, Cora standing by his bedside, he turned to her with a look of eager inquiry, and said, "Is this dying  He knew she would hear without' alarm tha the end was very near, and he murmured over and over again, "Cora, it is nothing to die; it is the easiest thing in the world." She held in hers the hands which, for the last month, had been burning with fever; gradually they chilled under the touch of death, until their marble coldness told that the life-currient had almost ceased. With sore hearts they witnessed the struggle of nature with the last enemy-death; and without a murmur, her dear husband was at rest for ever in the bosom of Jesus. Glorious was that spring morning, with its ram- part of clear blue sky. It seemed like a glimpse into his home, and those whom he left behind were ready to fancy that the soft breezes brought back to them the echo of his song of praises, as he en- tered that "Heavenly City." Thus they parted, with fair prospects of a reunion where "none are married or given in marriage." /    OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      115 Sad were the pictures in the gallery of HER memory, and sadder and more solitary were those that bade fair to be placed there in the time to come. "God's providence is somewhat dark and mysterious," though He sometimes leads 'his chil- dren through dark paths to most happy enjoy- ments. Her soul there fondly hovers over his grave, and there lingers in grateful recollections of his strong affection and ceaseless kindness to her while living, and when he died, committed her to the care of our Heavenly Father. If there be one who need bemoan Her kindred laid in earth, The household hearts that were her own, It is the child of mirth.  O, trembling faith, though dark the morn, A heavenly torch is thine; While feebler thoughts do melt away, And feebler orbs decline, Still shall the fiery pillar's rays Along hope's pathway shine, To light the path that's sought By fair-hope prospect divine. I.                  i     "6      THE SILVER LINING; / CHAPTER IX. WAITING BY THE RIVER. IT was a cold cloudy day in the month of March; the iron bands of winter had been effectu- ally broken up before the Ides of March; and old storm king was showing his disapprobation of the way things were going (we remember it as well as if it happened yesterday), when Cora returned to her childhood's home; it may have been in Bloomfield where along the outskirts of the farm- house the bright river of the Hudson rippled on its silvery winding course, spanned by bridges sparkling and dazzling the eye. Herds of cattle were upon the hillside; little white cottages dotted the landscape here and there; broad belts of forest and meadow, hill and dale, appeared, until objects became obscure, then the'lofty peaks of the moun- tain range far away to the south were just dis- cernible. From the lofty pinnacle she remarked with secret pleasure each familiar object so far re- moved and so diminished by distance. Her home was- unpretending, but most pleasant looking, while standing halfway in front of the farm-house  A   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    117 a few kingly maples waved off the too intense sun- light, while the large evergreens denoted a taste of beauty, making the tall maple-trees stand out less conspicuous against the sky. The lightclouds were gathering more and more dense and dark and already the soft pitying rain was failing on the bowed head of the fair creature; and the war- ring of the elements however fierce, would far better accord with the tempestuous feelings in that usually gentle and loving bosom. As ,he approached the veranda, a pair of black eyes met her with a motherly welcome in them; not a woman of the period, enameled, with her great chignon, her curls, whose white jewelled hands had never felt the pressure of work and in- dustry; but a dear, old-fashioned, sweet-faced mother, with eyes in whose clear depths the love- light shone, and black hair, threaded with silver, 'lying smooth upon her faded cheek, clothed in the garb of sickness; though one smile from her meant more than a volume of sweet words from other people. Those dear hands, worn with toil, gently guided our tottering steps in childhood and smoothed our pillow in sickness, even reaching out to us in yearn- ing tenderness when her sweet spirit was baptized in the pearly spirit of the river. But with-the sight of her declining health came a bridge-way for "     "'S    THE SILVER LINING; serious thought. Cora could not but wonder over and over again what trouble had passed over her blighted happiness, and if her mother in her suffer- ings could sympathize with her. Then she tried to drive such thoughts from her mind, and after vainly endeavoring to compose herself, she sought a pillow on which to toss awhile her restless head and enjoy nature's sweet restorer. How beautiful broke the morning over her pleasant home. Bright and clear were the rays of sunshine penetrating through the green blinds, flashing their gleams of bright light upon the face of 6ur sleeping subject. Awaking with a start, she sprang to Jer feet, scarcely realizing for a moment where she was. A sweet refreshing slumber was something she had not enjoyed for months before, and she felt like a new being. How queer it seemed to her not to hear any rat- tling upon pavements; no hurrying to and fro, but all so quiet below. She glanced out of her window, but .nothing could be seen except here and there a sturdy farmer cheerfully going forth to his daily labor, whistling the while some merry tune. How happy they seemed; she could not    0 but wonder if they ever kiew trouble. But time wore on, and as Cora became more interested at home, she soon found what a charge was depend- ing upon her, in making that home the centre and   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    119 sanctuary of happiness, and in administering to the sufferings of her mother, who was every day nearing the celestial city. After six months of anxious watching in her sick-room which was wearisome and sad to Cora, one December morn- ing her mother called the little family to her bed- side, when she said, "Cora, this is death," her deep breathing never once disturbed by the cough which had been so incessant. We thought it was death and watched beside her till the hours seemed interminable. After bidding them all a last fare- well (except Cora, and it seemed as if her courage failed her) she requested them all to meet her in heaven; with sweet words of consolation to the weeping ones, she bade farewell to earth and all its care; with trembling voice and quivering lips her last words were, "Take me home; SWEET Jesus, take me home." And that form which they beheld but a few moments before was now cold in death. Peace was written on every line of the be- loved and beautiful countenance when they re- turned to the room where she lay. How could they selfishly grieve? How wish her back again? The suffering, the weary. But who that has a heart to feel can help weep- ing over severed ties and the absence of the dearly     120     THE SILVER LINING; loved ones; but as they mourn this absent parent they hive a fair-hope prospect beyond the tomb; when they will be united above, which will be a more consummate union than ever was made below, one that can never be broken by DEATH, that fell destroyer. Well, do we remember The sorrow that in our hearts did dwell, We can ne'er forget the anguish of the day, We bade her a last farewell. Blessed is the memory of such a mother. It floats to us now like the beautiful perfume of some woodland blossoms. The music of other voices may be lost, but the entrancing memory of her's will echo in our souls forever. Other faces will fade away and be forgotten, but her's will shine on until the light from heaven's portals shall glorify our own. When, in the fitful pauses of busy life, our feet wander back to the old homestead, and crossing the well-worn threshold, we stand once more in the room, so hallowed by her presence; now the feeling of childish innocence comes over us and we kneel down in the molten sunshine, stream- ing through the western window, just where long years ago we knelt by our mother's knee, lisping "Our Father."  How many times, when, the tempter lured us on, has the memory of those sacred hours, that mother's words, her faith and   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    121 prayers, saved us from plunging into the deep abyss of sin! Years have filled great drifts be- tween her and us, but they have not hidden from our sight the glory of her pure, unselfish love, which shines with silent majesty that knows no setting. He who appointed weakness as our earthly por- tion has often given us a double portion of love in all our tribulations, so that we are not called upon to stand alone. Hev hangs out by our side the cloud with silver lining, and fair-hope pros- pects bright and new, that extend their ray of light through every dark hour, in manifold good- ness to point us to the means given us to build bur stairway heavenward, and to lead us to understand that riches and poverty, prosperity and adversity, success and failure, sorrow and every earthly joy, in themselves all pass away even as a tale that is told. But He that smites the heart and breaks the spirit can bind up the broken heart, and heal the wounded spirit; can give gladness for mourn- ing, 'and the oil of joy for the spirit of heaviness. God alone can provide a balm for every wound. But the sorrow for the dead is the only sorrow from which we refuse to be divorced, every other wound we seek to heal, every other affliction to forget, but this wound we cherish. Where is the child that would willingly fcget a tender parent, "*      122     THE SILVER LINING; though to remember, be but to lament. The death of a parent is an event peculiarly affecting. The source of our 'own life seems, thereby, as it were, dried up. While our parents live, we think we have a barrier betwixt us and the grave; but that being removed, the bold'invader appears ad- vancing upon us with hastier steps. If we look forward, behold no bulwark to defend us; if back- ward, the coming generation warns us of the neces- sity of our departure; they press upon our foot- prints, they are ready to lay their hands upon our eyes. Death ever so long expected, ever so visi- bly approaching, nevertheless shocks and surprises when it comes at last. The gloom of winter is the happiest recommen- dation of the cheerfulness and bloom of spring. We only discover the value of health by disease; the blessings of peace would be but half under- stood were it not for the calamities of war; and it is not until' the' tie is broken, the loving hand withdrawn, till death or absence marks the change, that we discover how much we loved those who are no more; and although some of us may be doomed to a large apportionment of the sorrows j  and cares of life, yet when we look around us, we see others still more unfortunate than ourselves, and we bow to cease murmuring at our lot, and hope that the silver clouds of sunshine may break   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.   , 123 through the dark clouds of sorrow that surrounds us, and that henceforth life may be as a beautiful May day. But after the most serious meditation and careful examination, we find that the silver lining of every dark cloud is woven seamless as a chain, whose golden links unite 'heaven and earth together, and bind the humble and contrite to the throne of God. Thus with a Christian thpy know the best is to come, they have a heavenly hope to crown every earthly sorrow. And now in a corner of the church-yard, not many miles distant from where we are found pen- ning these sad thoughts, we have laid the mother and husband of Cora, dressed in the habiliments of the grave. With them life's fitful scenes of alternate light and shadows are forever o'er; they there sleep quietl unconscious of the turmoil and strife of this world, awaiting the blessed morning which providence and prophecy seem alike to tell us is not far distant, when the Lord shall descend from Heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God and the dead in Christ shall rise first, and realize the truth of the assertion, "Christ has risen." Let us linger upon the book of memory, and remember that while the golden sun is hid behind the hill, the earth and sky tinted with its parting ray, memory's bells bid us look over this beautiful i     124     THE SILVER LINING; plain of earth, and see plunging in the great river of Jordan those of our writing who have taken their last journey, who have not only gone to the brink of the river but went singing through its waters whose banks were overflowed. Standing on the summit of this bank we could see a beauti- ful plain stretching as far as the eye could reach,  covered with pretty villages and stately cities, teeming with every race and every color. The ex- treme verge of the plain was bounded by a dark river, not a living thing was in sight either of bird or beast, not even a flower grew on its banks, all was silent and desolate. Let us behold what in fancy we can see; looking back we saw a party of three persons moving across the plain. One was a gay and beautiful maiden, whose sunken eye lighted up with joy as she neared the river. She was supported by a physician and a family circle, who walked with downcast eyes and lagging steps, as if sinking under the weight of a great sorrow. After a time they reached the river's bank and then paused, and all the assistance and kindness offered, with one last clinging embrace, one sorrow- ful look, and the winning maiden plunged into the stream. They gazed at her buffetting the waves until she was lost in the mist, and then turned slowly back and retraced their steps across the plain. Next a young and devoted   husband   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    125 approached, walking as it seemed, unwillingly, until he too, stood on the bank. His form was tall and well-proportioned, and the power and dignity of manhood sat on his brow, his proud black eye flashed, and his was the form of perfect grace. Methinks, must this strong and noble man  be lost in this dark, mysterious tide? Alas! yes, old and young must go; his strength and beauty could not save him. With one last farewell look he turned and plunged in, and was lost from sight. For ever! yes, for ever! Again we looked, and saw another group on the bank. A fond and affectionate mother; kind friends were there doing all in their power, but all was utterly useless. While the father, hiding his own bitter anguish, tried in vain to comfort the sorrow- ing children. One last embrace and the mother stood alone by that dark stream, leading we knew not whither. Suddenly the waters grew calm and peaceful, and with a farewell waive of the white hand she sprang fearlessly in, and the golden head was lost to mortal sight. The children stood on the bank with clasped hands gazing steadfast on the river beyond; they are now at the end of their journey, their toilsome days are ended. Thus the subjects of our writing have gone to see that head which was clowned with thorns, and that 'orm which suffered and died that we might live, $ .          *    X     126     THE SILVER LINING; by tasting of the sweet waters of life. They, who as we, lived by hearsay and faith, have gone where they shall live by sight, and see him whom they delighted in. But, wonder of wonders, what a glorious vision burst upon their sight! The gray mist had rolled away and they saw the mother and husband of Cora, standing in the midst of bright- robed angels, clothed like them, in shining raiment. In the distance was seen shining gates of pearl, sparkling with jewels and guarded by angels, which opened at their approach. We saw a great white throne, on which sat a figure glorious beyond comparison. His countenance beamed with love and compassion, as he gazed on those who stood before him. Suddenly all was removed, and the dark river rolled on its mysterious course. Kind reader, a voice is speaking to us, telling us that his name is Faith, that this wide extended plain is the world, and that fearful river, which is a terror to many, is death. All must cross it sooner or later-the gray hair of old age, and the sunny curls of youth-the beggar, and, the king.  WE TOO must stand by the water; ouR arms must buffet its waves, and our spirits penetrate its mys- P teries; we must follow in the same train that we have so solemnly looked upon, our kindred; yet the thought of what we are going to, and of the convoy that waits for usi on the other side, do lie '   , V    OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     127 as a glowing coal at our heart. But we must pos- sess the eye of faith, and then all will be well. We must be faithful unto death, that when we come to stand by the river it will carry us safely over to the realms of eternal bliss. Eternity! if we could but realize it; it' spreads a wonderous glow over the river Time. But in all transpiring events, we cannot tell the 'end from the beginning, but should consider all that happens to us on earth as germs of eternal things which will blossom only in the great here- after. In all our trials here on earth, the low sweet music of fair-hope prospect glides naturally into the worn channels of the spirit-life, and seems to leave it almost glorified. The drops of suffering are jewelled into all their destinies, and each low harmonious sound has an unearthly sweetness and power, and the 'flag of hope, ever waving in the sunny air, is full of stars with silver lining, that contains in its banner all that was good in the ex- perience 'of the past, and all that is looked for in the prospect of the future. Should it be tossed in the blackness and darkness, upon the weary waters of many days, or upon the broad ocean of human incredulity, it will rest upon the mountain-top at last, the sun will shine upon it, and even the un- believer will never leave this star of hope, and em- blem of purity and peace; the sorrowing will seek     128      THE SILVER LINING; to rebuild their habitation amidst the realms of fair-hope prospect. Five years has now passed since all ;that has been written about transpired:  What a long gap in time, yet how  quickly it is spanned!  With Cora it was measured as a dream; yet in one sense it was eventually full-a crowded chapter of his- tory. In her world of intercourse, to a large ex- tent, her thoughts were not her own, they had been claimed and demanded by others. The en- chanting and fashionable circles of life had been the bridge-way of the road she had travelled: but she simply paid the toll demanded and passed on. She had often listened to merry gossip on festive occasions, but an hour later she could not have re- peated the substance, for her thoughts were of something else, or somewhere else. Waiting by the river's side, O hallowed dust, Where rest we must, In future years keeping; God's angels fair Will gather there, To watch the peaceful sleeping. And they alone by the river's side, Shall wait for the flood of the heavenly tide, And the voices that shall thrill their heart with its call, To meet once more the dear ones all, And form in a region beautified, The band that once met by the river's side,   OR, FAJR-HOPE PROSPECT.    129 CHAPTER X. FANCIES; OR, CORA LOST IN THE DISTANCE. YE would not like to attempt portraying the strange things that flitted through Cora's mind for the last two or three years, before she came en- tirely to herself. Nothing but the vain delusions of a maniac could hope to equal them. Provi- dentially, an event occurred that transported her from home to the solitude of a city, if you can un- derstand us, where the general roar and rioting leaves no hearing of the inquisitive ear, or prying eye, to one solitary case of sorrow. Happiness has commonly a good appetite; 'and the thought of her fortunately ended adventures, gifted her with friends who decided at last, in view of the next early departure of the train, to visit Albany: and they knew the probability that they would be more hur- ried at a hotel for breakfast, hence they break- fasted at the station, and thither they went, and took places at one of the many tables, where the pieces of beef that simulated steaks and the hot greasy biscuit, made them look each other in the eyes with amazement. They bowed themselves be- fore the viands, and then refrained. They were 12     130     THE SILVER LINING; sufficiently young, they were happy, and they were hungry. Nature is great and strong, but art is greater; and before these triumphs of the eatables at the Albany depot, their appetites succumbed. Here, then, was a barrier in the great fact of their travel; but now in reward they found them- selves quite comfortable in the common passenger car, and disposed to view the scenery, into which they were carried an hour after leaving the city, and the great heat of the sun gave to the land- scape, the charm which it alone can impart. There were nowhere any considerable hills, but the wide meadow of a grazing country; there was the most noted manufacturing town on the brown Mo- hawk River, rippling down through all this, and the train would stop twenty minutes at Cohoes for dinner. Through a garden ground, they were led by a coal black negro waiter, to view the falls on the Mohawk. The light of the sun touched all the tops of the rapids, that seemed to separate from the brink of the cataract, even down to the bottom of the vast and deep ravine through which the river rushed away. Every moment renewed the vision of beauty in some rare and fantastic shape, and its loneliness isolated it in spite of the great town on the shore; the station with its bridge and its trains, the mills that supplied their devour- ing needs from the cataract's strength.   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.   131 The next morning the illusion that had wrapped the whole earth had gone with the moonlight, and by nine o'clock they resumed their way towards Niagara. The car into which they got had come the past night from Albany, and as they reached Buffalo, Cora thought that the place had all the picturesqueness of a seaport; a delicious freshness breathed from the lake, which, lying so smooth, faded into the sky. "Take meaaway now," said Cora, when her eyes had feasted upon all this, "and don't let me see another thing till we get to Niagara." Nothing less sublime is worthy the eyes that had beheld such beauty. However, on their way to Niagara, she consented to take a glimpse at the solitude of the river, and left the company gazing upon the rich farms. How thankful she was; she never could endure meddlesome, inquisitive questioning. She thought that cruel, hard, inexorable fate was against her from the first; whose footsteps were far beneath the tread of Pennsylvania's soil. Among her host of deliberate acquaintances, there was one, a young and gallant stranger, who left the clustering vine- hills and shady rills of that delightful Eden of America. He was no man, staking life for reputa- tion; he ranked among nobles and looked unawed upon kings. He was guided by the companion of     132     THE SILVER LINING; his youth; his kinsmen were about him; his cousins before him; yet from all these he turned away and bade adieu to friends and foe to battle with the winter's storms. He flung aside the trappings of place and pride, and left when darkness curtained the hills, and the tempest was abroad in its anger, when the plow stood still in the field of hope and thorns and briers cumbered the beauty of the silver lining; when fathers were dying, mothers were weeping over them; when the wife was wiping the death damp brow of her lover; he took his departure and lived in the heart of thousands, but soon re- turned to drink his sweetest cup of welcome with the loved of his own people; in the cloud with sil- ver lining, and with the everlasting flame of hope again guarding our wanderer, having a faint hope for the future. We cannot dwell longer on these weary details -the saddest time of Cora's life. She still lived, but the mystery of her fate remained sealed, while the months fulfilled their missions and marshalled themselves along the past, She seemed inspired always with a heroic power of endurance that was wonderful to behold. So the years rolled away, and at the commence- ment of the new year opened, her faith in human- ity's trust.    OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      133 And linked her heart closer to Love and to Youth, What cheer of the year that has vanished this day, Look back on its track and give answer, we pray. Peace crowned it with blossoms, and bound it with flowers, And Plenty sang sweetly 'mid sunshine and showers; Want laughed in its garners Hope quaffed of its springs; But golden grain glistened where lives faded out. And Peace crowning all with her beautiful blooms, Could smile though she looked upon wide scattered tombs. And the gladdest news borne on the orient breeze, Is the silver lining with fair-hope prospect-the marriage of these. Thus nearer the sunset and nearer the dawn, The new day is coming and the old day is gone. The plains of hope shall laugh out with delight, And the silver lining aglow, shall come out of the night, Since Eve with her liking for fruit, said to Adam, ThOugh you " may be mad," I shall always be MADAM. I know not where the coming husband's hope waits, 'Tis somewhere just over the silver lining's broad gates, Where Hope will gladden our sight, Ere the Silver Lining has sunk into night. Thus five years went by with Cora, but she was not an old maid; she had lived long enough to have faith in Gqd, and to believe that he can punish wrong better than ourselves. Harry Kentworth, the accomplished host where we may have left Cora, with all his brilliant attri- butes, had made a failure of his life. Vicious and honored, his high-tempered wife led him a rough- shod existence.  The only child born to them, met with a crushing accident when it was only two 12*     134     THE SILVER LINING; years old. Did no thought enter his craven soul as he mourned for it, and witnessed his wife's tem- pestuous grief, who, above the weak of her sex, sought admiration from none of the other sex ex- cepting Harry, and with him she was something wonderful. He had visited the Holy Land, and brought back some of the curiosities that he pro- mised, and we gather around him in fancy with a mournful air. The impressions of Cora's absence was stamped indellibly upon our minds. Often of a still night, we have been awakened from a fitful sleep-by imagin- ing that we heard her voice calling us, and hastily dressing we would listen out in the night besides the still waters of the Brandywine, but no sound would be distinct. Down by the waters we wandered like a distracted being, Do you wonder that such a sedate, matchless nature should have gone hope- lessly wild? What could have been the end of Cora? Did the rushing of the restless tide of some broad, expan- sive river woo her to its embrace? Or did she wander off, or perish in the streets of some distant city? It will never be known in time. When the November winds wrestle and worry along the shore and the waves rush over the vales, we spend hours listening out into the night, think- ing that we shall hear her voice from off the tossing waves calling for help. And when the wintry   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    135 storms begin, we waken from sleep at the twinkling of the sleet upon the panes, and think she is tapping with icy fingers, to arouse us; and we work at the fastenings and get the window up at last, and sweep our arms through the icy darkness, but no sound is heard. It is horrible to go to sleep with this burden to carry it even in dreams, and to awaken with a sense of desolation. We feel and we know, but if we give way to these emotions, in- sanity must ensue. We must arouse and do out duty. We may never meet Cora here; we may never know more of her fate; but it will teach us to look up to the Silver Lining, and God will raise up friends for her if she is alive; and if she is out of the world, she is with 'Him, and is infinitely happier than we. If she is in Heaven--and we have no doubt of it, if she is gene from this world, -how unhappy she would be to know that she had caused us such unceasing sorrow; but we think she is gone out, spanning the Market of Matrimony, gathering berries of hope. In days past, would we had known The precious hours of youth, Experience to our hearts has shown The knowledge of this truth. God, grant that they in childhood's years May prize the golden time, For soon to busy toil and cares They must its joys resign.     136     THE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER XI. THE RIVER OF LIFE. BY degrees the human blossom 'blows, the power of thought and reason expand, and every day, soft as it rolls along, shows some new charm. What a lesson is conveyed to us in all this; sacred as the memory of so sequestered a spot, hidden away in the wilds of Eastern Pennsylvania as the one we have introduced into our writing as Pleas- ant Valley-should produce such a sketch of real characters for meditation. But while we have dwelt upon the rise and fall of our subjects with that vivid imagination along the plain of existence, we feel ourselves hurrying down the stream, and begin to mingle with the assembly of the departed. Of those who entered with us on this career of meditation, "some are not," and their course is finished; they have ful- filled their day, and are gone to join those who liyed beyond the flood. The cold hand of death has frozen up some of the streams of friendship, and time is gaining upon our own vital powers, marking us for the tomb,   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    187 where the endearments of social affection, and the hand of sympathy, and the glow of love are felt no more. While we contemplate the progress of these illustrious figures, we have a hope that they have gained what the world has lost; they move in a higher sphere, they perceive with purer in- telligence, act with superior energy; they die no more; they are as the angels of God in heaven; and Providence charges itself with the care of the forsaken, the helpless, and the forlorn whom they have' left behind; and as we have endeavored to accomodate this work to the especial tastes of all, it has not been without hope that some reader may find something of interest in it-something to bring back fond recollections of endearments past; fresh- ness of the past-hints and echoes from the lost world of childhood, and thus, the noontide way- farer may be able to discover shadowy places of memory where the dew of the morning of life has not dried up, and darkness evidently given place to' light, when night of gloom ceased, and light of day dawned, and the plant of fair-hope prospect increased in size, that the cloud with silver lining may hang over it the livelong day, with the unre- mitting penetrations of an eagle's eye ever catching a single step of it progress. It is to be hoped that the writer will be pardoned if she appear to have wandered too far into the misty realms of romance     138     THE SILVER LINING; to obtain attractive material for a subject of real life in our times; but she feels that she has not passed the boundaries of every-day experience. When we think of the calamities of which we are the victim, we learn to take a more correct view of life than ever conceived of; we reflect, we study the past, we look at the world with a passionless eye. How striking ourreflection! We see beau- ties in poets whom we may have hitherto consid- ered obscure. Men who sail upon the seas look back upon the world they have left with a clearer vision than when they lived in the midst of its con- fusion and strife; and thus has the writer, by a serious meditation of past scenes, and present re- sults, been carried beyond a wider and bolder range of thought into the stream of the river of life. She has not pretended to write a romance, but sim- ply a story of every-day life; and every one of us perhaps, one by one, outlive the hopes and disap- pointments, the blessings and the pleasures of our youth, and still, nevertheless, live on, scarcely re- gretting what has gone-while ten thousand sub- stantial blessings are daily falling on our heads unnoticed, unacknowledged, unenjoyed, and all that we have attained goes for nothing, because one darling object is out of our reach, or we groan under the weight of some petty disaster which scarce deserves the name. We should compare our   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    139 condition with our neighbor's, and consider how far, how very far, our state is on this side worst, and repine not that some wants are unsupplied, that some griefs are endured, while so many good things are left while hope remains to us. But the purest human affection is ever dashed, without a doubt, with apprehension, with suspicion, and the world is captivated not by real and solid worth, but by the gaudy outside of showy, super- ficial qualities. Rank and riches mostly spread a glare over the person of their possessor, that makes it known and remembered, while poverty, like a bushel put over a candle, prevents it, however clear it may be, from giving its light. And we dare say, that the poor shepherd boy feeding his father's sheep, wearing mean clothes, with a fresh well-favored countenance, lives a merrier life, and wears more of that herb called "heart's-ease" in his bosom, than he that is clad in silk and velvet. Why should we not look forward with fair-hope prospect, when our life is in itself only a vapor that endureth but for a moment, and lift our thoughts upward, thither where the sun shines, the stars sparkle like bright witnesses of the everlasting light that can trans- form sorrow into joy.  The writer has no desire whatever to pierce the vista of the future, or to impose upon you more utopian fancies, but to call your attention to a     "O     THE SILVER LINING; few serious as well as practical thoughts; but, indeed, these are all serious thoughts, we have not strayed into the hidden paths of scepticism or of unbelief, to endeavor to write upon the yet un- written tablets of immortality, pure and holy thoughts, which may send a thrill of consolation through a thousand saddened hearts. And may the truth that every cloud of affliction has a silver lining be an angel of mercy to comfort the afflicted and despondent soul; may its power be immeasure- able, and, as it heightens, may it disclose more new and ennobling incentives to do good, and cause flowers of hope and joy to blossom in barren and desolate hearts. Surely as we look back at the commencement of this work, while contemplating the beauties of nature, we see through all its written pages, the science plainly illustrated, that every dark cloud has a silver lining. We have seen it, tossed upon the ocean waves, and the food the mariner feeds upon; we have endeavored to trace its outlines in the green fields and tinted flowers as they wither and revive again, and' put on their garments of nature in the early spring, and in the trees as they put forth their green'and silvery leaves. When from the summit of some lofty mountain we alone survey tfe wide extended landscape, though highly delighted, we feel sad and bewildered at the variety   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.     141 of beauties which nature spread around us. But when we attend the footsteps of a friend through some favored beautiful spot, the imagination is less extended, but the heart is more gratified, and we are carried away with scientific joy. The lapse of time is incessantly thickening the veil which is spread over remote persons and events. The materials of history lie buried among the ruins of antiquity, and cannot be easily distinguished and separated, even by the eye of discernment, from the rubbish of fiction. But we are not indeed, perhaps, furnishing material for history. The cur- tain has dropped, and has hid ages and generations past from our eyes. Our little scene is going on, and must soon speedily close; and when our winter is passed we have a fair prospect of being clothed in the garb of hope, that will unfold to our view a splendor infinitely superior to that of the sun shining in his strength, a voice louder, and a glory brighter than any we have ever heard or seen. The stream is ended-the hero goes Worn and weary, to his last repose; Ended now in the river of life, And his brow is crowned with the crown of life. 13 J.     "2     THE SILVER LINING: CHAPTER XII. "FE IS WHAT WE MAKE IT. As we review the first pages of this book, we are led by a series of reflections and the hand of time, to believe, that our life is what we make it; that as we class each individual of this work we see how they were rewarded with bright hopes experienced in their everyday life, which they had often looked for, but in their circumstances thought would never come. It is not the painting and carving that make a good ship, that is to sail upon the heaving, restless waters of the ocean; but if she be secure and strong to endure the sea that is her excellence. It is not the gay dress and blooming face that makes the woman that is a help and blessing to man, and a benefactor to the more unfortunate of her, neighbors. Nor is it a mans money, or possessions that make him good and noble, but rather his virtues and honorable character. It is not ancestry, it is not country, that can bestow celebrity on a deed- less name, on an idle or worthless character; it is illustrious virtue, it is superior wisdom. We trust that it is not the gold-tinted leaves or superb bind- ing of this book that may be interesting and valued   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    143 by the reader, but the importance and force with which it is perused and the title of the work prove ever pleasing,-ever new, which is the simple forci- ble language the heart speaks, as she dwells upon the minute circumstances of her own case, takes up her own inevitable life as a theme of woe, and changes the fond appellation of her own name, on which providence has poured out the wormwood and gall of disappointment, all of which, however, has been a lesson of prudence, adapted to the life that now is, aided and supported by a higher principle. We are often apt to complain of circumstances of everything external, and think, well, it ' MGHT HAVE BEEN;" but in a literal sense our life is what we make it. In proportion as we are indus- trious and virtuous, we shall be honored and re- warded, and even in the most trying situations, and the sorest trials, the main point of their sever- ity is in the spirit and hope which they are received. Our pilgrimage here upon earth is, we might say, momentarily, made up of hopes and aspirations. We may be contented with our condition to day, with the associations which surround us, still if we look into the secret chambers of our hearts more closely, we shall find ourselves as eager as ever to covet a still higher sphere of life than that of which we are now in possession. We are not satis- fied with the station of life which we occupy, and     "4     THE SILVER LINING; we shall never be, perchance, while we are cease lessly treading the busy pathways of this world, catching a glimpse of that golden future, which is ever holding out to us the promissory fulfilment of many a hope we still love to cherish, and which in our hearts we held so dear a long time ago. But we are often apt to look into futurity with bright prospects, not thinking of the cares and perplexi- ties that await us on its approach. The present we have before us, the past we ought to profit by; but He who doeth all things well, wisely reserves the future for himself. The vain, the giddy, and the gay, That think their joys a lasting stream, May find their pleasures pass away, And all their promised joy a dream. If then we would find life hopeful and good, we must fill our hearts with goodness; if we would have hope to shine upon us we must kindle a light in our own souls and cause it to shed a radiance on all around. Could we but look into the secret lives of all persons, even from the days of Noah up to the discoveries of Columbus, we would doubtless find that then, as now, a large majority have not yet, in their estimation, began to live as they had hoped to. Though inexorable time is' rolling up the record of our lives, page after page, many 4 ,  v   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    145 ignore the past as some imaginary castle in the future which they have built up in their hopeful fanny, and which they think to gain at no very distant period. The duties of school, or of college, or of home, seem puerile compared with those of later age, when the young man or maiden reaches the years of maturity, and even the pleasures of their gay and merry lives appear tame compared with those they expect to enjoy when they realize all their hopeful anticipations which they have buried in the deep recesses of the heart; and now turning to the mature man and woman who have entered upon life, we might at least expect to find that they have not only realized all their hopeful anticipations and began to live in all the fulness of joy, but have progressed some distance. Ask theri if they have began to live as they had hoped to, they will tell you, oh no! they are only getting through the present time as speedily as possible to reach that beautiful future of which their imagina- tions are enraptured. The successful merchant is only toiling now, he says; when he amasses a cer- tain number of thousands he will then make arrange- ments for the luxurious comfort of his family, and reach the goal he has hoped for. The farmer must pay for his farm and build a new barn, and a better house, before he realizes his hopes. The same is seen in every age, and every walk of life; 13*     "6 '    THE SILVER LINING; every person is paving the way that they hope is to lead them to happier scenes. The clerk must enter business on his own account; the operative must become a manufacturer; the manufacturer must gain the monopoly of his trade; the lawyer must become a statesman, and the statesman a presi- dent. When these and similar wishes are fulfilled, then, and not till then, will their expectations be realized; but they still hope-" hope on, hope ever." Many there are, too, who are not living as they had hoped to live, because they are conscious of so much wrong-doing. Despising the present time, in which they yet continue to indulge in what their conscience disapproves, they postpone the work of reformation, and persuade themselves that when certain events have taken place, when they have more leisure, or less desire for particular sins, they will begin to do better. Present duties may be neglected, present wrongs may be continued, present vices may be encouraged, but they see a time in the future when they expect to cease to do evil and learn to do good, when all their evil-doings will be cast into the divine ocean of forgetfulness, and they begin, truly, the life of truth and good- ness, of purity and love. But all these forget that "while they are musing the fire burns," that while they think they are preparing for life-life itself- with all its hopes and fears, its joys and sorrows,   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    147 its successes and failures, is quietly but surely and steadily slipping out of their hands. The great mistake people make is in what life consists. They think of something in the future to be merely en- joyed as a reward or an end, while in fact every pain and pleasure, every grief and joy, every hour of labor and of rest would reveal its own treasure of rich life did we but read and expound it aright. The past is gone from us, and is ours no longer; the future is held beyond our reach. We cannot grasp it, and know not if we could, we would press a friendly hand or a bunch of stinging nettles. The present only is ours; but it is a glorious possession, and we cannot too greatly ap- preciate any attempt to depreciate its value. All life rightly viewed consists in the present moment. The past is gone; the future does not exist, but around the divine now clusters all duty, all happi-  ness, all life for us. If we fail to appreciate the present, we shall surely be disappointed in any future to which we may aspire. It will flee from us like the ignis fatuus that lures the unwary traveller only to deceive, and we will find that while we are preparing to live, life itself has slipped from us. But the only way in which hope can be realized is by daily persevering effort, and the only way to live for the future is to live in the present. Equally true is it that our life is what we make it.     "8     THE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER XIII. HOPE, THE PRINCE OF DARKNESS. THE hopeful possessor need never be afraid, for, like a magic talisman, it will bear him through the deepest floods of affliction, and land him safely on the other side, its own lustre -untarnished and its own power undiminished by the conflict. Of course it is easier, and sometimes even more pleasant, to sit down and make martyrs of ourselves, by count- ing up our grievances real or imaginary, comparing them with those of others, and finally coming to the conclusion that we are the most unfortunate, ill- used persons in the world; but if, instead of giving way to this selfishness, we would all remember who sends our trials, and try to believe that the cloud has a silver lining, though we cannot yet see it, not only ourselves but all around us would be made far happier, and we should see the darkest shadows of grief melt away before the prince of darkness. There are some, even among the circle of our ac- quaintances, who have experienced heavy, heart- breaking trials, by the loss of those dear to them by sickness, and in various ways, and who, bereaved   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    149 and lonely, are yet among the happiest of any we know; while others, with fewer thorns and more blessings to their lot, bear resignedly indeed, but with heavy, mournful steps, the lighter cross as- signed to them. Two men stand side by side gazing on the same scene in nature. To one, who has a bright and cheerful disposition, it reveals only beauty and gladness, while to the other, gloomy and sad, the whole scene is spread over their face like a veil, and one sees through a glass darkly. We can depend upon it, those who gain the most love and are nearest to perfect happiness in this world, are those who, when the dark clouds of ad- versity obscure the light, can look through them all at the blue sky beyond, and hopefully wait for the sunshine to disperse the cloud that has a silver lining. It is our own state of mind that creates for us even nature herself, and paints the same scene in beauty as in gloom; wisely and well is it ordered that we should hope to the end. Hope is a blessed gift that comes down from heaven like the sunshine, lighting up the faces and hearts of all on whom it rests, and reflecting its rays on all around,-visiting the little birds, and making their songs a very lesson of faith and hope to all the world, and filling all nature with its rays, till even the flowers begin to speak and tell us to be hopeful. The restless invalid forgets her pain for a moment, as she listens     150     TIE SILVER LINING; eagerly to the light, familiar step on the stairs; and the loving kiss, given with the hopeful assur- ance that " she'll soon be better," does her more good than a visit from the doctor. Then the weary, hard-working mother, and the father coming in, his mind burdened with business cares, are both cheered by the sound of a happy hopeful voice, merrily singing over some familiar song. Let us take a glance into that large hall, whose winding stairs many a footstep has ascended, and we see in its wide, apartment a large and brilliant audience, hoping to hear the gleat orator display some of his genius on the stage, and we wonder why that youth struts his hour upon the stage arrayed in the glitter of royalty. He is hoping for the end. With what promptitude and intelligence he converses with the humiliating assembly, saying: Ye gentle spirits, who know what it is to soothe and relieve the lingering hours of absence by the friendly aid of sweet words of consolation; ye whom the murmur of a sigh or the word can instantly instruct; ye whose hearts the pressure of a finger can waken to rap- ture ye whose kindred souls the slightest glance of the impassioned eye can in a moment, quick as the lightning's flash, penetrate and kindle, when trouble comes, and bid the hopeful spirit shine forth and unfold the silver lining in all its beauty. Nothing strikes your eye but sights of bliss, and   I,  OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    151 flowers of hope are planted in the deep caverns of the heart., As we study the lives and characters of the ven- erable men who lived before the flood, we are struck with a pleasing awe-Adam, the first man, Enoch, who walked with God, and Noah, the preserver of the human race, all lived upon hope, that blessed boon; and more especially are we held in astonish- ment, as we peruse the pages of Scripture and behold with what exultant joy they looked upon hope as one of the chief vessels in which to sail. They lived upon no other food in the days of the flood than hope; the men of the antediluvian world thought of no other remedy or attempted to pro- cure none. They possessed, a hope beyond the dreary waters of the mighty deep that covered the earth: and after the tempest had ceased to roar, and the confused noise of the waters hushed into silence, the prospect of a hopeful future became the source of lasting joy to Noah and his family. And though all the heroes of the old world are no more, our fathers have passed away, and the prophets do not live forever, yet it is the sweet fruition of hope that glistens in the dying eye, the blessing and the prayer that quiver on the faltering tongue, and the last gush of joy that visits the scarcely palpi- tating heart. Men die; dispensations change; but the pur- l     152     THE SILVER LNINING; poses of heaven are permanent. The plans of Providence are ever going forward, and while one generation moves to that world of spirits from whence no traveller returns, another rises up, to contemplate the wonders of this world and to carry on its business, hoping, as our forefathers did, against hope. It matters not what project we are defeated in, we hope "there is a better day coming." Even though the plow stands still in the delightful field of promise, and briers cumber the garden of beauty, oblivion shall never shroud its splendor; the everlasting silver lining shall guard it,-that the generations to come may slumber in its cradle, and drink from its fountain their sweetest cup of welcome. The invalid bears with patience and cheerfulness the ardor of his suffering, and the cold chilling damp of his evening's affliction, in the hope of that blessed hour when tender sympathy shall soothe his distresses, and every uneasiness shall be lulled to rest in the bosom of love. The gentle maiden who plighted her faith to him who long had wooed, has learned that the golden glitter of wealth, the laurel wreath of fame, cannot purchase happiness, and bitter indeed has been her lesson of hope; but she still seeks to adopt a new object, before she yields hir cordial love or reverence, and weaves about her those influences of good, so that her jewel is   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    153 not without a silver mounting; and she still hangs out the starry banner of hope, and rushes forth to defend the cloud so full of silver lining. One more paragraph and my pen falls. Could Columbus, when he set sail on the 3d of August, "92, to discover this beautiful continent of America, have seen, instead of a small island, a new continent larger than the old, and far more grand in its expanse of mountains, lakes and rivers-could he have beheld the Mississippi and the Amazon, flowing on to join their waters with the mighty ocean, and the wide spreading prairies, which are so vast in extent, that he who loses his way is as much to be pitied as the mariner who, without a compass, is left alone on the trackless deep-could he have heard the roaring of Niagara, and the thousand echoes that reverberate through the Mammoth Cave, what joy would have been his? Could he have known that in this new country there would arise a nation that would soon exceed in prosperity wealth and importance any nation then in existence; could he have seen those few fearless men who signed the Magna Charta of our rights; could he have beheld our forefathers shedding their blood on many a battle-field from Bunker Hill to Yorktown, what a star of hope would have glimmered brighter and brighter as he gazed in wonder and admiration upon, his once "     154  -   THE SILVER LINING; hopeful anticipations. But he was not destined to realize the great good he had accomplished. Per- secuted and imprisoned, he died an unhappy man. Could Columbus to-day come back to us, we could show him that where, once stood the boundless forest, is the productive farm and the bustling village instead; we could point him to our vast beds of coal and iron, and to the golden fields of California. He would doubtless be astonished, although he had a Fair-hope prospect in view when he commenced his work of discovery. And though the honorable distinctions of this world are bubbles of empty air, which burst in a moment and disap- pear, yet the great word of life discloses a special promise, and bids us "hope on, hope ever. What a sure ground of hope have we, that they also who sleep in Jesus (the heroes of this work), the mother and husband of Cora, with Edgar and his charge, God will bring with him on that great resurrection day. Delightful reflection! Who would be so unjust to God, and so unkind to him- self, as to part with this blessed hope? How it soothes the rugged path of life, how it tempers the bitterness of affliction, how it dissipates the horrors of the grave, and leads us to make choice of that "good part which can never be taken away from us.   OR, FAIR-HOPE. PROSPECT.      155 CLOUD  SCENES. "The sunset hour has come; the burning tire Of Light's triumphal car has whirled away, Behinql the blue horizon line, and fire, Mingled with golden dust and flecks of day, Arises from the pathway of the sun-  A sea of beauty in the west, Whose waves of crystal, rippling; round bright islets run. "City of Beauty in the west! Its streets Are paved with occidental pearls and gems, Which glow and sparkle, as the sunlight meets, Their splendors fit for regal diadems. Great avenues of Gold! along which stand Majestic palaces of changing light, And shafts that proudly pierce the heavens grand, As if to mock the threat'nings of the nightl Celestial habitants this city throng, And one unceasing strain of joy prolong." A sky of beauty in the West! The wild Gigantic clouds, which coldly frowned on high, Like granite walls all firmly, hugely pilea Above each other's tops, now scattered lie Like fragment garnets, blazing in the air, Dashed in a million pieces, and profuse, Ten thousand silvery gems lie here and there. And this is beautiful! But it must fade,- Such is the doom of all that meets the eye. We look on loveliness which God has made, And with our smile of rapture comes a sigh. X     156      THE SILVER LINING; Sunset and clouds, like hopes, must pass away, And human forms, however fair they be. Yet though the body moulders into clay, The soul will-live throughout eternity. And when all beauty of the earth is gone, Will gaze, enraptured, on eternal dawn.   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    157 CHAPTER XIV. PASSING AWAY. As we contemplate the history of the antedilu- vian world, and look upon the generations that have passed and gone, we are more than ever impressed with the solemnity that not only hope with all its flaunting banners is slipping from our grasp, but every tick of the watch, every revolution of the year warns us that we are as evanescent as the leaves of yesterday, or the morning dew, THESE are but the emblems of our lives, and tokens of death. Hence,  'Tis not the whole of life to live, Nor all of death to die." How many, since first the flight of years began, have laid them down in their last sleep. Kings, the powerful of the earth, the wise, the gdbd fair forms and hoary sears (o ages past, all in one mighty sepulchre. Take  alk with me to yonder graveyard, that consecrated spot, and read there the epitaphs inscribed upon the monuments erected to the memory of those who have passed from earth to heaven to realize their fair-hope prospect. It is "*     158     THE SILVER LINING; true we cannot stay the hand of death when he enters our homes and robs us of a fond father, sainted mother or lovely child, true we cannot stay his course or arrest his purpose as he closes the eyes that once beamed on us so lovingly, and makes cold and rigid the hands of that mother whose tender pressure has so often filled the heart. Time is hurrying on a period in which all things shall be swallowed up and lost. These things, with all that is connected with this work, may seem as a tale that is told. In this life we are the subjects of sudden transitions of imperceptible changes like the gradual progress of the day, from the morning dawn to meridian splendor, and thence gradually back again to the glimmering twilight of the even- ing and shades of night, which the pen of this work has not failed to describe. On yonder bank near the termination of a romantic stream of water which circled its course through the mountains of the west, stood a solitary dwelling. The scenery that -surrounded it had been fresh from nature's hand, and infused pleasure and gayety into the hearts of the inmates. The mansion had been weather-beaten by the storms of  many years, and though once vocal with songs of the occupants, is now as noiseless as the tomb. Happiness and prosperity had once smiled upon that mansion. The halls had been decked with the   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    159 pageantry of honor. The spirit of chivalry had been nursed and cultivated, and trophies of victory won. But mark the contrast. Where now are those trophies of honor that burned brightly in the hero's eye, as he gazed upon the wreath of victory trembling in the fair hand of his beloved? They have passed away. The spirit of chivalry that had been cultivated, is it not mouldering with age? The brilliant armor has become dim, the trophies of triumph are sinking into decay, and the great mansion of the cavalier is silent and deserted; not a breeze sighs through its deserted walls. The wood- land where the gay serenade has sounded its notes no longer echoes with cheerful song. The sylvan nymph, too, has left her beloved retreat; no human footprints can be traced, for even the memory of man has been almost obliterated. The chariot wheels of time is hurling us onward to eternity, and our deeds, whether good or evil, will soon'be buried in the gulf of oblivion. We are nearer the grave to-day than we were yesterday, and a warning voice whispers in our ears, that the lumber for our coffins is eing seasoned, the flannel for our shrouds is laid upon the shelf, and the minister is waiting to perform the solemn ordeal of the funeral services. The sexton too; stands ready to hollow out graves, and is waiting to throw upon our coffins the first shovel full of dust to dust. How      160     THE SILVER LINING; superficial and how vain is it, then, to fix oUR hopes and desires on earthly things which. vanish soon away. We should strive to acquire those heavenly joys which never can decay. We all do fade as a leaf; we sigh because we find no pleasure in the world, ALL is withering, fading, dying, time and friends are rapidly passing away in the current that empties into eternity; and yet how hope in- vigorates our minds, and we are often apt to look into futurity with bright prospects of a long life of happiness and prosperity. When we see a young man whose hopes of the future shine bright, we see in his beaming eye and intelligent face the hope that lies at the bottom of his heart. He has his day dream and his night dream. He pictures a snug little home lighted up with the smile of love, and noisy with the prattle of infant tongues, made sacred by the presence of a loving wife, surrounded within and without by those rays of countenance which plenty and pros- perity shed, but ALL these cherished hopes of the future may be darkened, and his fondest expecta- tions blasted in a moment by the cruel hand of time.  When we look around us on every hand, we see withered hopes, blasted expectations, premature decay and death. The best joys of earth are soon gone. Riches fly, health decays, friends depart,   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    161. and DEATH is written on ALL things. How soon are the objects of beauty to become desolate. At morning they seem arrayed in elegance; at noon they come forth in all imagined splendor, and in pensive evening they sink into decay. Hopeful looking as the rosebud in all its glorious magnifi- cence and pomposity. Father Time has written these words, "passing away," we see them in the  soft blue sky, the hills and woods and fields; upon the trees as their young leaves glistening play, they are indellibly inscribed upon the brow and heart. Even the revivifying voice of many a pleasant spring freighted with its mournful utterings have passed away. The soft winds of many a pleasant summer laden with their genial teachings are buried in the grave of oblivion, and the hollow murmer- ings of the autumn breeze, with their solemn warn- ings, have gone to return no more. Even a hun- dred years ago, these seasons have been charged with breaking up family circles, with taking away loved ones from the hearth stones, with burying our friends from our sight; and afar off they have smiled in sadness upon the pale face of that mother who is seeking to rerew the torn up spring of her love at the grave of her first born. They have opened anew the fountain of grief in every heart, and have sharpened the memories to which affection,     162     THE SILVER LINING; friendship and reverence cling while journeying to the shrines of their respective pilgrimage. But happy they who can look through the clouds of despondency to the silver lining, and hope to join the solemn troops and sweet societies of Heaven, knowing that, A few more rising suns at most, Shall land us on fair Canaan's coast. \.  !   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    163 CHAPTER XV. A HUNDRED YEARS FROM NOW. AND now-for the fullness of time has come-- let us go up once more, in imagination, to yonder hill, and look out upon the scene of a hundred years ago. That single dark speck, just discerni- ble through the perspective glass of hope, on the waste of waters, is the fated vessel. Beneath its ungenial wintry sky, principles of social right, in- stitutions of civil government shall still germinate, in which what seemed the Utopian dreams of visionary fancies are to be more than realized. Looking back from a new country, where all is  peace, to an old one, where figures have the sta- bility of a painting, objects which were once trivial start out upon the canvas in bolder relief. So often as we dwell in imagination, our fancy leads us to behold. There stands the church that shel- tered the infant years of many a population, and there swings the bell that tolled our fathers and fathers' fathers to the tomb. There is the long line of graves, running back a hundred years. There tottered the old homestead, which had passed     164     THE SILVER LINING; through the family for generations, that had be- come sacred. The school-house, too, stands there, where the children shouted together. The venera- ble, gray-headed pastor, who appeared regularly in the pulpit for half a century, to impart the Word of life, rises in our memory and stands fixed there like a statue. We see again the changing crowd that year after year went in and out of that holy place; 'the spot where the old deacon sat, his head resting on his hands, his tranquil face turned upward, his mouth open, enjoying a doze as he listened to the sermon. We recollect the gay bridal-the solemn funeral; the buoyancy of the one-the still coldness of the other. We even remember the sexton, who rang the bell and went strolling up to the burying- ground with a spade upon his shoulder-even he is transformed by distance and mellowed by memory into a real being. And then there are the hills and streams, and waterfalls that shed their music through our youth- ful souls, until they became a part of our very existence. One hundred years from now! Have you ever thought of it? When you see the fading leaf, the opening bud, or the perfect blossom, do you ever think who will look upon the flowers that will bloom, the buds that will unfold, or the leaves that   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    16/5 will fall and wither a hundred years from now? Or when walking the streets, meeting the people that pass -and repass, do you ever think who will walk those streets a hundred years from now,? Have you ever thought who would enter the golden wheat fields that surround Moorestown, or travel the road to Fair-view Church, a hundred years to come? What deep and affecting changes will even a few more seasons effect! The turning of the page of history will present a new preacher, new hearers, a different plan, a different arrangement, different interests, different feelings; all these will undergo a change. What will work these marvellous and sudden changes?  [But let us take a deeper view of this subject, while the bow of hope and promise spans the heavens, as they float away in the distance, full of the mutterings of chagrin and disappointment. While the rays of the sun of liberty reach us again, lighting up our faces with smiles, as we gaze with humble admiration upon the beauties of this region, which are but little known in the hot cities, where men are too busy with offices and bonds and gold balances to think much about the growing corn, or the waving fields of grain, or the hils and streams that lie beyond the noted Brandywine, which runs its course at the foot of the wood-clad Indiantown hill, sinking 15      166     THE SILVER LINING; into the valley, and largely covered with tall trees, stretching out their stout-clad arms, and cover with shadowy wings the singing waters of the Brandywine, whose limpid stream, picturesquely winding its course through many a town and country villa. She who is writing this feeble pro- duction of thoughts lives in the country both sum- mer and winter. In front of the slated frame dwelling, largely fitted up for business commodi- ties, runs this stream of water termed the "Bran- dywine," with a partly wooded bank, and at the rear or Western part of the town is the famous In- diantown hill. Now we have a daily pleasure be- tween the two. How pleasant it is to watch the Ice King stop the flow of the waters along the Brandywine! and it is just as pleasant to see how the Brandywine gets the better of the Ice King when the great blocks of ice come floating down and crush one another against the banks, and pile . themselves against the roots of the trees that are half in the water and half out of it. Then what pleasure it is to go up in the woods, when the snow is not too deep, and see all the pre- paration made for the following spring! Just lift up tIe leaves-nature's own blanket-and see how readr and waiting the lovely woodland plants are for spring. Then, when in the woods, look at the buds of the trees. All summer these buds have   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    167 been getting ready for the next spring's opening. Have you ever thought who would lead their feet up the Indiantown hill-top, and down the valley to Moorestown, through the groves and over the plains, a hundred years from now? Such thoughts are not pleasant, yet it is well to cherish them, that we may realize more fully the fleeting nature of earthly things. They are sad thoughts. We know that each passing season bears with it many changes; but leaves and flow- ers are not all that fade, or the voice of music all that passes away. Death is in our world, and all humanity must feel the touch of the great de- stroyer. To-night, as the writer is seated here at her desk; the hour hand on the dial-plate fast verging toward .the vr, the minute hand fast travelling toward the xir, the church-going bell has chimed forth the glad welcome to all to enter 'neath the sacred portals; while in the "City of Churches," from out many a belfry have chimed forth "the evening bells:" Those eveiing bells, those evening bells, How many a tale their music tells I There is a sweetness in the mingling of their many voices, as they come to us borne on the still eve- ning air. How they urge and plead, each in a     168     THE SILVER LINING; different key, and yet in unison blending their many tones in chorus, sweet and joyful greeting! But as the summoning chimes forth from  the church bell, ringing out upon the clear, cool atmo- sphere of the beautiful Sabbath evening, the writer cannot refrain from thinking how true it is that memory's bells are ever ringing. They remind us of misspent years-of sins of omission and sins of commission; the bright roses of hope that once bloomed in the garden hearts of our kindred, but which, alas! through the blighting effects of our own acts, are now nothing but leaves. In mo- ments of weakness, when we had almost yielded to the tempter, our guardian angel may have wafted to our memories the gentle teachings of loving pa- rents and friends. It is then with musical and joyous peals that the bells ring out in the fathom- less depths of the soul. Oh, blessed bells! telling us of pleasurable hopes that have been realized- of happy and profitable days passed in doing good. A hundred years from now! Could we tread again among the vast rocks and breezy pines, where the Brandywine babbles music to the glass- slippered fairies, the future would present, in many instances, the same impenetrable curtain to our eager eyes. TWe could bring back no treasure to purchase attention, to command respect, to excite   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    169 envy; we could bring back nothing but emptiness, dereliction and tears; but we would see then, as now, that the country glories that she is like other countries, dependent on the clouds of heaven for the fertility of her soil and the exuberance of her crops. We would behold regions, and periods, and nations, rising into existence and notice, into emi- nence, into importance, by the talents and virtues of the existing generation, who, as in ages past, go on fondly planning, and after a thousand proofs of vanity, return to treasure up for themselves vexa- tion of spirit; while some, relieved at length, land on that shore where fear and hope are no more; and returning again to obscurity and insignifi- cance, througlh the advantages of wisdom, how pleasant it is to trace the sweet, meandering course of the river of prophecy and promise united toward the vast, the immeasurable ocean of accomplish- ment, and still find that the tender plant begins to rear its head, and the root out of the dry ground to spring up, to bud and blossom as--the rose! Thus we observe, with humble' acquiescence and joy, the designs of eternal providence maturing and executing themselves-the individuals passing away giving rise to others; but the species are permanent-states and kingdoms changing their form, their spirit, their character; but human na- ture we find the same under every government, in     170     THE SILVER LINING; every climate, under every sky; and though the veil of eternity may be drawn over us, you can plainly discern, kind reader, that the object which is closely kept in view, through every era of time, under all dispensations, the work of God cannot stand still-his purpose canno, be defeated. One generation goeth and another cometh, while every succeeding generation contributes to their inven- tions and designs. The eye is eternally delighted with the magnificence and splendor of the azure vault of the earthly ball rolling round beneath our feet, and the verdure and variety of the fertile earth. The music of the grove never fails to charm the listening ear,; the perfume breathed from the flower, the shrub, and the tree never deadens'the' senses. A hundred years from now, if we were per- mitted to return to earth, we would find that a new generation had arisen up, to whom we would be an utter stranger, and who would be utter strangers to us. The curiosity of the whole town would be excited by the appearance of the fugitives. In meditating on this subject, let us notice who among them is rising up early, and with a resolute hand slaying his sloth, his pride and his avarice before the altar of God; who among them is rising to offer unto God thanksgiving, to contemplate the glories of nature, to adore and admire the wonders   OR, FAIR-IOPIo PROSPECT.    171 of providence. Rest assured it is the Christian, who is looking forward to that day when light shall rise out of obscurity, when all their mysteries shall be unveiled, when the faculties of the mind shall be strengthened, and the object contemplated shall be brought nearer the eye, placed in a fairer point of view and irradiated with a fuller glory. The anxieties and solicitudes, the hopes and fears, the disappointments and successes, which alternately occupy and agitate the mind, at length come to one issue, and all-coriquering death settles the account. A hundred years from now! Let us linger on the waste blanks of the charm of mystery and of darkness, and revel among the distant, consecrated spot of the ancient church, erected long ago upon a beautiful eminence south-east of the far-famed Moorestown, withl a stately row of trees in front of the sacred temple, standing like untiring sentinels, as it were, to guard God's cause and his kingdom upon earth, with the quiet church-yard's clustering headstones to the south rear, and bordering the very walk leading into its gates of praise. Fancy peoples those secluded spots with the crea- tures of her imagination, and they seem fitting homes for creatures who lurk among the ruined tombs, and call the belated wanderer there. The long avenues stretch out into the infinite dim dis-     172     THE SILVER. LINING; tance as if they led to the quiet homes of the dead. There are inscriptions on the stones, but it is useless to spell the names of those who 'tried to se- cure immortality, and have passed successfully through this ordeal of death. Nor is it worth while to try to decipher these names since were they once made out, all the enchantment would disappear. Mounted in its antiquated tower is a sweet voiced bell, whose silvery tones we could recall from out the burried pasts; and as they wake our memory into life, and are backward borne to the weary ways we trod, and for a moment we think of the days when we worshipped in that church and learned to praise the name of Jesus. But again, in this dream of fancy we see the com- manding spire, crowned with its globe of mimic gold, and glittering weather-vane star, seeming to laugh at winds and clouds of fire as though 'twere not put there by .skill of earth, but 'by a hand Divine. Standing upon the green pastures, we gaze in awe at the dizzy heights in which it seems to reign supreme, and wonder of the great beyond to which it points its sceptre. But let us take a step further and mount the foot worn steps, and enter into its familiar vestibule, and we are greeted by many home-clad there gathered, who are following the same Jesus that was preached to sinners a hundred years ago. Let us sit in our   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    173 accustomed seat, and looking up to the ponderous high furnished pulpit, symbolical of the high calling of the speaking disciples of Christ; await com- mencement of the simple, the fervent prayer and preached word. Way up in the high gallery in close proximity to the roof, comes chords of prepa- ration from the melodious prongs of a tuning-fork, and sweet flowing music of the organ, a dear old song of Zion comes gushing forth from every heart and soul. Again in fervent supplication at the throne, the shepherd of the flock appears, and we seem to see him-we seem to hear him who, long ago, ripe with love and labor was gathered to the garner of the saints. Again, he is telling us of Calvary, and ever pointing them onward and upward to the hidden mysteries of God, and as these sad echoes die away in their hearts, they give birth to good wishes and eager hopes for the future. There is a sublimity and force in the very essence of this unknown future to which we may attempt to unravel, and a beauty and loveliness in these venerable thoughts which, although solemn, delights us. There may be a solemn silence in the world, but there is a still small voice that is saying to us Moorestown may one day be the same; and the young and sacred Fairview Church; and you and your children's children will all have lived, and had their loves and adventures, but who then will the man be that shall     174     THE SILVER LINING; sit in the pulpit and look down upon the congrega- tion assembled to worship in the Church, when in this blue land'of supreme fancy, the prosaic and the commonplace with yourselves shall have disap- peared forever; when there is no hum of myriads, and no many voiced utterances of men. But that now waiting congregation which a hun- dred years hence shall assemble in the sacred taber- nacles of earth, who are being led by a good shepherd so carefully among the sacred thoughts of the Infinite, they too, as the subjects of our writing, from the loved ones who have given shape and expression to earthly joy and a long life, must sadly part. Yonder in the distance stands the Church, its pealing organ will soon be stilled for- ever. Through its gaping portals no more wedding parties shall pass. It has hurried its last dead, and there it remains its own monument. Those who have been baptized there are scattered far and wide, and have forgotten the fount over which they were once held. The young men, who in the in- toxication of their first love, followed their sweet- hearts there, and endured the sermon for the sake of being near the beloved, have outlived the pas- sionate ardour of them, and haye gone hence not regreting the sanctuary which to them was the tem- ple of Cupid, and not of Jehovah. All the artificial aid to devotion, the cushioned pews, the soft foot- stools, the elegantly bound books, have disappeared;   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    175 while beyond a short distance is the brook, though a child with which one laughs and babbles where- with we .can hold reasonable converse, and where- from we can gain rare information, to be found no where else, is all that will remain while each suc- ceeding generation takes their places with the for- gotten dead. These places must be filled by others, and then, as now, make room will be the solemn strain that passes from lip to lip, and they step aside and yield up, that tenement of clay that others shall stroll along those winding paths and listen to the whisper- ing winds among the stately oaks; other voices shall ring through that sacred temple of God's, and others will gather around His altar to hold com- munion with the Invisible One. But in the days that are to be they shall live in the enchanting realms of memory, looking into the dim uncertain future, with hope in all their joy and pain, and one little rivulet will ripple along just as to-day, when they must hasten on to meet the mighty giver of life. And though the streets are full of life-some are gay and thoughtless, others in mourning, tell us that life has no joys, and sit idly dreaming of "' what might have been." Time so fleeting, is immortal after all. The soul of time is eternity; and in parting we can but wish that your time may be so spent on earth that your eternity may be passed in God's heaven of love.     176     THE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER XVI. PICTURE OF LIFE. WE judge that most human beings float or drift through life. Nearly every youth desires and hopes in time to win fame or fortune-often both. They may achieve something, but not everything. The warrior, who performs deeds of heroism and valor, and makes the battle-field the repository of his ashes, wears for a while the wreath of honor, twined by fame; but as long perspective years roll away to ages past, the warrior is forgotten-he sinks from remembrance, and his name is erased from off the chronicled page. But the philosopher's unfading wreath reminds us of one of the few, "the immortal few that were not born to die." Many fancy themselves too rich to need proficiency in some handicraft; they expect to live on what others have earned, not what they should earn themselves. But the picture of many lives vetoes this miscalculation, and fate sends floods and tor- nadoes, which fill the broad ocean of life, whereby the peace of mind is likely to suffer shipwreck, and they begin to believe in destiny. They think their life has been one great ebb-tide-everything going   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    1" out, nothing coming in. They watch every hope and- ambition they ever had, drift out to sea be- yond their reach. They think nothing has ever been brought to them, and nothing ever will be, but death. A flood-tide may come in and bring them that some day. Persons suddenly and remarkably elevated are apt to forget those from whom they sprung and the means by which they rose. They may have no aim in life except the ignoble one of enjoying themselves in their own graceful, intellectual forms -with all their fine critical tastes, culture and ideals. Self is the pivot on which all their actions turn, and this selfishness is slowly corroding many young hearts and souls. It is hard when a warm young heart learns to distrust humanity, and is thrown, into the world without shield or buckler, to contend with coarse reality, which crushes out all the rich poetry of youth, and leaves bitterness and disappointed hopes in its place. No wonder poor, inexperienced crea- tures sometimes become reckless, and sin against that society which taunts them onward by cruel and undeserved reproach. Let us in imagination follow the footsteps of that orphan boy, away down in the lowest strata of humanity in the city-from his occupation, clean- ing pavements and blacking boots-doing anything ,     178     THE SILVER LINING; to keep the soul God gave him in some kind of a body. As he gathers up his great, overgrown limbs from his hard couch, he draws long, hard breaths, and locks his big fingers together; as he walks up and down his room, in his loneliness, rags and dirt. The soul behind those light-blue eyes is awake at last, and stirs the wanderer into new thought and purpose. Child as he may be in years and in all worldly things, there lay a power in his nature that rose to defend the innocence thus coarsely arrayed by grinding poverty. Let us penetrate his powerful traits of useful know- ledge, stored away back in his memory, that may spring up out of the unerring seed that he has sown, that will place him in superior circumstances to the pure in heart he loves to. admire, with the good, the true and the beautiful. But his fine culture, his passion for arts, his tastes in scientific directions, what have they done for the world, when it came to the broad, solid help God wants in the broad field of life? Watch him as he saunters through those crowded streets; how mean and false the world looked to him! He pictures such hideous scenes of life that he almost wishes he could die, to be rid of the ter- rible remorse and self-loathing which pursued him till the gulf of darkness, in its wrath, tosses the waves of trouble into mountains.   OR, FAIR-IIOPE PROSPECT.    179 Well, he has a hard time of it-only God and himself would ever know just how hard. First it is the fight for bread and some kind of standing room in the world; and then to make something of himself-to come out of that shell of ignorance, awkwardness and general lack of education, in which his hard fortune had buried him from the beginning. But God puts no human soul upon this earth to leave it altogether subject to evil influences. When humanity fails, then comes a sweet, low voice from the throne of God, and those who listen grow calm and strong (as the flowers brighten be- neath the soft dews which visit them in the night- time); their burdens are lightened as they picture, in glowing representation, the importance of the cloud with silver lining; they alone can enjoy the' sublimity of its ponderous machinery, that moves where existence still sleeps in the vast abyss of pos. sibility. The inspired muse of the lyre may paint in colors the blaze of the cloud with silver lining, the result of which shines as sentinel stars and beacon lights, to guard the wanderer as he walks thoughtfully away. I Fis brow is clouded, his look troubled; circumstanc s may be against him, as he turns from the hard lo ic of the selfish capitalist, who holds that the laws of political economy regu- late the wages, and we silently draw the curtain     180     THE SILVER LINING; that conceals the sin wrought by poverty. He loses no opportunity in taking advantage of every moment to monopolize his time in gaining all the information possible, as he pictures the sublime and grand old science of the holy stars of heaven, dating back millions of years beyond all human conception; indeed, his mind, when reflecting upon it, is. lost in the unknown mysteries of the bound- less future, and he is filled with the subject of being a great man and leaving footprints behind him; whereas he has not the qualifications of being a great man; but- he is constantly picturing to himself what a great career he would carve out for himself by the time he was ohe-and-twenty. But time flies quicker with the inactive than the active, and before he has time to get his eyes fairly open, we discover him drifting into manhood. Have you ever seen away off in the distance the light of your life-the light which might per- vade your soul, illuminate every corner of your. heart, brighten the hours of adversity and give to the cloud of sorrow a silver lining? Did not a pall of darkness enshroud the door of that vacant heart-room, as you wandered out into the cold- hearted world? We know that selfishness has no power of radiation and degenerates the soul it cen- tres in. True, our subject is an orphan; but who knows that the mother who has gone, with all her o   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    181 earthly affections, to heaven, purified and holy, is not a better guardiaf to the soul of her child than she ever could have been on earth? The heavenly love of a mother who has partaken of divinity and that earthly love which; lraws us closer to the gate of heaven, who watches over the orphan in his deepest humiliation. On the morning when he arose, with a fragment of the Lord's Prayer upon his lips, it seems to us, in our half-dreamy state of fancy, as if his parents were both listening, as they had done years ago, and smiled to think that he was asking help of God once more. The morning is a beautiful one, which always gives new life and vigor for those who have left civilization and society, to make for themselves a home in a wild foreign country. Our hero paces the deck of an ocean steamer. The vessel is one of the finest and fastest of the line; she has made an unusually rapid voyage, through the blandest of days and nights, and in a couple more there- is every prospect that she will come in contact of land. Now all around the ocean opens its great heart to the still, white pas- sion of the moon; nothing possesses the sea but that wide, silent glory, and in it the old moon rested transfigured-holy its pulses, throbbing in a soft rapture, as though they forgot the call of the winds, the wrath of the storm. A few more 16'     182     THE SILVER LINING; days, from present indications, will safely land them on a stranger shore. But the growing dis- content among the crew seems to forebode an open rebellion. A crowd of conspirators rush on the deck, and they are meditating to cast the subject of our perils in the sea; still he hopes on. "Land!" is shouted; but the clouds melt away. "Land!" is cried again and again, still the land appears not; and a party of shipwrecked men seek the shelter and cheer of a host living otn an adjacent island. Their passage to the Adriatic has been summarily checked by stormy skies and tempestuous weather; and now the shipwrecked and forlorn shiver around the blazing fire and speculate as to the propriety of resuming their  voyage. Refreshed- by a night's sleep, they wan- der forth to inquire for outward-bound vessels and other modes of travel, being anxious to get to the end of their voyage, while we see many pacing the deck in the solitary moonlight. The dreadful cry swells above the roar and steady rush of the waves against the side of the vessel, and every heart seems to stand still at the sound-"AMan over- board!" There is a rush of crew and passengers to the forward part of the vessel, where the accident takes place, and the next thing we know, the water, cold and salt and hungry, is gulping our hero   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    183 down. He battles with the waves a few moments then, as his strength gives way, he feels the strong live monster of billows raise him and drag him down. They lower a boat; they throw out ropes. In a moment more they would have been too late; but he is dragged into the life-boat, and a wild shout from the great, breathless crowd on the steamer rolls out into the face of the storm, and the winds seem to stand still a moment and listen; nearer and nearer roll on the embattled legions of black storm-clouds; louder come the fearful thun- der crashes; more vivid gleams the red lightning flash; wilder the shrieking galle sweeps by, howl- inm and screaming dread notes of terror to all in the vessel. Great drops of rain came pelting down on the boat with a sharp, clicking noise that smote on the ears of our ocean wanderer, who lay on his hard bed, his clothes dripping with water. Ten, fifteen, twenty minutes go by, and still the roar of elements goes on in all its fury. He lay in his berth too much exhausted to move, but he thinks and he thought to more purpose than he had ever done. At last he comes out of this bitter remorse and despondency of his mood into something hum- bler and better than we are destined to see. He has no plumes nor badges, no titles of any sort to show at the end of his journey; but he rises from one position of labor to another. His pathway at ' /!*.     184     THE SILVER LINING; present seems brightly illuminated by the glorious rays of hope and fond anticipation of a glorious future; but if he trifles with the merriments of yes- terday, to-day he may drop amid the shades of disappointment, and the dark clouds be sombre without a silver lining. These were the only golden moments of his otherwise blank existence. But he died at last of no particular disease-only because he had too much time on his hand. We forget the weakness of our plot, and remem- ber only the strength and tenderness, the skeptical smile with which we wait to receive the reproof and instruction of our inexperience, as we attempt to portray a faint picture of what life consists. We think was it thus that the Saviour received th. wayfarer? We think had he ceased to be a human being with human wants? We do not believe that this earth is a final home of mankind. But shall the heart so long dead to disappointment, trials and hope be only awakened to transport, to the sublime and grand old science of the holy stars of heaven, dating back millions of years beyond all human conception, lost in the unknown mysteries of the boundless past? Alas! we are all dying to- the world before we begin to live to comfort. It is indeed late in life before we die to hope. Sunshine causes shadow, and we in the journey of life are subject to the     4   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    185 same. All things convince us that none are free from the vexations of this doubtful world, and it is not surprising, when we consider that to some who have lost dear friends by death, the idea is exceed- ingly welcome that to every dark cloud of afflic- tion and bereavement there is a silver lining which tends to bring their loved ones near them guarding and comforting them. In al ages there has been an irresistible longing in the human mind to penetrate into the unknown- into the future. Very few are content with living on, day after day, without a thought beyond the present life, where suffering and graves will be unknown. Reader, please go back with me, in imagination, to the past winter of 1872. You remember how cold the weather was. It was nearly five o'clck in the afternoon of one of the coldest days that winter. We find ourselves in a well-warmed room, that overlooks the principal farms of a country capitalist. As we look around that lonely houses hold, where nature was seen in all her loveliness and where the heart went out for the simple plea- sures of moral life, the place is inexpressibly lonely to us. As we are on the threshold of entering another room, we feel like an alien presence there; and there is a pathos and a vein of sadness that make our very hearts ache. We enter and behold a forsaken father sitting there, with tears in his '\ . 5I f,  '          "     i     186     THE SILVER LININ;  eves, waiting with all patience for the return of an absent daughter, who was idolized with kindness. But she does not come. Where has she gone Let us, with the power usually granted to auu- thors, look back a few hours to this daughter's his- tory. Let us go back six months ago, when that carriage was drawn up to the door of the farm- house. But we-must pause, for there comes one of the subjects of our true sketch. He is an amia- ble-looking gentleman; even the inclemency of the weather cannot mar the serene expression of his face, and all the lubricating oils of etiquette con- bined could not add grace to the bow with which he greets this noble girl. Watch her in all the inno- cence of youth, which had been so long protected and kept alive by that sainted mother in heaven. She is guarded by that specimen of maturity of age, manhood and experience, as he assists her into the carriage and drives away, we know not whither. Now the father is lonely and sad, and hopes his daughter will return with the bloom of health upon her cheek and her person adorned with the breastplate of virtue. One, two, four weeks pass, and she does not ap- pear. At last the father goes off to one of our large cities and makes search. She is found at one of the fashionably religious and religiously fashionable houses, where even religious women   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    187 who represent immoral society are found, to say nothing of the very silent and degraded nature of men who belonged to the domestic circle of these women. She moved among them, subdued and thoughtful over her shortcomings and fallen nature. She thought, in her well-trained piety and home influence, that she was betrayed and taken from the worldly pleasures of a home where lavish kind- ness always awaited her, and home decorated with every needful thing that wealth could procure. Her father ascends the steps of this house of great- ness and rings the door-bell, but no reply. He goes away, but returns again and demands en- trance. He is refused, but he insists on being led into the knowledge of the whereabouts of his daughter, and they take him away up a long cor- ridor of stairs to a nicely-furnished chamber. As they open wide the lofty door, he beholds his daughter, the only joy and pride of his heart, who has fallen from virtue and is sick unto death. She asks to see their family physician. The indulgent father returns home and dispatches the physician in haste to the city to see his daughter. But phy- sicians are in vain; she pines away under an affliction wrought by the self-destroying virtue of one who' forsakes her-who is full of hypocrisy and iniquity. 'We leave the father at home, alone -almost a raving maniac-and wonder can he i 1 *i     188     THE SILVER LINING; look through the clouds of despondency to the silver lining?. A month passes away, when a brother goes to bring home the lifeless form of an only daughter to his afflicted father; and she is-buried away out of sight, with all the innocence and purity of vir- tue that had been trodden upon by man and then forsaken. We think not even death itself could induce a warm-hearted, true man to betray her confidence or wrong the trust confided to his care, in her humble simplicity and kindness of heart.: Can we attempt to picture a more heart-rending, more cruel scene of life than this? What bright anticipations and bitter disappoint- ments, lofty hopes and stern realities go to make up our changeful lives! From infancy to youth, from youth to old age, we are ever chasing the phantom pleasure, too frequently to grasp the reality pain. Hypocrisy and double-dealing seem to be the mainspring of action. No age or people are entirely free from the corrupting influences of vice; but it is a striking evidence of intellectual and moral superiority when a people or nation rises out of the temptations with which they have been unfortunately surrounded. Society is arbi- trary. Let the foul breath of suspicion only once taint the reputation of woman, and she is then and for ever an outcast. No one will take this soiled 9   -      OmR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.   189 dove back to their embrace, and say to her, "Nei- ther do I condemn thee."  She is alone in a friendless world, while her destroyer is received back to the arms of society. This should not be  Let those who have unfortunately familiarized themselves with vice learn that in virtue there is no more ennobling charm that should be cherished -that in it there is tranquillity and peace. Would we then trifle with the worthless bubble of reputa- tion? No; give us rather purity of character and mind, glowing with pure knowledge, that which will teach us to bear the toil and heat of our jour- ney here. The little infant tries in vain to catch in its wee, dimpled hands the bright sunbeams that dance pliyfully over the carpet before its delighted eyes. But how soon smiles give place to tears on that childish face, when it fails to gather the brightness in its eager little hands! Fit emblem is this of life-the clouds and sunshine that brighten and darken life's pathway. Smiles and tears, clouds and sunshine follow us as we tread the intricate mazes of youth. Ah, the bright threads and the sombre ones we daily weave into the web of our strange lives! Past experience has taught us that life holds not for us only fair-hope prospects. Tempests must come; clouds must gather; stern battles must be fought; but after the, tempest 1z     190     THE SILVER LINING; there comes a calm; after the clouds, the silver lining; after the battle, victory! Then there comes a time in the history of us all when the world and the things of the world recede from our vision. We call it death. The throbbing heart is stilled, the life-current ceases to flow, and the tired soul has gone to try the realities of the spirit-world. Mirth gives place to mourning; prayers are said; the procession finds its way to the cemetery. "I am the resurrection and the life" is read by the minister; the coffined clay is lowered into its narrow bed, and all of mortality is left alone to silence and decay. Yes, " all thatobreathe must share thy destiny;" but to fall unnoticed by the living, with no friend to take note of our departure, seems a death almost too grievous to be borne. What heights and depths of misery the human heart is capable of feeling! How much we can suffer, and yet how quietly an'd patiently! But this is not all. If it were, could we take up the burden of life so pa- tiently-could we endure the crush of hopes so calmly? But beyond this little span of days and years there is another world-another life; one in which the disembodied spirits know no longings unsatisfied, no hopes unrealized, no regrets, no sorrow. When all nature shall have passed away; when the blaze of that shining luminary shall be   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      191 obstructed by the superior brilliancy of the agent of destruction; when that spangled canopy above shall be as the black horizon of night, and when the ruined wrecks of the universe shall proclaim time is no more-then, in some human minds, the cloud with silver lining will be just beginning to bud and expand, and with fair-hope prospect J , ---" wrapt in flames, the realms of ether glow, And heaven's last thunders shake the world below." ,  .            ,     192     TIE SILVER LINING; CHAPTER XVII. BURDENS OF LIFE. How solemn and yet how beautiful are the les- '  sons breathed into our mental ears even on the threshold of these pages! How many an embow- ering residence, that adds beauty and cheerfulness to a home, may owe its origin to the bright, cir- cling shadows of the silver lining! And the single- hearted and the sincere, who go forth into the world, to "list to nature's teachings" with sim- plicity of purpose, and obedience of spirit; and the light-hearted and the unreflective, who may perchance recall many a transient thought and fleeting impression that would otherwise be for- gotten, may readily apprehend that even this im- perfect work may be expanded into volumes, by those who may put themselves in communication with the truth of the assertion, that to every dark cloud there is a silver lining, and interpret their silent, but sage-like counsellings. In the broad glare of the meridian sunlight, and under the mellow radiance of the moon, may be heard these whisperings by all whose hearts are attuned to the reception of good influences and holy imaginations. r   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    193 Can we arrest them in their airy flights? and giving to them the tangible form of type, can we transfer them to our firesides or make them the companions of our wayfaring excursions? The experiment is Worth the trial. Here we may find happiness; here a solace for the baffled hopes and recoiling afflictions that have burdened our soul so long. Here we may find a new world-a world of fresh sensation and never-ending variety. With the vague reverence which we always feel for a thing beyond our comprehension, and a quick thirst for the knowledge of the far-off future, we have fallen unawares upon a mine of thoughts, from which we might carry away new life, and not diminish the original stock by a single idea. We would no longer seek for joy among the living. The dead have left us the essence of their lives, and we would read their books-we would live in the past lives of those who have become benefactors to hu- manity, by gathering the immortality which be- longs to them from the past, for the benefit of gen- erations yet to come. We know that there are bereavements worse than death-oh, a thousand times worse than death. A single act may darken one's whole life --fill it with unutterable sorrow; a word hastily uttered may blast all the hopes of one's life. The strongest destroyer in this world is a person *l7     194     THE SILVER LINING; too weak and warm-hearted to maintain his own purity. There are some great wrongs perpetrated by great criminals, which do not affect closely the interests of any one but the immediate sufferers. Money may be stolen, a house fired, a life taken, without disturbing the general current of human happiness or the foundations of society. But there are other acts which are freighted with ca- lamity for every person in the community, which strike at the very root of all that is true and pure and lovely amongst humanity. Such acts may not be called crimes, but their existence is less an outrage upon the rights and honor of every man, woman and child, and a reproach to every one. We should measure iniquity less by material re- sults and more by its moral influence. The great- est wickedness is not to commit sins, but to teach others to commit them. Held by sensitive dread, the young man of mod- esty and mute anguish has allowed another man to take the woman he loved out of his life; the bridegroom, in his resplendent happiness, all un- conscious that his good fortune was rending the hope from another man's life; the bride robed in sumptuous whiteness, trembling upon the verge of that abyss that was to separate them for ever. He is sad and heart-broken; it seems to him as if the horses that bore her away (to take a long journey)   OR, PAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    195 were trampling his heart under their feet. "But fate sometimes leaves a long, dull waste of buried hopes to mourn over after the worst is known." Are there, then, no heavier burdens than the loss of friends by death, the lack of material com- fort and the prostration of the body by pain and weakness? How was' it with the Man of sorrows? Were these his troubles? Surely his were genu- ine; surely he carried the heaviest cross which ever brought a soul to the verge of despairi; surely he sounded the deepest depths of grief, when he undertook to bear the chastisement which was to secure our peace. He knew no loss but that of character, no death but that of the soul, no pain but that of hearts wounded by their own sin and they who follow Him in the work of saving the world are partakers of his sorrows. We each have a burden. Every heart has its bitterness; every life its times of agony. Shall we sink under these trials, and let a false friend, an unhappy marriage, or whatever the trial is, blight our whole lives? No; let us rise above these sombre clouds to a fair-hope prospect. Face the storm, if it is inevitable. Carry it to the Man of sorrows, who is acquainted with grief; and seek for strength to bear it; then shut the ache up in our own heart, lock and bolt the door, so that it will not cast its shadow over any other life. And     196     - THE SILVER LINING; even if the result is our own act, some mistake made in the past, what then? And worse still, if it is a sin that throws its shadows over the long years. But whatever our sorrow-whether the conse- quence of our own act, or the cruel wrong of others, or merely some mysterious dealing of Pro- vidence, we should look through this despondency to the cloud whose silver lining will unfold a grandeur far more sublime than earth's beauties. We cannot help feeling it; there will be times when it will wellnigh crush us. But there is One that has more than a mother's heart. Can we forget?"yet will not I forget thee." There is One that has a SAVIOUR'S heart, and with an ever- lasting love: "neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us! from the love of God."  There is One that has a BROTHER'S heart. Thou art the brother born for adversity, and yet is he a Friend "that sticketh closer than a brother." There is One that has a FATHER'S heart: "As a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him ;" and as a father chasteneth his children, so " whom the Lord loveth  he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth."   Ol, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.       197 Among so many, can he care? Can special love be everywhere? A myriad homes, a myriad ways, And God's eye over every place. OVER; but in? The world is full; A high Omnipotence must rule; But is there life that doth abide With mine own, living side by side? So many, and so wide abroad, Can any heart have all of God? From the great spaces, vague and dim, May one small household gather Him? I asked, my soul bethought of this, In just that very place of his, Where he hath put and keepeth you; God hath no other thing to do.     198     THE SILVER LININ( ; CHAPTER XVIII. CONCLUSION. Even in this late hour the writer has found that in the purpose of her writing she has met with ten- fold more disadvantages, and found it more of a task than she had any idea of, being crowded for time, having only to grasp a moment from the still hours of the night, while no doubt many of her readers were wrapped in the arms of Morpheus. Yet she will not admit that she has been over- matched, and will fight it out though it take a life- time to complete the work, and she would assure you that this has been written throughout with a graphic pen, and with conscientious fidelity to facts, and as she sends out into the world this book, which will be criticised, censured and ridiculed, she feels that our inward thoughts are not for the world to dissect at pleasure, and yet with a calculating hand we tear away the veil that has hidden from the world many a fair-hope prospect. She would take the reader by the hand and walk with him or her   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    199 through the cities and vales, and show them yet untold riches and beauties in the great garden of nature, with its blooming flowers, singing birds, waving palms, rolling clouds, its beautiful rainbows, sacred mountains, delightful rivers, and mighty oceans, and they will admit that each spot is full of suggestions and inspirations which should be trea- sured up in cases of golden sentiments-that to every dark cloud there is a silver lining. This leads us to a storehouse of golden thoughts. It silences the voice of the atheist, and rejoices the heart of the unbeliever; carefully investigating the former periods of the earth with all the light that science provides; while the rocks that rend the hills are made to tell their tale of creative glory, and to yield up the writing inscribed upon them, the sci- ence of the young and growing altar of Fair-hope Prospect, and Silver Lining-both standing in silent and joyful greeting upon the altar of mar- riage, which together hand in hand uphold the author in all her vain and delusive endeavors to prove to you that such a marriage never was be- fore in all creative expressions of the English Ian- guage. And we hope to find this work so essential to: every household as to be counted one of the family, on no account to be parted with, and when the eye whose lustre YEARS have dimmed shall peruse these pages, the cheerful smile and gather- o      200     THE SILVER LINING; ing tear will attest the awakening of thoughts of early days; of dreams of youth long since for- gotten; now return to brighten the skies and make hearts young again. May youths be inspired by a hopeful glance for- ward to years of riper activity, and manhood who would avoid the shoals and quicksands, the rocks and perils on the voyage of life, and reach the other shore with a stainless soul; old age just on the shores of Time's dark river, who would look back through the dim vista of years, and remember again the bright beginning of its pilgrimage; fathers who would have their sons and daughters take places of usefulness and honor in life's great struggle, look beyond the dark clouds of adversity to the silver lining; mothers, the most sacred of all-can there be a hope, a thought, a care for her offspring, not found in the mother's heart? no, not one-but to you all we would bring greeting, and may your latest memory cling fondly to the hour when all that you hope for that is pure and ennobling be attained. As we have now contemplated the hosts of events, circumstances, &c., that float along the river of life, let us take a last lingering look upon these sacred pages, every event of which was dear to our heart of hearts, and then store them away each in its narrow cell; and soon the rust of time will gather   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.    201 above them; the worm will prey upon them, and our sacred heroes will be the dead, the forgotten past. And now, dear reader, we stand upon the brink of life, full of eager anticipations; and yet the tears of sorrow will dim the golden future. Across the billowy waves of life sometimes we shall see some friend gaily floating with the current, or stranded upon the barren rocks; or drifting, idly drifting, with every passing wind and wave; or steadily plodding a way through the mighty deep toward a glorious haven, and sometimes through the cloudy distance we shall see them tossed upon the wild waves of trouble. Now, kind reader, we part upon the shores of life's great ocean; the still waters are deep and dark and cold; we shudder and would that we could float back again to our sunny tropics and gather the roses and twine the garlands of the past of our misspent lives over again. May your golden bowl not'be soon broken, may the gentle spirit of peace and health and hope for ever hover about your pathway, and besprinkle on your head the benignant dews of contentment and on your life shower many and choice blessings; and may God add strength and length to your days; may He grant you every necessary enjoymeht, and may 18     202    . THE SILVER LINING; He send his ministering spirit to you while travel- ling down the pilgrimage of life, and ever reveal to you the silver lining. But let us linger on the thought that though the skies may be as beautiful and the earth robed in as much loveliness, yet the eyes that now look upon them will all be closed-closed in the sleep that knows no waking; and though the charm of novelty in this work may have passed away, though memory may have stored itself with the very words, and the heart have felt the impression a thousand and a thousand times, yet we trust that the force and the importance of its truth may ever remain in undiminished lustre. And now, O Moorestown, village of magnificent distances, your sky will be as blue, your rocks as plenty, and streets as muddy, a hundred years to come; but then we shall see you NO MORE FOPR EVER. Farewell! Kind is that Providence which does not always let us know when we are say- ing FINALLY farewell, which permits the bitter- ness of death to pass before we are sensible it has come. And now may it be found in a feyw measured words, which may never sink into oblivion, the truth and conviction that to every dark cloud of sickness, pain and sorrow there is a silver lining.   OR, FAIR-HOPE PROSPECT.      203 How sweet and strange it seems to us, ere a hundred years do come, The heart that now is speaking will be beyond the sun, For ever and for ever with those just souls and true; And what is life, that we should moan? why make we such - ado? For ever and for ever, all in a blessed home, And there to wait a little while till all the rest do come, To lie within the light of God, his love upon our breast, And the wicked cease from troubling, and the weary are at rest. So mote it be. Farewell! FINIS.     
         
      
   
