
    ----CITATION----
        De Quincey, Thomas, (1785-1859). Good Stories, Vol. 1 .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6535
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Good stories, vol. 1 
            
                 GOOD STORIES. CONTENTS.  THE AVENGER  ......     Thomas De Qincey. .  5 (Illustrated by Thomas Nast.) PETER GOLDTIHwAITE s TREASURE Nathaniel Hawthorw . . 64 (Illustratel by A. Lumley)..; "OVE AwND SKATES .....    Theodore Winthrop .. 85 (Illustrated by Augustus Hoppin.)- THE DEFAULTER .... .. Thomas HLood. . .    . 151 (Illustrated by Benjamin Day.) COLDSTREAM          Hererbet Vaughan .  i69 (Illustrated by G. Perkins.)  -  MADONNA . . . . . . . . . iHenry Spicer  ...   182 (Illustrated by J. V. Ehninger.) BOSTON: TICKNOR      AND   FIELDS. 1867.   MADONNA. See page 193.  Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1867, by TICKNOR AND FIELDS in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Massachusetts. UNIVERSITY PRESS: WELCH, BIGELOW, & Co., CAMBRIDGE.    "Why callest thou me murderer, and not rather the wrath of God burning after the steps of the oppressor, and cleansing the earth when it is wet with blood?"  HAT  series of terrific events by-which our quiet city and 'T university in the. northeastern quarter' of Germany.!were convulsed during the year 1816' has, in itself, .and considered merelyas :a blind movement of human tiger-passion rxanging un- chained amongst meni something too memorable to be forgoqtten or left without its own separate record'; but the moral lesson,.im- pressed by these events, is yet more memorable, and deseryeg Jthe deep attention of coming generations in their struggle after human improvement, not merely in its own limited field of interest direcltiy awakened, but in all analogous fields of interest; as in fact already, and more than once, in connection with these very events, this lesson has obtained the effectual attention of Christian kings:and princes assembled in congress. No tragedy, indeed, am gt ;al the sad ones by which the charities of the human heartr ' othe' o: th fireside have ever been outraged,-: can better merit a .separate ch-ap- ter in the private history of. German manners ,or social. olife than this unparalleled case. And, on the other hand,: noone can put in a better claim to be the historian than myself.    , . I was at the time, and still am, a professor. in that city and uni- verlty which had the melancholy distinction, of being br th-eatre. I knew familiarly all the parties who were concerned /Iin i3t, either as sufferers or as agents. I was present from first to last, and watched the whole course of the mysterious storm which fell upon our de-    D         DUUU. 61UIIi'A. voted city, in a strength like that of a West Indian hurricane, and which did seriously threaten at one time to depopulate our univer- sity, through the dark suspicions which settled upon its members, and the natural reaction of generous indignation in repelling them ; whilst the city in its more stationary and native classes would very soon have manifested their awsful sense of things, of the hideous insecurity for life, and of the unfathomable dangers which had un- dermined their hearths below their very feet, by sacrificing, when- ,ever circumstances allowed them, their houses and beautiful gardens in exchange for days uncursed by panic, and nights unpolluted by blood. Nothing, I can take upon myself to assert, was left undone of all that human foresight could suggest, or human ingenuity could accomplish. But observe the melancholy result: the more certain did these arrangements strike people as remedies for the evil, so much the more effectually did they aid the terror, but, above all, the awe, the sense of mystery, when ten cases of total extermina-  tion, applied to separate liouseholds, had occurred, in every one of : which these precautionary aids had failed to yield the slightest as- sistance. The horror, the perfect frenzy of fear, which seized upon the town after that experience, baffles all attempt at description, ; Had these various contrivances failed merely in some human and intelligible way, as by bringing the -aid too tardily,--still, in such cases, though the danger would no less leave been evidently deep. ened, nobody would have felt any further mystery than what, from the very first, rested upon the persons arid the motives of the mur- derers. But as it was, when in ten separate cases of exterminating carnage, the astounded police, after an examination the most search- ing, pursued from day to day, and almost exhausting the patience by the minuteness of the investigation, had finally pronounced that no attempt apparently had been made to benefit by any of the sig-  nals preconcerted, that no footstep apparently had moved in that direction, - then, and after that result, a blind misery of fear fell upon the population, so much the worse than any anguish of a beleaguered city that is awaiting the storming fury of a victorious enemy, by how much the shadowy, the uncertain, the infinite, is,   ' at all times, more potent in mastering the mind than a danger -that is known, measurable, palpable, and human. The very police,] -instead of offering protection or encouragement, were seized with, terror for themselves. And the general feeling, as it was described to me by a grave citizen whom I met in a morning walk (for the overmasteringc sense of a public calamity broke down every barrier of reserve, and all men talked freely to all men in the streets, as, they would have done during the rockings of an earthquake), was, even amongst the boldest, like that which sometimes takes posses- sion of the mind in dreams, - when one feels one's self sleeping alone, utterly divided from all call or hearing of friends, doors open that should be shut, or unlocked that should be triply secured, the very walls gone, barriers swallowed up by unknown abysses, noth- ing around one but frail curtains and a world of illimitable night, whisperings at a distance, correspondence going on between dark- ness and darlkness, like one deep calling to another, and the dreamer's own heart the centre from which the whole network of this unimaginable chaos radiates, by means of which the blank privations of silence and darkness become powers the mostpositive and awful. Agencies of fear, as of any other passion, and, above all, of I passion felt in communion with thousands, and in which the heart beats in conscious sympathy with an entire city, through all its regions of high and low, young and old, strong and weak; such agencies avail to raise and transfigure the natures of men; mean I minds become elevated; dull men become-eloquent; and when matters came to this crisis, the public feeling, as made known by voice, gesture, manner, or words, was such that no stranger could represent it to his fancy. In that respect, therefore, I had an advantage, being upon the spot through the whole course of the affair, for giving a faithful narrative ; as I had still more eminently, from the sort of central station which I occupied, with respect to all the movements of the case. I may -add that I had another advantage, not possessed, or not in the same degree, by any other inhabitant of the town. I was personally acquainted with every   8           GOOD STORIES. family of the slightest account belonging to the resident population; whether amongst the old local gentry, or the new settlers whom the late wars had driven to take refuge within our walls. It was in September, 1815, that I received a letter from the chief secretary of the Prince of M---, a nobleman connected with the diplomacy of Russia, from which I quote an extract: "I wish, in short, to recommend to your attentions, and in terms stronger than I know how to devise, a young man on whose be- half the czar himself is privately known to have-expressed the very strongest interest. He was at the battle of Waterloo as an aide-de-camp to a Dutch general officer, and is decorated with distinctions won upon, that awful day. However, though serving in that instance under English orders, and although an Englishman of rank, he does not belong to the English military service. He, has served, young-as he is, under various banners, and under ours, in particular, in the cavalry of our imperi'al guard. He is English by birth, nephew to the Earl of E., and heir presumptive to his immense estates. There is a wild story current, that his mother was a gypsy of transcendent beauty, which may account for his somewhat Moorish complexion, though, after all, that is not of a deeper tinge than I have seen amongst many an Englishman. He is himself one of the noblest looking of God's creatures. Both father and mother, however, are now dead. Since then he has become the favorite of his uncle, who detained him in England after the emperor had departed, - and, as this uncle is now in the last stage of infirmity, Mr. Wyndham's succession to the vast family estates is inevitable, and probably near at hand. Mean- time, he is anxious for some assistance in his studies. Intellectually hle stands in the very first rank of men, as I am sure you will not be slow to discover; but his long military service, and the unpar- alleled tumult of our European history since 1805, have interfered (as you may suppose) with the cultivation of his mind; for he entered the cavalry service of a German power when a mere boy, and shifted about from service to service, as the hurricane of war ' blew from this point or from that. During the French anabasis   THE A VENGER.            9 to Moscow he entered our service, made himself a prodigious fa- vorite with the whole imperial family, and even now, is only in lis twenty-second year. As to his accomplishments, they will spealk for themselves; they are infinite, and applicable to every situation of life. Greek is what he wants fi'om you; never ask about terms. He will acknowledgle any trouble he may give you, as he acknowledges all trouble, en prince. And ten years hence, you will look back with pride upon having contributed your part ": to the formation of one whom all here at St. Petersburg, not sol- diers only, but we diplomzates, look upon as certain to prove a great "man, and a leader amongst the intellects of Christendom." Two or three other letters followed; and at length it was ar- ranged that Mr. Maximilian Wyndham should take up his resi- dence at my monastic abode for one year. He was to keep a table, and an establishment of servants at his own cost; was to have an apartment of some dozen or so of rooms ; the unrestricted use of the library; with some other public privileges willingly conceded by the magistracy of the town; in'return for all which, he was to pay me a thousand guineas; and already, beforehand, by way of acknowled(gment for the public civilities of the town, he sent, through my hands, a contribution of three hundred guineas to the various obcal institutions for education of the poor, or for charity. The Russian secretary had latterly corresponded with me from a little German town, not more than ninety miles distant; and, as he had special couriers at his service, the negotiation advanced so rapidly that all was closed before the end of September. And, when once that consummation was attained, I, that previously had breathed no syllable of what was stirring, now gave loose to the interesting tidings, and suffered them to spread through the whole compass of the town. It will be easily imagined that such a story, already romantic enough in its first outline, would lose nothing in the telling. An Englishman to begin with, which name of itself, and at all times, is a passport into German favor, but much more since the late memorable wars that but for Englishmen would have drooped into disconnected efforts, - next, an Englishman of rank   and of the haute noblesse, -then a soldier covered with brilliant distinctions, and in the most brilliant. arm of the service; young, moreover, and yet a veteran by his experience, fresh from the most awful battle of this planet since the day of Pharsalia, radiant with the favor of courts and of imperial ladies; finally (which alone would have given him an interest in all female hearts), an Antinous of faultless beauty, a Grecian statue, as it were, into which the breath of life had been breathed by some modern Pygmalion; such a- pomp of gifts and endowments settling upon one man's head should not have required for its effect the vulgar consummation (and yet to many it was the consummation and crest of the whole) that he was reputed to be rich beyond the dreams of romance or the necessities of a fairy tale. Unparalleled was the impression made upon our stagnant society; every tongue was busy in discussing the marvellous young Englishman from morn- ing to night; every female fancy was busy in depicting the per- sonal appearance of this gay apparition. On his arrival at my house, I became sensible of a truth which I had observed some years before. The commonplace maxim is, that it is dangerous to raise expectations too high. This, which is thus generally expressed, and without limitation, is true only conditionally; it is true then and there only where there is but little merit to sustain and justify the expectation. But in any case where the merit is transcendent of its kind, it is always useful to rack the expectation up to the highest point. In anything which partakes of the infinite, the most unlimited expectations will find ample room for gratification; whilst it is certain that ordinary observers, possessing little sensibility, unless where they have been warned to expect, will often fail to see what exists in the most conspicuous splendor. In this instance it certainly did no harm to the subject of expectation, that I had been warned to -look for so much.  The warning, at any rate, put me on the lookout for whatever eminence there might be of grandeur in his personal appearance; whilst, on the other hand, this existed in such excess,  so far transcending anything I had ever met with in my experience,    that no expectation which it is in words to raise could have been disappointed. These thoughts travelled with the rapidity of light through my brain, as at one glance my eye took in the supremacy of beauty. and power which seemed to have alighted from the clouds before me.  Power, and the contemplation of power, in any absolute incarnation of grandeur or excess, necessarily have the instanta- neous effect of quelling all perturbation. My composure was restored in a moment. I looked steadily at him. We both bowed. And, at the moment when he raised his head-from that inclination, caught the glance of his eye; an eye such as might have been looked for in a face of such noble lineaments, -- "Blending the nature of the star With that of summer skies "; and, therefore, meant y nature for the residence and organ of serene and gentle emotions'; but it surprised, and at the same time filled me more almost with consternation than with pity, to observe that in those eyes a light of sadness had settled more profound than seemed possible for youth, or almost commensurate to a hu- man sorrow; a sadness that might have become a Jewish prophet, when laden with inspirations of woe. Two months had now passed away since the arrival of Mr. Wyndham. He had been universally introduced to the superior society of the place; and, as I need hardly say, universally re- ceived with favor and distinction. In reality, his wealth and im- portance, his military honors, and the dignity of his character, as expressed in his manners and deportment, were too eminent to allow of his being treated with less than the highest attention in any society whatever. But the effect of these various advantages, enforced and recommended, as they were, by a personal beauty so rare, was somewhat too potent for the comfort and self-possession of ordinary people; and really exceeded, in a-painful degree, the standard of pretensions under which such people could feel them- selves at their ease. He was not naturally of a reserved turn; far from it. His disposition had been open, frank, and confiding, *,-    1J ZU 3          U   - lC tL/  t originally; and his roving, adventurous life, of which considerably more than one half had been passed in camps, had communicated to his manners a more than military frankness. But the profound melancholy which possessed him, fromn whatever cause it arose, necessarily chilled the native freedom of his demeanor, unless when it was revived by strength of firiendship or of love. The effect was awkward and embarrassing to all parties. Every voice paused or faltered when he entered a room, - dead silence ensued, - not an eye but was directed upon him, or else, sunk in timidity, settled upon the floor; and young ladies seriously lost the power, for a time, of doing more than murmuring a few confused, half inarticulate syllables, or half inarticulate sounds. The solemnity, in fact, of a first presen- tation, and the utter impossibility of soon recovering a free, unembar- rassed movement of conversation, made such scenes really distressing to all who participated in them, either as actors or spectators. Cer- tainly this result was not a pure effect of manly beauty, however heroic, and in whatever excess; it arose in part from the many and extraordinary endowments which had- centered in his person, not less from fortune than from nature; in part, also, as I have said, from the profound sadness and freezing gravity of Mr. Wynd- ham's manner; but still more from the perplexing mystery which surrounded that sadness. Were there, then, no exceptions to this condition of awe-struck admiration? Yes; one, at least, there was in whose bosom the spell of all-conquering passion soon thawed every trace of icy reserve. Whilst the rest of the world retained a dim sentiment of awe towards Mr. Wyndham, Margaret Liebenheim only heard of such a feeling to wonder that it could exist towards him. Never was there so victorious a conquest interchanged between two youthful hearts,-- never before such a rapture of instantaneous sympathy. I did not witness the first meeting of this mysterious Maximilian and this magnificent Margaret, and do not know whether Margaret manifested that trepidation and embarrassment which distressed so many of her youthful co-rivals; but, if she did, it must have fled-before the first glance of the young man's eye,   I 1H12 A VP klVl    which would interpret, past all misunderstanding, the homage of his soul and the surrender of his heart. Their third meeting I did see; and there, all shadow of embarrassment had vanished, except, indeed, of that delicate embarrassment which clings to impassioned admiration. On the part of Margaret, it seemed as if a new world had dawned upon her that she had not so much as suspected amongst the capacities of human experience. Like some bird she seemed, with powers unexercised for soaring and flying, not under- stood even as yet, and that never until now had found an element of air capable of sustaining her wings, or tempting her to put forth her buoyant instincts. He, on the other hand, now first found the realization of his dreams, and for a mere possibility, which he had long too deeply contemplated, fearing, however, that in his own case it might prove a chimera, or that he might never meet a woman answering the demands of his heart, he now found a corre- sponding, reality that left nothing to seek. Here, then, and thus far, nothing but happiness had resulted from the new arrangement. But, if this had been little anticipated by many, far less had I, for my part, anticipated the unhappy revolution which was wrought in the whole nature of Ferdinand von Harrelstein. He was the son of a German baron; a man of good family, but of small estate, who had been pretty nearly a soldier of fortune in the Prussian service, and had, late in life, won sufficient favor with the king and other military superiors to have an early prospect of obtaining a commission, under flattering au- spices, for this only son, --a son endeared to him as a companion of unprosperous years, and as a dutifully affectionate child. Fer- dinand had yet another hold upon his father's affections; his fea- tures preserved to the baron's unclouded remembrance a most faithful and living memorial of that anoelic wife who had died in giving birth to this third child,- the only one who had long sur- vived her. Anxious that his son should go through a regular course of mathematical instruction, now becoming annually more important in all the artillery services throughout Europe, and that he should receive a tincture of other liberal studies which he had   "'         GOOD STORIES. painfully missed in his own military career, the baron chose to keep his son for the last seven years at our college, until he was now entering upon his twenty-third year. For the four last he had lived with me as the sole pupil whom I had, or meant to have, had not the brilliant proposals of the young Russian guardsman persuaded me to break my resolution. Ferdinand von Harrelstein had good talents, not dazzling but respectable; and so amiable were his temper and manners, that I had introduced him every- where, and everywhere he was a favorite; and everywhere, indeed, except exactly there where only in this world he cared for favor. Margaret Liebenheim, she it was whom he loved, and had loved for years, with the whole ardor of his ardent soul; she it was for. whom, or at whose'command, he would willingly have died. Early he had felt that in her hands lay his destiny; that she it was who must be his good or his evil genius. At first, and perhaps to the last, I pitied him exceedingly. But my pity soon ceased to be mingled with respect. Before the arrival of Mr. Wyndham  he had shown himself generous, indeed magnanimous. But never was there so painful an overthrow of a noble nature as manifested itself in him. I believe that he had not himself suspected the strength of his passion; and the sole resource for him, as I said often, was to quit the city, - to engage in active pursuits of enterprise, of ambition, or of science. But he heard me as a somnambulist milght have heard me, -  dreaming with his eyes open. Sometimes he had fits of reverie, starting, fearful, agitated ; sometimes he broke out into maniacal movements of wrath, invoking some absent person, praying, beseeching, men- acing some air-wove phantom; sometimes he slunk into solitary corners, muttering to himself, and with gestures sorrowfully signifi- cant, or with tones and fiagments of expostulation that moved the most callous to compassion. Still he turned a deaf ear to the only practical counsel that had a chance for reaching his ears. Like a bird under the fascination of a rattlesnake, he would not summon up the energies of his nature to make an effort at flyingc away. "Begrone, whilst it is time!" said others, as well as myself; for j   TIE AVENGER.            15 more than I saw enough to fear some fearful catastrophe. "Lead us not into temptation!" said his confessor to him in my hearing (for, though Prussians, the Von Harrelsteins were Roman Catho- lies), "lead us not into temptation!---that is our daily prayer to God. Then, my son, being led into temptation, do not you persist in courting, nay, almost tempting temptation. Try the effects of absence, though but for a month." The good father even made an overture towards imposing a penance upon him, that would have involved an absence of some duration. But he was obliged to desist; for he saw that, withou t effecting any good, he would merely add spiritual disobedience to the other offences of the young- man. Ferdinand himself drew his attention to this; for he said:- "Reverend father! do not you, with the purpose of removing me from temptation, be yourself the instrument for tempting me into a rebellion against the church. Do not you weave snares about my steps; snares there are already, and but too many." The old man sighed, and desisted. Then came - But enough!  From pity, from sympathy, from counsel, and from consolation, and from scorn,--from each of these alike the poor stricken deer " recoiled into the wilderness "; he fled, for days together, into solitary parts of the forest; fled, as I still hoped and prayed, in good earnest, and for a long farewell; but, alas! no: still he returned to the haunts of his ruined happi- ness and his buried hopes, at each return looking more like the wreck of his former self; and once I heard a penetrating monk observe, whose convent stood near the city gates: "There goes one ready equally for doing or suffering, and of whom we shall soon hear that he is involved in some great catastrophe,' it may be of deep calamity, - it may be of memorable guilt." So stood matters amongst us. January was drawing to its close; the weather was growing, more and more winterly; high winds, piercingly cold, were ,raving through our narrow streets; and still the spirit of social festivity bade defiance to the storms which -sang through our ancient forests. From the accident of our magistracy being selected from the tradesmen- of the city, the hospitalities of   1   6      2GOOD STORIES. the place were far more extensive than would otherwise have hap- pened.; for every member of the corporation gave two annual entertainments in his official character. And such was the rival- ship which prevailed, that often one quarter of the year's income was spent upon these galas. Nor was any ridicule thus incurred; for the costliness of the entertainment was understood to be an expression of official pride, done in honor of the city, not as an effort of personal display. It followed, from the spirit in which these half-yearly dances originated, that, being given on. the part of the city, every stranger of rank was marked-out as a privileged guest, and the hospitality of the community would have been equal- ly affronted by failing to offer or by failingr to accept the invitation. Hence it had happened that the Russian guardsman had been introduced into -many a faimily which otherwise could not have hoped for such a distinction. Upon the evening at which I am now arrived, the twenty-second of January, 1816, the whole city, in, its wealthier classes, was assembled beneath the roof of a trades- man who had the healrt of a prince. In every point our entertain- ment was superb; and I remarked that the music was the finest I lad heard for years. Our host was in joyous spirits; proud to survey the splendid company he had gathered under his roof; happy to witness their happiness; elated in their elation. Joyous was the dance, --joyous were all faces that I saw,- up to mid- night, very soon after which time supper was announced; and that also, I think, was the most joyous of all the banquets I ever witnessed. The accomplished guardsman outshone himself in brilliancy ; even his melancholy relaxed. In fact, how could it be otherwise? near to him sat Margaret Liebenheim, - hanging upon his words, -more lustrous and bewitching than ever I liad beheld her. There she had been placed by the host; and everybody knew why. That is one of the luxuries attached to love; all men cede their places with pleasure; women make way. Even she herself knew, though not obliged to know, why she was seated in that neighborhood; and tookAher place, if with a rosy suffusion upon her cheeks, yet with fulness of happiness at her heart.   THE AVENGER.-            17 The guardsman pressed forward to claim Miss Liebenheim's hand for the next dance; a movement which -she was quick to favor, by retreating behind one or two parties from a person who seemed coming towards her. The music again began to pour its voluptuous. tides throlugh the bounding pulses of the youthful company; again the flying feet of the dancers began to respond to the measures; a(gain the mounting spirit of delight' began to fill the sails of the hurrying night with steady inspiration. All went happily. Already had one dance finished; some were pacing up and down, leaning on the arms of their partners; some were re- posing from their exertions; when -O heavens! what a shriek! what a gathering tumult! Every eye was bent towards the doors,--every eye strained forwards to discover what was passing. But there, every moment, less and less could be seen, for the gathering crowd more and more intercepted the view ;- so much the more was the ear at leisure for the shrieks redoubled upon shrieks. Miss Liebenheim had moved downwards to the crowd.  From her superior height she over- looked all the ladies at the point whrere she stood. In the centre- stood a rustic girl, whose features had been familiar to her for some months. She had recently come into the city, and had lived with her uncle, a tradesman, not ten doors from Margaret's own residence, partly on the terms of a kinswoman, partly as a servant on trial. At this moment she was exhausted .with excitement, and the. nature of the shock she had sustained. Mere panic seemed to have pnas- tered her; and she was leaning, unconscious and weeping, upon the shoulder of some gentleman, who was endeavoring to soothe her. A silence of horror seemed to possess the company, most of whom were still unacquainted with the cause of the alarminig inter- ruption. A few, however, who had heard her first agitated words, finding that they waited in vain fbr a fuller explanation, noaw rushed tumultuously out of the ball-room, to satisfy themselves on the spot. The distance was not great; and within five minutes, several persons returned hastily, and cried out to the crowd of ladies that all was true which the young girl had said. "What   18-         GOOD STORIES. was true?"  That her uncle Mr. Weishaupt's family had been murdered; that not one member of the family had bEen spared, - namely, Mr. Weishaupt himself and his wife, neither of them much above sixty, but both infirm beyond their years; two maiden sis- ters of Mr. Weishaupt, from forty to forty-six years of age, and an elderly female domestic. An incident happened during the recital of these horrors, and of the details which followed, that furnished matter for conversa- tion even in these hours when so thrilling an interest had possession of all minds. Many ladies fainted; amongst them Miss Lieben- helm, and she would have fallen to the ground but for Maximilian, who sprang forward and caught her in his arms. She was long in returning to herself; and, during the agony of his suspense, he stooped and kissed her pallid lips. That sight was more than could be borne by one who stood a little behind the group,- He rushed forward, with eyes glaring like a tiger's, and levelled a blow at Maximilian. It was poor, maniacal Von Harrelstein, who had been absent in the forest for a week. Many people stepped for- ward and checked his arm, uplifted for a repetition of this outrage. One or two had some influence withr him, and led him away from the spot; whilst, as to Maximilian, so absorbed was he that he had -not so much as perceived the affront offered to himself. Mar- garet, on reviving, was confounded at finding herself so situated amidst a great crowd; and yet. the prudes complained that there was a look of love exchanged between herself and Maximilian, that ought not to have escaped her in such a situation. If they meant by such a situation, one s'o public, it must be also recollected that it was a situation of excessive agitation; but, if they alluded to the horrors of the -moment, no situation more naturally opens the heart to affection and confiding love than the recoil from scenes of exquisite terror. An examination went on that night. before the magistrates, but all was dark; although suspicion attached to a negro named Aaron, who- had occasionally been employed in, menial services by the family, and had been in the house immediately before the murder.   I THE A4 VENGER:.  The circumstances were such as to leave every man in utter per- plexity as to the presumption for and against him. His mode of defending himself, and his general deportment, were marked by the coolest, nay, the most sneering indifference. The first thing he did, on being acquainted with the suspicions against himself, was to laugh ferociously, and to all appearance most cordially and unaffectedly. He demanded whether a poor man like himself would have left so much wealth as lay scattered abroad in that house - gold repeaters, massy plate, gold snuff-boxes-untouched? That argument certainly weighed much in his favor. And yet again it was turned against him; for a magistrate asked him how he happened to know already that nothing had been touched. True it was, and a fact which had puzzled no less than it had awed the magistrates, that, -upon their examination of the premises, many rich articles of bijouterie, jewelry, and personal ornaments, had been found lying underanged, and apparently in their usual situa- i tions; articles so portable, that, in the very hastiest flight, some might have been carried off. In particular. there was 'a crucifix of gold, enriched with jewels so large and rare, that, of itself, it would have constituted a prize of great magnitude. Yet, this was i left untouched, though suspended in a little oratory that had been magnificently adorned by the elder of the maiden sisters. There was an altar, in itself a splendid object, furnished with every article of the most costly material and workmanship, for the private oele- bration of mass. This crucifix, as well as everythiing else in the little closet, must have been seen by one, at least, of the murderous party; for hither had one of the ladies fled; hither had: one. of the murderers pursued. She had clasped the golden pillars which sup- ported the altar,-had turned, perhaps, her dying looks upon the crucifix; for there, with one arm still wreathed about the altar-foot, though in her agony she had turned round upon her face, did the elder sister lie when the magistrates first broke open the street-door. And upon the beautiful parquet, or inlaid floor which ran round the room, were still impressed the footsteps of the murderer,  These, it was hoped, might furnish a clew to the: discovery of one,   20          GOOD STORIES. at leastj among the murderous band. They were rather difficult to trace accurately ; those parts of the traces which lay upon the black tesselle being less distinct in the outline than the others upon the white or colored. Most unquestionably, so far as this went, it furnished a negative circumstance in favor of the negro, for the footsteps were very different in outline from his, and smaller, for Aaron was a man of colossal build. And as to his knowledge of the state in which the premises had been found, and his having so familiarly relied upon the fact of no robbery having taken place as an argument on his own behalf, he contended that he had him- self been amonfgst the crowd that pushed into the house along with the magistrates; jhati from his previous acquaintance with the rooms, and their ordinary condition, a glance of the eye had been sufficient for him to ascertain the undisturbed condition of all the valuable property most obvious to the grasp of a robber; that, in fact, he had seen enough for his argument before he and the rest of the mob had been ejected by the magistrates; but, finally, that independently of all this, he had heard both the officers, as they conducted him, and all the tumultuous gatherings of people in the street, arguing for the mysteriousness of the bloody transaction upon that very circumstance of so much gold, silver, and jewels, being left behind untouched. In six weeks or less from the 'date of this terrific event, the negro was set at liberty by a majority of voices amongst the -matis- trates. In that short interval other events had occurred no less terrific and mysterious. In this first murder, though the motive was dark and unintelligible, yet the agency was not so; ordinary assassins, apparently, and with ordinary means, had assailed a help- less and unprepared family; had separated them; attacked them singly in flight (for in this first case all but one of the murdered persons appeared to have been making for the street-door); and in all this there was no subject for wonder, except the original one as to the motive. But now came a series of cases destined to fling this earliest murder into the shade. Nobody could now be unpre- pared; and yet the tragedies, henceforwards, which passed before   X            TEHE A VENGER.            2 i  us, one by one, in sad, leisurely, or in terrific groups, seemed to :I  argue a lethargy like that of apoplexy in the victims, one and all. The very midnight of mysterious awe fell upon all minds.. Three weeks had passed since the murder-at Mr. Weishaupt's, - three weeks the most agitated that had been known -in this seques- tered city. We felt ourselves solitary, and thrown upon our own resources; all combination with other towns being unavailing, from their great distance. Our situation was no ordinary one. Had there been some mysterious robbers amongst us, the chances of a visit, divided amongst so many, would have been too small to dis- tress the most timid; whilst, to young and hih-sprited people, with courage to spare for ordinary trials, such a state of expecta- tion would have sent pulses of pleasurable anxiety amongst the nerves. But murderers! exterminating murderers! clothed in mystery and utter darkness,- -these were objects too terrific for any family to contemplate with fortitude. Had these very mur- derers added to their functions those of robbery, they would liave become less terrific; nine out of every ten would have found them- selves discharged, as' it were, from the roll of those who were liable to a visit; while such as knew themselves liable would have had j warning of their danger in the fact of being rich ; and would, from the very riches which constituted that danger, have derived the means of repelling it. But, as things were, no man could guess what it was that must make him obnoxious to the murderers. J Imagination exhausted itself in vain guesses at the causes which could by possibility have made the poor Weishaupts objects of such hatred to any man.   True, they were bigoted in a degree which indicated feebleness of intellect; but that wounded no man in particular, whilst to many it recommended them. True, their charity was narrow and exclusive, but to those of their own relir- ious body it expanded munificently; and being rich beyond their wants, or any means of employing -wealth which their gloomy asceticism allowed, they had the power of doing a great deal of good amongst the indigent papists of the suburbs. As to the old gentleman and his wife, their infirmities confined them to the house.   22          GOOD STORIES. Nobody remembered to have seen them abrload for years. Howi therefore, or when could they have made an enemy? And, with respect to the maiden sisters of Mr.:Weishaupt, they were simply weak-minded persons, now and then too censorious, but not placed in a situation to incur serious anger from any quarter, and too little heard of in society to occupy much of anybody's attention, Conceive, then, that three weeks have passed away, that the poor Weishaupts have been laid in that narrow sanctuary which no murderer's voice will ever violate. Quiet has not returned to us, but the first flutterings of panic have subsided. People are beginning to respire freely again ; and such another space of time would have cicatrized our wounds, when, hark! a church-bell rings out a loud alarm; the night is starlight and frosty, the iron notes are heard, clear, solemn, but agitated. What could this mean? I hurried to a room over the porter's lodge, and, opening the window, I cried out to a man passing hastily below, "What, in God's name, is the meaning of this?" It was a watchman belong- ing to our district. I knew his voice, he knew mine, and he replied in great agitation, - "It is another murder, sir, at the old town councillor's, Albernass; and this time they have made a clear house of it." "God preserve us! Has a curse been pronounced upon this city? What can be done? What are the magistrates going to do?" "I don't know, sir. I have orders to run to the Black Friars, where another meeting is gathering. Shall I say you will attend, sir?" "Yos -no,- stop a little. No matter, you may go on; I " follow immediately." I went instantly to Maximilian's room. He was lying asleep on a sofa, at which I was not surprised, for there had been a severe stag-chase in the morning. Even at this moment I found myself arrested by two objects, and I paused to survey them. One was Maximilian himself. A person so mysterious-ytook precedency of other interests even at a time like this; and especially by his fea-   tures, which, composed in profound sleep, as sometimes happens) assumed a new expression, which arrested me chiefly by awaking some confused remembrance of the same features seen under other circumstances, and in times long past; but where? This was what I could not recollect, though once before a thought of the same sort had crossed my mind. The other object of my interest was a miniature, which Maximilian was holding in his hand. He had gone to sleep apparently looking at this picture; and the hand which held it had slipped down upon the sofa, so that it was in danger of falling. I released the miniature from hist hand, and surveyed it attentively. It represented a lady of sunny, oriental complexion, and features the most noble that it is possible to con- ceive. One might have imagined such a lady, with her, raven locks and imperial eyes, to be the. favorite sultana of some Amurath or Mohammed. What was she to Maximilian, or what had she been? For, by the tear which I had once seen him drop upon this miniature when, he believed himself unobserved, I con- jectured that her dark tresses were already laid low,.and her name among the list of vanished things. Probably she was his mother, for the dress was rich with pearls, and evidently that of a -person in the highest rank of court beauties. I sighed as I thought of the stern melancholy of her son, if Maximilian were he, as connected, probably, with the fate and fortunes of this majestic beauty; some- what haughty, perhaps, in -the expression of her fine features, but still noble, generous, confiding. Laying the picture on the table, "I awoke Maximilian, and told him of the dreadful news. He lis- tened attentively, made no remark, but proposed that we should go together to the meeting of our quarter at the Black Friars. He colored upon observilng the miniature on the table; and; therefore I frankly told him in what situation I had found it, and that I had taken the liberty of admiring it fobr a few moments. He pressed it tenderly to his lips, sighed heavily, and we walked away together. I pass over the frenzied state of feeling in which we found the meeting. Fear, or rather horror, did not promote harmony; many quarrelled with each other in discussing the suggestions brought   24          GOOD STORIES. forward, and Maximilian was the only person attended to. He proposed a nightly mounted patrol for every district. And in par- ticular he offered, as being himself: a member of the university, that the students should form themselves into a guard, and go out by rotation to keep watch and ward from sunset to sunrise. Ar- rangements were made towards that object by the few people who retained possession of their senses, and for the present we sepa- rated. Never, in fact, did any events so keenly'try the difference be- tween man and man. Some started up into heroes under the excitement. Some, alas for the dignity of man! drooped into helpless imbecility. Women, in some cases, rose superior to men, but yet not so often as might have happened under a less mysteri- ous danger. A woman is not unwomanly because she confronts danger boldly. But I have remarked, with respect to female cour- age, that it requires, more than that of men, to be sustained by hope; and that it droops more certainly in the presence of a mys- terious danger. The fancy of womin is more active, if not stronger, and it influences more directly the physical nature. In this case few were the women who made even a show of defying the danger. On the contrary, with them fear took the form of sadness, while, with many of the men, it took that of wrath. And how did the Russian guardsman conduct himself amidst this panic? Many were surprised at his behavior; some complained of it; I did neither. He took a reasonable interest in each sepa- rate case, listened to the details with attention, and, in the exam- ination of persons able to furnish evidence, never failed to suggest judicious questions. But still he manifested a coolness almost amounting to carelessness, which, to many, appeared revolting. But these people I desired to notice that all the other military students, who had been long in the army, felt exactly in the same way. In fact, the military service of Christendom, for the last ten years, had been anything but a parade service; ald to those, there- fore, who were familiar with every form of horrid butchery, the mere outside horrors of death had lost much of their terror. In   THE A VENGER.            25 the recent murder there had not been much to call forth sympathy. The family consisted of two old bachelors, two sisters, and one grand niece. The niece was absent on a visit, and the-two old men were cynical misers, to whom little personal interest attached. Still, in this case as in that of the Weishaupts, the same twofold mystery confounded the public mind,-the mystery of the how, At and the profound mystery of the why. Here, again, no atom of property was taken, though both the misers had hordes of ducats and English guineas in the very room where they died. Their bias, again, though of an unpopular character, had rather availed to make them unknown than to make them hateful. In one point this case differed memorably from the other, - that, instead of fall- ing helpless, or flying victims (as the Weishaupts had done), these old men, strong, resolute, and not so much taken by surprise, left proofs that they had made a desperate defence. The furniture was partly smashed to pieces, and the other details furnished evi- dence still more revolting of the acharnement with which the struggle had been maintained. In fact, with them a surprise must have been impracticable, as they admitted nobody into their house on visiting terms. It was thought singular that from each of these domestic tragedies a benefit of the same sort should result to young persons standing in nearly the same relation. The girl T who gave the alarm at the ball, with two little sisters, and a little orphan nephew, their cousin, divided the very large inheritance of I the Weishaupts; and in this latter case the accumulated savings of two long lives all vested in the person of the amiable grand niece. But now, as if in mockery of all our anxious consultations and elaborate devices, three fresh murders took place on the two con- secutive nights succeeding these new arrangements. And in one case, as nearly as time could be noted, the mounted patrol must have been within call -at the very moment when the awiful work was going on.  I shall not dwell much upon them; but a few cir- cumstances are too interesting to be passed over. The earliest case on the first of the two nights was that of a currier. He was   26          GOOD STORIES. fifty years old; not rich, but well off. His first wife was dead, and his daughters by her were married away from- their father's house. He had married a second wife, but, having no, children by her, and keeping no servants, it is probable that, but for an acci- dent, no third person would have been in the house at the time when the murderers got admittance. About seven o'clock, a way- faring man, a journeyman currier, who, according to our German system, was now in his wanderjahre, entered the city from the forest. At the gate he made some inquiries about the curriers and tanners of our town ; and agreeably to the information lie re- ceived, made his way to this Mr. Heinberg. Mr. Heinberg refused to admit him, until he mentioned his errand, and pushed below the door a letter of recommendation from a Silesian correspondent, describing him as an excellent and steady workman. Wanting such a nan, and satisfied by the answers returned that he was what he represented himself, Mr. Heinberg unbolted h door, and admitted him. Then, after slipping the bolt into its place, lie bade him sit to the fire, brought him a glass of beer, conversed with him for ten minutes, and said: "You had better stay here to-night; I'll tell you why afterwards; but now I 'll step up stairs, and ask my wife whether she can make up a bed for you; and do you mind the door whilst I'm away." So saying, he went out of the room. Not one minute had he been gone when there came a gentle knock at the door. It was raining heavily, and, being a stranger to the city, not dreaming that in any crowded town such a state of things could exist as really did in this, the young man, without hesitation, admitted the person knocking. He has declared since, -but, perhaps, confounding the feelings gained from- better knowledge with the feelings of the mdment, - that from the moment he drew the bolt he had a misgiving that he had done wrong. A man entered in a horseman's cloak, and so muffled up that the journey- man could discover none of his features. In a low tone the stranger said, "' Where's Heinberg?" "Up stairs." "Call him down, then," The journeyman went to the door by which Mr. Heinberg had left him, and called, "Mr. Heinberg, here's one wanting you!"Mr   IfTHE A VENGER.             -   2 Heinberg heard him, for the man could distinctly catch these words: "God bless me! has the man opened the door? O, the traitor! I see it." Upon this he felt more and more consternation, though not knowing why. Just then he heard a sound of feet behind him. On turning round, he beheld three more men in the room; one was fastening the outer door; one was drawing some arms from a cupboard, and two others were whispering together.  He himself was disturbed and perplexed, and felt that all was not right. Such was his confusion, that either all the men's faces must have been muffled up, or, at least, he remembered nothing dis- tinctly but one fierce pair of eyes glaring upon him. Then, before he could look round, came a man from behind and threw a sack over his head, which was drawn tight about his waist, so as to confine his arms, as well as to impede his hearing in part, and his voice altogether. He was then pushed into a room; but previously he had heard a rush up stairs, and words like those of a person exulting, and then a door closed. Once it opened, and he could distinguish the words, in one voice, "And for that!" to wrlich another voice replied, in tones that made his heart quake, "Ay, for that, sir." And then the same voice went on rapidly to say,. O dog! could you hope-" at which word the door closed again. Once he thought that he heard a scuffle, and he was sure that he heard the sound of feet, as if rushing from one corner of a room to another. But then all was hushed and still for about six or-seven in minutes, until a voice close to his ear said, "Now wait quietly till some persons come in to release you. This will happen within half an hour." Accordingly, in less than that time, he again beard the sound of feet within the house, his own bandages were liber- ated, and he was brought to tell his story at the police-office. Mr. Heinberg was found in his bedroom. He had died by strangula- tion, and the cord was still tightened about his neck. During the whole dreadful scene his youthful wife had been locked into a-closet, where she heard or saw nothing. In the second case, the object of vengeance was again an elderly man. Of the ordinary family, all were absent at a country-house   28          GOOD STORIES. except the master and a female servant. She was a woman of courage, and. blessed with the firmest nerves; so that she might have been relied on for reporting accurately everything seen or heard. But things took another course. The first warning 'that she had of the murderers' presence was from their steps and voices already in the hall. She heard her master run hastily into the hall, crying out, Lord Jesus! Mary, Mary, save me!"   The servant, resolved to give what aid she could, seized a large poker, and was hurrying to his assistance, when she found that they had nailed up the door of communication at the head of the stairs. What passed after this she could not tell; for when the impulse of intrepid fidelity had been balked, and she found thatc'her own safety was provided for by means which made it impossible to aid a poor fellow-creature who had just invoked her name, the gener- ous-hearted creature was overcome by anguish of mind, and sank down on the stair, where she lay, unconscious of all that succeeded, until she found herself raised in the arms of a mob who had en- tered the house. And how came they to have entered'? In,a way characteristically dreadful. The night was star-lit; the patrols had perambulated the street without noticing anything suspicious, when two foot-passengers, who were following in their rear, observed .a dark-colored stream traversing the causeway. One of them, at the same instant tracing the stream backwards with his eyes, observed that it flowed from under the door of Mr. Munzer, and, dipping his finger in the trickling fluid, he held it up to the lamp-light, yelling out at the moment, "Why this is blood!" It was so, indeed, and it was yet warm. The other saw, heard, and like an arrow flew after the horse-patrol, then in the act of turning the corner. One cry, full of meaning, was sufficient for ears full of expectation. The horsemen pulled up, wheeled, and in another moment reined up at Mr. Munzer's door. The crowd, gathering like the drifting of snow, supplied implements which soon forced the chains of the door and -all other obstacles. But the murderous party had escaped, and all traces of their persons had vanished, as usual. Rarely did any case occur without some peculiarity more or less   interesting. In that which happened on the following night, making the fifth in the series, an impressive incident varied the monotony of horrors. In this case the parties aimed at were two elderly ladies, who conducted a female boarding-school. None :  of the pupils had as yet returned to school from their vacation; but -two sisters, young gills of thirteen and sixteen, coming from i  a distance, had stayed at school throughout the Christmas holidays. S: It was the youngest of these who gave the only evidence. of any i value, and one which added a new feature of alarm to the existing panic. Thus it was that, her testimony was given: On the day before the murder, she and her sister were' sitting with the old ladies in a room fronting to the street; the elder ladies were read- ing, the younger ones drawing. Louisa, the youngest, never had her ear inattentive to the slightest sound, and once it struck her that she heard the creaking of a foot upon the stairs. She said nothing, but, slipping out of the room, she ascertained that the two female servants were in the kitchen, and could not hlave been ab- sent;'that all the doors and windows, by which ingress was possi- ble, were not only locked, but bolted and barred, - a fact which excluded all possibility of invasion by means of false keys. Still she felt persuaded that she had heard the sound of a heavy foot upon the stairs. It was, however, daylight, and this gave her confidence, so that, without communicating her alarm to anybody, she found courage to traverse the house in every direction; and, as nothing was either seen or-heard, she concluded that her ears lhad been too sensitively awake. Yet that night, as she lay in bed, dim terrors assailed her, especially because she considered that, in so large a house, some closet or other might have been overlooked, and, in particular, she did not- remember to have examined one or  two chests, in which a mall could have lain concealed. Through the greater part of the night she lay awake ; but as one of the town clocks struck four, she dismissed her anxieties, and fell asleep. The next day, wearied with this unusual watching, she proposed to her sister that they should go to bed earlier than usual. This they did; and, on their way up stairs, Louisa happened to think   jUV          tUUvvL/ .U 1 OUllJ'N. suddenly of a heavy cloak, which would improve the coverings of her bed against the severity of the night. The cloak was hanging up in a closet within a closet, both leading off from a large room used as the young ladies' dancing-school. These closets she had examined on the previous day, and therefore she felt no particular alarm at this moment. Tilhe cloak was the first article which met her sight; it was suspended firom a hook in the wall, and close to the door. She took it down, but, in doing so, exposed part of the wall and of the floor, which its folds had previously concealed. Turning away hastily, the chances were that she had gone without making any discovery. In the act of turning, however, her light fell brightly on a man's foot and leg. Matchless was her presence of mind; having previously been humming an air, she continued to do so. But now came the trial; her sister was bending her steps to the same. closet. If. she suffered her to do so, Lottchen would stumble on the same discovery, and expire of fright. On the other hand, if she gave her a hint, Lottchen would either fail to under- stand her, or, gaining but a glimpse of her meaning, would shriek aloud, or by some equally decisive expression, convey the fatal news to. the assassin that he had been discovered. In this torturing dilemma fear prompted an expedient, which to Lottchen appeared madness, and to Louisa herself the act of a sibyl instinct with blind inspiration. "Here," said she, "is our dancing-room. When shall we all meet and dance again together?" Saying which, she com- menced a wild dance, whirling her candle round her head until the motion extinguished it; then, eddying round her sister in narrow- ing circles, she seized Lottchen's candle also, blew it out, and- then interrupted her own singing to attempt a laugh. But the laugh was hysterical. The darkness, however, favored her; and, seizing her sister's arm, she forced her along, whispering, "Come, come, come!"  Lottchen could not be so dull as entirely to misunder- stand her. She suffered herself to be led up the first flight of stairs, at the head of which was a room looking into the street. In this they would have gained an asylum, for the door had a strong bolt. But, as they were on the last steps of the landing,   they could hear the hard breathing and long strides of the murderer ascending behind them. He had watched them through a crevice, and had been satisfied by the hysterical laugh of Louisa that she had seen him.  In the darkness he could not follow fast, from X:! ignorance of the localities, until he found himself upon the stairs. X:  Louisa, dragging her sister along, felt strong as with the strength !H of lunacy, but Lottchen hung like a weight of lead upon her. She a rushed into the room, but at the very entrance Lottchen fell. At that moment the assassin exchanged his stealthy pace for a loud clattering ascent. Already he was on the topmost stair; already he was throwing himself at a bound against the door, when Louisa, X having dragged her sister into the room, closed the door, and sent the bolt home in the very instant that the murderer's hand came in contact with the handle. Then, from the violence of her emotions, she fell down in a fit, with her arnm around the sister whom she had saved. How long they lay in this state neither ever knew. The two old ladies had rushed up stairs on hearing the tumult. Other per- sons had been concealed in other parts of the house. The servants, found themselves suddenly locked in, and were not sorry to be saved from a collision which involved so awful a danger. The .old. ladies had rushed, side by side, into the very centre of those who- were seeking them. Retreat was impossible; two persons at least were heard following them up stairs. Something like a shrieking expostulation and counter-expostulation went on between the ladies- land the murderers; then came louder voices, - then one heart- \ 2 piercing shriek, and then another,--and then a slow moaning and a dead silence. Shortly afterwards was heard the first crashing of g!  lthe door inwards by the mob; but the murderers had fled upon the ! first alarm, and, to the astonishment of the servants, had fled up- \ If wards. Examination, however, explained this: from a window ia i i the roof they had passed to an adjoining house recently left empty;, and here, as in other cases, we had proof how apt people are, in the midst of elaborate provisions against remote dangers, to neglect those which are obvious.   32          GOOD STORIES. The reign of terror, it may be supposed, had now reached its acme. The two old ladies were both lying dead at different points on the staircase, and, as usual, no conjecture could be made as to the nature of the offence which they had given; but that the mur- der was a vindictive one, the usual evidence remained behind, in the proofs that no robbery had been attempted. Two new fea- tures, however, were now brouglht forward in this system of hlor- rors, one of which riveted the sense of their insecurity to all families occupying extensive houses, and the other raised ill blood between the city and the university, such as required years to allay. The first arose out of the experience, now first obtained, that these assassins pursued the plan of secreting themselves within the house where they meditated a murder. All the care, therefore, previously directed to the securing of doors and windows after nightfall appeared nugatory. The other feature brought to light on this occasion was vouched for by one of the servants, who de- clared that, the moment before the door of the kitchen was fastened upon herself and fellow-servant, she saw two men in the hall, one on the point of ascending the stairs, the other making towards the kitchen ; that she could not distinguish the faces of either, but that both were dressed in the academic costume belonging to the stu- dents of the university. The consequences of such a declaration need scarcely be mentioned. Suspicion settled upon the students, who were more numerous since the general peace, in a much larger proportion military, and less select or respectable than heretofore. Still, no part of the mystery was cleared up by this discovery. Many of the students were poor enough to feel the temptation that miaght be offered by any lucrative system of outrage. Jealous and painful collisions were, in the mean time, produced; and, during the latter two months of this winter, it may be said that our city exhibited the very anarchy of evil passions. This condi- tion of things lasted until the dawning of another spring. It will be supposed that communications were made to the supreme government of the land as soon as the murders in our city were understood to be no casual occurrences, but links in a   THE A VEGER.           .33 systematic series. Perhaps it might happen from some other business, of a higher kind, just then engaging the attention of our governors, that our representations did not make the impression we had expected.  We could not, indeed, complain of absolute neglect from the. government. They sent down one or two of their most accomplished police-officers, and they suggested some coun- sels, especially that we should examine more strictly into the quality of the miscellaneous population who occupied our large suburb. But they more than hinted that no necessity was seen eitlher for quartering troops upon us, or for arming our local magis- tracy with ampler powers. This correspondence with the central government occupied the month of March, and, before that time, the bloody system had ceased as abruptly as it began. The new police-officer flattered  himself that the terror of his name had wroulght this effect; but ijudicious people thought otherwise. All, however, was quiet until the depth of summer, when, by way of hinting to us, perhaps, that the dreadful power which clothed itself witlh darkness had not i expired, but was only reposing from its labors, all at once the chief jailer of the city was missing. He had been in the habit of taking i  long rides in the forest, his present situation being much of a sine- cure. It was on the first of July that he was missed. In riding through the city gates that morning, he had mentioned the direction which he meant to pursue; and the last time he was seen alive was Ma! in one of the forest avenues, about eight miles from the city, leading towards the point he had indicated. This, jailer was not a man to be regretted on his own account; his life had been a tissue of cru- elty and brutal abuse of his powers, in which he had been too much supported by the magistrates, partly on the plea that it was their duty to back their own officers against all complainers, partly, also, from the necessities created by the turbulent times for a more i ^ summary exercise of their-magisterial authority. No man, there- i  fore, on his own separate account, could more willingly have been spared than this brutal jailer; and it was a general remark that, j had the murderous band within our walls swept away this man I   834         GOOD STORIES. only, they would have merited the public gratitude as purifiers from a public nuisance. But was it certain that the jailer had died by the same hands as had so deeply afflicted the peace of our city during the winter, - or, indeed, that he had been murdered at all? The forest was too extensive to be searched; and it was possible that he might have met with some fatal accident. His horse had returned to the city gates in the night, and was found there in the morning. Nobody, however, for months could give information about his rider; and it seemed probable that he would not be discovered until the autumn and the winter should again carry the sportsman into every thicket and dingle of this sylvan tract. One person only seemed to have more knowledge on this subject than others, and that was poor Ferdinand von Harrelstein. He was now a mere ruin of what he had once been, both as to intellect and moral feeling; and I observed him frequently smile when the jailer was mentioned. "Wait," he would say, "till the leaves begin to drop; then you will see what fine fruit our forest bears." I did not repeat these expressions to anybody except one friend, who agreed with me that the jailer had probably been hanged in some recess of the forest, which summer veiled with its luxuriant umbrage; and that Ferdinand, constantly wandering in the forest, had discovered the body; but we both acquitted him of having been an accomplice in the murder. Meantime the marriage between Margaret Liebenheim  and Maximilian was understood to be drawing near. Yet one thing struck everybody with astonishment. As far as the young people were concerned, nobody could doubt that all was arranged; for never was happiness more perfect than that which seemed to unite them. Margaret was the impersonation of May-tinme and youthful rapture; even Maximilian in her presence seemed to forget his gloom, and the worm which gnawed at his heart was charmed asleep by the music of her voice, and the paradise of her smiles. But, until the autumn came, Margaret's grandfather had never ceased to frown upon this connection, and to support the pretensions of Ferdinand, The dislike, indeed, seemed reciprocal between him   THE A VENGER.           3 and Maximilian. Each avoided the other's company; and as to the old man, he went so far as to speak srneeringly of Maximilian. Maximilian despised him too heartily to speak of him at all. When he could not avoid meeting him, he treated him with a stern courtesy, which distressed Margaret as often as she witnessed it. She felt that her grandfather had been the aggressor; and she felt also that he did injustice to the merits of her lover. But she had a filial tenderness for the old -man, as the father of her sainted mother, and on his own account, continually making more claims on her pity, as the decay of his memory, and a childish fretfulness growing upon A  him from day to day, marked his increasing imbecility. Equallynmysterious it seemed, that about this time Miss Lieben- heim began to receive anonymous letters, written in the darkest and most menacing terms. Some of them she showed to me.- I could not guess at their drift. Evidently they glanced at Maximil- ian, and bade her beware of connection with him; and dreadful things were insinuated about him. Could these letters be written by Ferdinand? Written they were not, but could they be dictated X ^ by him? Much I feared that they were; and the more so for 'one reason. . All at once, and most inexplicably, Margaret's grandfather showed a total change of opinion in his views as to her marriage. X rF Instead of favoring Harrelstein's pretensions, as he had hitherto done, he now threw the feeble weight of his encouragement into Maximilian's scale; though, from the situation of all the parties, nobody attached any practical importance to the change in Mr. Liebenheim's way of thinking. Nobody? Is that true? No;. one person did attach the greatest weight to the change, -- poor, ruined Ferdinand. He, so long as there was one person to take his part, so long as the grandfather of Margaret showed countenance to himself, had still felt his situation not utterly desperate. Thus were things situated, when in November, all the leaves daily blowing off from the woods, and leaving bare the most secret haunts of the thickets, the body of the jailer was left expbsed in the forest; but not, as I and my friend had conjectur ed, haned. No; v      VVCYIIYH lP   36          UUUD A] UKVuii. he had died apparently by a more horrid death - by that of cruci- fixion. The tree, a remarkable one, bore upon a part of its trunk this brief but savage inscription: "' T. H., jailer at--- ; Crucified July 1, 1816." A great deal of talk went on throughout the city upon this dis- covery ; nobody uttered one word of regret on account of the wretch- ed jailer; on the contrary, the voice of vengeance, rising up in many a cottage, reached my ears in every direction as I walked abroad. The hatred in itself seemed horrid and unchristian, and still more so after the man's death; but, though horrid and fiendish for itself, it was much more impressive, considered as the meas- ure and exponent of the damnable oppression which must have ex- isted to produce it. At first, when the absence of the jailer was a recent occurrence, and the presence of the murderers amongst us was, in consequence, revived to our anxious thoughts, it was an event which few alluded to without fear. But matters were changed now; the jailer had been dead for months, and this interval, during which the murderer's harfd had slept, encouraged everybody to hope that the storm had passed over our city; that peace had returned to our hearths; and that henceforth weakness might sleep in safety, and innocence with- out anxiety. Once more we had peace within our walls, and tranquillity by our firesides. Again the child went to bed in cheer- fulness, and the old man said his prayers in serenity. Confidence was restored; peace was re-established; and once again the sanctity of human life became the rule and the principle for all human hands amongst us. Great was the joy; the happiness was universal. O, heavens! by what a thunderbolt were we awakened from our security! On the night of the twenty-seventh of PDecember, half an hour, it might be, after twelve o'clock, an alarm was given that all was not right in the house of Mfr. Liebenheim. Vast was the crowd which soon collected ihi breathless agitation. In two minutes a man who had gone round by the back of the house. was heard unbarring Mr. Liebenheim's door: he was incapable of uttering a word; but his gestures, as he threw the door open and beckoned to   T'EHE A T/ ENGER.          37- the crowd, were quite enough. In the hall, at the farther extremity, and as if arrested in the act of making for the back door, lay the X bodies of old Mr. Iliebenheim and one of his sisters, an aged widow; on the stair lay another sister, younger and unmarried, but upwards of sixty. / The hall and lower flight of stairs were floating with blood. Where, then, was Miss Liebenheim, the grand- daughter? That was the universal cry; for she was beloved as gener- ally'as she was admired. Had the infernal murderers been devil- ish enough to break into that temple of innocent and happy life? Every one asked the question, and every one held his breath to X [ listen; but for a few moments no one dared to advance; for the silence of the house was ominous. 'At length some cried out that Miss Liebenheim had that day gone upon a visit to a friend, whose house was forty miles distant in the forest. "Ay," replied another, ^:i " she had settled to go; but I heard that something had stopped' her." The suspense woas now at its height, and the crowd passed Xj! from room to room, but found no traces of Miss Liebenheim. At length they ascended the stair, and in the very first room, a small a closet, or boudoir, lay Margaret, with her dress soiled hideously with blood. The first impression was that she also had been mur- i i dered; but, on a nearer approach, she appeared to be -unwounded 1Xii and was manifestly alive. Life had not departed, for her breath sent a haze over a mirror, but it was suspended, and she was iS  laboring in some kind of fit. The first act of the crowd was to carry her into the house of a friend on the opposite side of the street, by which time medical assistance had crowded to the spot. Their attentions to Miss Liebenheim had naturally deranged the condition of things in the little room, but not before many people found time i t to remark that one of the murderers must have carried her with his bloody hands to the sofa on which she lay, for water had been -   sprinkled profusely over her face and throat, and water was even I  placed ready to her bland, when she might happen to recover, upon a low footstool by the side of the sofa.- On the following morning, Maximilian, who had been upon a hunting party in the forest, returned to the city, and immediately !    $g          GOOD STORIES. learned the news. I did not see him for some hours after, but he then appeared to me thoroughly agitated, for the first time I had known hti to be so. In the evening another perplexing piece of intelligence transpired -with regard to Miss Liebenheim, which at first afflicted every friend of-that young lady. It, was that she had been seized withl the pains of childbirth, and delivered of a son, who, however, being born prematurely, did not live many hours. Scandal, however, was not allowed long to batten upon this imagi- nary triumph, for within two hours after the circulation of this first rumor followed a second, authenticated, announcing that Maximilian had appeared with the confessor of the Liebenheim family, at the residence of the chief magistrate, and there produced satisfactory proofs of his marriagre with Miss Liebenheit, which had been duly celebrated, though with great secrecy, nearly eight months before' In our city, as in all the cities of our country, clandestine marriages, witnessed, perhaps, by two friends only of the parties, besides the officiating priest, are exceedingly common. In the mere fact, therefore, taken separately, there was nothing to surprise usj but, taken in connection with the-general position of the parties, it did surprise us all; nor could we conjecture the reason for a step ap- parently so needless. For, that Maximilian could have thought it any point of prudence or necessity to secure the hand of Margaret Liebenheim by a private marriage, against the final opposition of her grandfather, nobody who knew the parties, who knew the per- feet love which possessed Miss Liebenheim, the growing imbecility of her grandfather, or the utter contempt with which Maximilian regarded him, could for a moment believe. Altogether, the matter was one of profound mystery. MSeantime, it rejoiced me that poor Margaret's name had been thus rescued from the fangs of the scandal-mongers. These har- pies had their prey torn from them at the very moment when they were sitting down to the unhallowed banquet. For this I rejoiced, but else there was little subject for rejoicing in anything which con- cerned - poor'RMargaret. Long she lay in deep insensibility, taking no notice of anything, rarely opening her eyes, and apparently un-   I. B sTHE A VENGER. 39 X onscious of the revolutions, as they succeeded, of morning or evening, light or darkness, yesterday or to-day. Great was the X agitation which convulsed the heart of Maximilian during this s  period; he walked up and down in the cathedral nearly all day a long, and the ravages which anxiety was working in his physical system might be read in his face. People felt it an intrusion upon X the sanctity of his grief to look at him narrowly, and the whole  town sympathized with his situation. At length a change took place in Margaret, but one which the medical men announced to Maximnilian as boding ill for her re- covery. The wanderings of her mind did not depart, but they altered their character. She became more agitated; she would start up suddenly, and strain her eyesight after some figure which she seemed to see; then she would apostrophize some person in the most piteous terms, beseeching him, with streaming eyes, to spare her old grandfather. "Look, look," she would cry out, " look at his gray hairs! O, sir! he is but a child ; he does not know what he says; and he will soon be out of the way and in his grave; and very soon, sir, he will give you no more trouble." Then, again, she would mutter indistinctly for hours together; sometimes she would cry out frantically, and say things which terrified the bystanders, and which the physicians would solemnly caution them how they repeated; then she would weep, and invoke Maximilian to come and aid her. But seldom, indeed, did that name pass her lips that she did not again begin to strain her eyeballs, and start up in bed to watch some phantom of her poor, fevered heart, as if it seemed vanishing into some mighty distance. After nearly seven weeks passed in this agitating state, suddenly, on one morningr, the earliest and the loveliest of dawning spring a change was announced to us all as having taken place in Mar- garet; but it was a change, alas! that ushered in the last great bchange of all. The conflict, which had for so long a period raged  within her, and overthrown her reason, was at an end; the strife was ovelr, and nature was settling into an everlasting rest. In then course of the night she had recovered her senses. When the   40          .GOOD STORIES. morning light penetrated through her curtain, she recognized her attendants, made inquiries as to the month and the day of the i month, and then, sensible that she could not outlive the day, she re- ! quested that her confessor might be summoned. About an hour and a half the confessor remained alone with her. At the end of that time he came out, and hastily summoned the attendants, for Margaret, he said, was sinking into a fainting fit. i The confessor himself might have passed through many a fit, so much was he changed by the results of this interview. I crossed  him coming out of the house. I spoke to him,-I called to him; but he heard me not, - he saw me not. He saw nobody. Onwards he strode to the cathedral, where Maximilian was sure to be found, pacing about upon the graves. Him he seized by the arm, whispered something into his ear, and then both retired into one of the many sequestered chapels in which lights are continually burning. There they had some conversation, but not very long, for within five minutes Maximilian strode away to the house in which his young wife was dying. One step seemed to carry him up stairs. The attendants, according to the directions they had received from the physicians, mustered at the head of the stairs to oppose him. Bat that was idle: before the rights which he held as a lover and a husband, -before the still more sacred rights of grief, which he carried in his countenance, all opposition fled like a dream. There was, besides, a fury in his eye. A motion of his hand waved them off like summer flies; he entered the room, and once again, for the last time; he was in. company with his beloved. What passed who could pretend to guess? Something umore than two hours had elapsed, during which Margaret had been able to talk occasionally, which was known, because at times the attend- ants heard the sound of Maximilian's voice evidently in tones of reply to something which she had said. At the end of that time, a little bell, placed near the bedside, was rung hastily. A fainting fit had seized Margaret; but she recovered almost before her women applied the usual remedies.  They lingered, however,   I TIE AVENGER.          41 a little; looking at the youthful couple with an interest whiclh no ! restraints availed to check. Their hands were locked together, and in Margaret's eyes there gleamed a farewell light of love, i which settled upon Maximilian, and seemed to indicate that she was becoming speechless. Just at this moment she made a feeble effort to draw Maximilian towards her; he bent forward and kissed -her with an anguish that made the most callous weep, and then he whispered something into her ear, upon which the attend- ants retired, taking this as a proof that their presence was a hin- drance to a free communication. But they heard no more tal1i :. and in less than ten minutes they returned. Maximilian andarAl? garet still retained their former position. Their hands were locked together; the same parting ray of affection, the same farewe : light of love, was in the eye of Margaret, and still it settled upon : Maximilian. But her eyes were beginning to grow dim; mists were rapidly stealing over them. Maximilian, who sat stupefied r and like one not in his right mind, now, at the gentle request of the women resigned his seat, for the hand which had clasped his had already relaxed its hold; the farewell gleam of love had de- parted. One of the women closed her eyelids; and there fell asleep forever, the loveliest flower that our city had reared for generations. The funeral took place on the fourth day after her death. In the morning of that day, from strong affection, -having known her from an infant, --I begged permission to see the corpse. She was in her coffin; snow-drops and crocuses were laid upon her in- nocent bosom, and roses, of that sort which the season allowed, over her person. These and other lovely symbols of youth, of spring-time, and of resurrection, caught my eye for the first mo- ment; but in the next it fell upon her face. Mighty God! what a change'! what a transfiguration! Still, indeed, there was the same innocent sweetness; still there was something of the same loveliness; the expression still remained; -but for the features, - all trace of flesh seemed to have vanished; mere outline of bony structure remained; mere pencillings and shadowings of what she   42         GGOOD STORIES. once had been. This is, indeed, I exclaimed, "dust to dust, ashes to ashes!" Maximilian, to the astonishment of everybody, attended the funeral. It was celebrated in the cathedral. All made way for him, and at times he seemed collected; at times he reeled like one who was drunk. He heard as one who hears not; he saw as one in a dream. The whole ceremony went on by torchght, and towards the close he stood like a pillar, motionless, torpid, frozen. But the great burst of the choir, and the mighty blare ascending flrom our vast organ at the closing of the grave, recalled him to himself, and he strode rapidly homewards. Half an hour after I returned, I was summoned to his bedroom. He was in bed, calm and collected. What he said to me I remember as if it had been yesterday, and the very tone with which he said it, although more than twenty years have passed since then. He began thus: "I have not long to live"; and when he saw me start, suddenly awakened into a consciousness that perhaps he had taken poison, and meant to intimate as much, he continued: "You fancy I have taken poison ;-no matter whether I have or not; if I have, the poison is such that no antidote will now avail; or, if they would, you well know that some griefs are of a kind which leave no open- ing to any hope. What difference, therefore, can it make whiether I leave this earth to-day, to-morrow, or the next day? Be assured of this, - that whatever I have determined to do is past all power of being affected by a human opposition. Occupy yourself not with any fruitless atttempts, but calmly listen to me, else I know what to do."  Seeingf a suppressed fury in his eye, notwithstanding I saw  also some change stealing over his features as if from some subtle poison beginning to work upon his frame, awe-struck I consented to listen, and sat still. "It is well that you do so, for my time is short. HererIs my will, legally drawn up, and you will see that I have committed an immense property to your discretion. Here, again, is a paper still more important in my eyes; it is also testamentary, and binds you to duties which may not be so easy to execute as the disposal of my property. But now listen to some-   g\ THE A VENGER.                  4- thing else, which concerns neither of these papers. Promise me, 1 in the first place, solemnly, that whenever I die you will see me X buried in the same grave as my wife, from whose funeral we are a just returned. Promise." - I promised. - Swear."- I swore. -"Finally, promise me thatj when you read this second paper- which I have put into your hands, whatsoever you may think of S X  it, you will say nothing, - publish nothing - to the world until three years shall have passed."-I promised.-"And now - farewell for three hours. Come to me again about ten o'clock, and take- a glass of wine in memory of old times." This he said laughingly; but even then a dark spasm crossed his face. Yet, thinking that X this might be the mere working of mental anguish within him, I complied with his desire, and -retired. Feeling, however, but little at ease, I devised an excuse for looking in upon him about one hour and a half after I had left him. I knocked gently at his door; there was no answer. I knocked louder; still no answer. I went, in. The light of day was gone, and I could see nothing. But I was alarmed by the utter stillness of the room. I listened earnestly, but not a breath could be heard. I rushed back hastily into the hall for a lamp; I returned; I looked in upon this marvel of manly beauty, and the first glance informed me that he. and all his splendid endowments had departed forever. He had died, X probably, soon after I left him, and had dismissed me from X some growing instinct which informed him that his last agonies were at hand. I took up his two testamentary documents; both were addressed in the shape of letters to myself. The first was a rapid though distinct appropriation of his enormous property. General rules were laid down, upon which the property was to be distributed, but the details were left to my discretion, and to the guidance of circumstances as they should happen to emerge from the various inquiries which it would become necessary to set on foot. This first document I soon laid aside, both because I found that its pro- j visions were dependent for' their meaning upon the second, and because to this second document I looked with confidence for a   THE A VENGER.     45   solution of many mysteries;--of the profound sadness which had, from the first of my acquaintance with him, possessed a man so gorgeously endowed as the favorite of nature and fortune; of his motives for huddling up, in a clandestine manner, that connection which formed the glory of his life; and possibly (but then I hesi- tated) of the late unintelligible murders, which still lay under as profound a cloud as ever. Much of this would be unveiled,- all might be: and there and then, with the corpse lying beside me of the gifted and mysterious writer, I seated myself, and read the following statement: - ' MARCH 26, 1817. "My trial is finished; my conscience, my duty, my honor, are liberated; my ' warfare is accomplished.' Margaret, my' innocent young wife, I have seen for the last time. Her, the crown that might have been of my earthly felicity, -her, the one temptation to put aside the bitter cup which awaited me, - her, sole seduc- tress (0, innocent seductress!) from the stern duties which my fate had imposed upon me, - her, even her, I have sacrificed. "Before I go, partly lest the innocent should be brought into question for acts almost exclusively mine, but still more lest the lesson and the warning which God, by my hand, has written in blood upon your guilty walls, should perish for want of its authen- tic exposition, hear my last dying avowal, that the murders which have desolated so many families within your walls, and made the household hearth no sanctuary, age no charter of protection, are all due originally to my head, if not always to my hand, as the min- ister of a dreadful retribution. "That account of my history, and my prospects, which you received from the Russian diplomatist, among some errors of little importance, is essentially correct. My father was not so immedi- ately connected with English blood as is there represented. How- ever, it is true that he claimed descent from an English family of even higher distinction than that which is assigned in the Russian statement. I H was proud of this English descent, and the more so as the war with revolutionary France brought out more prominently   thAn ever the moral and civil grandeur of England. This pride was generous, but it was imprudent in his situation. His immedi- ate progenitors had been settled in Italy, - at Rome first, but lat- terly at Milan; and his whole property, large and scattered, came; by the progress of the revolution, to stand under French domination. Many spoliations he suffered; but still he was too rich to be seri- ously injured. But he foresaw, in the progress of events, still greater perils menacing his most capital resources. Many of the states or princes in Italy were deeply in his debt; and, in the great convulsions which threatened his country, he saw that both the contending parties would find a colorable excuse for absolving themselves from engagements which pressed unpleasantly upon their finances. In this embarrassment he formed an intimacy with a French officer of high rank and high principle. My father's friend saw his danger, and advised him to enter the French ser- vice. In his younger days, my father had served extensively un- der many princes, and had found in every other military service a spirit of honor governing the conduct of the officers. Here only, and for the first time, he found ruffiaii manners and universal ra- pacity. He could not draw his sword in company with such men, nor in such a cause. But at length, under the pressure of neces- sity, he accepted (or rather bought with an immense bribe) the place of a commissary to the French forces in Italy. With this ine resource, eventually he succeeded in making good the whole of his public claims upon the Italian states. These vast sums he remitted, through various channels, to England, where he became proprietor in the funds to an immense amount. Incautiously, how- ever, something of this transpired, and the result was doubly unfortunate; for, while his intentions were thus made known as finally pointing to England, which, of itself, made him an object of hatred and suspicion, it also diminished his means of bribery. These considerations, along with another, made some French offi- cers of high rank and influence the bitter enemies of my father. My mother, whom he had married when holding a brigadier-gene- ral's commission in the Austrian service, was, by birth and by  "         GOOD STORIES. religion, a Jewess. She was of exquisite beauty, and had been sought in Morganatic marriage by an archduke of the Austrian family; but she had relied upon this plea, that hers was the purest and noblest blood amongst all Jewish families,- that her family traced themselves, by tradition and a vast series of attestations under the hands of the Jewish high-priests, to the Maccabees, and to the royal houses of Judaa; and that for her it would be a, degra- dation to accept even of a sovereign prince on the terms of such marriage. This wars no vain pretension of ostentatious vanity. It was one which had been admitted as valid for time immemorial in Transylvania and adjacent countries, where my mother's family were rich and honored, and took their seat amongst the dignitaries of the land. The French officers I have alluded to, without capaci- ty for anything so dignified as a deep passion, but merely in pur- suit of a vagrant fancy that. would, on the next day, have given place to another equally fleeting, had dared to insult my mother with proposals the most licentious, - proposals as much below her rank and birth, as, at any rate, they would have been below her dignity of mind and her purity. These she had communicated to my father, who bitterly resented the chains of' subordination which tied up his hands from avenging his injuries. Still his eye told a tale which his superiors could brook as little as they could the disdainful neglect of his wife. More than one had been concerned in the injuries to my father and mother; more than one were in- I terested in obtaining revenge. Things could be done in German ! towns, and by favor of old German laws or usages, which even in I France could not have been tolerated. 'llis my father's enemies e well knew, but this my father also knew ; and he endeavored to i lay down his office of commissary. That, however, was a favor which he could not obtain. He was compelled to serve on the German campaign then commencing, and on the subsequent one of Friedland and Eylau. Here he was caught in some one o f the snares laid for him; first trepanned into an act which violated some rule of the service; and then provoked into a breach of discipline against the general officer who had thus trepanned him. Now was !   THE A VENGER.            47 the long-so ught opportunity gained, and in that very quarter of Germany best fitted for improving it. My father was thrown into pr ison in your city, subjected to the atrocious oppression of your jailer, and the moire detestable oppression of your local laws. The charges against him were thought even to affect his life, and he was humbled into suing for permission to send for his wife and clhd'en. Already, to his proud spirit, it was punishment enough that he should be reduced to sue for favor to one of his bitterest foes. 'But it was no part of their plan to refuse that. By way of expediting my mother's arrival, a military courier, with every fa- cility for the journey, was forwarded to her without delay. My mother, her two daughters, and myself;, were then residing in Venice. I had, through the aid of my father's connections in Austria, been appointed in the imperial service, and held a high commission for my age. But, on my father's marching northwards with the French army, I had been recalled as an indispensable support to my mother. Not that my years could have made me such, for I had barely accomplished my twelfth year; but my premature growth, and my military station, had given me con- siderable knowledge of the world and presence of mind. "Our journey I pass over; but as I approach your city, that sepulchre of honor and happiness to my poor family, my heart beats with frantic emotions. Never do I see that venerable dome of your minster from the forest, but I curse its form, whch re- minds me of what we then surveyed for many a mile as we trav- ersed the forest. For leagues before we approached the city, this object lay before us in relief upon the frosty blue sky; and still it seemed never to increase. Such was the complaint of my little sister Mariamne. Most innocent child! would that it never had increased for thy eyes, but remained forever at a distance! That s'lme hour began the series of monstrous indignities which termi- nated the career of my ill-fated family. As we drew up to the city gates, the officer who inspected the passports, finding my mother and sisters described as Jewesses, which in my mother's ears (reared in a region where Jews are lnot dishonored) always   "          fUUVD "UIVOb'. sounded a title of distinction, summoned a subordinate agent, who, in coarse terms, demanded his toll. We presumed this to be a road- tax for the carriage and horses, but we were quickly undeceive'd; a small sum was demanded for each of my sisters and my mother, as for so many head of cattle. I, fancying some mistake, spoke to the man temperately, and, to do him justice, he did not seem de- sirous of insulting us; but he produced a printed board, on which, along with the vilest animals, Jews and Jewesses were rated at so much a head. Whilst we twere debating the point, the officers of the gate wore a sneering smile upon their faces,- the postilions were laughing together; and this, too, in the presence of three creatures whose exquisite beauty, in different styles, agreeably to their different ages, would, have caused noblemen to have fallen down and worshipped. My mother, who had never yet met with any flagrant-insult on account of her national distinctions, was too much shocked to be capable of speaking. I whispered to her a few words, recalling her to her native dignity of mind, paid the money, and we drove to the prison. -But the hour was past at which we could be admitted, and, as Jewesses, my mother and sis- ters could not be allowed to stay in the city; they were to go into the Jewish quarter, a part of the suburb set apart for Jews,- in which it was scarcely possible to obtain a lodging tolerably clean. My father, on the next day, we found, to our horror, at the point of death.- To my mother hle did not tell the worst of what he lhad endured. To me he told that, driven to madness by the insults offered to him, he had upbraided the court-martial with their cor- rupt propensities, and had even mentioned that overtures had been made to him for quashing the proceedings in return for a sum of two millions of francs; and that his sole reason for not entertaining the proposal was his distrust of those who made it. They would hleave taken my money,' said he, 'and then found a pretext for putting me to death, tha't I might tell no secrets." This was too near the truth to be tolerated; in concert with the local authorities, the military enemies of my father conspired against him, wit- nesses were suborned; and, finally, under some antiquated law of   the place, he was subjected, in secret, to a mode of torture which still lingers in the east of Europe. "He sank under the torture and the degradation.   I, too, thoughtlessly, but by a natural movement of filial indignation, suf- fered the truth to escape me in conversing with my mother. And she ---; but I will preserve the regular succession of things. May father died; but he had taken such measures, in -concert with me, that his enemies should never benefit by his property. Meantime my mother and sisters had closed my father's eyes; had attended his remains to the grave; and in every act connected with this last sad rite had met with insults and degradations too mighty for human patience. My mother, now become incapable of self-com- mand, in the fury of her righteous grief, publicly and in court de- nounced the conduct of the magistracy, - taxed some of them with the vilest proposals to herself, - taxed them as a body with having used instruments of torture upon my father, and, finally, accused them of collusion with the French military oppressors of the district. This last was a charge under which they quailed; for by that time the French had made themselves odious to all who re- retained a spark of patriotic feeling. My heart sank within me when I looked up at the bench, this tribunal of tyrants, all purple or livid with rage; when I looked at them alternately and at my noble mother with her weeping daughters,-these-so powerless, those so basely vindictive, and locally so omnipotent. Willingly I would have sacrificed all my wealth for a simple permission to quit this infernal city with my poor female relations- safe and undishonored. But far other were the intentions of that incensed magistracy. My mother was arrested, charged with some offence equal to petty treason, or scandalum magnatu, orthe sowing of sedition; and, though what she said was true, where, alas! was she to look for evidence? Here was seen the want of gentlemen. Gentlemen, had they been even equally tyrannical, would have recoiled with shame from taking vengeance on a woman. And what a vengeance? O, heavenly powers! that I should live to mention such a thing! Man that is born of woman, to inflict upon 4 50          GOOD STORIES. woman personal scourging on the bare back, and through the  ] streets at noonday! Even for Christian women the punishment was severe which the laws assigned to the offence in question. ?i But for Jewesses, by one of the ancient laws against that per-  secuted people, far heavier and more degrading punishments were annexed to almost every offence. What else could be looked for in a city which welcomed its Jewish guests by valuing them at its gates as brute beasts? Sentence was passed, and the punishment i was to be inflicted on two separate days, with an interval between each, - doubtless to prolong the tortures of mind, but under a vile pretence of alleviating the physical torture. Three days after  would come the first day of punishment. My mother spent the  time in reading her native Scriptures; she spent it in prayer and g in musing; whilst her daughters clung and'wept around her day and night, - grovelling on the ground at the feet of any people in authority that entered their mother's cell. That same interval, -how was it passed by me? Now mark, my friend. Every man in office, or that could be presumed to bear the slightest influence, every wife, mother, sister, daughter of such men, I be- sieged morning, noon, and night. I wearied them with my suppli- cations. I humbled myself to the dust; I, the haughtiest of God's  creatures, knelt and prayed to them for the sake of my mother. I besought them that I might undergo the punishment ten times over in her stead. And once or twice I did obtain the encourage-  ment of a few natural tears, - given more, however, as I was told,  to my piety than to my mother's deserts. But rarely was I heard ji out with patience; and from some houses repelled with personal : indignities. The day came: I saw my mother half undressed by  the base officials; I heard the prison gates expand; I heard the,  trumpets of the magistracy sound. She had warned me what to  do; I had warned myself. Would I sacrifice a retribution sacred and comprehensive, for the momentary triumph over an individ- ual? If not, let me forbear to look out of doors; for I felt that in the self-same moment in which I saw the dog of an executioner raise his accursed hand against my mother, swifter than the light-.   THE A VENGER. ning would my dagger search his heart. When I heard the roar of the cruel mob) I paused, - endured, - forbore. I stole out by by- lanes of the city from my poor exhausted sisters, whom I left sleep- ing in each other's innocent arms, into the forest. There I listened to the shouting populace; there even I fancied that I could trace my poor mother's route by the course of the triumphant cries. There, even then, even then, \ made,- O, silent forest! thou heardst me when I made,-a vow that I have kept too faith- fully. Mother, thou art avenged: sleep, daughter of Jerusalem! for at length the oppressor sleeps with thee. And thy poor son has paid, in discharge of his vow, the forfeit of his own happiness, of a paradise opening upon earth, of a heart as innocent as thine, and a face as fair. "I returned, and found my mother returned. She slept by starts, but she was feverish and agitated; and when she awoke and first saw me, she blushed, as if I could think that real degradation had settled upon her. Then it was that I told her of my vow. Her eyes were lambent with fierce light for a moment; but, when I went on more eagerly to speak of my hopes and projects, she called me to her, - kissed me, and whispered: ' O, not so, my son! think not of me,-think not of vengeance,-think only of poor Berenice and Mariamne.' Ay, that thought was startling. Yet this magnanimous and forbearing mother, as I knew by the report of our one faithful female servant, had, in the morning, during her bitter trial, behaved as might have become a daughter of Judas Maccabous: she had looked serenely upon the vile mob, and awed even them by her serenity; she had disdained to utter a shriek when the cruel lash fell upon her fair skin. There is a point that makes the triumph over natural feelings of pain easy or not easy, -the degree in which we count upon the sympathy of the by- standers. My mother had it not in the beginning; but, long be- fore the end, her celestial beauty, the divinity of injured innocence, tlhe pleading of common womanhood in the minds of the lowest class, and the reaction of manly feeling in the men, had worked a great change in the mob. Some began now to threaten those who  gv *rr vu    '*V   52-         GOOD STORIES. had been active in insulting her. The silence of awe and respect  succeeded to noise and uproar; and feelings which they scarcely  understood, mastered the rude rabble as they witnessed more and  more the patient fortitude of the sufferer. Menaces began to rise towards the executioner. Things wore such an aspect that the magistrates put a sudden end to the scene. 4"That day we received permissiod to go home to outr poor house in the Jewish quarter. I know not whether you are learned enough in Jewish usages to be aware that in every Jewish house, where old traditions are kept up, there is one room consecrated to con- fusion; a room always locked up and sequestered from vulgar use, except on occasions of memorable affliction, where everything is  purposely in disorder, - broken, -shattered, -mutilated : to typ- ify, by symbols appalling to the eye, that desolation which has so I long trampled on Jerusalem, and the ravages of the boar within ! the vineyards of Judea. My mother, as a Hebrew princess, main-  tained all traditional customs. Even in this wretched suburb she  had her chamber of desolation.' There it was that I and my   : sisters heard her last words. The rest of her sentence was to be carried into effect within a week. She, meantime, had disdained to utter any word of fear'; but that energy of self-control had made the suffering but the more bitter. Fever and dreadful agita- tion had succeeded. Her dreams showed sufficiently to us, who ! watched her couch, that terror for the future mingled with the  sense of degradation for the past. Nature asserted her rights. i But the more she shrank from the suffering, the more did she pro- claim how severe it had been, and consequently how noble the  ! self-conquest. Yet, as her weakness increased, so did her terror;  until I besought her to take comfort, assuring her that, in case any A attempt should be made to force her out again to public exposure, I1 would kill the -man who- came to execute the order, -- that we would all die together, - and there would be a common end to her  injuries and her fears. She was reassured by what I told her of  my belief that no future attempt would be made upon her. She slept more tranquilly,--but her fever increased; and slowly she   THE A TrENGER.           53 slept away into the everlasting sleep which knows of no to-mor- row. "Here came a crisis in my fate. Should I stay and attempt to protect my sisters? But, alas! what power had I to do so amongst our enemies? Rachael and I consulted; and many a scheme we planned. Even whilst we consulted, and the very night after my mother had been committed to the Jewish burying-ground, came an ' officer, bearing an order for me to repair to Vienna. Some officer in the French army, having watched the transaction respecting my parents, was filled with. shame and grief. He wrote a statement of the whole to an Austrian officer of rank, my father's friend, who obtained from the emperor an order, claiming me as a page of his own, and an officer in the household service. O, heavens! what a neglect that it did not include my sisters! However, the next best thing was that I should use my influence at the imperial court to get them 'passed to Vienna. This I did, to the utmost of my !  power. But seven months elapsed before I saw the emperor. If my applications ever met his eye he might readily suppose that your city, my friend, was as safe a place as another for my sisters. Nor did I myself know all its dangers. At length, with the em- peror's leave of absence, I returned. And what did I find? Eight months had passed, and the faithful Rachael had died. The - poor sisters, clinging together, but' now utterly bereft of friends, knew not which way to turn. In this abandonment they fell into the insidious hands of the ruffian jailer. 3Iy eldest sister, Bere- i  nice, the stateliest and noblest of beauties, had attracted this ruffian's admiration while she was in the prison with her mother. And when I returned to your city, armed with the imperial passports for all, I found that Berenice had died in the villain's custody; nor could I obtain anything beyond a legal certificate of her death. And, finally, the blooming, laughing IMariamne, she also had died, and of affliction for the loss of her sister.. You, my friend, had been absent upon your travels during the calamitous history I have recited. You had seen neither my father- nor my mother, But you came in time to take under your protection, from the abhorred   54          GOOD STORIES. *retch the jailer, my little broken-hearted Mariamne. And when sometimes you fancied that you had seen me under other circum-  stances, in her it was, my dear friend, and in her features that you X 'saw mine. "Now was the world a desert to me. I cared little, in the way of love. which way I turned. But in the way of hatred I cared everything. I transferred myself to the Russian service, with the view of gaining some appointment on the Polish frontier, which might put it in my power to execute my vow of destroying all the magistrates of your city. War, however, raged, and carried me into far other regions. It ceased, and-there was little prospect that another generation would see it relighted; for the disturber of ! peace was a prisoner forever, and all nations were exhausted. Now, then, it became necessary that I should adopt some new mode for executing my vengeance; and the more so, because annually some were dying of those whom it was my mission to punish. A voice ascended to me, day and night, from the graves of my father and mother, calling for vengeance before it should be too late. I took my measures thus: Many Jews were presents at Waterloo. From, amongst these, all irritated against Napoleon for the expectations he had raised, only to disappoint, by his great assembly of Jews at  Paris, I selected eight, whom I knew familiarly as men hardened by military experience against the movements of pity. With these as my beagles, I hunted for some time in your forest before opening t my regular campaign; and I am surprised that you did not hear of  the death which met the executioner, - him I mean who dared to lift his hand against my mother. This man I met by accident in the forest; and I slew him. I talked with the wretch, as a stranger ! at first, upon the memorable case of the Jewish lady. Had he  relented, had he expressed compunction, I might have relented. But far otherwise: the dog, not dreaming to whom he spoke, ex- ulted: he--but why repeat the villain's ;vords? I cut him to pieces. Next I did this: My agents I caused to matriculate sepa- rately at the college. They assumed the college dress. And now mark the solution of that mystery which caused such perplexity.   Simply as students we all had an unsuspected admission at any house. 'Just then there was a common practice, as you will remem- ber, amongst the younger students, of going out a masking, - that is, of entering houses in the academic dress, and with the face masked. This practice subsisted even during the most intense alarm from the murderers; for the dress of the students was sup- posed to bring protection along with it. But, even after suspicion had connected itself with this dress, it was sufficient that I should appear unmasked at the head of the maskers, to insure them a friendly reception. Hence the facility with which death was inflicted, and that unaccountable absence of any motion towards an alarm. I took hold of my victim, and he looked at me with smiling security. Our weapons were hid under our academic robes; and even when We drew them out, and at the moment of applying them to the throat, they still supposed our gestures to be part of the pantomime we were performing. Did I relish this abuse of personal confidence in myself? No, -I loathed it, and /I grieved for its necessity; but my mother, a phantom not seen with bodily eyes, but ever present to my mind, continually ascended be- fore me; and still I shouted aloud to my astounded victim, 'This comes from the Jewess! Hound of hounds! Do you remember the Jewess whom you dishonored, and the oaths which you broke in order that you might dishonor Iher, and, the righteous law which you violated, and the cry of anguish from her son which you scoffed at?' Who I was, what I avenged, and whom, I made every man aware, and every woman, before I punished them. The details of the cases I need not repeat. One or two I was obliged, at the beginning, to commit to my Jews. The suspicion was- thus, from the first, turned aside by the notoriety of my presence elsewhere; but I took care that none suffered who had not either been upon the guilty list of magistrates who condemned the mother, or of those who turned away with mockery from the supplication of the son. "It pleased God, however, to place a mighty temptation in my path, which might have persuaded me to forego all thoughts of ven-   56          GOOD STORIES. geance, to forget my vow, to forget the voices which invoked me from the grave. This was Margaret Liebenheim. Ah! how ter- rific appeared my duty of bloody retribution, after her angel's face S and angel's voice had calmned me. With respect to her grandfather, : strange it is to mention, that never did my innocent wife appear so lovely as precisely in the relation of granddaughter. So beautiful was her goodness to the old man, and so divine was the childlike innocence on her part, contrasted with the guilty recollections asso- ciated with him,--for he was amongst the guiltiest towards my mother, - still I delayed his punishment to the last; and, for his child's sake, I would have pardoned him, - nay, I had resolved to do so, when a fierce Jew, who had a deep malignity towards this man, swore that he would accomplish his vengeance at all events, and perhaps might be obliged to include 5liargaret in the ruin, unless I adhered to the original scheme. Then I yielded; for circumstances armed this man with momentary power. But the night fixed on was one in which I had reason to know that my wife would be ab- sent; for so -I had myself arranged with her, and the unhappy counter-arrangement I do not yet understand. Let me add, that the sole purpose of my clandestine marriage was to sting her grand- father's mind with the belief that his family had been dishonored, even as he had dishonored mine. He learned, as I took care that he should, that his granddaughter carried about with her the prom- 1 ises-of a mother, and did not know that she had the sanction of a : wife. This discovery made him, in one day, become eager for the S marriage he had previously opposed; and this discovery also em- bittered the misery of his death. At that moment I attempted to think only of my mother's wrongs; but, in spite of all I could do, this old man appeared to me in the light of Margaret's grandfather, -and, had I been left to myself, he would have been saved. As it was, never was horror equal to mine when I met her flying to his succor. I had relied upon her absence; and the misery of that moment, when her eye fell upon me in the very act of seizing her grandfather, far transcended all else that I have suffered in these terrific scenes. She fainted in my arms, and I and another carried   THE AVENGER.     -57 ! her up stairs and procured water. Meantime her grandfather had been murdered, even whilst Margaret fainted. I had, however, under the fear of discovery, though never anticipating a rencontre with herself, forestalled the explanation requisite in such a case to make my conduct intelligible. I had told her, under feigned names, the story of my mother and my sisters. She knew their wrongs; she had heard me contend for the right of vengeance. Consequent- ly, in our parting interview, one word only was required to place myself in a new position to her thoughts. I needed only to say I was that son; that unhappy mother, so miserably degraded and outraged, was mine. "As to the jailer, he was met by a party of us. Not suspecting that any of us could be connected with the family, he was led to talk of the most hideous details with regard to my poor Berenice. The child had not,' as had been insinuated, aided her own degrada- tion, but had nobly sustained the dignity of her sex and her family. Such advantages as the monster pretended to have gained over lier, - sick, desolate, and latterly delirious, - were, by his own confession, not obtained without violence. This was too much. Forty thou- sand lives, had he possessed them, could not have gratified my thirst for revenge. Yet, had he but showed courage, he should have died the death of a soldier. But the wretch showed cowardice the most abject, and - but you know his fate. "Now, then, all is finished, and human nature is avenged. Yet, if you complain of the bloodshed and the terror, think of the wrongs which created my rights; think of the sacrifice by which I gave a tenfold strength to those rights ; think of- the necessity for a dread- ful concussion and shock to society, in order to carry my lesson into the councils of princes. "This will now have been effected. And ye, victims of dishonor, will be glorified in your deaths; ye will not have suffered in vain, nor died without a monument. Sleep, therefore, sister Berenice,-- sleep, gentle Mariamne, in peace. And thou, noble mother, let the outrages sown in thy dishonor, rise again and blossom in wide har- i vests of honor for the women of thy afflicted race. Sleep, daughters   58         t GOOD STORIES. of Jerusalem, in the sanctity of your sufferings. And thou, if it be possible, even more beloved daughter of a Christian fold, whose X company was too soon denied to him in life, open thy grave to re-! ceive him, who, in the hour of death, wishes to remember no title! which he wore on earth but that of thy chosen and adoring lover, "MAXIMLIAN*      RtEER GOIXTH AITS T EAS RE    PETER GOLDTHWAITE'S TREASURE. "AND so, Peter, you won't even consider of the business?" said" Mr. John Brown, buttonirng, his surtout over the snug rotun- dity of his -person, and drawing on his gloves. "You positively refuse to let me have this crazy old house, and the land under and adjoining? at the price named?" "Neither at that, nor treble the sum," responded the gaunt., grizzled, and threadbare Peter Goldthwaite. "The fact is, Mr.  Brown, you must find another site for your brick block, and be content to leave my estate with the present owner. Next sum- mer, I intend to put a splendid new mansion over the cellar of the old house," "Pho, Peter!" cried Mr. Brown, as he opened the kitchen door; s content yourself with building castles in the air, where J house-lots are cheaper than on earth, to say nothing of the cost of bricis anid mortar. Such foundations are solid enough-for your edifices; while this underneath us is just the thing for mine ; and so we may both be suited. What say you, again?" Precisely-- what I said before, Mr. Brown," answered' Peter Goldthwaite. "And, as for castles in the air, mine may- not Ade as magnifieent as that sort of architecture, but .perhaps as substantial, Mr. Brown, as the very respectable brick block with. dry goods stores, tailors' shops, and banking rooms on the lower floor, and lawyers' offices in the second story, which you are so anxious to substitute." "And the cost, Peter, eh?" said Mr. Brown, as he withdrew, in somethin, of a pet. "That, I suppose, will be provided -for, off- handj, by drawing a check on Bubble Bank!"   s62         GOOD STORIES. John Brown and Peter Goldthwaite had been jointly known to the commercial world between twenty and thirty years before, under the firm of Goldthwaite & Brown; which copartnership, however, was speedily dissolved, by the natural incongruity of its constituent parts. Since that event, John Brown, with exactly the qualities of a thousand other John Browns, and by just such plod- ding methods as they used, had prospered wonderfully, and become one of the wealthiest John Browns on earth. Peter Goldthwaite, on the contrary, after innumerable schemes, which ought to have collected all the coin and paper currency of the country into his coffers, was as needy a gentleman as ever wore a patch upon his elbow. The contrast between him and his former partner may be briefly marked; for Brown never reckoned upon luck, yet always had it; while Peter made luck the main condition of his projects, and always missed it. While the means held out, his speculations had been magnificent, but were chiefly confined, of late years, to such small business as adventures in the lottery. Once, he had gone on a gold-gathering expedition, somewhere to the South, and ingen- iously contrived to empty his pockets more thoroughly than ever; while others, doubtless, were filling theirs with native bullion by the handful. More recently, hle had expended a legacy of a thousand or two of dollars in purchasing Mexican scrip, and thereby became the proprietor of a province; which, however, so far as Peter could find out, was situated where he might have had an empire for the same money, -in the clouds. From a search after this valuable real estate, Peter returned so gaunt and threadbare, that, on reach- ing New England, the scarecrows in the cornfields beckoned to him, as he passed by. "They did but flutter in the wind," quoth Peter Goldthwaite. No, Peter, they beckoned, for the scarecrows knew their brother! At the period of our story, his whole visible income would not have paid the tax of the old mansion in which we find him. It was one of those rusty, moss-grown, many-peaked wooden houses, which are scattered about the streets of our elder towns, with a beetle- browed second story projecting over the foundation, as if it frowned   PETER  GOLDTHWAITE'S TREASURE.        63 at the novelty around it. - This old paternal edifice, needy as he- was, and though, being centrally situated on the principal street of the town, it would have brought him a handsome sum, the sagacious Peter had his own reasons for never parting with, either by auction or private sale. There seemed, indeed, to be a fatality that con- nected him with his birthplace; for, often as he had stood on the verge of ruin, and standing there even now, he had not yet taken the step beyond it, which would have compelled him to surrender the house to his creditors. So here he dwelt with bad luck till good should come.       / Here, then, in his kitchen, the ly room where a spark of fire took off the chill of a November evening, poor Peter Goldthwaite had just been visited by his rich old partner. At the close of their interview, Peter, with rather a mortified look, glanced downwards at his dress, parts of which appeared as ancient as the days of Goldthwaite & Brown. His upper garment was a mixed surtout, wofully faded, and patched with newer stuff on each elbow; be- neath this, he wore a threadbare black coat, some of the silk buttons of which had been replaced with others of a different pattern; and lastly, though he lacked not a pair of gray pantaloons, they were very shabby ones, and had been partially turned brown, by the frequent toasting of Peter's shins before a scanty fire. Peter's person was in keeping with his goodly apparel. Gray-headed, hollow-eyed, pale-cheeked, and lean-bodied, he was the perfect pic- ture of a man who had fed on windy schemes and empty hopes, till he could neither live on such unwholesome trash, nor stomach more substantial food. But, withal, this Peter Goldthwaite, crack- brained simpleton as, perhaps, he was, might have cut a very bril- liant figure in the world, had he employed his imagination in the airy business of poetry, instead of making it a demon of mischief in mercantile pursuits. After all, he was no bad fellow, but as harm- less as a child, and as honest and honorable, and as much of the gentleman which nature meant him for, as an irregular life and depressed circumstances will permit any man to be. As Peter stood on the uneven bricks of his hearth, looking round   "         GOOD STORIES. at the disconsolate old kitchen, his eyes began to kindle with the illumination of an enthusiasm that never long deserted him. He raised his hand, clinched it, and smote it energetically against the smoky panel of the fireplace. "The time is come-!" said he. c With such a treasure at com- mand, it wer6 folly to be a poor man any longer. To-morrow morning I will begin with the garret, nor desist till I have torn tho house down!" Deep in the chimney-corner, like a witch in a dark cavern, sat a little old woman, mending one of the two pairs of stockings where- with Peter Goldthwaite kept his toes from being frosthitten. As the feet were ragged past all darning, she had cut pieces out of a cast-off flannel petticoat, to make new soles. Tabitha Porter was an old maid, upwards of sixty years of age, fifty-five of which she had sat in that same chimney-corner, such being the length of time since Peter's grandfather had taken her from the almshouse. She had no friend but Peter, nor Peter any friend but Tabitha; so long as Peter -might have a shelter for his own head, Tabitha would know where to shelter hers; or, being homeless elsewhere, she would take her master by the hand, and bring him to her native home, the almshouse. Should it ever be necessary, she loved him well enough to feed him with her last morsel, and clothe him with her under-petticoat. But Tabitha was a queer old woman, and, though never infected with Peter's flightiness, had become so ac- customed to his freaks and follies, that she viewed them all as matters of course. Hearing him threaten to tear the house down, she looked quietly up from her work. "Best leave the kitchen' till the last, Mr. Peter," said she. "c The sooner we have it all down the better," said Peter Gold- thwaite. "I am tired to death of living in this cold, dark, windy, smoky, creaking, groaning, dismal old house. I shall feel like a younger man, when we get into my splendid brick mansion, as, please Heaven, we shall, by this time next autumn. You shall have a room on the sunny side, old Tabby, finished and furnished as best may suit your own notions."   PETER GOLDTH    4 AITE'S TREASURE.     65 "I should like it pretty much such a room as this kitchen," -answered Tabitha. "It will never be like home to me, till the chimney-corner gets as black with smoke as this ; and that won't be these hundred years. How much do you mean to lay out on the house, Mr. Peter?"            - "What is that to the purpose?" exclaimed Peter, loftily. "Did not my great-granduncle, Peter Goldthwaite, who died seventy years ago, and whose namesake I am, leave treasure enough to build twenty such?" "I can't say but he did, Mr. Peter," said Tabitha, threading her needle. Tabitha well understood that Peter -had reference to an immense hoard of the precious metals, which was said to exist somewhere in the cellar or walls, or under the floors, or in some concealed closet, or other out-of-the-way nook of the house. This wealth, according to tradition, had been accumulated by a former Peter Goldthwaite, whose character seems to have borne a remarkable similitude to that of the Peter of our story. Like him, he was a wild projector, seeking to heap up gold by the bushel and the cartload, instead of scraping it together, coin by coin. Like Peter the second, too, his projects had almost invariably failed, and, but for the magnificent success of the final one, would have left him with hardly a coat and pair of breeches to his gaunt and grizzled person. Reports were various, as to the nature of his fortunate speculation; one intimat- ing that the ancient Peter had made the gold by alchemy; another, that he had- conjured it out of people's pockets by the black art; and a third, still more unaccountable, that the Devil had given him free access to the old provincial treasury. It was affirmed, how- ever, that some secret -impediment had debarred him from the en- joyment of his riches, and that he had a motive for concealing them from his heir, or, at any rate, had died without disclosing the place of deposit. The present Peter's father had faith enough in the story to cause the cellar to be dug over. Peter himself chose to consider the legend as an indisputable truth, and, amid his many troubles, had this one consolation, that, should all other resources fail, 5   "         G OODl bV1. he might build up his fortunes by tearing his house down. Yet, unless he felt a lurking distrust of the golden tale, it is difficult to account for his permitting the paternal roof to stand so long, since he had never yet seen the moment when his predecessor's treasure would not have foundSplenty of room in his own strong box. But, now was the crisis. Should he delay the search a little longer, the house would pass from the lineal heir, and with it the vast heap of gold, to remain in its burial-place, till the ruin of the aged walls should discover it to strangers of a future generation. "Yes!" cried Peter Goldthwaite, again; " to-morrow I will set about it." The deeper he looked at the matter, the more certain of success grew Peter. His spirits were naturally so elastic, that even now, in the blasted autumn of his age, he could often compete with the spring-time gayety of other people. Enlivened by his brightening prospects, he began to caper about the kitchen like a lobgoblin, with the queerest antics of his lean limbs, and gesticulations of his starved features. Nay, in the exuberance of his feelings, he seized both of Tabitha's hands, and danced the old lady across the floor, till the oddity of her rheumatic motions set him into a roar of laughter, which was echoed back from the rooms and chambers, as if Peter Goldthwaite were laughing in every one. Finally, he bounded upward, almost out of sight, into the smoke that cloud- ed the roof of the kitchen, and alighting safely on the floor again, endeavored to resume his customary gravity. "To-morrow, at sunrise," he repeated, taking his lamp, to retire to bed, "I'll see whether this treasure be hid in the wall of the garret." "And, as we're out of wood, Mr Peter," said Tabitha, puffing and panting with her late gymnastics, "as fast as you tear the house down, I 'll make a fire with the pieces." Gorgeous, that night, were the dreams of Peter Goldthwaite! At one time, he was turning a ponderous key in an iron door, not unlike the door of a sepulchre, but which, being opened, dis- closed a vault, heaped up with gold coin, as plentifully as golden   F-"Tii  UULDT'H WAITE."b' TRE'ASURtE.    67 corn in a granary. There were chased goblets, also, and tureens, salvers, dinner dishes, and dish covers, of gold, or silver gilt, be- sides chains and other jewels, incalculably rich, though tarnished with the damps of the vault; for, of all the wealth that was irrevocably lost to man, whether buried in the earth, or sunken in the sea, Peter Goldthwaite had found it in this one treasure- place. Anon, he had returned to the old house, as poor as ever, and was received at the door, by the gaunt and grizzled figure of a man, whom he might have mistaken for himself, only that his garments were of a much elder fashion. But the house, with- out losing its former aspect, had been changed into a palace of the precious metals. The floors, walls, and ceilings, were of burnished silver; the doors, the window-frames, the cornices, the balustrades, and the steps of the staircase, of pure gold; and silver, with gold bottoms, were the chairs, and gold, standing on silver legs, the high chests of drawers, and silver, the bedsteads, with blankets of woven gold, and sheets of silver tissue. The house had evident- ly been transmuted by a single touch-; for it retained all the marks that Peter remembered, but in gold or silver, instead of wood; and the initials of his name, which, when a boy, he had cut in the wooden doorpost, remained as deep in the pillar of gold. A happy man would have been Peter Goldthwaite, except for a certain ocular deception, which, whenever he glanced backward, caused the house to darken from its glittering magnificence into the sordid gloom of yesterday. Up, betimes, rose Peter, seized hn axe, hammer, and saw, which he had placed by his bedside, and hied him to- the garret. It was but scantily lighted up, as yet, by the frosty fragments of a sun- beam, which began to glimmer through the almost opaque bull's eyes of the window. A moralizer might find abundant themes for his speculative and impracticable wisdom in a garret. There is the limbo of departed fashions, aged trifles of a day, and what- ever was valuable only to one generation, of men, and which passed to the garret when that generation passed to the grave, not for safe keeping, but to be out of the way. Peter saw piles of yellow   68          GOOD STORIES. and musty account books, in parchment covers, wherein creditors, long dead and buried, had written the names of dead and buried debtors, in ink now so faded, that their moss-grown tombstones were more legible. He found old moth-eaten garments all in rags and tatters, or Peter would have put them on. Here was a naked and rusty sword, not a swordl of serlvice, but a gentleman's small French rapier, which had never left its scabbard till it lost it. Here were canes of twenty different sorts, but no gold-headed ones, and shoe-buckles of various pattern and material, but not silver, nor set with precious stones. Here was a large box full of shoes, with high heels and peaked toes. Here, on a shelf, were a multitude of phials, half filled with old apothecaries' stuff, which, when the other ,half had done its business on Peter's ancestors, had been brought hither from the death chamber. Here-'not to give a longer inventory of articles that will never be put up at auction -was the fragment of a full-lenth looking-glass, which, by the dust and dimness of its surface, made the picture of these old things look older than the reality. When Peter, not knowingr that there was a mirror there, caught the faint traces of his own figure, lie partly imagined that the former Peter Goldthlvaite had come back, either to assist or impede his search for the hidden wealth. And at that moment a strange notion glimmered through his brain, that he was the identical Peter who had concealed the gold, and ought to know whereabout it lay. This, however, he had unaccountably forgot- ten. "Well, Mr. Peter!" cried Tabitha, on the garret stairs. "Have you torn-the house down enough to heat the teakettle?" "Not yet, old Tabby," answered Peter; " but that's soon done, -as you shall see." With the word in his mouth, he uplifted the axe, and laid about him so vigorously, that the dust flew, the boards crashed, and, in a twinkling, the old woman had an apron full of broken rubbish. "We shall get our winter's wood cheap," quoth Tabitha. The good work being thus commenced, Peter beat down all before him, smiting and hewing at the joists and timbers, unclinch-   PETER GOLDTHW4ITE'S TREASURE:         69: ing spike nails, ripping and tearing away boards,with a tremendous racket, from morning till night. He took care, however, to leave the outside shell of the-house untouched, so that the neighbors might not suspect what was going on. Never, in any of his vagaries, though each had made him happy while it lasted, had Peter been happier than now. Perhaps, after all, there was something in Peter Goldthwaite's turn of mind, which brought him an inward recompense for all the external evil that it caused. If he were poor, ill clad, even hungry, and exposed, as it were, to be utterly annihilated by a precipice of impending ruin, yet only his body remained in these miserable circumstances, while his aspiring soul enjoyed the sunshine of a bright futurity. It was his nature to be always young, and the tendency of his mode of life to keep him so. Gray hairs were nothing, no, nor wrinkles nor infirmity; he mighllt look old, indeed, and be somewhat disa- greeably connected with a gaunt old figure, much the worse for wear; but the true, the essential Peter, wa s a young man of high hopes, just entering on the world. At the kindling of each new fire, lis -burnt-out youth rose afresh fromn the old embers and ashes. It rose exulting now. Havincg lived thus long, - not too long, but just to the right age,-a susceptible bachelor, with warm and tender dreams, he resolved, so soon as the hidden gold should flash to light to go a-wooing, and win the love of the fairest maid in town. What heart could resist him? Happy Peter Gold- t hwaite!  Every evening,-as Peter had long absented himself from his former loungcing-places, at insurance offices, news-rooms and book- stores, and as the honor of his company was seldom requested in private circles, --lhe and Tabitha used to sit downl sociably by the kitchen hearth. This was always heaped plentifully with the rubbish of his day's labor. As the foundation of the fire, there would be a goodly-sized backlog of red oak, which, after being sheltered from rain or danlmp above a century, still bissed 'with the heat, and distilled streams of water from each end, as if the tree had been cut down within a week or two. Next, there were large stifcks,   70          GOOD Sl'OfLIES. sound, black and heavy, which had lost the principle of decay, and were indestructible except by fire, wherein they glowed like red- hot bars of iron. On this solid basis Tabitha would rear a lighter structure, composed of the splinters of door panels, ornamented mouldings, and such quick combustibles, which caught like straw, and threw a brilliant blaze high up the spacious flue, making its sooty sides visible almost to the chimney top. Meantime, the gleam of the old kitchen would be chased out of the cobwebbed cor- ners, and away from the dusky crossbeams overhead, and driven nobody could tell whither, while Peter smiled like a gladsome man, and Tabitha seemed a picture of comfortable age. All this, of course, was but an emblem of the bright footune, which the de- struction of the house would shed upon its occupants. While the dry pine was flaming and crackling, like an irregular discharge of fairy musketry, Peter sat looking and listening, in a pleasant state of excitement. But, when the brief blaze and up- roar were succeeded by the dark-red glow, the substantial heat, and the deep singing sound, which were to last throughout the evening, his humor became talkative. One night, the hundredth time, he teased Tabitha to tell him something new about his great-grand- uncle. "You have been sitting in that chimney-corner fifty-five years old Tabby, and must have heard many a tradition about him," said Pe- ter. "Did not you tell me, that, when you first came to the house, there was an old woman sitting where you sit now, who had been housekeeper to the famous Peter Goldthwaite?" "So there was, Mr. Peter," answered Tabitha; "and she was near about a hundred years old. She used to say, that she and old Peter Goldthwaite had often spent a sociable evening by the kitchen fire,-pretty much as you and I are doing now, Mr. Peter." "The old fellow must have resembled me in more points than one," said Peter, complacently, " or he never would have grown so rich. But, methinks, he might have invested the money better than he didy- no interest! - nothing but good security! - and the    PE"Tl GOLDTH'IWAITE'S TREASURE.      .71 house to be torn down to come at it! What made him hide it so- snug, Tabby?" ( Because he could not spend it," said Tabitla; "for, as often as he went to unlock the chest, the Old Scratch came behind and caught his arm. The money, they say, was paid Peter out of his purse; and he wanted Peter to give him a deed of this house and land, which Peter swore he would not do." "Just as I swore to John'Brown, my old partner," remarked Peter. "But this is all nonsense, Tabby! I don't believe the- story." "Well it may not be just the truth," said Tabitha; " for some folks say that Peter did make over the house to the Old Scratch; and that's the rn :son it has always been so unldcky to them that lived in it. And as soon as Peter had given him the deed, the chest flew open, and Peter caught up a handful of the gold. But, lo and behold!- there was nothing in his fist but a parcel of old rags."  "Hold your tongue, you silly old Tabby " cried Peter in great wrath. "They were as good golden guineas as ever bore the effi- gies of the king of England. It seems as if I could recollect the whole circumstance, and how I, or old Peter, or whoever it was, thrust in my hand, or his hand, and drew it out, all of a blaze with gold. Old rags, indeed!" But it was not an old woman's legend that would discourage Peter Goldthwaite. All night long he slept among pleasant dreams, and awoke at daylight with a joyous throb of the heart, which few  are fortunate enough to feel beyond their boyhood. Day after day he labored hard, without wasting a -moment, except at meal times, when Tabitha summoned him to the pork and cab- bage, or such sustenance as she had picked up, or Providence had sent them. Being a truly pious man, Peter never failed to ask a blessing; if the food were none of the best, then so much the more earnestly, as it was more needed;--nor to return thanks, if the dinner had been scanty, yet for the good appetite, which was bet- ter than a sick stomach at a feast. Then did he hurry back to his toil,   72          GOOD STORIES. and, in a moment, was lost to sight in a cloud of dust from the old walls, though sufficiently perceptible to the ear, by the clatter which he raised in the midst of it. How enviable is the consciousness of being use- fully employed! Nothing troubled Peter; or nothing but those phan- toms of the mind, which seem like vague recollections, yet have also the aspect of presentiments. He often paused, with his axe uplifted in the air, and said to himself, "-- Peter Goldthwaite, did you never strike this blow before?" - or, "Peter, what need of tearing the whole house down? Think, a little while, and you will remember where the gold is hidden." Days and weeks passed on, however, without any remarkable discovery. Sometimes, indeed, a lean, gray rat peeped forth at the lean, gray man, wondering what Devil had got into the old house, which had always been so peaceable till now. And, occasionally, Peter sympathized with the sorrows of a. female mouse, who had brought five or six pretty, little, soft, and delicate young ones into the world, just in time to see them crushed by its ruin. But, as yet, no treasure! By this time, Peter, being as determined as Fate, and as diligent as Time, had made an end with the uppermost regions, and got down to the second story, where he was busy in one of the front chambers. It had formerly been the state bedchamber, and was honored by tradition as the sleeping apartment of Governor Dudley, and many other eminent guests. The furniture was gone. There were remnants of faded and tattered paper-hangings, but larger spaces of bare wall, ornamented with charcoal sketches, chiefly of people's heads in profile. These being specimens of Peter's youth- ful genius, it went more to his heart to obliterate them, than if they had been pictures on a church wall by Michael Angelo. One sketch, however, and that the best one, affected him differently. It represented a ragged man, partly supporting himself on a spade, and bending his lean body over a hole in the earth, with one hand extended to grasp something that he had found. But, close behind him, with a fiendish laugh on his features, appeared a figure with horns, a tufted tail, and a cloven hoof. "Avaunt, Satan " cried Peter. 'The man shall have his gold!"   PETER GOLDTHWAITE'S TREASURE.         73" Uplifting his axe, he hit the horned gentleman such a blow on the head, as not only demolished him, but the treasure-seeker also, and caused the whole scene to vanish like magic. Moreover, his axe broke quite through the plaster and laths, and discovered a cavity. "Mercy on us, Mr. Peter, are you quarrelling with the Old Scratch?" said Tabitha, who was seeking some fuel to put under the dinner-pot. Without answering the old woman, Peter broke down a further space of the wall, and laid open a small closet or cupboard, on one side of the fireplace, about breast high from the ground. It con- tained nothing but a brass lamp, covered with verdigris, and a dusty piece of parchment. While Peter inspected the latter, Tabitha seized the lamp, and began to rub it with her apron. "There is no use in rubbing it, Tabitha," said Peter. "It is not Aladdin's lamp, thlough I take it to be a token of as much luck. Look here, Tabby!" Tabitha took the parchment, and held it close to her nose, which was saddled with a pair of iron-bound spectacles. But no sooner had she begun to puzzle over it, than she burst into a chuckling laugh, holding both her hands against her sides. "You can't make a fool of the old woman!" cried she. ' This is your own handwriting, Mr. Peter! the same as in the letter you sent me from Mexico." "There is certainly a considerable resemblance," said Peter, again examining the parchment. "But you know yourself, Tabby, that this closet must have been plastered up before you came to the house, or I came into the world. No, this is old Peter Gold- thwaite's writing; these columns of pounds, shillings, and pence are hs figures, denoting the amount of the treasure; and this, at the bottom, is, doubtless, a reference to the place of concealment. But the ink has eithler faded or peeled off, so that it is absolutely illegi- ble. What a pity!" "Well, this lamp is as good as new. That's some comfort," said Tabitha.   74          GOOD STORIES. "A lamp!" thought Peter. "That indicates light on my re- searches." For the present, Peter felt more inclined to ponder on this discovery, than to resume his labors. After Tabitha had gone down stairs, he stood poring over the parchment, at one of the front windows, which was so obscured with dust, that the sun could barely throw an uncertain shadow of the casement across the floor. Peter forced it open, and looked out upon the great street of the town, while the sun looked in at his old house. The air, though mild, and even warm, thrilled Peter as with a dash of water. It was the first day of the Janruary thaw. The snow lay deep upon the housetops, but was rapidly dissolving into millions of mraterdrops, which sparkled downwards through the sunshine, with the noise of a summer shower beneath the eaves. Along the street, the trodden snow was as hard and solid as a pavement of whte marble, and had not yet grown moist in the spring-like temperature. But, when Peter thrust forth his head, he saw that the inhabitants, if not the town, were already thawed out by this warm day, after two or three weeks of winter weather. It gladdened him,-a gladness with a sigh breathing throu h it,- to see the stream of ladies, gliding along the slippery sidewalks, with their red cheeks set off by quilted hoods, boas, and sable capes, like roses amidst a new kind of foliage. The sleigh-bells jingled to and fro continually; sometimes announcing the arrival of a sleigrh from Vermont, laden with the frozen bodies of porkers, or sheep, and perhaps a deer or two ; sometimes of a regular market-man, with chickens, geese, and turkeys, comprising the whole colony of a barn-yard; and some- times of a farmer and his dame, who had come to town partly for the ride, partly to go a shlopping, and partly for the sale of some eags and butter. This couple rode in an old-fashioned square sleigh, which-hlad served tlhem twenty winters, and stood twenty summers in the sun beside their door. Now, a gentleman and lady skimmed the snow, in an elegant car, shaped somewhat like a cockle- shell. Now, a stage sleigh, with its cloth curtains thrust aside to   PE TER GOLDTHTVAITE'S TREASURE.        75 admit the sun, dashed rapidly down the street, whirling in and out among the vehicles that obstructed its passage. Now came, round a corner, the similitude of Noah's ark, on runners, being an immense open sleigh, with seats for fifty people, and drawn by a dozen horses. This spacious receptacle was populous with merry maids and merry bachelors, merry girls and boys, and merry old folks, all alive with fun, and grinning to the full width of their mouths. They kept up a buzz of babbling voices and low lauglhter, and sometimes burst into a deep, joyous shout, which the spectators answered with three cheers, while a gang of roguish boys let drive their snowhalls right among the pleasure party. The sleigh passed on, and, when con- cealed by a bend of the street, was still audible by a distant cry of merriment. Never had Peter beheld a livelier scene than was constituted by all these accessories; the bright sun ; the flashing waterdrops ; the gleaming snow-; the cheerful multitude; the variety of rapid vehi- cles; and the jingle jangle of merry bells which made the heart dance to their music. Nothing dismal was to be seen, except that peaked piece of antiquity, Peter Goldthwaite's house, which might well look sad externally, since such a terrible consumption was preying on its insides. And Peter's gaunt figure, half visible in the projecting second story, was worthy of his house. "Peter! How goes it, friend Peter?" cried a voice across the street, as Peter was drawing in his head. "Look out here, Peter!" Peter looked, and saw his old partner, Mr. John Brown, on the opposite sidewalk, portly and comfortable, with his furred cloak thrown open, disclosing a handsome surtout beneath. His voice had directed the attention of the whole town to Peter Goldthmwaite's window, and to the dusty scarecrow which appeared at it. "I say, Peter," cried MSr. Brown again, " what the devil are you about there, that I hear such a racket, whenever I pass byr? You are repairing the old house, I suppose, - making a new one of it, eh?" "1 Too late for that, I am afraid, Mr. Brown," replied Peter.   76          GOOD STORIES. "If I make it new, it will be new inside and out, from the cellarM upwards." "Had not you better let me take the job?" said Mr. Brown, significantly. "Not yet!" answered Peter, hastily shutting the window; for, ever since he had been in search of the treasure, he hated to have people stare at him. As he drew back, ashamed of his outward poverty, yet proud' of the secret wealth within his grasp, a haughty smile shone out on Peter's visage, with precisely the effect of the dim sunbeams in the squalid chamber. He endeavored to assume such a mien as his ancestor had probably worn, when he gloried in the building of a stfong house for a home to many generations of his posterity. But the chamber was very dark to his snow-dazzled eyes, and very dismal, too, in contrast with the living scene that he had just looked upon. His brief glimpse into the street had given him a forcible impression of the manner in which the world kept itself cheerful and prosperous, by social pleasures and an intercourse of business, while he, in seclusion, was pursuing an object that might possibly be a phantasm, by a method which most people would call mad- ness.- It is one great advantage of a gregarious mode of life, that each person rectifies his mind by other minds, and squares his con- duct to that of his neighbors, so as seldom to be lost in eccentricity. Peter Goldthwaite had exposed himself to this influence, by merely looking out of the window. For a while, he doubted whether there were any hidden chest of gold, and, in that case, whether it was so exceedingly wise to tear the house down, only to be convinced of its non-existence. But this was momentary. Peter, the Destroyer, resumed the task which fate had assigned him, nor faltered again, till it was accomplished. In the course of his search, he met with many things that are usually found in the ruins of an old house, and also with some that are not. What seemed most to the purpose, was a rusty key, which had been thrust into a chink of the wall, with a wooden label appended to the handle, bearing the initials, P. G.   PEZK   GOLDU't WAITEb' T1'EASUR.      " Another singular discovery was that of a bottle of wine, walled up in an old oven. A tradition ran in. the family, that Peter's grand- father, a jovial officer in the old French war, had set aside many dozens of the precious liquor, for the benefit of topers then unborn. Peter needed no cordial to sustain his hopes, and therefore kept the wine to gladden his success. Many halfpence did he pick up, that had been lost through the cracks of the floor, and some few Spanish coins, and the half of a broken sixpence, wlhich had doubt- less been a love token. There was likewise a silver coronation medal of George the Third. But, old Peter Goldthwaite's strong box fled from one dark corner to another, or otherwise eluded the second Peter's clutches, till, should he seek much farther, he must burrow into the earth. We will not follow him in his triumphant progress, step by step. Suffice it, that Peter worked like a steam-engine, and finished, in that one winter, the job which all the former inhabitants of the house, with time and the elements to aid them, had only half done in a century. Except the kitchen, every room and chamber was now gutted. The house was nothing but a shell, - the apparition of a house, -as unreal as the painted edifices of a theatre. - It was like the perfect rind of a great cheese, in which a mouse had dwelt and nibbled, till it was a cheese no more. And Peter was the mouse. What Peter had torn down, Tabitha had burned up; for she wisely considered, that, without a house, they should need no wood to warm it; and, therefore, economy was nonsense. Thus the whole house night be said to have dissolved in smoke, and flown up among the clouds, through the great black flue of the kitchen chimney. It was an admirable parallel to the feat of the man who jumped down his own throat. On the night between the last day of winter and the first of spring, every chink and cranny had been ransacked, except within the precincts of the kitchen. This fated evening was an ugly one. A snow-storm had set in some hours before, and was still driven and tossed about the atmosphere by a real hurricane, which fought   against the house, as if the prince of the air, in person, were put- ting the final stroke to Peter's labors. The framework being so  much weakened, and the inward props removed, it would have been no marvel, if, in some stronger wrestle of the blast, the rotten  walls of the edifice, and all the peaked roofs, had come crashing down upon the owner's head. He, however, was careless of the peril, but as wild and restless as the night itself, or as the flame that quivered up the chimney, at. each roar of the tempestuous wind. "The wine, Tabitha!" he cried. "My grandfather's rich old wine! We will drink it now!" Tabitha arose from her smoke-blackened bench in the chimney- corner, and placed the bottle before Peter, close beside the old brass lamp, which had likewise been the prize of his researches. Peter held it before his eyes, and, looking through the liquid medium, beheld the kitchen illuminated with a golden glory which also enveloped Tabitha, and gilded her silver hair, and converted her mean garments into robes of queenly splendor. It reminded him of his golden dream. "Mr. Peter," remarked Tabitha, "must the wine be drunk be- fore the money is found?" "The money is found!" exclaimed Peter, with a sort of fierce-, ness. "The chest is within my reach. I will not sleep till I have turned this key in the rusty lock. But, first of all, let us drink!" There being no corkscrew in the house, he smote the neck of the bottle with old Peter Goldthwaite's rusty key, and decapitated the sealed cork at a single blow. He then filled two little china teacups, which Tabitha had brought from the cupboard. So clear and brilliant was this aged wine, that it shone within the cups, an'. rendered the sprig of scarlet flowers, at the bottom of each, more distinctly visible than when there had been no wine there. Its rich and delicate perfume wasted itself round the kitchen. "Drink, Tabitha " cried Peter. "Blessings on the honest old fellow, who set aside this good liquor for you and me! And here's to Peter Goldthwaite's memory!" ..I..  -A   "And good cause have we to remember him," quoth Tabitha, as she drank. How many years, and through what changes of fortune and various calamity, had that bottle hoarded up its effervescent joy, to be quaffed at last by two such boon companions! A portion of the happiness of a former age had been kept for them, and was now set free, in a crowd of rejoicing visions, to sport amid the storm and desolation of the present time. Until they have finished the bottle, we must turn our eyes elsewhere. It so chanced, that, on this stormy night, Mr. John Brown found himself ill at ease, in his wire-cushioned arm-chair, by the glowing grate of anthracite, which heated his handsome parlor. He was naturally a good sort of a man, and kind and pitiful, whenever the misfortunes of others happened to reach his heart through the padded vest of his own prosperity. This evening, he had thought much about his old partner, Peter Goldthwaite, his strange vaga ries, and continual ill luck, the poverty of his dwelling, at Mr. Brown's last visit, and Peter's crazed and haggard aspect, when he had talked with him at the window. "Poor fellow!" thought Mr. John Brown. "Poor, crackbrained Peter Goldthwaite! For old acquaintance' sake, I ought to have taken care that he was comfortable this rough winter." These feelings grew so powerful, that, in spite of the inclement weather, he resolved to visit Peter Goldthwaite immediately. The strength of the impulse was really singular. Every shriek of the blast seemed a summons, or would have seemed so, had Mr. Brown been accustomed to hear the echoes of his own fancy in the wind. Much amazed at such active benevolence, he huddled himself in his cloak, muffled his throat and ears in comforters and handker- chiefs, and thus fortified, bade defiance to the tempest. But the powers of the air had rather the best of the battle. Mr. Brown was just weathering the corner, by Peter Goldthwaite's house, when the hurricane caught him off his feet, tossed him face down- ward into a snow-bank, and proceeded to bury his protuberant part beneath fresh drifts. There seemed little hope of his reappear- -  ICI;.ljZIL .  i M*. s . . .    ance, earlier than the next thaw. At the same moment, his hat was snatched away, and whirled aloft into some far distant region, whence no tidings have as yet returned. Nevertheless Mr. Brown contrived to burrow a passage through the snow-drift, and, with his bare head bent against the storm, floundered onward to Peter's door. There was such a creaking, and groaning, and rattling, and such an ominous shaking throughout the crazy edifice, that the loudest rap would have been inaudible to those within, He therefore entered without ceremony, and groped his way to the kitchen.  His intrusion, even there, was unnoticed. Peter and Tabitha stood with their backs to the door, stooping over a large chest, which, apparently, they had just dragged from a cavity, or, con cealed closet, on the left side of the chimney. By the lamp in the old woman's hand, Mr. Brown saw that the chest was barred and clamped with iron, strengthened with iron plates, and studded with iron nails,so as to be a fit receptacle in which the wealth of one century might be hoarded up for the wants of another. Peter  Goldthwaite was inserting a key into the lock. O Tabitha!" cried he, with tremulous rapture, " how shall I endure the effulgence? The gold! - the bright, bright gold! WMethinks I can remember my last glance at it, just as the iron- plated lid fell down. And ever since, being seventy years, it has been blazing in secret, and gathering its splendor against this glorious moment! It will flash upon us like the noonday sun!" "Then shade your eyes, Mr. Peter!" said Tabitha, with some- what less patience than usual. "But, for mercy's sake do turn the key!" And, with a strong effort of both hands, Peter did force the rusty key through the intricacies of the rusty lock. Mr. Brown, in the mean time, had drawn near, and thrust his eager visage between those of the other two, at the instant Peter threw up the lid. No sudden blaze illuminated the kitchen. "What's here?" exclaimed Tabitha, adjusting her spectacles,   and holding the lamp over the open chest. "Old Peter Gold- thwaite's hoard of old rags." "Pretty much so, Tabby," said Brown, lifting a handful of the treasure I O, what a ghost of dead and buried wealth had Peter Goldthwaite raised, to scare himself out of his scanty wits withal! Here was the semblance of an incalculable sum, enough to purchase the whole town, and build every street anew, but which, vast as it was, no sane man would have given a solid sixpence for. What, then, in sober earnest, were the delusive treasures of the chest? Why, here were old provincial bills of credit, and treasury notes, and bills of land banks, and all other bubbles of the sort, from the first issue, above a century and a half ago, down nearly to the Revolution. Bills of a thousand pounds were intermixed with parchment pen- nies, and worth no more than they. "And this, then, is old Peter Goldthwaite's treasure!" said John Brown.  "Your namesake, Peter, was something like yourself; and, when the provincial currency had depreciated fifty or seventy- five per cent, he bought it up, in expectation of a rise. I have heard my grandfather say, that old Peter gave his father a mort- are of this very house and land, to raise cash for his silly project But the currency kept sinking till nobody would take it as a gift; nd there was old Peter Goldthwaite, like Peter the second, with housands in his strong box, and hardly a coat to his back. He %'ent mad upon the strength of it. But, never mind, Peter! It is ust the sort of capital for building castles in the air." "The house will be down about our ears!" cried Tabitha, as the rind shook it with increasing violence. "Let it fall!" said Peter, folding his arms, as he' seated himself pon the chest. "No, no my old friend Peter," said John Brown. "I have )use room for you and Tabby, and a safe vault for the chest of easure. To-morrow we will try to come to an agreement about e sale of this old house. Real estate is well up, and I could brd you a pretty handsome price." *   82        -  GOOD STORIES. "And 1" observed Peter Goldthwaite, with reviving spirits, "have a plan- for laying out the cash to great advantage." "Why, as to that," muttered John Brown to himself, " we must apply to the next court for a guardian to take care of the solid cash; and if Peter insists upon speculating, he may do it, to his heart's content, with old PETER GOLDTHWAITE S TREASURE."      LOVE AND SKATES, CHAPTER; I. A KNOT AND A MAN TO CUT IT. CONSTERNATION! Consternation in the back office of Benjamin Brummage, Esq., banker in Wall Street.' Yesterday down came Mr. Superintendent Whiffler from PDun- derbunk, up the North River, to say that, "unless something .be done, at once, the Dunderbunk Foundry and Iron-Works -must wind up." President Brummage forthwith-convoked his -Directoirs. And here they sat around the green table, forlorn as the guests at a Barmecide feast. - Well they might be forlorn! It was the -rosy summer sol- stice, 'the longest and fairest day of'all the year. But rose- color: and sunshine had fled from Wall Street. Noisy' Crisis tow-- ing black Panic, as a puffing steam-tug drags a three-decler, cocked and primed for destruction, had suddenly sailed in' upon: Credit. As all the green inch-worms vanish oh the tenth of every June, so, on the tenth'of that June all the money in America had buried itself, and was as if it were not. Everybody and' everything was ready to fail. If the hindmost brick went, down would go the whole file. There were ten Directors of the Dunderbunk Foundry. Now,. not seldom, of a Board of ten Directors, five are wise and five arelfoolish: five wise, who bag. all the Company's funds in salaries and commissions for indorsing its paper.; five ftolisii, who get no salaries, no commissions, no dividends, --nothing, indeed, but abuse from the stockholders, and the reputati0ltf .thieves.   GOOD STORIES. That is to say, five of the ten are pickpockets; the other five, pockets to be picked. It happened that the Dunderbunk Directors were all honest and foolish but one. He, John Churm, honest and wise, was off at the West, with his Herculean shoulders at the wheels of a dead-locked railroad. These honest fellows did not wish Dunderbunk to fail, for several reasons. First, it was not pleasant to lose their invest- ment. Second, one important failure might betray Credit to Crisis, with Panic at its heels, whereupon every investment would be in danger.  Third, what would become of their Directorial reputa- tions? From President Brummage down, each of these gentlemen was one of the pockets to be picked in a great many companies. Each was of the first Wall-Street fashion, invited to lend his name and take stock in every new enterprise. Any one of them might have walked down town in a long patchwork toga made of the newspaper advertisements of boards in which his name proudly figured. ' If Dunderbunk failed, the toga was torn, and might presently go to rags beyond repair. The first rent would inau- gurate universal rupture. How. to avoid this disaster? -that was the question. "State the case, Mr. Superintendent Whiffler," said President Brummage, in his pompous manner, with its pomp a little collapsed, pro tempore. Inefficient Whiffler whimpered out his story. The confessions of an impotent executive are sorry stuff to read. Whiffler's long, dismal complaint shall not be repeated. He had taken a prosperous concern, had carried on things in his own way, and now failure. was inevitable.  He had bought raw material lavishly, and worked it badly into half-ripe material, which nobody wanted to buy. Hle was in arrears to his hands. He had tried to bully them when they asked for their money.  They had insulted him, and threatened to knock off work, unless they were paid at once. '  A set of horrid ruffians," Whiffler said, "and his life wouldn't btsafe many days among them." "Withdraw, if you please, Mlr. Superintendent," President   LiU V. AND .KATALN;.       . 87 Brummage requested. "The Board will discuss measures of re- lief." The more they discussed, the more consternation. Nobody said anything to the purpose except Mr. Sam Gwelp, his late father's lubberly son and successor. " Blast! " said he ; " we shall have to let it slide !" Into this assembly of imbeciles unexpectedly entered Mr. John Churm. He had set his Western railroad trains rolling, and was just returned to town. Now he was ready to put those Herculean shoulders at any other bemired and rickety no-go-cart. Mr. Churm was not accustomed to be a Director in feeble com- panies.  He came into Dunderbunk recently as executor of his friend Damer, a year ago bored to death by a silly wife. Churm's bristly aspect and incisive manner made him a sharp contrast to Brummage.  The latter -personage was flabby in flesh, and the oppressively civil counter-jumper style -of his youth had grown naturally into a deportment of most imposing pomposity. The Tenth Director listened to the President's recitative of their difficulties, chorused by the Board. " Gentlemen," said Director Churm, I you -want two things. The first is money!" He pronounced this cabalistic word with such magic power that all the air seemed instantly filled with a cheerful flight of gold American eagles, each carrying a double eagle on its back and a silver dollar in its claws; and all the soil of America seemed to sprout with coin, as after a shower a meadow sprouts with the yellow buds of the dandelion. "Money! yes, Money!" murmured the Directors. It seemed a word of good omen, now. "The second thing," resumed the new-comer, "   is a Man!" The Directors looked at each other, and did not see such a being. "The actual Superintendent of Dunderbunk is a dunderhead, said Churm. "Pun! " cried Sam Gwelp, waking up from a snoop.  88          GOOD STORIES. Several of the Directors, thus instructed, started a complimentary laugh. "Order, gentlemen! -Orrderr!" said the President, severely, rapping with a paper-cutter. "We must have a Man, not a Whiffler!"Churm continued. "And I have one in my eye." Everybody examined his eye. "Would you be so good as to name him?" said Old Brummage, timidly. He wanted to see a Man, but feared the strange creature might be dangerous. "Richard Wade," says Churm. They did not know him. The name sounded forcible. "He has been in California," the nominator said. A shudder ran around the green table. They seemed to see a frowzy desperado, shaggy as a bison, in a red shirt and jack-boots, hung about the waist with an assortment of six-shooters and bowie- knives, and standing against a background of mustangs, monte- banks, and lynch-la'w. "Wp must get Wade," Churm says, with authority. "He knows Iron by heart. He can handle Men. I will back him with my blank- check, to any amount, to his order." Here a murmur of applause, swelling to a cheer, burst from the Directors. Everybody knew that the Geological Bank deemed Churm's deposits the fundamental stratum of its wealth. They lay there in the vaults, like underlying granite.. Whenhot times came, they boiled up in a mountain to buttress the world. Churm's blank check seemed to wave in the air like an oriflamme of victory. Its payee might come from Botany Bay; he might wear his beard to his knees, and his belt stuck full of howitzers and boomerangs; he might have been repeatedly hung by Vigilance Committees, and as often cut down and revived by galvanism; but brandishing that check, good for anything less than a million, every Director in t'all Street was his slave, his friend, and his brother.   "OV E AND SKAlTES.          89 "Let us vote Mr. Wade in bv acclamation," cried the Directors, "But, gentlemen," Churm interposed, "if I give him my blank check, he must have carte blanche, and no one to interfere inl his management." Every Director, from Presideut Brummarge down, drew a long face at this condition. It was one of their great privileges to potter in the Dunderbunk affairs and propose ludicrous impossibilities. "Just as you please," Churm continued. "I name a competent man, a gentleman, and fine fellow. I back him with all the cash he wants. But he must have his own way. Now take him, or leave him!" Such despotic talk had never been heard before in that Directors' Room. They relucted a moment. But they thought of their togas of advertisements in danger. The blank check shook its blandish- ments before their eyes. "We take him," they said, and Richard Wade was the new Superintendent unanimously. ' He shall be at Dunderbunk to take hold to-morrow morning;" said Churm, and went off to notify him. Upon this, Consternation sailed out of the hearts of Brummage and associates. They lunched with good appetites over the green table, and the President confidently remarked, - "I don't believe there is going to be much of a crisis, after all." CHAPTER II. BARRACKS FOR THE HERO. WADE packed his kit, qad took the Hudson-River train for Dunderbunk the same afternoon. He swallowed his dust, he gasped for his fresh air, ha wept over his cinders, he refused his "lozengers," he was admired by all the   90          GOOD STORIES. pretty girls and detested by all the puny men in the train, and in good time got down at his station. He stopped on the platform to survey the land and water privi- leges of his new abode. s( The June sunshine is unequalled," he soliloquized, " the river is splendid, the hills are pretty, and the Highlands, north, respecta- ble; but the village has gone to seed. Place and people look lazy, vicious, and ashamed. I suppose those chimneys are my Foundry. The smoke rises as if the furnaces were ill-fed and weak in the lungs. Nothing, I can see, looks alive, except that queer little steamboat coming in,-the 'I. Ambuster,'-jolly name for a boat!" Wade left his traps at the station, and walked through the vil- lag-e. All the gilding of a golden sunset of June could not make it anything but commonplace. It would be forlorn on a gray day, and utterly dismal in a storm. "I must look up a civilized house to lodge in," thought. the stranger. "I cannot possibly camp at the tavern. Its offence is -rum, and smells to heaven." Presently our explorer found a neat, white, two-story, home-like abode on the upper street, overlooking the river. "This promises," he thought. "Here are roses on the porch, a piano, or, at least, a melodeon, by the parlor-window, and they are insured in the Mutual, as the Mutual's plate announces. Now, if that nice-looking person in black I see setting a table in the back room is a widow, I will camp here." Perry Purtett was the name on the door, and opposite the sign of an omnium-gatherum country store hinted that Perry was de- ceased. The hint was a broad one. Wade read, "Ringdove, Suc- cessor to late P. Purtett." "It's worth a try to get in here/out of the pagan barbarism around. I'll propose - as a lodger -to the widow." So said Wade, and rang the bell under the roses. A pretty, slim, delicate, fai--haired maiden answered. "This explains the roses and the melodeon," thought Wade, and, asked, "Call I see your mother?"   "OVE   AND SKATES.         91 Mamma came.   M Mild, timid, accustomed to depend on the late Perry, and wants a friend," Wade analyzed, while he bowed. - He proposed himself as a lodger. "I did n't know it was talked of generally,' replied the widow, plaintively; "but I have said that we felt lonesome, Mr. Purtett bein' gone, and if the new minister --- " Here she paused. The cut of Wade's jib was unclerical. He did not stoop, like a new minister. He was not pallid, meagre, and clad in unwholesome black, like the same. His bronzed face was frank and bold and unfamiliar with speculations on Original Sin or Total Depravity. "I am not the new minister," said Wade, smiling slightly over his moustache; "but a new Superinteifdent for the Foundry." "Mr. Whiffler is goin'?" exclaimed Mrs. Purtett. She looked at her daughter, who gave a little sob and ran out of the room. "Jhat makes my daughter Belle feel bad," says the widow, "c is that she had a friend, - well, it is n't too much to say that they were as good as engaged, - and he was foreman of the Foundry finishin'- shop. But-somehow Whiffler spoilt him, just as he spoils everything he touches; and last winter, when Belle was away, William Tarbox -that 's his name, and his head is runnin' over with inventions- took to spreein' and liquor, and got ashamed of himself, and let down from a foreman to a hand, and is all the while lettin' down lower." The widow's heart thus opened, Wade walked in as consoler. This also opened the lodgings to him. He was presently installed in the large and small front-rooms up stairs, unpacking his traps, and making himself permanently at home. Superintendent Whiffler came over, by and by, to see his suc- cessor. He did not like his looks. The new man should have looked mean or weak or rascally, to suit the outgoer. "How long do you expect to stay?" asks Whiffler, with a half- sneer, watching Wade hanging a map and a print vis-a-vis. "Until the men and I, or the Company and I, cannot pull to- gether."   92          GOOD STORIES. "I1 'll give you a week to quarrel with both, and another to see the whole concern go to everlasting smash. And now, if you 're ready, I'll go over the accounts with you and prove it." Whiffler himself, insolent, cowardly, and a humbug, if not a swindler, was enough, Wade thought, to account for any failure. But he did not mention this conviction. CHAPTER III. HOW TO BEHEAD A HYDRA! AT ten next morning Whiffler handed over the safe-key to Wade, and departed to ruin some other property, if he could get one to ruin. Wade walked with him to the gate. a I 'm glad to be out of a sinking ship," said the ex-boss. ".The Works will go down, sure as shooting. And I think myself well out of the clutches of these men. They 're a bullying, swearing, drinking set of infernal ruffians. Foremen are just as bad as hands. I never felt safe of my life with 'em." "A bad lot are they," mused Wade, as he returned to the office. "I must give them a little sharp talk by way of Inaugural." He had the bell tapped and the men called together in the main building. Much work was still going on in an inefficient, unsystematic way. While hot fires were roaring inr the great furnaces, smoke rose from the dusty beds where Titanic castings were cooling. Great cranes, manacled with heavy chains, stood over the furnace-doors, ready, to lift steaming jorums of melted metal, and pour out, hot and hot, for the moulds to swallow. Raw material in big heaps lay about, waiting for the fire to ripen it. Here was a stack of long, rough, rusty pigs, clumsy as the shillelahs of the Anakim. There was a pile of short, thick masses, lying higgledy-piggledy, stuff from the neighboring mines, which   -LU V AIVi  OAA1LO. 4o  needed to be crossed with foreign- stock before it could be of much use in civilization. Here, too, was raw material organized; a fly-wheel, large enough to keep the knobbiest of asteroids revolving without a wabble-; a cross-head, cross-tail, and piston-rod, to help a great sea-going steamer breast the waves; a light walking-beam, to whirl the pad- dles of a fast boat on the river; and other members of machines, only asking to be put together and vivified by steam and they would go at their work with a will. From the black rafters overhead hung the heavy folds of a dim atmosphere, half dust, half smoke. A dozen sunbeams, forcing thfeir way through the grimy panes of the grimy upper windows, found this compound quite palpable and solid, and they moulded out of it a series of golden bars set side by side aloft, like the pipes of an organ out of its perpendicular. Wade grew indignant," as he looked about him and saw so much good stuff and good force wasting for want of a little will and skill to train the force and manage the stuff. He abhorred bankruptcy and chaos. "All they want here is a head," he thought. He shook his own. The brain within was well developed with healthy exercise. It filled its case, and did not rattle like a withered kernel, or sound soft like a rotten one. It was a vigorous, muscular brain. The owner felt that he could trust it for an effort, as he could his lungs for a shout, his legs for a leap, or his fist for a knock- down argument. At the tap of the bell the " bad lot " of men came together. They numbered more than two hundred, though the Foundry was working short. They had been notified that " that gonoph of a Whiffler was kicked out, and a new feller'was in, who looked cranky enough, and wanted to see 'em and tell 'em whether he was a damn' fool or not." So all lands collected from the different parts of the Foundry to see the head. They came up with easy and somewhat swaggering bearing, -a good many roughs, with here and there' a ruffian. Severalas they   "         GOOD STORIES. approached, swung and tossed, for mere overplus of strength, the sledges with which they had been tapping at the bald shiny pates of their anvils. Several wielded their long pokers like lances. Grimychaps, all with their faces streaked, like Blackfeet in their war-paint. Their hairy chests showed, where some men parade elaborate shirt-bosoms.- Some had their sleeves pushed up to the elbow to exhibit their compact flexors and extensors. Some had rolled their flannel up to the shoulder, above the bulging muscles of the upper arm. They wore aprons tied about the neck, like the bibs of our childhood,--or about the waist, like the coquettish articles which young housewives affect. But there was no coquetry in these great flaps of leather or canvas, and they were besmeared and rnst- stained quite beyond any bib that ever suffered under bread-and- molasses or mud-pie treatment. They lounged and swaggered up, and stood at ease, not without rough grace, in a sinuous line, coiled and knotted like a snake. Ten feet back stood the new Hercules who was to take down that Hydra's two hundred crests of insubordination. They inspected him, and he them as coolly. He read and ticketed each man, as he came up,-- good, bad, or on the fence, - and marked each so that he would knowy him among a myriad. The Hands faced the Head. It was a question whether the two hundred or the one would be master in Dunderbunk. Which was boss? An old question. It has to be settled when- ever a new man claims power, and there is always a struggle until it is fought out by main force of brain or muscle. Wade had made up his mind on this subject. He waited a mo- ment until the men were still. He was a Saxon six-footer of thirty. He stood easily on his pins, as if he had eyed men and facts before. His mouth looked firm, his brow freighted, his nose clipper,-that the hands could see. But clipper noses are not always backed by a stout hull. Seemingly freighted brows sometimes carry nothing but ballast and dunnage. The firmness may all be in the moustache, while the mouth hides beneath, a mere silly slit. All which the hands knew.   "OVE AND SKAT   ES.        95 Wade began, short and sharp as a trip-hammer, when it has a bar to shape. "I 'm the new Superintendent. Richard Wade is my name, I rang the bell because I wanted to see you and have you see -me. You know as well as I do that these Works are in a bad way. They lcan't stay so. They must come up and pay you regular wages and the Company profits. Every man of you has got to be here on the spot when the bell strikes, and up to the mark in his work. You Iave n't been, - and you know it. You 've turned out rotten iron, - stuff that any honest shop would be ashamed of. Now there's to be a new leaf turned over here. You 're to be paid on the nail; but you 've got to earn your money. I won't have any idlers or shirkers or rebels about me. I shall work hard myself, and every man of you will, or he leaves the shop. Now, if anybody has a complaint to make, I 'll hear him before you all." The men were evidently impressed with Wade's Inaugural. It meant something. But they were not to be put down so easily, after long misrule. There began to be a whisper, - "B'il in, Bill Tarbox! and talk up to him!" Presently Bill shouldered forward and faced the new ruler. Since Bill took to drink and degradation, he had been the butt-end of riot and revolt at the Foundry. He had had his own way with Whiffler. He did not like to abdicate and give in to this new chap without testing him. In a better mood, Bill would have liked Wade's looks andavords; but to-day he had a sore head, a sour face, and a bitter heart from last night's spree. And then he had -heard -it was as well known already in Dunderbunk as if the town-crier bad cried it-that Wade was lodging at Mrs. Purtett's, where poor Bill was excluded. So Bill stepped forward as spokesman of the ruffianly element, and the immoral force gathered behind and backed him heavily. Tarbox, too, was a Saxon six-footer of thirty. But he had sagged one inch for want of self respect. He had spoilt his color and dyed' his moustache. He wore foxy-black pantaloons tucked into red- topped boots, with the name of the maker on a gilt shield. His red   96 -        GOOD STORIES. flannel shirt was open at the neck and caught with a black handker- chief. His damaged the was in permanent crape for the late lamented Poole. "We allow," says Bill, in a tone half-way between Lablache's De profundis and a burglar's bull-dog's snarl, "that we 've did our work as good as need to be did. We 'xpect we know our rights. We ha'n't ben treated fair, and I 'm damned if we 're go'n' to stan' it." "Stop!" says Wade. "No swearing in this shop!" "Who the Devil is go'n' to stop it?" growled Tarbox. "I am. Do you step back now, and let some one come out who can talk like a gentleman!" "I 'm damned if I stir till I 've had my say out," says Bill, shak- ing himself up and looking dangerous. "Go back!" Wade moved close to him, also looking dangerous. "Don't tech me!"Bill threatened, squaring off. . He was not quick enough. Wade knocked him down flat on a heap of moulding-sand. The hat In mourning for Poole found its place in a puddle. Bill did not like the new Emperor's method of compelling kotou. Round One of the mill had not given him enough. He jumped up from his soft bed and made a vicious rush at Wade. But he was damaged by evil courses. He was fighting against law and order, on the side of wrong and bad manners. The same fist met him again, and heavier. Up went his heels! Down went his head! It struck the ragged edge of a fresh casting, and there he lay stunned and bleeding on his hard black pillow. "Ring the bell to go to work!" said Wade, in a tone that made the ringer jump. "Now, men, take hold and do your duty, and everything will go smooth." The bell clanged in. The line looked at its prostrate champion, then at the new boss standing there, cool and brave, and not afraid of a regiment of sledge-hammers. They wanted an Executive. They wanted to be well governed, -                                  "OVE AND. SKATES.           97 as all men do. They wanted disorder out and order in. The new man looked like a man, talked fair, hit hard. Why not all -hands give in with a good grace and go to work like honest fellows? The line broke up. Tile hands went off to their duty. And there was never any more insubordination at Dunderbunk. This was June. Skates in the next chapter. Love in good time afterward shall glide upon the scene. CHAPTER    IV. A CHRISTMAS GIFT. THE pioneer sunbeam of next Christmas morning rattled over the Dunderbunk hills, flashed into Richard Wade's eyes, waked him, and was off, ricochetting across the black ice of the river. Wade jumped up, electrified and jubilant. He, had gone to bed, feeling quite too despondent for so healthy a fellow. Christmas Eve, the time of family meetings, reminded him how lonely he was. He had not a relative in the world, except two little nieces,---one as tall as his knee, the other almost up to his waist; and them he had safely bestowed in a nook of New England, to gain wit and virtues as they gained inches. "I have had a stern and lonely life," thought Wade, as he blew out his candle last night, " and what has it profited me?" Perhaps the pioneer sunbeam answered this question with 'a truism, not always as applicable as in this case, - "A brave, able, self-respecting manhood is fair profit for any man's first thirty years of life." But, answered or not, the question troubled Wade no more. He shot out of bed in tip-top spirits; shouted "Merry Christmas!" at the rising disk of the sun; looked over the fblack ice;t thrilled with the thought of a long holiday for skating; and proceeded to dress in I .   98         -GOOD STORIES. a knowing suit of rough clothes, singing, "Ah, non giunge " as he slid into them. Presently, glancing from his south window, he observed several matinal smokes rising from the chimneys of a country house a mile away, on a slope fronting the river. "Peter Skerrett must be back from Europe at last," he thought. "I hope he is as fine a fellow as he was ten years ago. I hope marriage has not made him a muff, and wealth a weakling." Wade went down to breakfast with an heroic appetite. His "Merry Christmas " to Mrs. Purtett, was followed up by a ravished kiss and the gift of a silver butter-knife. The good widow did not know which to be most charmed with. The butter-knife was gen- uine, shining, solid silver, with her initials, M. B. P., Martha Bilsby Purtett, given in luxuriant flourishes; but then. the kiss had such a fine twang, such an exhilarating titillation! The late Perry's kisses, from first to last,- had wanted point. They were, as the Spanish proverb would put it, unsavory as unsalted eggs, for want of a moustache. The widow now perceived, with mild regret, how much she had missed when she married " a man all shaven and 'shorn." Her cheek, still fair, though forty, flushed with novel delight, and she appreciated her lodger more than ever. Wade's salutation to Belle Purtett was more distant. There must be a little friendly reserve between a handsome young man and a pretty young woman several grades lower in the social scale, living in the same house. They were on the most cordial terms however; and her gift,- of course embroidered slippers, - and his to her,-of course "The Illustrated Poets," in Turkey mo- rocco, - were exchanged with tender good-will on both sides. "We shall meet -on the ice, Miss Belle," said Wade. "It is a day of a thousand for skating." ' Mr. Ringdove says you are a famous skater," Belle rejoined. "He saw you on the river yesterday evening." 'i Yes: Tarbox and I were practising to exhibit to-day; but I could not do much with my dull old skates." Wade breakfasted deliberately, as a holiday morning allowed,   "OVE AND SKATES.           99 and then walked down to the Foundry. There would be no work done to-day, except by a small gang keeping up the fires. The Superintendent wished only to give his First Semi-Annual Report an hour's polishing, before he joined all Dunderbunk on the ice. It was a halcyon day, worthy of its motto, "Peace on earth, good-will to men." The air was electric, the sun overflowing with jolly shine, the river smooth and sheeny from the hither bank to the snowy mountains opposite. "I wish I were Rembrandt, to paint this grand shadowy inte. rior," thought Wade, as he entered the silent, deserted Foundry. "With the gleam of the snow in my eyes, it looks deliciously warm and chiaroscuro. When the men are here and 'fervet opus,' - the pot boils, - I cannot stop to see the picturesque." He opened his office, took his Report and began to complete it with ,s, ;s, and .s in the right places. All at once the bell of the Works rang out loudl and clear. Pres- ently the Superintendent became aware of a tramp and-a bustle in the building. By and by came a tap at the office-door. "Come in," said Wade, and, enter young Perry Purtett. Perry was a boy of fifteen, with hair the color of fresh sawdust, white eyebrows, and an uncommonly wide-awake look. Ringdove, his father's successor, could never teach Perry the smirk, the grace, and the seductiveness of the counter, so the boy had found his place in the finishing-shop of the Foundry. "Some of the hands would like to see you for half a jiff, Mr. Wade," said he. "Will you come along, if you please?" There was a good deal of easy swagger about Perry; as there is always in boys and men whose business is to watch the lunging of steam-engines. Wade followed him. Perry led the way with a jaunty air, that said, - "Room here!  Out of the way, you lubberly bits of cast-iron! Be   careful, now, you big derricks, or I'll walk right over you! Room now for Me   and My suite!" This pompous: usher conducted the Superintendent to the very spot- in the main room of the Works where, six months before, the   'rO     .    GOOD STORIES. Inaugural had been pronounced and the first Veto spoken and enacted. And there, as six months before, stood the Hands awaiting their Head. But the aprons, the red shirts, and the grime of working days were off, and the whole were in holiday rig,-as black and smooth and shiny from top to toe as the members of a Congress of ,Undertakers. Wade, following in the wake of Perry, took his stand facing the -rank, and waited to see what he was summoned for. He had not -long to wait. To the front stepped Mr. William Tarbox, foreman of the finisli- ing-shop,; no longer a bhoy, but an erect, fine-looking fellow, with no nitrate in his moustache, and his hat permanently out of mourn- ing for the late Mr. Poole. "Gentlemen," said Bill, "I move that this meeting organize by appointing Mr. Smith Wheelwright Chairman. As many as are in favor of this motion, please to say ' Aye. " "Aye!" said the crowd, very loud and big. And then every man looked at his neighbor, a little abashed, as if he himself had made all the noise. "This is a free country," continues Bill. "Every woter has a fair shake. Contrary minds, ' (No.'" 'No contrary minds. The crowd uttered a great silence. Every man looked at his neighbor, surprised to find how well they agreed. "Unanimous!" Tarbox pronounced. "No fractious minorities here, to block the wheels of legislation!"  The crowd burst into a roar at this significant remark, and, again abashed, dropped portcullis on its laughter, cutting off the flanks and tail of the sound. "Mr. Purtett, will you please conduct the Chairman to the Chair," says Bill, very stately. "Make way here!" cried Perry, with the manner of a man -seven feet high. "Step out now, Mr. Chairman!" He took a big, grizzled, docile-looking fellow patronizingly by the /   "OVE   AND SKATES. arm, led him forward, and chaired him on a large, cylinder-h6ad, in the rough, just hatched out of its mould. "Bang away with that, and sing out, ' Silence!'" says the know- t ing boy, handing Wheelwright; an iron bolt, and taking, his place beside him, as prompter., The docile Chairman obeyed.  At his breaking silence by, hooting "Silence!" the audience had: another mighty bob-tailed 'laugh. "Say, tWill some honorable member state the object of this meeting?" whispered. the prompter. "Will some honorable mumbler state the subject of this.'ereo, meetin'?" says Chair, a little bashful and. confused. . . Bill Tarbox advanced, and, with a formal bow, began,--- "Mr. Chairman - " "Say, ' Mr. Tarbox has the floor'" piped Perry. "Mr. Tarbox has the floor," diapasoned the ,Chair. "Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen - "Bill began, and stopped. "Say, ' Proceed, Sir!" suggested Perry, which the senior did,. magnifying the boy's whisper a dozen times. Again Bill began, and stopped. "Boys," said he, dropping grandiloquence, "when I accepted the office of Orator of the Day at our primary, and promised to: bring forward our resolutions in honor of Mr. Wade with my best speech, I did n't think I was going to have such a head of steam on: that the waives would get stuck and the piston jammed, and I could n't say a word. "But," he continued, warming up, " when I think of the Indian; powwow we had in. this very spot six months ago,- and what a mean bloat I was, going to the stub-tail dogs with my hat over my eyes, - and what a hard lot we were all round, livin' on nothing but argee whiskey, and rampin' off on benders, instead of makin' good iron,-- and how the Works was flat broke,--and how Dun- derbunk was full of women crying over their husbands and mothers, ashamed of their sons, - boys, when I think how things was, and see how they are, and look at Mr. Wade standing there like a -"   102"         bUrU   oTi lU"I3. Bill hesitated for a comparison. "Like a thousand of brick," Perry Purtett suggested, sotto voce. The Chairman took this as a hint to himself. "Like a- thousand of brick," he said, with the voice of a Sten- tor. Here the audience roared and cheered, and the Orator got a fresh start  "4When you came, Mr. Wade," he resumed, " we was about sick of putty-heads and sneaks that did n't know enough or didn't dare to make us stand round and bone in. You walked in, b'ilin' over with grit. You took hold as if you belonged here. You made things jump like a two-headed tarrier. All we wanted was a live man to say, ' Here, boys, all together now! You 've got your stint, and I 've got mine. I'm boss in this shop, - but I can't do the first thing unless every man pulls his pound. Now, then, my hand is on the throttle, grease the wheels, oil the waives, poke the fires, hook on, and let's yank her through with a will!'" At this figure the meeting showed a tendency to cheer. "Si- ience! Perry sternly suggested. "Silence!" repeated the Chair. "Then," continued the Orator, "you wasn't one of the uneasy kind, always fussin' and cussin' round. You was n't always spyin' to see we did n't take home a cross-tail or a hundred-weight of cast- iron in our pants' pockets, or go to swiggin' hot metal out of the ladles on the sly." Here an enormous laugh requited Bill's joke. Perry prompted, the Chair banged with his bolt and cried, "Order!" "Well, now, boys," Tarbox went on, " what has come of having one of the right sort to be boss? Why, this. The Works go a- head, stiddy as the North River. We work full time and full- handed. We turn out stuff that no shop needs to be ashamed of. Wages is on the nail. We have a good time generally. How is that, boys, - Mr. Chairman and Gentlemen?" U That's so!" from everybody. '"And there's something better yet," Bill resumed. "Dunder-    V a1 bunk used to be full of crying women. They've stopped crying now." Here the whole assemblage, Chairman and all, burst into an irre- pressible cheer. "But I'm making my speech as long as a lightning-rod," said the speaker. "I'll put on the brakes, short. I guess Mr. Wade understands pretty well, now, how we feel; and if he don't, here it all is in shape, in this document, with ' Whereas' at the top, and 'Resolved' entered along down in five places. Mr. Purtett, will you hand the Resolutions to the Superintendent?" Perry advanced and did his office loftily, much to the amusement of Wade and the workmen. "Now," Bill resumed, " we wanted, besides, to make you a little gift, Mr. Wade, to remember the day by. So we got up a sub- scription, and every man put in his dime. Here's the present,- hand 'em over, Perry! '"There, Sir, is THE BEST PAIR OF SKATES to be had in York City, made for work, and no nonsense about 'em. We Dunder- bunk boys give 'em to you, one for all, and hope you 'l1 like 'em and beat the world skating, as you do in all the things we 've knowed you try. "Now, boys," Bill perorated, "before I retire to the, shades of private life, I motion that we give Three Cheers, -regular Top- lifters, - for Richard Wade!" "Hurrah! .Wade and Good Government!"    "Hurrah! Wade and Prosperity!"   "Hurrah! Wade and the Women's Tears Dry!" Cheers like the shout of Achilles! Wielding sledges is good for the bellows, it appears. Toplifters! Why, the smoky black rafters overhead had to tug hard to hold the roof on. Hurrah! From ev- ery corner of the vast building came back rattling echoes. The Works, the machinery, the furnaces, the stuff, all had their voice to add to the verdict. Maglnificent music! and our Anglo-Saxon is the only race in the world civilized enough to join in singing it. We are the only   i04          GOOD STORIES. hurrahing people,--the only brood hatched in a "Hurrah's nest." Silence restored, the Chairman, prompted by Perry, said, "Gen- tlemen, Mr. Wade has the floor for a few remarks." Of course Wade had to speak, and did. He would not have been an American in America else. But his heart was too full to say more than a few hearty and earnest words of good feeling. "Now, men," he closed, "I want to get away on the river and see if my skates will go as they look; so I'll end by proposing three cheers for Smith Wheelwright, our Chairman, three for our Orator, Tarbox, three for Old Dunderbunk,-Works, Men, Wo- men, and Children; and one big cheer for Old Father Iron, as rousing a cheer as ever was roared." So they gave their three times three with enormous enthusiasm. The roof shook, the furnaces rattled, Perry Purtett banged with the -Chairman's hammer, the great echoes thundered through the Foundry. And when they ended with one gigantic cheer for IRON, tough and true, the weapon, the tool, and the engine of all civilization, I it seemed as if the uproar would never cease until Father Iron himself heard the call in his smithy away under the magnetic pole, and came clanking up, to return thanks in person. CHAPTER V. SKATING AS A FINE ART. OF. all the plays that are played by this playful world on its play-days, there is no play like Skating. To prepare a board for the moves of this game of games, a panel for the drawings of this Fine Art, a stage for the entrechats dand pirouettes of its graceful adepts, Zero, magical artificer, had been, for the last two nights, sliding at full speed up and down the North River.   L C V' A ND SKATES.         105? We have heard of Midas, whose touch made gold, and of the virgin under whose feet sprang roses; but Zero's heels and toes were armed with more precious -influences. They left a diam6nd way, where they slid, -a hundred and fifty miles of diamond, half a mile wide and six inches thick. Diamond can only reflect sunlight; ice can contain it. Zero's product, finer even than diamond, was filled-at the rate of a million to the square foot - with bubbles immeasurably little, and yet every one big enough to comprise the entire sun in small, but without alteration or abridgment. When the sun rose, each of these wonderful cells was ready to catch the tip of a sunbeam and house it in a shining abode. Besides this, Zero had inlaid its work, all along shore, with ex- quisite marquetry of leaves, brown and evergreen, of sprays and twigs, reeds and grasses. No parquet in any palace, from Fon- tainbleau to St. Petersburg, could show such delicate patterns, or could gleam so brightly, though polished with all the wax in Chris- tendom. ,On this fine pavement, all the way from Cohoes to Spuyten Duy- vil, Jubilee was sliding without friction, the Christmas morning of these adventures. Navigation was closed. Navigators had leisure. The sloops and schooners were frozen in along shore, the tugs and barges were laid up in basins, the floating palaces were down at New York, deodorizing their bar-rooms, regilding their bridal chambers, and' enlarging their spittoon accommodations alow and aloft, for next summer. All the population was out on the ice, skating, sliding, sledding, slipping, tumbling, to its heart's content. One person out of every Dunderbunk family was of course at home, roasting Christmas turkey. The rest were already at high jinks on Zero's Christmas present, when Wade and the men came down from the meeting. Wade buckled on his new skates in a jiffy. He stamped to set- tle himself, and then flung off half a dozen circles on the right leg, half a dozen with the left, and the same with either leg backwards.   -106         GOOD -STORIES. The ice, traced with these white peripheries, showed like -a blackboard, where a school has been chalking diagrams of Euclid, to point at with the " slow unyielding finger " of demonstration. "'Hurrah!" cries Wade, halting in front of the men, who, some on the Foundry wharf, some on the deck of our first acquaint- ance at Dunderbunk, the tugL "I. Ambuster,' were putting on their skates or watching him. "Hurrah! the skates are perfection! Are you ready, Bill? i "Yes," says Tarbox, whizzing off rings as exact as Giotto's autograph. "Now, then," Wade said, we 'll give Dunderbunk a laugh, as we. practised last night," They got under full headway, Wade backwards, Bill forwards, holding hands. When they were near enough to the merry throng out in the stream, both dropped into a sitting posture, with the left knee bent, and each with his right leg stretched out parallel to the ice and fitting compactly by the other man's leg. In this queer figure they rushed through the ltaughing crowd. Then all Dunderbunk formed a ring, argog for a grand show of SKATING AS A FINE ART. The world loves to see Great Artists, and expects them to do their duty. It is hard to treat of this Fine Art by the Art of Fine Writing. Its eloquent motions must be seen. To skate Fine Art, you must have a Body and a Soul, each of the First Order; otherwise you' will never get out of coarse art and skating in one syllable. So much for yourself, the motive power. And your machinery,--your smooth-bottomed rockers, the same shape stem and stern, - this must be as perfect as the man it moves, and who moves it. Now suppose you wish to skate so that the critics will say, "See! this athlete does his work as Church paints, as Darley draws, as' Palmer chisels, as Whittier strikes the lyre, and Long- fellow the dulcimer; he is as terse as Emerson, as clever as   "OVE AND SKATES.           107 Holmes, as graceful as Curtis; he is as calm as Seward, as keen as Phillips, as stalwart as Beecher; he is Garibaldi, he is Kit Carson, he is Blondin; he is as complete as the steamboat Metropolis, as Steers's yacht, as Singer's sewing-machine, as Colt's revolver, as the steam-plough, as Civilization." You wish to be so ranked among the people and things that lead the age;--consider the qualities you must have, and while you consider, keep your eye on Richard Wade, for he has them all in perfection. First,--of your physical qualities. You must have lungs, not bellows; and an active heart, not an assortment of sluggish auricles and ventricles. You must have legs, not shanks. Their shape is unimportant, except thatothey must not interfere at the knee. You must have muscles, not flabbiness; sinews like wire; nerves like sunbeams; and a thin layer of flesh to cushion the gable-ends, where you will strike, if you tumble,--which, once for all be it said, you must never do.   You must be all momentum, and no inertia. You must be one part grace, one force, one agility, and the rest caoutchouc, Manilla hemp, and watch-spring. Your ma- chine, your body, must be thoroughly obedient. It must go just so far- and no farther. You have got to be as unerring as a planet holding its own, emphatically, between forces centripetal and cen- trifugal.  Your aplomb must be as absolute as the pounce of a falcon. So much for a  few of the physical qualities necessary to be a Great Artist in Skating. See Wade, how he shows them! Now   for the moral and intellectual. Pluck is the first;--it always is the first quality. Then enthusiasm. Then patience. Then pertinacity.  Then a fine aesthetic faculty, - in short, good taste.' Then an orderly and submissive mind, that can consent to act in accordance with the laws of Art. Circumstances, too, must have been reasonably favorable. That well-known  sceptic, the King of tropical Bantam, could not skate, because he had never seen ice, and doubted even the existence of solid water. Widdring- ton, after the Battle of Chevy Chace, could not have skated, be- cause he had no legs, - poor fellow!   1085         GOOD STORIES. But granted the ice and the legs, then if you begin in the elastic days of youth, when cold does not sting, tumbles do not bruise, and duckings do not wet; if you have pluck and ardor enough to try everything; if you work slowly ahead and stick to it; if you have, good taste and a lively invention; if you are a man, and not a lub- ber ;-then, in fine, you may become a Great Skater, just as with equal power and equal pains you may put your grip on any kind of Greatness. The'technology of skating is imperfect. Few of the great feats, the Big Things, have admitted names. If I attempted to catalogue Wade's achievements, this chapter might become an unintelligible rhapsody. A sheet of paper and a pen-point cannot supply the place of a sheet of ice and a skate-edge. Geometry must have its diagrams, Anatomy its corpus to carve. Skating also refuses to be spiritualized into a Science; it remains an Art, and cannot be ex- pressed in a formula. Skating has its Little Go, its Great Go, its Baccalaureate, its 5M. A., its F. S. D., (Doctor of Frantic Skipping,) its A. G..D., (Doctor of Airy Gliding,) its N. T. D., (Doctor of No Tumbles,) and- finally its highest degree, U. P., (Unapproachable Podog- rapher). Wade was U. P. There were a hundred of Dunderbunkers who had passed their Little Go and could skate forward and backward easily. A half- hundred, perhaps, were through the Great Go; these could do outer edge freely. A dozen had taken the Baccalaureate, and were proudly repeating the pirouettes and spread-eagles of that degree. A few could cross their feet, on the edge, forward and backward, and shift edge on the same foot, and so were Magistri Artls. Wade, T. P., added to these an indefinite list of combinations and fresh contrivances. He spun spirals slow, and spirals neck or nothing. He pivoted on one toe, with the other foot cutting rings, inner and outer edge, forward and back. He skated on one foot better than the M. A s could on both. He ran on his toes; he slid   Ad r Js Ls I4Tl ALX Js J U"w on his heels; he cut up shines like a sunbeam on a .bender; he swung, light as if he could fly, if he pleased, like a wing-footed Mercury; he glided as if will, not muscle, moved him; he tore about in frenzies; his pivotal leg stood firm, his balance leg flapped like a graceful pinion; he turned somersets; he jumped, whirling backward as he went, over a platoon of boys laid flat on the ice;- the last boy winced, and thought he was amputated; but Wade flew over, and the boy still holds together as well as most boys. Be- sides this, he could write his name, with a flourish at the end, like the rubrica of a Spanish hidalgo. He could podograph any letter, and multitudes of ingenious curlicues which might pass for the alphabets of the unknown tongues. He could not tumble. It was Fine Art. Bill Tarbox sometimes pressed the champion hard. But Bill stopped just short of Fine Art, in High Artisanship. How Dunderbunk cheered this wondrous display!  How de- lighted the whole population was, to believe they possessed the best skater on the North River!  How they struggled to imitate! How they tumbled, some on their backs, some on their faces, some with dignity like the dying Coesar, some rebelliously like a cat thrown out of a garret, some limp as an ancient acrobate! How they laughed at themselves and at each other! "It's all in the new skates'," says Wade, apologizing for his unapproachable power and finish. "It's suthin' in the man," says Smith Wheelwright. "Now chase me everybody," said Wade. And, for a quarter of an hour, he dodged the merry crowd, until at last, breathless, he let himself be touched by pretty Belle Pur- tett, rosiest of all the Dunderbunk bevy of rosy maidens on the ice. ' He rayther beats Bosting," says Captain Isaac Ambuster to Smith Wheelwright. "It's so cold there that they can skate all the year round; but he beats them, all the same." The Captain was sitting in a queer little bowl of a skiff on: the deck of his tug, and rocking it like a cradle, as he talked.   i10         GOO -STORIES. "Bosting 's always hard to beat in anything," rejoined the ex- Chairman. "But if Bosting is to be beat, here's the man to do it." And now, perhaps, gentle reader, you think I have said enough in behalf of a limited fraternity, the Skaters. The next chapter, then, shall take up the cause of the Lovers, a more numerous body, and we will see whether True Love, which never makes " smooth running," can help its progress by a skate- blade.  CHAPTER VI. "GO NOT, HAPPY DAY, TILL THE MAIDEN YIELDS." CHRISTMAS noon at Dunderbunk. Every skater was i gallop- ing glee, -as the electric air, and the sparkling sun, and the glinting ice had a right to expect that they should all be. Belle Purtett, skating simply and well, had never looked so pretty and graceful. So thought Bill Tarbox. He had not spoken to her, nor she to him, for more than six months. The poor fellow was ashamed of himself and penitent for his past bad courses. And so, though he longed to have his old flame recognize him again, and though he was bitterly jealous and miserably afraid he should lose her, he had kept away and consumed his heart like a true despairing lover. But to-day Bill was a lion, only second to Wade, the unapproach- able lion-in-chief. -Bill was reinstated in public esteem, and had won back his standing in the Foundry. He had to-day made a speech which Perry Purtett gave everybody to understand "none of Senator Bill Seward's could hold the tallow to." Getting up the meeting and presenting Wade with the skates was Bill's own scheme, and it had turned out an eminent success. Everything began to look bright to him. His past life drifted out of his mind like the rowdy tales he used to read in the Sunday newspapers.   tJUVV  V  D1 SAAY JflD.    "L He had watched Belle Purtett all the morning, and saw that she distinguished nobody with her smiles, not even that coq du village, Ringdove. He also observed that she was furtively watching him. By and by she sailed out of the- crowd, and went off a little way to practice. "Now," said he to himself, "' sail in, Bill Tarbox!" Belle heard the sharp strokes of a powerful skater coming after her. Her heart divined who this might be. She sped away like the swift Camilla, and her modest drapery showed just enough and "ne quid nimis " of her ankles. Bill admired the grace and the ankles immensely. But his hopes sank a little at the flight, -for he thought she perceived his chase and meant to drop him. Bill had not had a classical education, and knew nothing of Galatea in the Eclogue, - how she did not hide, until she saw her swain was looking fondly after. "She wants to get away," he thought. "But she sha'n't,.-- no, not if I have to follow her to Albany." He struck out mightily. Presently the swift Camilla let herself be overtaken. "Good morning, Miss Purtett." (Dogged air.) ,' Good morning, Mr. Tarbox." (Taken-by-surprise air.) "I 've been admiring your skating," says Bill, trying to be cool. "Have you?" rejoins Belle, very cool and distant. "Have you been long on the ice?" he inquired hypocritically. "I came on two hours ago with Mr. Ringdove and the girls," re- turned she, with a twinkle which said," Take that,. Sir, for pretending you did not see me." "You 've seen Mr. Wade skate, then," Bill said, ignoring Ring- dove. "Yes; is n't it splendid?" Belle replied, kindling. "Tip-top!" "But then he does everything better than anybody." "So he does!"Bill said, -true to his friend, and yet beginning to be jealous of this enthusiasm. It was not the first time he had been jealous of Wade; but he had quelled his fears, like a good fellow.   "2         GOOD STORIES: Belle perceived Bill's jealousy, and could have cried for joy. She had known as little of her once lover's heart as he of hers. She only knew that he stopped coming to see her when he fell, and had not renewed his visits now that he was risen again. If she had not been charmingly ruddy with the brisk air and exercise, she would have betrayed her pleasure at Bill's jealousy with a fine blush. The sense of recovered power made her wish to use it again. She must tease him a little. So she continued, as they skated on in good rhythm,--  ' Mother and I would n't know what to do without Mr. Wade. We like him so much,"-said ardently. What Bill feared was true, then, he thought. Wade, noble fellow, worthy to win any woman's heart, had fascinated his landlady's daughter. "I don't wonder you like him," said he. "He deserves it." Belle was touched by her old lover's forlorn tone. "He does indeed," she said. "He has helped and taught us all so much. He has taken such good care of Perry. And then"- here she gave her companion a little look, and a little smile - he speaks so kindlyjof you, Mr. Tarbox." Smile, look, aiid words electrified Bill. He gave such a spring on his skates that he shot far ahead of the lady. He brought him- self back with a sharp turn. He has done kinder than he can speak," says Bill. "He has made a man of me again, Miss Belle." "I know it. It makes me very happy to hear you able to say so of yourself." She spoke gravely. "Very happy "-about anything that concerned him? Bill had to work off his overjoy at this by an exuberant flourish. He whisked about Belle, - outer edge backward. She stopped to admire. He finished by describing on the virgin ice, before her, the letters B. P., in his neatest style of podography, - easy letters to make, luckily: "I Beautiful!" exclaimed Belle. "What are those letters? O 1 B. P.! What do they stand for?" "Guess!"   "OVE ,AND SKATES.          113 "I 'm so dull," said she, looking bright as a diamond. "Let me think! B. P.? British Poets, perhaps." "Try nearer home!" "What are you likely to be thinking of that begins with B. P.?- O, I know! Boiler Plates!" She looked at him, -innocent as a lamb. Bill looked at her, delighted with her little coquetry. A woman without coquetry is insipid as a rose without scent, as Champagne without bubbles, or as corned beef without mustard. "It's something I'm thinking of most of the time," says he; "but I hope it is softer than Boiler Plates. B. P. stands for Miss Isabella Purtett." "c O!" says Belle, and she skated on in silence. "You came down with Alonzo Ringdove?"Bill asked, suddenly, aware of another pang after a moment of peace. "He came with me and his sisters," she replied. Yes; poor Ringdove had dressed himself in his shiniest black, put on his brightest patent-leather boots, with his new swan-necked skates newly strapped over them, and wore his new dove-colored overcoat with the lonfg skirts, on purpose to be lovely in the eyes of Belle on this occasion. Alas, in vain! "Mr. Ringdove is a great friend of yours, is n't he?" "If you ever came to see me now, you would know who my friends are, Mr. Tarbox." "Would you be my friend again, if I came, Miss Belle?" "Again?  I have always been so,--always, Bill." "Well, then, something more than my friend, - now that I am trying to be worthy of more, Belle?" "What more can I be?" she said, softly. "' My  wife." She curved to the right. He  followed. To the left. He was not to be shaken off. "Will you promise me not to say waives instead of valves, Bill? ' she said, looking pretty and saucy as could be. "I know, to say W for V  is fashionable in the iron business; but I don't like it." 8   "4         -GOOUD T'V'ul S.^" "What a thing a woman is to dodge!" says Bill. "Suppose I told you that men brought up inside of boilers, hammering on the inside against twenty hammering like Wulcans on the outside, get their ears so dumfounded that they can't tell whether they are say- ing valves or walves, wice or virtue, -suppose I told you that,-- what would you say, Belle?" "Perhaps I 'd say that you pronounce virtue so well, and act it so sincerely, that I can't make any objection to your other words. If you 'd asked me to be your vije, Bill, I might have said I did n't understand; but wife I do understand, and I say "- She nodded, and tried to skate off. Bill stuck close to her side. "Is this true, Belle?" he saidi almost doubtfully. "True as truth!" She put out her hand. He took it, and they skated on together, --hearts beating to the rhythm of their movements. The uproar and merriment of the village came only faintly to them. It seemed as if all Nature was hushed to listen to their plighted troth, their words of love renewed, more earnest for long suppression. The beautiful ice spread before them, like their life to come, a path- way untouched by any sorrowful or weary footstep. The blue sky was cloudless. The keen air stirred the pulses like the vapor of frozen wine. The benignant mountains westward kindly surveyed the happy pair, and the sun seemed created to warm and cheer them. "And you forgive me, Belle?" said the lover. "I feel as if I had only gone bad to make me know how much better going right is." "I always knew you would find it out; I never stopped hoping and praying for it." "That must have been what brought Mr. Wade here." "O, I did hate him so, Bill, when I heard of something that happened between you and him.! I thought him a brute and a tyrant. I never could get over it, until he told mother that you were the best machinist he ever knew, and would some time grow to be a great inventor." "I 'm glad you hated him. I suffered rattlesnakes and collapsed flues for fear you 'd go and love him.   VI V  Ii ANVD A!LMA I ^J.     115 "My affections were engaged," she said, with simple seriousness. "O, if I 'd only thought so long ago! How-lovely you are!" exclaims Bill, in an ecstasy. "And how refined! And how good! God bless you!" He made up suclh a wishful mouth,.- so wishful for one of the pleasurable duties of mouths, that Belle blushed, laughed, and looked down, and as she did so saw that one of her straps was trailing. "Please fix it, Bill," she said, stopping and kneeling. Bill also knelt, and his wishfiul mouth immediately took its chance. A manly smack and sweet little feminine chirp sounded as their lips met. Boom! twanging gay as the first tap of a marriage bell, a loud crack in the ice rang musically for leagues up and down the river. "Bravo!" it seemed to say. "Well done, Bill Tarbox! Try again!" Which the happy fellow did, and the happy maiden per- mitted. "Now," said Bill, " let us go and hug Mr. Wade!" "What! Both of us?"  Belle protested. Mr. Tarbox, I am ashamed of you!" CHAPTER      VII. WADE DOWN! THE hugging of Wade by the happy pair had to be done meta- phorically, since it was done in the sight of all Dunderbunk. He had divined a happy result, when he missed Bill Tarbox from the arena, and saw him a furlong away, hand in hand with his recon- ciled sweetheart. "I envy you, Bill," said he, " almost too much to put proper fervor into my congratulations." "Your time will come," the foreman rejoined. And says Belle, "I am sure there is a lady skating somewhere, and only waiting for you to follow her."   "6         GOOD STORIES. "I don't see her," Wade replied, looking with a mock-grave face up and down and athwart the river. "When you 've all gone to dinner, I 'll prospect ten miles up and down and try to find a good matrimonial claim that 's not taken." "You will not come up to dinner?"Belle asked. "I can hardly afford tow make two bites of a holiday," said Wade. "I 've sent Perry up for a luncheon. Here he comes with it. So I cede my quarter of your pie, Miss Belle, to a better fellow." "O!" cries Perry, coming up and bowing elaborately. "Mr. and Mrs. Tarbox, I believe. Ah, yes! Well, I will mention it up at Albany. I am going to take my Guards up to call on the Gov- ernor." Perry dashed off, followed by a score of Dunderbunk boys organ- ized by him as the Purtett Guards, and taught to salute him as Generalissimo with military honors. So many hundreds of turkeys, done to a turn, now began to have an effect upon the atmosphere. Few odors are more subtile and pervading than this, and few more appetizing. Indeed, there is said to be an odd fellow, a strictly American gourmand, in New York, who sits, from noon to dusk on Christmas-Day, up in a tall steeple, merely to catch the aroma of roast-turkey floating over the city, - and much good, it is said, it does him. Hard skating is nearly as effective to whet hunger as this gentle- man's expedient. When the spicy breezes began to blow soft as those of Ceylon's isle over the river, and every whiff talked Turkey, the population of Dunderbunk listened to the wooing, and began to follow its several noses--snubs, beaks, blunts, sharps, piquants, dominants, fines, bulgies, and bifids- on the way to the several households which those noses adorned or defaced. Prosperous Dun. derbunk had a Dinner, yes, a DINNER, that day, and Richard Wade was gratefully remembered by many over-fed foundry-men and their over-fed families. Wade had not had half skating enough. "I 'll time myself down to Skerrett's Point," he thought, "and take my luncheon there among the hemlocks."   The Point was on the property of Peter Skerrett, Wade's friend and college comrade of ten years gone. Peter had be'en anabsentee in Europe, and smokes from his chimneys this morning had con- firmed to Wade's eyes the rumor of his return. Skerrett's Point was a mile below the Foundry. Our hero did his mile under three minutes. How many seconds under, I will not say. I do not wish to make other fellows unhappy. The/ Point was a favorite spot of Wade's. Many a twilight of last summer, tired with his fagging at the Works to make good the evil of Whiffler's rule, he had lain there on the rocks under the hemlocks, breathing the spicy methyl they poured into the air. After his day's hard fight, in the dust and heat of the Foundry, with anarchy and. unthrift, he used to take the quiet restoratives of Na- ture, until the murmur and fragrance of the woods, the cool wind, and the soothing loiter of the shining stream had purged him from the fevers of his task. To this old haunt he skated, and kindling a little fire, as an old campaigner loves to do, he sat down and lunched heartily on ]Mrs. Purtett's cold leg,--cannibal thought! -on the cold leg of Mrs. ' Purtett's yesterday's turkey. Then lighting his weed, --dear ally of the lonely, - the Superintendent began to think of his foreman's bliss, and to long for something similar on his own plane. "I hope the wish is father to its fulfilment," he said. "But I must not stop here and be a spooney. Such a halcyon day I may not have again in all my life, and I ought to make the best of it with my New Skates." So he dashed off, and filled the little cove above the Point with a labyrinth of curves and flourishes. When that bit of crystal tablet was well covered, the podographer sighed for a new sheet to inscribe his intricate rubricas upon* Why not write more stanzas of the poetry of motion on the ice below the Point? Why not? Braced by his lunch on the brown fibre of good Mrs. Purtett's cold drumstick and thigh, Wade was now in fine trim. The air was more glittering and electric than ever. It was triumph and victory   "O         LlVV1. ,JL VJll,.Lj I L*  and paean in action to go flashing along over this footing, smoother than polished marble and sheenier than first-water gems. Wade felt the high exhilaration of pure blood galloping through a body alive from top to toe. The rhythm of his movement was like music to him. The Point ended in a sharp promontory. Just before he came abreast of it, Wade under mighty headway flung into his favorite corkscrew spiral on one foot, and went whirling dizzily along round and round in a straight line. At the dizziest moment, he was suddenly aware of a figure, also turning the Point at full speed, and rushing to a collision. He jerked aside to avoid it. He could not look to his footing. His skate struck a broken oar, imbedded in the ice. He fell violently, and lay like a dead man. His New Skates, Testimonial of Merit, seem to have served him a shabby trick. CHAPTER    VIII. TETE-A-TETE. SEEING Wade lie there motionless, the lady- Took off her spectacles, blew her great red nose, and stiffly drew near. Spectacles! Nose! No, - the latter feature of hers had never become acquainted with the former; and there was as little stiffness as nasal redness about her. A fresh start, then, - and this time accuracy! Appalled by the loud thump of the stranger's skull upon the chief river of the State of New York, the lady - it was a young lady whom Wade had tumbled to avoid - turned, saw a human be- ing lying motionless, and swept gracefully toward him, like a' Good Samaritan, on the outer edge. It was not her fault, but her destiny, that she had to be graceful even under these tragic circumstances. "Dead!" she thought. "Is he dead??   The appalling thump had cracked the ice, and she could not know how well the skull was cushioned inside with brains to resist a blow. She shuddered, as she swooped about toward this possible corpse. It might be that he was killed, and half the fault hers. No wonder her fine color, shining in the right parts of an admirably drawn face, all disappeared instantly. But she evidently was not frightened. She halted, kneeled, looked curiously at the stranger, and then proceeded, in a perfectly cool and self-possessed way, to pick him up. . A solid fellow, heavy to lift in his present lumpish condition of dead-weight! She had to tug mightily to get him up into a sitting position. When he was raised, all the backbone seemed gone from his spine, and it took the whole force of her vigorous arms to sustain him. The effort was enough to accpunt for the return of her color. It came rushing back splendidly. Cheeks, forehead, everything but nose, blushed. The hard work of lifting so much avoirdupois, and possibly, also, the novelty of supporting so much handsome fellow, intensified'all her hues. Her eyes - blue, or that shade even more faithful than blue - deepened; and her pale golden hair grew sev- eral carats - not carrots - brighter. She was repaid for her active sympathy at once by discovering that this big, awkward thing was not a dead, but only a stunned body. It had an ugly bump and a bleeding cut on its manly skull, but otherwise was quite an agreeable object to contemplate, and plain- ly on its " unembarrassed brow Nature had written,' Gentleman.'" As this young lady had never had a fair, steady stare at a stunned hero before, she seized her advantage. She had hitherto been distant with the other sex. She had no brother. Not one of her male cousins had ever ventured near enough to get those cousinly privileges that timid cousins sigh for and plucky cousins take, if they are worth taking. Wade's impressive face, though for the moment blind as a statue's, also seized its advantage and stared at her intently, with a pained and pleading look, new to those resolute features.   12U          rUU .V/ A1l U1fX zo Wade was entirely unconscious of the great hit he had made-by his tumble: plump into the arms of this heroine! There were fel- lows extant who would have suffered any imaginable amputation, any conceivable mauling, any fling from the-apex of anything into the lowest deeps of anywhere, for the honor he was now enjoying. But all he knew was that his skull was a beehive in an uproar, and that bne lobe of his brain was struggling to swarm off. His legs and arms felt as if they belonged to another man, and a very limp one at that. A ton of cast-iron seemed to be pressing his eyelids down, and a-trickle of red-hot metal flowed from his cut forehead. "I shall have to scream," thought the lady, after an instant of anxious waiting, "if he does not revive. I cannot leave him to go for help." Not a prude, you see. A prude would have had cheap scruples about compromising herself by taking a man in her arms. Not a vulgar person, who would have required the stranger to be properly recommended by somebody who came over in the Mayflower, before she helped him. Not a feeble-minded damsel, who, if she had not fainted, would have fled away, gasping and in tears. No timidity or prudery or underbred doubts about this thorough creature. She knew she was in her right womanly place, and she meant to stay there. But she began to need, help, possibly a lancet, possibly a pocket- pistol, possibly hot blankets, possibly somebody to knead these lifeless lungs, and pommel this flaccid body, until circulation was restored. Just as she was making up her mind to scream, Wade stirred. He began to tingle as if a familiar of the Inquisition were slapping him all over with fine-toothed curry-combs. He became half- conscious of a woman supporting him. In a stammering and intox- icated voice he murmured, - "Who ran to catch me when I fell, And kissed the place to make it well? My-" He opened his eyes. It was not his mother; for she was long since deceased. Nor was this non-mother kissing the place.   U  Y  &'IXV.  OJ E .L L JlUJer ' 1JA1X In fact, abashed at the blind eyes suddenly unclosing so near her, she was on the point of letting her burden drop. When dead men come to life in such a position, and begin to talk about ' kissing the place," young ladies, however independent of conventions, may well grow uneasy. But the stranger, though alive, was evidently in a molluscous, in- vertebrate condition. He could not sustain himself. Shle still held him up, a little more at arm's-length, and all at once the reaction from "extreme anxiety brought a gush of tears to her eyes. "Don't cry," says Wade, vaguely, and still only hAlf-conscious. "I promise never to do so again."' At this, said with a childlike earnestness, the lady smiled. "Don't scalp me," Wade continued, in the same tone. "Squaws never scalp." He raised his hand to his bleeding forehead. She laughed outright at his queer plaintive tone and the new class he had placed her in. Her laugh and his own movement brought Wade fully to himself. She perceived that his look was transferring her from the order of scalping squaws to her proper place as a beautiful young woman of the highest civilization, not smeared with vermilion, but blushing celestial rosy. "Thank you," said Wade. "I can sit up now without assistance." And he regretted profoundly that good breeding obliged him to say SO. She withdrew her arms. He rested on the ice,-- posture of the Dying Gladiator. She made an effort to be cool and distant as usual; but it would not do. This weak mighty man still interested her. It was still her business to be strength to him. He made a feeble attempt to wipe away the drops of blood from his forehead with his handkerchief. "c Let me be your surgeon!" said she. She produced her own folded handkerchief,--M. D. were the initials in the corner,-and neatly and tenderly turbaned him. Wade submitted with delight to this treatment. A tumble with such trimmings was luxury indeed. f   "Who would not break his head," he thought, "to have these delicate fingers plying about him, and this pure, noble face so'close to his? What a queenly indifferent manner she has! What a calm brow! What honest eyes! What a firm nose! What equable cheeks! What a grand indignant mouth I Not a bit afraid of me! She feels that I am a gentleman and will not presume." "There!" said she, drawing back. "Is that comfortable? '? "Luxury!" he ejaculated with fervor. "I am afraid I am to blame for your terrible fall." "No, -my own clumsiness and that oar-blade are in fault." "If you feel well enough to be left alone, I will skate off and call my friends." ( Please do not leave me quite yet!" says Wade, entirely satisfied with the tete-a-tte. Ah! here comes Mr. Skerrett round the Point!" she said, - and sprang up, looking a little guilty. CHAPTER IX. "OVER IN THE FIRST DEGREE. PETER SRERRETT came sailing round the purple rocks of his Point, skating like a man who has been in the South of Europe for -two winters. He was decidedly Anglicized in his whiskers, coat, and shoes. Otherwise he in all respects repeated his well-known ancestor, Sker- rett of the Revolution; whose two portraits -1. A ruddy hero in regimentals, in Gilbert Stuart's early brandy-and-water manner; 2. A rosy sage in senatorials, in Stuart's later claret-and-water manner -hang in his descendant's dining-room. Peter's first look was a provokingly significant one at the con- fused and blushing young lady. Secondly he inspected the Dying Gladiator on the ioe.   JL UV Jt  --IJ. V Jl-  AIJlAXl JL J :Ag/ AaJ "Have you been tilting at this gentleman, Mary?" he asked, in the voice of a cheerful, friendly fellow. "Why! Hullo. Hooray! It's Wade, Richard Wade, Dick Wade! Don't- look, Miss Mary, while I give him the grips of all the secret societies-we belonged to in College." Mary, however, did look on, pleased and amused, while Peter plumped down on the ice, shook his friend's hand, and examined him as if he were fine crockery, spilt and perhaps shattered. "It's not a case of trepanning, Dick, my boy?" said he. "No," said the other. "I tumbled in trying to dodge this lady. The ice thought my face ought to be scratched, because I had been scratching its face without mercy. My wits were knocked out of me; but they are tired of secession, and pleading to be let in again." "Keep some of them out for our sake! We must have you at our commonplace level. Well, Miss Mary, I suppose this is the first time you have had the sensation of breaking a man's head. You generally hit lower." Peter tapped his heart. "I 'm all right now, thanks to my surgeon," says Wade. "Give me a lift, Peter." He pulled up and clung to his friend. "You 're the vine and I'm the lamp-post," Skerrett said. "Mary, do you know what a pocket-pistol is?" "I have seen such weapons concealed about the persons of mod- ern warriors." "There 's one in my overcoat-pocket, with a cup at the butt and a cork at the muzzle. Skate off now, like an angel, and get it. Bring Fanny, too. She is restorative." "Are you alive enough to admire that, Dick?" he continued, as she skimmed away. "It would put a soul under the ribs of Death." "I venerate that young woman," says Peter. "You see what a beauty she is, and just as unspoiled as this ice. Unspoiled beau- ties- ap rarer than rocs' eggs." "She has a singularly true face," Wade replied, and that is the main thing,-- the most excellent thing in man or woman."   124:         , UUVL L Z JTUSTA. "Yes, truth makes that nuisance, beauty, tolerable." "You did not do me the honor' to present me." "I saw you had gone a -great way beyond that, my boy. Have you not her initials in cambric on your brow? Not M. T., which would n't apply; but M. D." "Mary --?" "Damer." "I like the name," says Wade, repeating it. "It sounds simple and thorough-bred." "Just what she is. One of the nine simple-hearted and thorough- bred girls on this continent." c "Nine?" "Is that too many-? Three, then. That's one in ten millions. The exact proportion of Poets, Painters, Orators, Statesmnfen, and all other Great Artists. Well,- three or nine,- Mary Damer is one of them. She never saw fear or jealousy, or knowingly allowed an ignoble thought or an ungentle word or an ungraceful act in herself. Her atmosphere does not tolerate flirtation. You must find out for yourself how much genius she has and has not. But I will say this,-- that I think of puns two a minute faster when I'm with her. Therefore she must be magnetic, and that is the first charm in a woman." Wade laughed. "-You have not lost your powers of analysis, Peter. But talking of this heroine, you have not told me anything about yourself, ex- cept apropos of punning. "Come up and dine, and we'll fire away personal histories, broadside for broadside! I've been looking in vain for a worthy hero to set vis-a-vis to my fair kinswoman. But stop! perhaps you have a Christmas turkey at- home, with a wife opposite, and a brace of boys waiting for drumsticks." 'No, - my boys, like cherubs, await their own drumsticks. They 're not born, and I 'm not married." "I thought you looked incomplete and abnormal. Well, I will show you a model wife, -and here she comes!"   Here they came, the two ladies, gliding round the Point, with draperies floating as artlessly artful as the robes of Raphael's Hours, or a Pompeian Bacchante. For want of classic vase or Patera, Miss Damer brandished Peter Skerrett's pocket-pistol. Fanny Skerrett gave her hand cordially to Wade, and looked a little anxiously at his pale face. "Now, M. D.," says Peter, "you have been surgeon, you shall be doctor and dose our patient. Now, then, - (' Hebe, pour free! Quicken his eyes with mountain-dew, That Styx, the detested, No more he may view.'  "Thanks, Hebe!" Wade said, continuing the quotation, - "I quaff it! lo Psean, I cry! The whiskey of the Immortals Forbids me to die." "We effeminate women of the nineteenth century are afraid of broken heads," said Fanny. "But Mary Damer seems quite to enjoy your accident, Mr. Wade, as an adventure." Miss Darner certainly did seem gay and exhilarated. i I enjoy it," said Wade. , I perceive that I fell on my feet, when I fell on my crown. I tumbled among old friends, and I hope among new ones." "I have been waiting to claim my place among your old friends," Mrs. Skerrett said, ' ever since Peter told me you were one of bhig models." She delivered this little speech with a caressing manner which totally fascinated Wade. Nothing was ever so absolutely pretty as Mrs. Peter Skerrett. Her complete prettiness left nothing to be desired. "Never," thought Wade, " did I see such a compact little casket of perfections. Every feature is thoroughly well done and none   126.         GooD STOlR'I1S. intrusively superior. Her little nose is a combination of all the amiabilities. Her black eyes sparkle with fun and mischief and wit, all playing over deep tenderness below. Her hair ripples itself full of gleams- and shadows. The same coquetry of Nature that rippled her hair has dinted her cheeks with shifting dimples. Every time she smiles, - and she smiles as if sixty an hour were not half allowance,  a dimple slides into view and vanishes like a dot in a flow of sunny water. And, O Peter Skerrett! if you were not the best fellow in the world, I should envy you that latent kiss of a mouth." "You need not say it, Wade, - your broken head exempts you from the business of compliments," said Peter; "but I see you think my wife perfection. You'll think so the more, the more you know her." 6"Stop, Peter," she said, " or I shall have to hide behind the su- perior charms of Mary Damer." Miss Darner certainly was a'woman of a grander order. You might pull at the bells or knock at the knockers and be introduced into the boudoirs of all the houses, villas, seats, chateaus, and palaces in Christendom without seeing such another. She belonged -distinctly to the Northern races, -the " brave and true and. tender" women. There was, indeed, a trace of hauteur and imperiousness in her look and manner; but it did not ill become her distinguished figure and face. Wade, however, remembered her sweet earnestness when she was playing leech to his wound, and chose to take that mood as her dominant one. "She must have been desperately annoyed with bores and ^boobies," he thought. "I do not wonder she protects herself by distance. I am afraid I shall never get within her lines again,- not even if I should try slow and regular approaches, and bombard her with bouquets for a twelvemonth." "But, Wade," says Peter, " all this time you have not told us what good luck sends you here to be wrecked on the hospitable shores of my Point. "I live here. I am chief cook and confectioner where you see the smoking top of that tall chimney up-stream.'   Ad i' J-d X L ..L V A. J "A IL -,A. *J , i d "Why, of course! What a dolt I was, not to think of you, when Churm told us an athlete, a Brave, a Sage, and a Gentleman was the Superintendent of Dunderbunk; but said we must find his name out for ourselves. You remember, Mary. Miss Damer is Mr. Churm's Ward." She acknowledged with a cool bow that she did-remember her guardian's character of Wade. "You do not say, Peter," says Mrs. Skerrett, with a bright little look at the other lady, " why Mr. Churm was so mysterious about Mr. Wade."  "Miss Damer shall tell us," Peter rejoined, repeating his wife's look of merry significance. She looked somewhat teased.- Wade could divine easily the meaning of this little mischievous talk. His friend Churm had no doubt puffed him furiously. "; All this time," said Miss Damer, evading a reply, "we are neg- lectincg our skating privileges." "Peter and I have a few grains of humanity in our souls'" Fanny said. "We should blush to sail away from Mr. Wade, while he carries the quarantine flag at his pale cheeks." "I am almost ruddy again," says Wade. "Your potion, Miss Damer, has completed the work of your surgery. I can afford to dismiss my lamp-post." "Whereupon the post clhanges to a teetotum," Peter said, and spun off in an eccentric, ending in a tumble. "I must have a share in your restoration, Mr. Wade," Panny claimed. "I see you need a second dose of medicine. Hand me the flask, Mary. What shall I pour from this magic bottle? juice of Rhine, blood of Burgundy, fire of Spain, bubble of Rheims, beeswing of Oporto, honey of Cyprus, nectar, or whiskey? Whis- key is vulgar, but the proper thing, on the whole, for these occa- sions. I prescribe it." And she gave him another little draught to imbibe. He took it kindly, for her sake,'- and not alone for that, but for its own respectable sake. His recovery, was complete. His head, to be gure, sang a little still, and ached not a little. Some fellows   128         GOOD STORIES. would have gone on the sick list with such a wound. Perhaps he would, if he had had a trouble to dodge. But. here instead was a pleasure to follow., So he began to move about slowly, watching the ladies. Fanny was a novice in the Art, and this was her first day this winter. She skated timidly, holding Peter very tightly. She went into the dearest little panics for fear of tumbles, and uttered the most musical screams and laughs. And if she succeeded in taking a few brave strokes and finished with a neat slide, she pleaded for a verdict of "Well done!" with such an appealing smile and such a fine show of dimples that every one was fasci- nated and applauded heartily. Miss Damer skated as became her free and vigorous character. She had passed her Little Go as a scholar, and was now steadily winning her way through the list of achievements, before given, toward the Great Go. To-day she was at work at small circles backward. Presently she wound off a series of perfectly neat ones, and, looking up, pleased with her prowess, caught Wade's admiring eye. At this she smiled and gave an arch little womanly nod of self-approval, which also demanded masculine sympathy before it was quite a perfect emotion. With this charming gesture, the alert feather in her Amazonian hat nodded, too, as if it admired its lovely mistress. Wade was thrilled. "Brava!" he cried, in answer to the part of her look which asked sympathy; and then, in reply to the- implied challenge, he forgot his hurt and his shock, and struck into the same figure. He tried not to surpass his fair exemplar too cruelly. But he did his peripheries well enough to get a repetition of the captivat- ing nod and a Bravo! from the lady. "Bravo!" said she. "But do not tax your strength too soon." She began to feel that She was expressing too much interest in the stranger. It was a new sensation for her to care whether men fell or got up. A new sensation. She rather liked it. She was a trifle ashamed of it. In either case, she did not wish to show that   "OVE AND SKATES.           129 it was in her heart. The consciousness of concealment flushed her damask cheek. It was a damask cheek. All her hues were cool and pearly; while Wade, Saxon too, had hot golden tints in his hair and mous- tache, and his color, now returning, was good strong red with plenty of bronze in it. "Thank yon," he replied. "My force has all come back. You have electrified me." A, civil nothing; but meaning managed to get into his tone and look, whether he would or not. Which he perceiving, on his part began to feel guilty. Of what crime? Of the very same crime as hers,--the most ancient and most pardonable crime of youth and maiden,--that sweet aid guiltless crime of love in the first degree. So, without troubling themselves to analyze their feelings, they found a piquant pleasure in skating together, - she in admirinpg his tours deforce, and he in instructing her. "Look, Peter!" said Mrs. Skerrett, pointing to the other pair skating, he on the backward roll, she on the forward, with hands crossed and locked;- such contacts are permitted in skating, as in dancing. "Your hero and my heroine have dropped into an inti- macy." "None but the Plucky deserve the Pretty," says Peter. "But he seems to be such a fine fellow,- suppose she should- nl't-"  The pretty face looked anxious. "Suppose he should n't," -Peter on the masculine behalf re- tnrned. "He cannot help it: Mary is so noble, - and so charming, when she does not disdain to be." "i do not believe she can help it. She cannot disdain Waide. He, carries to many guns for that. He is just as fine as she is. He was a hero when I first knew him. His face does not show an atom of change; and you know what Mr. Churm told us of his 9   130         GOOD STORIES. chivalric deeds elsewhere, and how he tamed and reformed Dun- derbunk. Heis crystal grit, as crystalline and gritty as he can be." "Grit seems to be your symbol of the highest qualities. It cer- tainly is a better thing in man than jn ice-cream. But Peter, sup- pose this should be a true love and should not run smooth?" "What consequence is the smooth running, so long as there is strong running and a final getting in neck and neck at the winning- post?" "But," still pleaded the anxious soul,--having no anxieties of her own, she was always suffering for others, -"he seems to be such a fine fellow! and she is so hard to win!" "Am I a fine fellow?" "No,- horrid!" "The truth, - or I let you tumble." "Well, upon compulsion, I admit that you are." "Then being a fine fellow does not diminish the said fellow's chances of being blessed with a wife quite superfine." "If I thought you were. personal, Peter, I should object to the mercantile adjective. 'Superfine,' indeed!" "I am personal. I withdraw the obnoxious phrase, and substi- tute transcendent. No, Fanny dear, I read Wade's experience in my own. I do not feel very much concerned about him. He is big enough to take care of himself. A man who is sincere, self- possessed, and steady does not get into miseries with beautiful Am- azons like our friend. He knows too much to try to make his love run up hill; but let it once get started, rough running gives it vim. Wade will love like a deluge, when he sees that he may, and I'd advise obstacles to stand off." "It was so pretty, Peter, to see cold Mary Darer so gentle and almost tender." "I always have loved to see the first beginnings of what looks like love, since I saw ours." "Ours," she said, -" it seems like yesterday." And then together they recalled that fair picture against its dark   "OVE AND SKATES.          131 ground of sorrow, and so went on refreshing the emotions of that time until Fanny smiling said, - "4There must be something magical in skates, for here we are talking sentimentally like a pair of young lovers." "Health and love are cause and effect," says Peter, sententiously. Meanwhile Wade had been fast skating into the good graces of his companion. Perhaps the rap on his head had deranged him. He certainly tossed himself about in a reckless and insane way. Still he justified his conduct by never tumbling again, and by invent- ing-new devices with bewildering rapidity. This pair were not at all sentimental. Indeed, their talk was quite technical: all about rings and edges, and heel and toe, - what skates are best, and who best use them. There is an immense amount of sympathy to be exchanged on such topics, and it was somewhat significant that, they avoided other themes where they might not sympathize so thoroughly. The negative part of a con- versation is often as important as its positive. So the four entertained themselves finely, sometimes as a quar- tette, sometimes as two duos with proper changes of partners, until the clear west began to grow golden and the clear east pink with sunset. "It is a pity to go," said Peter Skerrett. "Everything here is perfection and Fine Art; but we must not be unfaithful to dinner. Dinner would have a right to punish us, if we did not encourage its efforts to be Fine Art also." "Now Mr. Wade," Fanny commanded, "your most heroic series of exploits, to close this heroic day." He nimbly dashed through his list. The ice was traced with a labyrinth of involuted convolutions. Wade's last turn brought him to the very spot of his tumble. "Ah!" said he. "  ere is the oar that tripped me, with ' Wade, his mark,' gashed into it. If I had not this"- he touched Miss Damer's handkerchief--" for a souvenir, I think I would dig up the oar and carry it home." "Let- it melt out and float away in the spring," Mary said. "It may be a perch for a sea-gull or a buoy for a drowning man."   Here, if this were a long story instead of a short one, might be given a description of Peter Skerrett's house and the menu of Mrs. Skerrett's dinner. Peter and his wife had both been to great:pillory dinners, ad nauseam, and learnt what to avoid. How not to be bored is the object of all civilization, and the Skerretts had discovered the methods. I must dismiss. the dinner and the evening, -stamped with the gen- eral epithet, Perfection. "You will join us again to-morrow on the river," said Mrs. Sker- rett, as Wade rose to go. "To-motrow I go to town to report to my Directors." "Then next day." "Next day, with pleasure." Wade departed and marked this halcyon day with white chalk, as the whitest, brightest, sweetest of his life. CH-APTER X. FOREBODINGS. JUBILATION! Jubilation now, instead of Consternation, in the office of Mr. Benjamin Brummage in Wall Street. President Brummage had convoked his Directors to hear the First Semi-Annual Report of the new Superintendent and Dictator of Dunderbunk. And there they sat around the green table, no longer forlorn and dreading a failure, but all chuckling with satisfaction over their pros- perity. - 5They were a happy and hilarious family now, ---so hilarious that the President was obliged to be always rapping to Order with his paper-knife. Every one of these gentlemen was proud of himself as a Director of so successful a Company. The Dunderbunk advertisement might   1J-Li U lV.& ANlj NAAi TAS!    133 now consider itself as permanent in the newspapers, and the Treas- urer had very unnecessarily inserted the notice of a dividend, which-  everybody knew of already. When Mr. Churm was not by, they all claimed the honor of hav- ing discovered Wade, or at least of having been the first to appre- ciate him. They all invited him to dinner, --the others at their houses, Sam Gwelp at his club. They had not yet begun to wax fat and kick. They still remem- bered the panic of last summer. They passed a unanimous vote of the most complimentary confidence in Wade, approved of his system, forced upon him an increase of salary, and began to talk of "' launch- ing out" and doubling their capital. In short, they behaved as Di- rectors do when all is serene. Churm and Wade had a hearty laugh over the absurdities of the Board and all their vague propositions. "Dunderbunk,'" said Churm, "was a company started on a senti- mental basis, as many others are." "' Mr. Brummage fell in love with pig-iron?" "Precisely. He had been a dry-goods jobber, risen from a. re- tailer somewhere in the country. He felt a certain lack of dignity in his work. He wanted to, deal in something more masculine than lace and ribbons. He read a sentimental article on Iron in the 'Journal of Commerce': how Iron held the world together; how it was nerve and sinew; how it was ductile and malleable and other things that sounded big; how without Iron civilization would stop, and New -Zealanders hunt rats among the ruins of London; how anybody who would make two tons of Iron grow where one grew before was a benefactor to the human race greater than Alexander, Caesar, or Napoleon; and so on,--you know the eloquent style. Brummage's soul was fired. He determined to be gRater- than the three heroes named. He was oozing with unoccupied capital. He went about among the other rich jobbers, with the newspaper article in his hand, and fired their souls. They determined to be great Iron-Kings,- magnificent thought! They wanted to read in th6   134         GOOD STORIES. newspapers, 'If all the iron rails made at the Dunderbunk Works in the last six months were put together in a straight line, they would reach twice round our terraqueous globe and seventy-three miles two rails over.' So on that poetic foundation they started the concern." Wade laughed. "But how did you happen to be with them?" "O, my friend Damer sold them the land for the shop and took stock in payment. I came into the Board as his executor. Did I never tell you so before?" t No." "Well, then, be informed that it was in Miss Damer's behalf that you knocked down Friend Tarbox, and so got your skates for saving her property. It 's quite a romance already, Richard, my boy! and I suppose you feel immensely bored that you had to come down and meet us old chaps, instead of tumbling at her feet on the ice again to-day." "A tumble in this wet day would be a cold bath to romance." The Gulf Stream had sent up a warm spoil-sport rain that morn- ing. It did not stop, but poured furiously the whole day. From Cohoes to Spuyten Duyvil, on both sides of the river, all the skaters swore at the weather, as profane persons no doubt did when the windows of heaven were opened in Noah's time. The skater- esses did not swear, but savagely said, It is too bad," - and so it was. Wade, loaded with the blessings of his Directors, took the train next morning for Dunderbunk. The weather was still mild and drizzly, but promised to clear. As the train rattled along by the river, Wade could see that the thin ice was breaking up everywhere. In mid-stream a procession of blockls was steadily drifting along. Unless Zero came sliding down again pretty Con from Boreal regions, the sheets that filled the coves and clung to the shores would also sail away southward, and the whole Hudson be left clear as in midsummer. At Yonkers a down train ranged by the side of Wade's train, and, lookincg out, he saw Mr. and Mrs. Skerrett alighting.    "OUVS Ajl VL .4 l'.        -1 0 He jumped down, rather surprised, to speak to them. "We have just been telegraphed here," said Peter, gravely. "The son of a widow, a friend of ours, was drowned this morning in the soft ice of the river. He was a pet of mine, poor fellow! and the mother depends upon me for advice. We have come- down to say a kind word. Why won't you report us to the ladies at my house, and say that we shall not be at home until the evening train? They do not know the cause of our journey, except that it is a sad one.' "Perhaps Mr. Wade will carve their turkey for them at dinner, Peter," Fanny suggested. "Do, Wade! and keep their spirits up. Dinner's at six." Here the engine whistled. Wade promised to "shine substitute" at his friend's board, and took his place again. The train galloped away. Peter and his wife exchanged a bright look over the fortunate incident of this meeting, and went on their kind way to carry sym- pathy and such consolation as might be to the widow. The train galloped northward. Until now, the beat of its wheels, like the click of an enormous metronome, had kept time to jubilant measures singing in Wade's brain. He was hurrying back, exhila- rated with success, to the presence of a woman whose smile was finer exhilaration than any number of votes of confidence, passed unanimously by any number of conclaves of overjoyed Directors, and signed by Brummage after Brummage, with the signature of a capitalist in a flurry of delight at a ten per cent dividend. But into this joyous mood of Wade's the thought of death sudden- ly intruded. He could not keep a picture of death and drowning out of his mind. As the train sprang along and opened gloomy breadth after breadth of the leaden river, clogged with slow-drifting files of ice-blocks, he found himself staring across the dreary waste and forever fancying some one sinking thre, helpless and alone. He seemed to see a brave, bright-eyed, ruddy boy, venturing out carelessly along the edges of the weakened ice. Suddenly the ice gives way, the little figure sinks, rises, clutches desperately   136         GOOD STORIES. at a fragment, struggles a moment, is borne along in the relentless flow of the chilly water, stares in vain shoreward, and so sinks again with a look of agony, and is gone. But whenever this inevitable picture grew before Wade's eyes as the drowning figure of his fancy vanished, it -suddenly changed features, and presented the face of Mary Damer, perishing beyond succor. Of course he knew that this was but a morbid vision. Yet that it came at all, and that it so agonized him, proved the force of his new feeling. He had not analyzed it before. This thought of death became its touchstone. Men like Wade, strong, healthy, earnest, concentrated, straight- forward, isolated, judge men and women as friends or foes at once and once for all. He had recognized in Mary Damer from the first a heart as true, whole, noble, and healthy as his own. A fine in- stinct had told him that she was waiting for her hero, as he was for his heroine. So he suddenly loved her. And yet not suddenly; for all his life, and all his lesser forgotten or discarded passions, had been training him for this master one. He suddenly and strongly loved her; and yet it had only been a beautiful bewilderment of uncomprehended delight, until this haunt- ing vision of her fair face sinking a-nid the hungry ice beset him.. Then he perceived what would be lost to him, if she were lost. The thought of Death placed itself between him and Love. If the love had been merely the pretty remembrance of a charming woman, he, might have dismissed his fancied drowning scene with a little emotion of regret. Now, the fancy was an agony. He had too much power over himself to entertain it long. But the grisly thought came uninvited, returned undesired, and no reso- lute Avaunt, even backed by that magic wand, a cigar, availed to banish it wholly. The sky cleared cold at eleven o'clock. A sharp wind drew through the Highlands. As the train rattled round the curve below   "OVE AND SKAT7ES.          137 the tunnel through Skerrett's8 Point, Wade could see his skating course of Christmas-Day with the ladies. Firm ice, glazed smooth by the sudden chill after the rain, filled the Cove and stretched beyond the Point into the river. It was treacherous stuff, beautiful to the eyes of a skater, but sure to be weak, and likely to break up any moment and join the deliber- ate headlong drift of the masses in mid-current. Wade almost dreaded lest his vision should suddenly realize itself and he should see his enthusiastic companion of the other day sailing gracefully along to certain death. Nothing living, however, was in sight, except here and there a crow, skipping about inthe floating ice. The lover was greatly relieved. He could now forewarn the lady against the peril he had imagined. The train in a moment dropped him at Dunderbunk. He hurried to the Foundry and wrote a note to hMrs, Damer. "Mr. Wade presents his compliments to Mrs. Damer and has the honor to inform her that Mr. Skerrett has nominated him carver to the ladies to-day in their host's place. c Mr. Wade hopes that Miss Damer will excuse him from his en- gagement to skate with her this afternoon. The ice is dangerous, and Miss Damer should on no account venture upon it." Perry Purtett was the bearer of this billet. He swaggered into Peter Skerrett's hall, and -dreadfully alarmed the fresh-imported Englishman who answered the bell, by ordering hbm in a severe tone,- "Hurry up now, White Cravat, with that answer! I'm wanted down to the Works. Steam don't bile when I'm off; and the fly- wheel will never buzz another turn, unless I 'm there to motion it to move on." Mrs. Damer's gracious reply informed Wade that she should be charmed to see him at dinner, etc., and would not fail to transmit his kind warning to Miss Damer, when she returned from her drive to make calls." But when Miss Damer returned- in the afternoon, her mother was   138          GOOD STORIES. taking a gentle nap over the violet; indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red stripes of a gorgeous Afghan she was knitting. The daughter heard nothing of the billet. The house was lonely-without Fanny Skerrett. Mr. Wade did not come at the appointed hour. Mary was not willing to say to herself how much she regretted his absence. Had he forgotten the appointment? No, - that was a thought not to be tolerated. "A gentleman does not forget," she thought. And she had a thorough confidence, besides, that this gentleman was very willing to remember. She read a little, fitfully, sang fitfully, moved about the house uneasily; and at last, when it grew late, and she was bored' and Wade did not arrive, she pronounced to herself that he had been detained in town. This point settled, she took her skates, put on her pretty Amazo- nian hat with its alert feather, and went down to waste her beauty and grace on the ice, unattended and alone. CHAPTER    XII. CAP'N AMBUSTER'S SKIFF. IT was a busy afternoon at the Dunderbunk Foundry. The Superintendent had come back with his pocket full of orders. Everybody, from the Czar of Russia to the President of the Guano Republic, was in the market for machinery. Crisis was gone by. Prosperity was come. The world wasall ready to move, and only waited for a fresh supply of wheels, cranks, side-levers, walking- beams, and other such muscular creatures of iron, to push and tug and swing and revolve and set Progress a-going. Dunderbunk was to have its full share in supplying the demand. It was well understood by this time that the iron Wade made was   "O VE AND SKA TES.          139 as stanch as the man who made it. Dunderbunk, therefore, Head and Hands, must despatch. So it was a busy afternoon at the industrious Foundry. The men bestirred themselves. The furnaces rumbled. The engine thumped. The drums in the finishing-shop hummed merrily their lively song of labor. The four trip-hammers --two bull-headed, two calf- headed--champed, like carnivorous maws, upon red bars of iron, and over their banquet they roared the big-toned music of the trip- hammer chorus, - "Now, then! hit hard! Strike while Iron 's hot. Life 's short. Art 's long." By this massive refrain, ringing in at intervals above the cease- less buzz, murmur, and clang throughout the buildings, every man's work was mightily nerved and inspired. Everybody liked to hear the sturdy song of these grim vocalists; and whenever they struck in, each solo'or duo or quatuor of men, playing Anvil Chorus, quick- ened time, and all the action and rumor of the busy opera went on more cheerily and lustily. So work kept astir like play. An hour before sunset, Bill Tarbox stepped into Wade's office. Even oily and begrimed, Bill could be recognized as a favored lover. He looked more a man than ever before. "I forgot to mention," says the foreman, " that Cap'n Ambuster was in, this morning, to see you. He says, that, if the river's clear enough for him to get away from our dock, he 'll go down to the City to-morrow, and offers to take freight cheap. We might put that new walking-beam, we 've just rough finished for the 'Union,' aboard of him." "Yes, --if he is sure to go to-morrow. It will not do to delay. The owners complained to me yesterday that the 'Union' was in a bad way for want of its new machinery. Tell your brother-in-law to come here, Bill." Tarbox looked sheepishly pleased, and summoned Perry Purtett. "Run down, Perry," said Wade, "to the 'Ambuster,' and ask Captain Isaac to step up here a moment. Tell him I have some freight to send by him."   "O         GOOD STORIES. Perry moved through the Foundry with his usual jaunty step, left his dignity at the door, and ran off to the dock. The weather had grown fitful. Heavy clouds whirled over, trail- ing snow-flurries. Rarely the sun found a cleft in the black canopy to shoot a ray through and remind the world that he was still in his place and ready to shine when he was wanted. Master Perry had a furlong to go before he reached the dock. He crossed the stream, kept unfrozen by the warm influences of the. Foundry. He ran through a little dell hedged on each side by dull green cedars. It was severely cold now, and our young friend con- descended to prance and jump over the ice-skimmed puddles to keep his blood in motion. The little rusty, pudgy steamboat lay at the down-stream side of the Foundry wharf. Her name was so long and her paddle-box so short, that the painter, beginning with ambitious large letters, had been compelled to abbreviate the last syllable. Her title read thus: I. AMBUSTer. Certainly a formidable inscription for a steamboat! When she hove in sight, Perry halted, resumed his stately de- meanor, and embarked as if he were a Doge entering a Bucentaur to wed a Sea. There was nobody on deck to witness the arrival and salute the magnzfico. Perry looked in at the Cap'n's office. He beheld a three-legged stool, a hacked desk, an inky steel-pen, an inkless inkstand; but no Cap'n Ambuster. Perry inspected the Cap'n's state-room. There was a cracked looking-glass, into which he looked; a hair-brush suspended by the glass, which he used; a lair of blankets in a berth, which he had no present use for; and a smell of musty boots, which nobody with a nose could help smelling. Still no Captain Ambuster, nor any of his crew. Search in the unsavory kitchen revealed no cook, coiled up in a corner, suffering nightmares for the last greasy dinner he had brewed   "OTVE AND SKATES.          141  in his frying-pan. There were no deck hands bundled into their bunks. Perry rapped on the chain-box and inquired if anybody was within, and nobody answering, he had to ventriloquize a nega- tive. The engine-room, too, was vacant, and quite as unsavory as the other dens on board. Perry patronized the engine by a pull or two at the valves, and continued his tour of inspection. The Ambuster's skiff, lying on her forward deck, seemed to en- tertain him vastly. "Jolly!" says Perry. And so it was a jolly boat in the literal, not the technical sense. "The three wise men of Gotham went to sea in a bowl; and here 's the identical craft," says Perry. He gave the chubby little machine a push with his foot. It rolled and wallowed about grotesquely. When it was still again, it looked so comic, lying contentedly on its fat side like a pudgy baby, that Perry had a roar of laughter, which, like other laughter to one's self, did not sound very merry, particularly as the north-wind was howl- ing ominously, and the broken ice on its downward way was whis- pering and moaning and talking on in a most mysterious and inarticu- late manner. "Those sheets of ice would crunch up this skiff, as pigs do a punkin," thinks Perry. And with this thought in his head he looked out on the river, and fancied the foolish little vessel cast loose and buffeting helplessly about in the ice. He had been so busy until now, in prying about the steamboat and making up his mind that Captain and men had all gone off for a comfortable supper on shore, that his eyes had not wandered to- ward the stream. Now his glance began to follow the course of the icy current. He wondered where all this supply of cakes came from, and how many of them would escape the stems of ferry-boats below and get safe to sea. All at once, as he looked lazily along the lazy files of ice, his eyes   142      GOOD STORIES. caught a black object drifting on a fragment in a wide way of open water opposite Skerrett's Point, a mile distant. Perry's heart stopped beating  He uttered a little gasping cry. He sprang ashore, not at all like a Dome quitting a Bucentau'r. He tore back to the Foundry, dashing throullh the puddles, and never stopping to pick up his cap, burst in upon Wade and Bill Tarbox in the office. - The boy was splashed from head to foot with red mud. His light hair, blown wildly about, made his ashy face seem paler. He stood panting. His dumb terror brought back to Wade's mind all the bad omens of the morning. "Speak!" said he, seizing Perry fiercely by the shoulder. The uproar of the Works seemed to hush for an instant, while the lad stammered faintly,- (There 's somebody carried off in the ice by Skerrett's Point. It looks like a woman. And there 's nobody to help." CHAPTER    X-II. IN THE ICE. "HELP! help!" shouted the four trip-hammers, bursting in like a magnified echo of the boy's last word. "Help! help!" all the humming wheels and drums repeated more plaintively. Wade made for the river. This was the moment all his manhood had been training and saving for. For this he had kept sound and brave, from his youth, up. As he ran, he felt that the only chance of instant help was in that queer little bowl-shaped skiff of the "Ambuster." He had never been conscious that he had observed it; but the   "OVE AND    SKATES.       143 image had lain latent in his mind, biding its time. It might be ten, twenty precious moments before another boat could be found. This one was on the spot to do its duty at once.  "Somebody carried off, - perhaps a woman," Wade thought. 'Not-No, she would not neglect my warning! Whoever it is, we must save her from this dreadful death!" He sprang on board the little steamboat. She was swaying un- easily at her moorings, as the ice crowded along and hammered against her stem. Wade stared from her deck down the river, with all his life at his eyes. More than a mile away, below the hemlock-crested point, was the dark object Perry had seen, still stirring along the edges of the floating ice. A broad avenue of leaden-green water wrinkled by the cold wind separated the field where this figure was moving from the shore. Dark object and its footing of gray ice were drift- ing deliberately farther and farther away. For one instant Wade thought that the terrible dread in his heart would paralyze him. But in that one moment, while his blood stopped flowing and his nerves failed, Bill Tarbox overtook him and was there by his side. "I brought your cap," says Bill, " and our two coats." Wade put on his cap mechanically. This little action calmed him. "Bill," said he, "I'm afraid it is a woman, -a dear friend of mine, - a very dear friend." Bill, a lover, understood the tone. "We 'll take care of her between us," he said. The two turned at once to the little tub of a boat. Oars? Yes, - slung under the thwarts, - a pair of short sculls, worn and split, but with work in them still. There they hung ready, - and a rusty boat-hook, besides. "Find the thole-pins, Bill, while I cut a plug for her bottom out of this broomstick," Wade said. This was done in a moment. Bill threw in the coats. "Now, together!"   "4         GOOD STORIES. They lifted the skiff to the gangway. Wade jumped down on the-ice and received her carefully. They ran her along, as far as they could go, and launched her in the sludge. Take the sculls, Bill. I 'll work the boat-hook in the bow." Nothing more was said. They thrust out with their crazy little craft into the thick of the ice-flood. Bill, amidships, dug with his sculls in among the huddled cakes. It was clumsy pulling. Now this oar and now that would be thrown out. He could never get a full stroke. Wade in the bow could do better. He jammed the blocks aside with his boat-hook. He dragged the skiff forward. He steered through the little open ways of water. Sometimes, they came to a broad sheet of solid ice. Then it was "Out with her, Bill!" and they were both out and sliding their bowl so quick over, that they had not time to go through the rotten surface. This was drowning business; but neither could' be spared to drown yet. In the leads of clear water the- oarsman got brave pulls and sent the boat on mightily. Then again in the thick porridge of brash ice they lost headway, or were baffled and stopped among the cakes. Slow work, slow and painful; and for many minutes they seemed to gain nothing upon the steady flow of the merciless current. A frail craft for such a voyage, this queer little half-pumpkin! A frail and leaky shell. She bent and cracked from stem tS stern among the nipping masses. Water oozed in through hler dry seams. Any moment a rougher touch or a sharper edge might cut her through. Bat that was a risk they had accepted. They did not take time to think of it, nor to listen to the crunching and crackling of the hungry ice around. They urged straight on, steadily, eagerly, coolly, spending and saving strength. Not one moment to lose! The shattering of broad sheets of ice around them was a warning of what might happen to the frail support of their chase. One thrust of the boat-hook sometimes cleft a cake that to the eye seemed stout enough to bear a heavier weight than a woman's.   "O VE AND SKATES.          164& Not one moment to spare! The dark figure, now drifted: far below the hemlocks of the Point, no longer stirred. It seemed to have sunk upon the ice and to be resting there weary and helpless, on one side a wide way of lurid water, on the other half a mile of moving desolation. Far to go, and no time to waste! "Give way, Bill! Give way!" "Ay, ay!"  Both spoke in low tones, hardly louder than the whisper of the ice around them. By this time hundreds from the Foundry and the village were; swarming upon the wharf and the steamboat. "A hundred tar-barrels would n't git up my steam in time to do- any good," says Cap'n Ambuster. "If them two in my skiff don't overhaul the man, he's gone. "You 're sure it 's a man?" says Smith Wheelwright. "Take a squint through my glass. I'm dreffully afeard it's a gal; but suthin' 's got into my eye, so I can't see. Suthin' had got into the old fellow's eye, - suthin' saline and acrid, - namely, a tear. ' It's a woman," says Wheelwright, -and suthin'- of the same kind blinded him also. Almost sunset now. But the air was suddenly filled with per- plexing snow-dust from a heavy squall. A white curtain dropped between the anxious watchers on the wharf and the boatmen. The same white curtain hid the dark floating object from its pursuers. There was nothing in sight to steer by, now. Wade steered by his last glimpse,- by the current, - by the rush of the roaring wind, - by instinct. How merciful that in such a moment a man is spared the agony of thought! His agony goes into action, intense as life. It was bitterly cold. A swash of ice-water filled the bottom of the skiff. She was low enough down without that. They could not stop to bail, and the' miniature icebergs they passed began to look significantly over the gunwale. Which would come 10   to the point of foundering first, the boat or the little floe it aimed for? Bitterly cold! The snow hardly melted upon Tarbox's bare hands. His fingers stiffened to the oars; but there was life in them still, and still he did his work, and never turned to see how the steersman was doing his. A flight of crows came sailing with the snow-squall. They alighted all about on the hummocks, and curiously watched the two men battling to save life. One black impish bird, more malig- nant or more sympathetic than his fellows, ventured to poise on the skiffs stern. Bill hissed off this third passenger. The crow rose on its toes, let the boat slide away from under him, and followed, croaking dismal good wishes. The last sunbeams were now cutting in everywhere.   The thick snow-flurry was like a luminous cloud. Suddenly, it drew aside. The industrious skiff had steered so well and made such head- way, that there, a hundred yards away, safe still, not gone, thank God! was the woman they sought. A dusky mass flung together on a waning rood of ice, - Wade could see nothing more. Weary or benumbed, or sick with pure forlornness and despair, she had drooped down and showed no sign of life. The great wind shook the river. Her waning rood of ice nar- rowed, foot by foot, like an unthrifty man's heritage. Inch by inch its edges wore away, until the little space that half-sustained the dark heap was no bigger than a coffir-lid. Help, now! now, men, if you are to save! Thrust, Richard Wade, with your boat-hook! Pull, Bill, till your oars snap! Out with your last frenzies of vigor! For the little raft of ice, even that has crumbled beneath its burden, and she sinks, - sinks, with succor close at hand! Sinks! No, she rises and floats again. She clasps something that holds her head just above water. But   JLVJY filVIA L  NAAijT^      1 47' the unmannerly ice has buffeted her hat off. The fragments toss it about, - that pretty Amazonian hat, with its alert feather, all drooping and draggled. Her fair hair and pure forehead are un- covered for an astonished sunbeam to alight upon. "It is my love, my life, Bill! Give way, once more " "Way enough! Steady! Sit where you are, Bill, and trim boat, while I lift her out. We cannot risk capsizing." He raised her carefully, tenderly, with his strong arms. A bit of wood had buoyed her up for that last moment. It was a broken oar with a deep fresh gash in it. Wade knew his mark,--the cut of his own skate-iron. This busy oar was still resolved to play its part in the drama. The round little skiff just bore the third person without sinking. Wade laid Mary Damer against the thwart. She would not let go her buoy. He unclasped her stiffened hands. This friendly touch found its way to her heart. She opened her eyes and knew him. ,c'yhe ice shall not carry off her hat to frighten some mother, down stream," says Bill Tarbox, catching it. All these proceedings Cap'n Ambuster's spy-glass announced to Dunderbunk. "They 're h'istin' her up. They've slumped her into the skiffE They're puttin' for shore. Hooray!" Pity a spy-glass cannot shoot cheers a mile and a half! Perry Purtett instantly led a stampede of half Dunderbunk along the railroad-track to learn who it was and all about it. All about it was, that Miss Damer was safe and not dangerously frozen, - and that Wade and Tarbox had carried her up the hill to her mother at Peter Skerrett's. Missing the heroes in chief, Dunderbunk made a hero of Cap'n Ambuster's skif. It was transported back on the shoulders of the crowd in triumphal procession. Perry Purtett carried round the hat for a contribution to new paint it, new rib it, new gunwale it, give it new sculls and a new boat-hook, -indeed, to make a new vessel of the brave little bowl.   JifJO        Ltr vJJ / AJ vL7 z2J. I m afeard," says Cap'n Ambuster, "that, when I git a harn- some new skiff, I shall want a harnsome new steamboat, and then the boat will go to cruisin' round for a harnsome new Cap'n." And now for the end of this story. Healthy love-stories always end in happy marriages. So ends this story, begun as to its love portion by the little ro- mance of a tumble, and continued by the bigger romance of a res- cue. Of course there were incidents enough to fill a volume, obstacles enough to fillta volume, and development of character enough to fill a tome thick as "Webster's Unabridged," before the happy end of the beginning of the Wade-Damer joint history. But we can safely take for granted that the lover being true and manly, and the lady true and womanly, and both possessed of the high moral qualities necessary to artistic skating, they will go on understanding each other better, until they are as one as two can be d  Masculine reader, attend to the moral of this tale :- Skate well, be a hero, bravely deserve the fair, prove your deserts by your deeds, find your " perfect woman, nobly planned, i to warn, to comfort, and command," catch her when found, and you are Blest. Reader of the gentler sex, likewise attend:- All the essential blessings of life accompany a true heart and a good complexion. Skate vigorously; then your heart will beat true, your cheeks will bloom, your appointed lover will see your beautiful soul shining through your beautiful face; he will tell you so, and after sufficient circumlocution he will Pop, you will accept, and your lives .will glide sweetly as skating on virgin ice to silver music,    T-H E  D E   FiA, ULT ER.. " ;. - "AN  OWRE TRUE   TALE.' ' CHAPTER'   *I. "Give him heedful note; For I mine eyes will ivet to his face . Aid after we will both o0i judopaents join In censure of his seeming." HAMLET. "WHAT is the matter wwith -Mr. Pyme?" . The speaker was a tall, dark mani with grizzled hair, black eyes, a long nose, a wide- mouth, ani the commercial feature of aflen behind his right ea. 'He ha& several times asked himself the same question, but without any satisfatory' solution, and now addressed it to a little, sandy-haired man, who was staning with his back to the office fire. Both w ere lerks in a government office, as well as the party whose hiealth' or deportment was in- volved in the inquiry. "What is the matter with Mr. Pryme?" "Heaven knows," said the sandy Mr. Phipps, at the same time lifting up his eyebrows towards the organs of wonder, and shrug- ging his shoulders.  "You have observed how nervous and fidgety he is?" "To be sure. .Look at' the fireplace; he -has. done nithing all: the morning --but put on coals and rake them out a " "ain.'  Yes, i have been' watching ihim and: kept count," interposed Mr. Trent,: a junior official; "he hais pked the fire. nineteen times, besides looking five times out of. the' winidow,: and .:twicei :tig. '- down his hat and hanging it up again." '    "I got him to change me a sovereign," said: the dark Mr. riim- ,   152         GOOD STORIES. ble, "and he first gave me nineteen, and then twenty-one shillings for it. But look here at his entries," and he pointed to an open ledger on the desk, "he has dipped promiscuously into the black ink and the red!" The three clerks took a look apiece at the book, and then a still longer look at each other. None of them spoke: but each made a face, one pursing up his lips as if to blow an imaginary flageolet, another frowning, as with a distracting headache, and the third drawing down the corners of his mouth, as if he had just taken, or was about to take, physic. "What can it be?" said Mr. Phipps. "Let's ask him," suggested Mr. Trent. "Better not," said Grimble; " you know how hot and touchy he is. I once ventured to cut a joke on him, and he has never thor- oughly forgiven it to this day."- "What was it about?" inquired the junior. "Why he has been married above a dozen years without having any children, and it was the usual thing with us, when he came of a morning to ask after the little Prymes, -but the joke caused so many rows and quarrels, that we have given it up." "Where is he?" asked Mr. Phipps, with a glance round the office. - In the Secretary's private room. But hush! here he comes." The three clerks hastily retreated to their several desks, and be- gan writing with great apparent diligence; yet vigilantly watching every movement of the nervous and fidgety Mr. Pryme, who en- tered the room with an uneven step, looking rather flushed and excited, and vigorously rubbing his bald head with his silk handker- chief. Perhaps he noticed that he was observed, for he looked uneasily and suspiciously from one clerk to the other; but each face preserved a demure gravity, and the little stout, bald, florid gentleman repaired to his own place. The Morning Post, damp and stillunfolded, was lying on his desk; he took it up, dried it at S   the fire, and began to read, -but the next minute he laid down the paper, and seizing the poker made several plunges at the. coals,   THE DEFAULTER.           153 as often against the bars as between them, till the metal rang again. Then he resumed the Post,-but quickly relinquished it,- quite unable to fix his attention on the type,-an incompetence perfectly astounding to the other clerks, who considered reading the news- paper as a regular and important part of the official duties. *"By Jove," whispered Mr. Phipps to Mr. Grimble, whom he had approached under the pretence of delivering a document, he cannot Post the news any more than his ledger." Mr. Grimble acquiesced with a grave nod and a grimace; and Mr. Phipps returning to his desk, a silence ensued, so profound that the scratching of the pens at work on the paper was distinctly audible. The little bald cashier himself had begun to write, and for some minutes was occupied so quietly that curiosity gave way to business, and the three clerks were absorbed in their calculations, when a sudden noise caused them to look up. Mr. Pryme had jumped from his high stool, and was in the act of taking down his hat from its peg. He held it for a while in his hand, as if in deep deliberation, then suddenly clapped it on his head, but as hastily took it off again,- thrust the Morning Post into the crown, and restored the beaver to its place on the wall. The next moment he encountered the eye of Phipps,--a suspicion that he was watched seemed to come across him, and his uneasiness increased.  He immediately returned to his desk, and began to turn over theleaves of an account-book, - but with unnatural haste, and it was evident that, although his eyes were fixed on the volume, his thoughts were elsewhere, for by degrees he went off into a reverie, only rousing now and then to take huge pinches of snuff. At last, suddenly waking up, he pulled out his watch, - pored at it, - held it up to his ear, - replaced it in his fob, and with a glance at his hat, began drawing on his gloves. Perhaps he would have gone off, - if Mr. Grimble had not crossed over from his desk, and placed an open book before him, with a request for his signature. The little, bald, i florid man, without removing his glove, attempted to write his name, but his hand trembled so that he could hardly guide the pen. However, he tried to carry off the matter as a joke, - but his laugh   154'         GOOD STORIES. was forced, and his voice had the quavering huskiness of internal agitation. "Ha! ha! - rather shaky, - too much wine last night, - eh, Mr. Grimble?" The latter made no reply, but as he walked off with the book under his arm, and his back towards Mr. Pryme, he bestowed a deliberate wink on each of, his associates, and significantly imitated with his own hand the aspen-like motion he had just observed. The others responded with a look of intelligence, and resumed their labors: but the tall, dark man fell into a fit of profound abstraction, during which he unconsciously scribbled on his blotting-paper, in at least a score of places, the word EMBEZZLEMENT. CHAPTER    II. "AND do. you really mean to say, Mr. Author, that so respect- able a bald man had actually appropriated the public money?" Heaven forbid, madam. My health is far too infirm, and my modesty much toot delicate to allow me to undertake, off-hand, the work of twelve men; and who sometimes are not strong enough, the whole team, to draw a correct inference. As yet, Mr. Pryme only labors under suspicion, and a very hard labor it is to be sen- tenced*to before conviction. But permit me to ask, do you really associate baldness with respectability? "Of course, sir. All bald men are respectable." It is indeed a very general impression,- so much so, that were I a criminal, and anxious to propitiate a judge and jury at my trial, I would have my head shaved beforehand as clean as a monk's. And yet it is a strange prepossession, that we should connect guilt with a fell of hair, and innocence with a bare sconce! Why, madam, why should we conceive a bald man to be less delinquent than another? "I suppose, sir, because he has less for a catch-pole to lay hold of?" Thank you, ma'am! Thebest reason I have heard for a preju- dice in all my life!   THE DEFAULTER.           155 CHAPTER    III. THE little bald, florid man, in the mean time, continued his nervous and fidgety evolutions,- worrying the fire, trying on his hat and gloves, snuffing vehemently, coughing huskily, and winking perpetually, - now scurrying through folios, - then drumming what is called the Devil's tattoo on his desk, and moreover, under pretence of mending his pens, had slashed half a dozen of them to pieces, - when he received a fresh summons to the Secretary's room. The moment the door closed behind him, the two clerks, Phipps and Trent, darted across to Mr. Grimble, who silently exhibited to them the shaky autograph of the agitated cashier. They then adjourned to the fire, where a pause of profound cogitation ensued: the Junior intensely surveying his bright boots, - Mr. Phipps industriously nibbling the top of his pen, - while Mr. Grimble kept assiduously breaking the bituminous bubbles which exuded from the burning coals with the point of the poker. "It is very extraordinary!" at last muttered Mr. Phipps. "Very," chimed in the Junior Clerk. Mr. Grimble silently turned his back to the fire, and fixed his gaze on the ceiling, with his mouth firmly compressed, as if mean- ing to signify, "that whatever he might think, he would say noth- ing," - in case of anything happening to Mr. Pryme, he was the next in point of seniority for the vacant place, and delicacy forbade his being the first to proclaim his suspicions. "You don't think he is going off, do you?" inquired Mr. Phipps. Mr. Grimble turned his gaze intently on the querist as though he would look him through, - hemmed, - but said nothing. "I mean off 'his head." "O, -I thought you meant off to America." It was now Mr. Phipps's turn to look intently at Mr. Grimble, whose every feature he scrutinized with the studious interest of a Lavater.   158         'GOOD STORIES. "Why, you surely don't mean to say - " "I do." "What, that he has-" Yes." "Is it possible!" Mr. Grimble gave three distinct and deliberate nods, in reply to which, Mr. Phipps whistled a long phe-e-e-e-e-ew! All this time the Junior had been eagerly listening to the mys- terious conference, anxiously looking from one speaker to the other, till the hidden meaning suddenly revealed itself to his mind, and with the usual indiscretion of youth he immediately gave it utter- ance. "Why then, Grimble, old Pryme will be transported, and you will walk into his shoes." Mr. Grimble frowned severely, and laid one forefinger on his lips, while with the other he pointed to the door. But Mr. Pryme was still distant in the Secretary's private room. 's Well, I should never have thought it!" exclaimed Mr. Phipps. "He was so regular in his habits, and I should say very moderate in his expenses. He was never given to dress (the young clerk laughed at the idea), and certainly never talked like a gay man with the other sex (the Junior laughed again). I don't think he gambled or had any connection with the turf? To be sure he may have dabbled a little in the Alley, - or perhaps in the Dis- counting line." To each of these interrogative speculations Mr. Grimble re- sponded with a negative shake of the head or a doubtful shrug of the shoulders, till the catalogue was exhausted, and then, with his eyes cast upward, uttered an emphatic "God knows!" "But have you any proof of it?" asked Mr. Phipps. "None whatever, - not a particle. Only what I may call a strong - a very strong presentiment." And as if to illustrate its strength, Mr. Grimble struck a blow with the poker that smashed a large Staffordshire coal into shiv- ers.   THE DEFAULTER.       *    57 "Then there maybe nothing wrong after all!" suggested the good-natured Mr. Phipps. "And really Mr. Pryme has always seemed so respectable, so regular, and so correct in business " "So did Fauntleroy, and the rest of them," muttered Mr. Grim- ble, "or they would never have been trusted. However, it's a comfort to think that he has no children, and that the capital pun- ishment for such offences has been abolished." "I can hardly believe it!" ejaculated Mr. Phipps. "My dear fellow," said the young clerk, "there is no mistake about it. I was watching him when the messenger eame to fetch him to the Secretary, and he started and shook as if he had expected a policeman." Mr. Phipps said no more, but retreated to his place, and,.with his elbows on his desk, and his head between his hands, began sorrowfully to ruminate on the ruin and misery impending over the unfortunate cashier. He could well appreciate the nervous alarm and anxiety of the wretched man, liable at any moment to detection, with the consequent disgrace, and a punishment scarcely preferable to death itself. His memory reminded him that Mr. Pryme had done him various services, while his imagination pic- tured his benefactor in the most distressing situations, -in the  station-house,--at Bow Street,--in Newgate,-at the bar of  the Old Bailey, - in a hulk, -in a convict-ship, with the common herd of the ruffianly and the depraved, -and finally toiling in life- long labor in a distant land. And as he dwelt on these dreadful and dreary scenes, the kind-hearted Phipps himself became quite unhinged: his own nerves began to quiver, whilst his muscles, sympathizing with the mental excitement, prompted him to such restless activity, that he was soon almost as fidgety and perturbed as the object of his commiseration. O, that the guilty man, forewarned of danger by some providen- tial inspiration, might have left the office never to return! But the hope was futile: the door opened,-the doomed Mr. Pryme has- tily entered, - went to his own desk, unbuttoned his waistcoat, and clutching his bewildered bald head with one fevered hand, began   158          UUjU 'TUR 1'u J. with the other to turn over the leaves of a journal, without perceiv- ing that the book was upside down. 1"Was there ever," thought Phipps, " such an infatuation! He has evidently cause -for- alarm, and yet lingers about the fatal spot." How he yearned to give him a hint that his secret was known,- to say to him, "Go! - Fly! ere it be too late! Seek some other country where you may live in freedom and repent." But alas! the eyes of Grimble and Trent were upon him, and above all the stern finger of inexorable Duty rose up before him, and melting the wax of Silence at the flaming sword of Justice, imposed a seal upon his lips. C  HAPTE E R IV. "GRACIOUS Goodness!" exclaims Female Sensibility, "and will the dear, fresh-colored, bald little gentleman be actually trans- ported to Botany Bay?" My dear Miss,-- a little patience. A criminal before such a consummation has to go through more processes than a new pin. First, as Mrs. Glasse says of her hare, he has to be caught, then examined, committed, and true-billed, --arraigned, convicted, and sentenced. Next, he must, perhaps, be cropped, washed, and clothed,- hulked and shipped, and finally, if he does not die of sea-sickness, or shipwreck, or get eaten by the natives, he may toil out his natural term in Australia, as a stone-breaker, a cattle- keeper, or a domestic servant! "Dear me, how dreadful! And for a man, perhaps, like Mr. Pryme, of genteel habits and refined notions, accustomed to all the luxuries of life, and every delicacy of the season. I should really like to set on foot. a little private subscription, for providing him with the proper comforts in prison and a becoming outfit for his voyage.', My dear young lady, I can appreciate your motives and do honor to your feelings. But before you go round with your book among   relations, acquaintance, and strangers, soliciting pounds, shillings, and pence, from people of broad, middling, and narrow incomes, just do me the favor to look into yonder garret, exposed to us by the magic of the Devil on Two Sticks, and consider that respectable young woman, encaged at past midnight, by the light of a solitary rush-light, in making shirts at three halfpence apiece, and shifts for nothing. Look at her hollow eyes, her withered cheeks, and ema- ciated frame, for it is a part of the infernal bargain that she is to lose her own health and find her own needles and thread. Reckon, if you can, the thousands of weary stitches it will require to sew, not'gussets and seams, but body and soul together: and, perhaps, after all her hard sewing, having to sue a shabby employer for the amount of her pitiful earnings. Estimate, if you may, the terrible wear and tear of head and heart, of liver and lungs. Appraise, on oath, the value of youth wasted, spirits outworn, prospects blasted, natural affections withered in the bud, and all blissful hopes anni- hilated except those beyond the grave,- "What! by that horrid, red-faced, bald-pated, undersized little monster?  No, Miss, -but by a breach of trust on the part of a banker of genteel habits and refined notions; accustomed to all the luxuries of life, and every delicacy of the season. "O, the abominable villain! And did he ruin himself as well as the poor lady?" Totally. "And was transported?" Quite. "What, to Botany?  No, Miss. To the loveliest part of Sussex, where he is con- demned to live in a commodious cottage residence, with pleasure- ground and kitchen-garden annexed, - capital shooting and fishing, and within reach of two packs of hounds! "Shameful! Scandalous! - why, it's no punishment at all." No, Miss. And then to think of the hundreds and thousands of emigrants, - English, Scotch, and Irish, - ;ho, for no crime but   160         GOOD STORIES. poverty, are compelled to leave their native country,--the homes and hearths of their childhood, - the graves of their kindred, - the land of their fathers, and to settle, -if settling it may be called, -in the houseless woods and wildernesses of a foreign clime. "O, shocking! shocking! But if I was the government, the wicked, fraudulent bankers and trust-breakers should be sent abroad too. Why should n't they be punished with passage-money and grants of land as well as the poor, innocent emigrants, and be obliged to settle in foreign parts?" Ah! why, indeed, Miss, - except, - ("Except what, sir?" Why, that embezzlers and swindlers, by all accounts, are such very bad settlers. CHAPTER V. BUT Mr. Pryme?- That little bald, florid, fidgety personage was still sitting on his high stool at his desk, snuffing, coughing, winking, and pretending to examine a topsy-turvy account-book,--sometimes, by way of variation, hashing up a new pen, or drumming a fresh march with his fingers, - Mr. Grimble was making some private calculations, which had reference to his future income-tax, on a slip of office-paper, - Mr. Trent was dreaming over an imaginary trial, in which he was a witness, at the Old Bailey, - And Mr. Phipps was fretting over the predestined capture of the infatuated cashier, - when all at once there was a noise that startled the clerkly trio from their seats. The nervous Mr. Pryme, by one of his involuntary motions, had upset his leaden inkstand,--in trying to save the inkstand he knocked down his ruler, --in catching at the ruler he had let fall the great journal, - and in scrambling after the journal he had overturned his high stool. The clatter was prodigious, and acting on a nature already overwrought sufficed to discompose the last atom of its equanimity.          -   TIE DEFA ULTER.           161 For- a moment the bewildered author of the work stood and trembled as if shot,--then snatching his hat, and clapping it "skow-wow anyhow " on his head, rushed desperately out of the office. "Thank God!" ejaculated Mr. Phipps, drawing a long breath, like a swimmer after a dive. "I say, Grimble," exclaimed the Junior Clerk, ' it 's a true bill." But Mr. Grimble was already outside the door, and running down the stone stairs into the hall, seized on the first office-messen- ger that offered. "Here - Warren! - quick!  Run after Mr. Pryme, -don't let him out of your sight,- but watch where he goes to, - and let me know." CHAPTER VI. Now according to the practice of the regular drama, which pro- fesses to represent the greater stage of the world, whenever a rob- ber, murderer, or traitor has escaped, it is a rule for the theatrical, policemen, constables, runners, guards, alguazils, shirri, or gen- darmes, to assemble and agree to act in concert,- that is to say, by singing in chorus that the villain has bolted, and musically exhorting each other to " follow, follow, fol-de-rol-de-rol-O!" with- " out a moment's delay. An arrangement perhaps conducive to dramatic convenience and stage effect, .but certainly quite inconsist- ent with the usages of real life or the dictates of common or un- common sense. Messrs. Grimble, Phipps, and Trent, however, were not theatri- cal; so instead of joining in a trio or a catch, they first held a consultation, and then proceeded in a body to the Secretary, to whom they described the singular- behavior of Mr. Pryme. "Very singular, indeed," said the Secretary. - 'I observed it myself, and inquired if he was in good health. No,-yes,--no. And Mrs. Pryme? Yes,--no,- yes. In short, he did not seem to know what he was saying." "   UV i         UmyV"OA1 VlAl.00* '-Or doing," put in Mr. Trent. "He threw a shovel of coals into the iron safe." "With other acts," added Mr. Grimble, "the reverse of offli- cial." "Tell him at once," whispered Mr. Trent. "In short, sir," said Mr. Grimble, with a most sepulchral tone, and the face of an undertaker, "I am sorry, deeply sorry and con- cerned to say, that Mr. Pryme has suddenly departed." "Indeed! But he was just the sort of man to do it." The three clerks stared at each other, for they had all thought exactly the reverse of the little bald, florid, ex-cashier. "Short-necked, sanguine, and of a full habit, you know," con- tinued the Secretary. "Poor fellow!" "I am sorry, deeply sorry and concerned to say," repeated Mr. Grimble, " that I mean he has absconded." "The Devil he has!" exclaimed the Secretary, at once jumping to his feet, and instinctively buttoning up his pockets, " but no, - it's impossible!" and he looked towards Trent and Phipps for confirmation. "It's a true bill, sir," said the first, "he has -bolted sure enough." The other only shook his head. "It 's incredible!" said the Secretary. "Why, he was as steady as a quaker, and as correct as clock-work! Mr. Grimble, have you inspected his books?" "I have, sir." "Well, sir?" "At present, sir, all appears correct. But as the accounts are kept in this office it is easier to embezzle than to detect any defal- cation." "Humph! - I do not think we are worse in that respect than other public offices! Then, if I understand you, there is no dis- tinct evidence of fraud?" "None whatever, sir," replied Mr. Phipps. "Except his absconding," added Mr. Grimble.   "Well, gentlemen, we will wait till ten o'clock to-morrow morn- ing, and then if Mr. Pryme does not make his appearance we shall know how to act." The three clerks made three bows and retired, severally pleased, displeased, and indifferent at the result of their audience. "We may wait for him," grumbled Mr. Grimble, '" till ten o'clock on doomsday." At this moment the door reopened, and the Secretary put out his head. "Gentlemen, I need not recommend to you to confine this matter, for the present, to your own bosoms!" But the caution was in vain. Warren, the messenger, had given a hint of -the affair to a porter, who had told it to another, and an- other, and another, till the secret was as well buzzed and blown as if it had been confided to a swarm of blue-bottles. In fact, the flight of Mr. Pryme was known throughout the several offices, where, ac- cording to English custom, the event became a subject for betting, and a considerable sum was laid out at 6 to 4, and afterwards at 7 to 2, against the reappearance of the cashier. CHAPTER      VII. "WELL, Warren?" "Well, Mr. Grimble, sir." The three clerks on returning to their office had found the mes- senger at the door, and took him with them into the room. "Well, I followed up 5Mr. Pryme, sir, and the first thing he did were to hail a cab." "And where did he drive to? '" "To nowheres at all, - coz why, afore the cab could pull round off the stand, away he goes, - that's Mr. Pryme, - walking at the rate of five miles an hour, more or less, so as not easy to be kep up with, straight home to his own house, number 9, where, instid of double knocking at the door, he rin'ed to be let in at the hairy bell."   164         GOOD STORIES. "Very odd!" remarked Mr. Grimble. "Well, he stayed in the house a goodish while, -as long as it might take him, like, to collect his porterble property and vallybles, - when all at once out he comes, like a man with his head turned, and his hat stuck on hind part afore, for you know he'd wore it up at the back like a curricle one." "A clerical one,--go on." "Why then, away he cuts down the street, as hard as he can split without busting, and me arter him, but being stiffish with the rheumatiz, whereby I soon found I was getting' nowheres at all in the race, and in consekence pulled up." "And which way did he run?" "Why then, he seemed to me to be a-making for the bridge." "Ah, to get on board a steamer," said Mr. Grimble. "Or into the river," suggested Mr. Trent. Mr. Phipps groaned and wrung his hands. "You're right, you are, Mr. Trent, sir," said the messenger with a determined nod and wink at the junior clerk. "There was a gemman throwed himself over last Friday, and they did say it was becos he had made away with ten thousand Long An- nuitants.". "The poor, wretched, misguided creature!" "Yes he did, Mr. Phipps, sir,-- right over the senter harch. And what's wus, not leaving a rap behind him -except his wid- der and five small little children, and the youngest on 'ema's a suckin' babby." "Thank God!" exclaimed Mr. Phipps, "that Mr. Pryme is not a family man." CHAPTER      VIII. POOn Mr. Phipps! As soon as the office was closed he walked home to his lodgings in Westminster, but at a slower pace than usual, and with a heavy heart, for his mind was full of sorrow and misgiving at the too   THE DEFA ULTE R.          165 probable fate of the unfortunate Defaulter. The figure of Mr. Pryme followed him wherever he went; it seemed to glance over his shoulder in the looking-glass; and when he went to wash his hands, the pale drowned face of the cashier shone up through the water, instead of the pattern at the bottom of the basin. For the first time since his clerkship he could not enjoy that fa- vorite meal, his tea. The black bitterness in his thoughts over- powered the flavor of the green leaf,-it turned the milk and neutralized the sugar on his palate. He took but one bite out of his crumpet, and then resigned it to the cat. Supper was out of the question. His-mental agitation, actingo on the nerves of the stomach, had brought on a sick headache, which indisposed him to any kind of food. In the mean while for the first strange time he became intensely sensible that he was a bachelor, and uncomfort- ably conscious of his loneliness in the world. The company of a second person, another face, only to look at, would have been an infinite relief to him, -by diverting his attention from the one dreadful thought and the one horrible image that, do what he would, kept rising up before him,- sometimes like a shadow on the wall, sometimes like a miniature figure amid the intricate veins of the marble mantelpiece, - and anon in the chiaro-oscuro of the fire. To get rid of these haunting illusions, he caught up a book, which happened to be the second volume of Lamb's Let- ters," and stumbled on the following ominous passage:-- "Who that standeth, knoweth but he may yet fall? Your hands, as yet, lam most willing to believe, have never deviated into other's property. You think it impossible that you could ever commit so heinous an offence ; but so thought Fauntleroy once; so have thought many besides him, who at last have expiated as he hath done." The words read like a fatal prophecy! He dropt the book in horror, and falling on his knees, with tearful eyes and uplifted hands, besought Providence, if it saw fit to afflict him with the utmost miseries of sickness and poverty, but to save him, - even by stroke of sudden death to save him, - from ever becoming a Defaulter!   Ao         UCUD STb'OIES.. This devotional act restored him in some degree to tranquillity; but with night and sleep all his horrors returned. The face of Mr. Pryme, no longer florid, but pale as a plaster-cast, was continually confronting him, now staring at him through transparent wa- ters, and now between massive iron bars. Then the dismal por- trait would abruptly change to a full-length, which was as suddenly surrounded by a cluster of children, boys and girls of different ages, including one or two infants,--a family he understood, by the intuition of dreams, to be illegitimate,-and that they were solemnly consigned by the Suicide to his care and maintenance. Anon the white figure vanished, and a black one appeared in its place, a fe- male, with the very outline, as if cut in paper, of the widowed Mrs. Pryme, and whom by some mysterious but imperative obligation he felt that he must espouse. The next moment this phantom was swept away by a mighty rush of black waters, like those in Martin's grand picture of the Deluge, and on or beneath the dark flood again floated the pale effigy of the Suicide entire and appar- ently struggling for dear life, and sometimes shattered, he knew not how, and drifting about in passive fragments. Then came- a fresh rush of black waters, gradually shaping itself into an immense whirlpool, with the white corpse-like figure, but magnified to a co- lossal size, rapidly whirling in the centre of the vortex, whilst obscure forms, black and white, of'children, females, savages, and alas! not a few gigantic Demon  shapes, revolved more slowly around it. In short, the poor fellow never passed so wretched a night since he was born! CHAPTER IX. "AND did Mr. Pryme really drown himself?" My dear Felicia, if Female Curiosity had always access, as you have, to an author's sanctorum, - if she could stand or sit, as you can, at his elbow whilst composing his romances of real or unreal life, -if she might ask, as you do, at the beginning or in the mid- dle of the plot,-what is to be its denouemet..-   THE DEFA ULTER.           167 "Well, sir, what then?" Why, then, Messieurs Colburn, Saunders and Otley, Bentley, Churton, and Newhy, - not forgetting A. K. Newman, - might retire for good to their country boxes at Ponder's End, Leather- head, and Balham Hill, for there would be no more novels in three volumes. Nay, the authors themselves, serious and comic, both or neither, might retreat forever into the Literary Almshouses, if there are any such places, - for there would be no more articles of six- teen pages-and "to. be continued "-in the magazines.  All would be over with us, as with the Bourbons, could Female Cu- riosity thus foresee, as Talleyrand said, "Le commencement de la fini!" "Well, but - if your story, as you say, is 'an owre true tale,' then Mr. Pryme must have been a real man, - an actual living human being,-and it is positive cruelty to keep one in suspense about his fate!" Dearest! --the tale is undoubtedly true, that there was such a personage as Mr. Pryme, - "Was! Why then lie did embezzle the money, and he did throw himself off Westminster Bridge? But had he really an illegitimate family? And did Mr. Phipps actually marry the widow, according to his dream?" Patience] - and you shall hear. CHAPTER X. THE morrow came, and the Hour, - but not the Man. Messrs. Grimble, Phipps, and Trent were assembled round the office-fire-poor Phipps looking as white as a sheet, for ten o'clock had struck, and there was no Mr. Pryme. At five minutes past ten the Secretary came in from his own room with his golden repeater in his hand, - he looked anxiously round the office, and then in turn at each of the three clerks. Mr. Phipps sighed, Mr. Trent shook his head, and Mr. Grimble shrugged up his shoulders.   168         GOOD STORIES. "Not here yet?" "Nor won't be,"' muttered Mr. Grimble. "What odds will you lay about it?" whispered the giddy Mr. Trent, "The office-clock is rather fast," stammered out Mr. Phipps. "No, - it is exact by my time," said the Secretary, and he held out his watch for inspection. "He was always punctual to a minute," observed Mr. Grimble. ' Always. I fear, gentlemen, we must apply for a war-" The Secretary paused, for he heard the sound of a foot at the door, which hastily opened, and in walked Mr. Pryme!!! An apparition could scarcely have caused a greater trepidation. The Secretary hurriedly thrust - his repeater into his breeches- pocket. Mr. Grimble retreated to his own desk,- Mr. Phipps stood stock-still, with his eyes and mouth wide open, - while Mr. Trent, though he was a loser on the event, burst into a loud laugh. I "I am afraid, gentlemen," said Mr. Pryme, looking very foolish and stammering, s I am afraid that my - my - my ridiculous behavior yesterday has caused you some - some - uneasiness- on my account." No answer. "The truth is - I was excessively anxious and nervous - and agitated - very agitated indeed!" "Very," from Mr. Trent. The little florid man colored up till his round, shiny, bald head was as scarlet as a love-apple. "The truth is - after so many disappointments - I did not like to mention the thing - the afair - till it was quite certain - till it was all over -for fear- for fear of being quizzed. The. truth is - the truth is " "Take time, Mr. Pryme," said the Secretary. "Why, then, silr',-the truth is - after fifteen years -I'm a Father - ahappy Father, sir - a fine chopping boy, gentlemen- and Mrs. P. is as charming - that's to say, as well - as can be expected!"   \ *'      COLDSTREAM. C o L D S T R E A M l. A  BLARGE  party is assembled to celebrate the feast of St. Par- tridge at- Ravelstoke Hall, an old country-house about t6o miles distant -from, the -northwest coast of Devon. CThe various branches of English Society are very fairly represented by it6 iom-f ponent-parts. There are two peers, three members of the itower house, some Guardsmen, some under-graduates, a clergyman, aid a lieutenant in the navy. But our hero is not a representative tian; yet he belongs to a class which, called into existence by the accu- mulated wealth of the nineteenth eentury, is ever on the increahe. Frederick Tyrawley resembles Sir Charles Coldstream,- inti2uch as he has been everywhere, and done everything; buth6-i byiy no means- used up, and can still take an interest in whatetP ;his hand finds to do. Nor is his everything everybody els vskeyery- thing. It is not bounded by Jerusalem and the pyramids. Mr. Tyrawley has fought in more than one State of  6iuthi America, and has wandered for more than two years from -ile to isle of the Pacific. A mysterious reputation hovers round hims He is supposed to have done many things, but no one is veriy ear what they are; and it is not likely - that much information- oh t the point will be obtained from him, for he seldom talks muth', an never speaks of himself. His present mission appears to be to kill partridges, play cricket, and dress himself. Not. that it mast be supposed that he has ever been in the habit of wearing less clothing  than the eustom of the country in which he may have beeni located required; but only- that at the present time he devoted much atten- tion to buff waistcoats and gauze neckties, braided coats) and curled mustachios.   172         GOOD STORIES. Such as he is, however, he is an object of interest to the feminine portion of the party at Ravelstoke Hall; for he is rich and hand- some, as well as mysterious, and cannot be more than two-and-thirty. And the ladies at Ravelstoke outnumbered the men, for although it isstill rare for the fair sex to participate actively in the saturnalia of the partridge-god, they will always be found hovering in consid- erable numbers on- the outskirts of the feast; and the varieties of the British lady are fairly represented. There are some mammas with daughters to marry, and there are some daughters with a mamma to prevent marrying again,-which is, perhaps, the most -difficult thing of the two, as she has an income in her own right. There are blondes and brunettes, and pretty, brown-haired, brown-eyed girls who hover between the two orders, and combine the most dangerous characteristic of both, who can wear both blue and pink, and who look prettier in the one color than they do in the other; but who always command your suffrage in favor of that they are wearing when you look at them. And there is Constance Baynton with gray eyes and black hair. And-the nicest critic of feminine appearance might be defied to state what she had worn, half an hour after he left her; for no one can ever look at anything except her face. Yet Constance is three-and-twenty, and still unmarried. Alas what cowards men are. The fact is that Constance is very clever; but as Mrs. Mellish (the widow) says, "not clever enough to hide it." Is she a little v5xed at her present condition? Certainly she does not exhibit any tendency to carry out Mrs. Mellish's suggestion, if it has ever been repeated to her. The young men are more afraed of her than ever; and certainly she does say very sharp things, sometimes. Especially she is severe upon idlers, the butterflies of fashionable existence. She appears to consider that she has a special mission to arouse them; but they do not appear to like being lectured. With the young ladies she is a great favorite, for she is very affectionate; and though so beautiful and distinguished, she has proved herself to be not so dangerous a rival as might have   COLDSTREAM.            173 been expected. Indeed, it has happened, more than once, that male admiration, rebounded from the hard surface of her manner, has found more yielding metal in the bosoms of her particular friends. Besides, she is always ready to lead the van in the general attack upon the male sex, when the ladies retire to the drawing-room. Not that she ever says anything behind their backs she would not be ready to repeat to their faces; but in that course probably she would not meet with such general support. In hIr. Tyrawley she affected to disbelieve. She stated as her opinion to her intimate friends, that she didn't believe he ever had done or ever would do anything worth doing; but that he plumed himself on a cheap reputation, which, as all were ignorant of its foundation, no one could possibly impugn. There is reason to believe that in this instance Miss Constance was not as conscientious as usual, but that she really entertained a higher opinion of the gentleman than she chose to confess. He certainly was not afraid of her, and had even dared. to contradict her favorite theory of the general worthlessness of English gentle- men of the nineteenth century. It was one wet morning, when she had been reading Scott to three or four of her particular friends,- and it must be confessed that she read remarkably well,-that she began to lament the decline of chivalry. Tyrawley was sitting half in and half out of range. Perhaps she talked a little at him. At any rate he chose to accept the challenge. "I cannot agree with you, Miss Baynton," he said. "It is true we no longer wear ladies' gloves in our hlelmets, nor do we compel harmless individuals, who possibly may have sweethearts of their own, to admit the superiority of our ladylove at the point of the lance; but of all that was good in chivalry, of courage, truth, honor, enterprise, self-sacrifice, you will find as much in the nineteenth century as in the twelfth." He brightened up as he spoke, and it was quite evident that he believed what he said, a circumstance which always gives an advan- tage to a disputant. More than one pair of bright eyes smiled approval,^and Miss   174         GOOD STORIES. Constance saw a probability of a defection from her ranks. She changed her tactics. "You are too moderate in your claims for your contemporaries, Mr. Tyrawley.  If I remember right, modesty has always been considered a qualification of a true knight." "I am not ashamed to speak the truth," he replied; " your theory would have been more tenable before the days of the Crimean war and the Indian mutiny; but the men who lit their cigars in the trenches of the Redan, and who carried the gate of Delhi, may bear comparison with Bayard, or Cceur de Lion." "O, I do not allude to our soldiers," said she; " of course, I know they are brave; but," - and here she hesitated a moment, till possi- bly piqued because her usual success had not attended her in the passage of arms, she concluded, -" but to our idle gentlemen, who seem to have no heart for anything." Tyrawley smiled. "Possibly you may judge too much by the out- side," he said. "I am inclined to fancy that some of those whom you are pleased to call idle gentlemen would be found to have heart enough for anything that honor, or duty, or even chivalry could find for them to do-." "I hope you are right," said Miss Constance, with a slightly per- ceptible curl of her upper lip, which implied that she did not think so. Tyrawley bowed, and the conversation terminated a few minutes afterwards; when he had left the room, the conversation of the young ladies was suddenly interrupted by Master George Baynton, aged fourteen, who suddenly attacked his sister. "I think you are wrong, you know, when you call Tyrawley a  humbug." "I My dear," said Constance with a start, "I never said anything SO ru-" "Well, you implied it, you know, in your girl's words, and I think you make a mistake; for he can shoot like one o'clock, never misses a thing, and I'hear he can ride no end. He was rather out ofprac- tice in histcricket whenhe came down; but he is improving every   day. You should have seen the hit he made yesterday, - right up to the cedars." "Do you think there is nothing else for a man to do but ride, and shoot, and play cricket?" "O, that's all very well; but you should hear what Merton, our second master, says; and a great brick he is too. ' Whatever you do, do it as well as you can, whether it'si cricket or verses.' And I believe if Tyrawley had to fight, he'd go in and win, and no mistake." Ah!" said Constance, with a sigh, " he has evidently - what is it you boys call it? - tipped you, is n't it?" Indignant at this insult, George walked off to find his friend, and have a lesson in billiards.. The day lingered on, after the usual fashion of wet days in Sep- tember in full country-houses. There was a little dancing after dinner; but all retired early in hopes of a finer day on the morrow. Tyrawley had some letters to write, so that it was past two before he thought of going to bed. He always slept with his window open, and as he threw up the sash, a fierce gust of wind blew out his can- dles, and blew down the looking-glass. "' Pleasant, by Jove!" he soliloquized. "I wonder whether it's smashed,-unlucky to break a looking-glass,-- I 'm hanged if I know where the matches are: never mind; I can find my way to bed in the dark. What a night!" as a flash of lightning illumined the room for a moment, and he bent out of the window. "The wind must be about nor-nor-west. Cheerful for anything coming up to Bristol from the southward. I wonder what a storm is like on this coast. I have a great mind to go and see. I shall never be able to get that hall-door open without waking them up! what a nui- sance! Stay, capital idea! I'll go by the window." Before starting on this expedition, he changed the remains of his evening dress (for he had been writing in his dressing- own) for a flannel shirt and trowsers, whilst a short pea-jacket and glazed hat completed his array. His room was on the first floor, and he had intended to drop from the window-sill; but the branch of an elm came so near that he found it unnecessary, as, springing to it, he   16         GOOD STORIES. was on the ground, like a cat, in an instant. He soon found his way across country, "like a bird," to the edge of the cliff. The sea for miles seemed one sheet of foam. But a flash of lightning discovered a group of figures about a quarter of a mile distant; and he distinguished shouts in the inter- vals of the storm. He was soon amongst them, and he found that all eyes were turned on a vessel which had struck on a rock within two hundred yards'of the cliff. It was evident that she would go to pieces under their very eyes. "Is there no way of opening communication with her?" he asked of an old coast-guard man. Why, ye see, sir, we have sent to Bilford for Manby's rockets; but she must break up before they come." "How far is it to Bilford?" "Better than seven mile, your honor." "If we could get a rope to them, we might save the crew." "Every one of them, your honor; but it ain't possible." "I think a man might swim out." "The first wave would dash him to pieces against the cliff." "What depth of water below?" "The cliff goes down like a wall, forty fathom, at least." "The deeper the better. What distance to the water?" "A good fifty feet." "Well, I have dived off the main-yard of the Chesapeake. Now listen to me. Have you got some light, strong rope?" "As much as you like." "Well, take a double coil round my chest, and do you take care to pay it out fast enough as I draw upon it." "You won't draw much after the first plunge; it will be the same thing as suicide, every bit." "Well, we shall see. There's no time to be lost; lend me a knife." And in an instant he whipped off his hat, boots, and pea-jacket; then with the knife he cut off its sleeves and passed the rope through them, that it might chafe him less.   COLDSTREAM.           1" The eyes of the old boatman brightened. There was evidently a method in his madness. You are a very good swimmer, I suppose, sir?" "I have dived through the surf at Nukuheva a few times." "I never knew a white man that could do that." Tyrawley smiled. "But whatever you do," he said, "mind and let me have plenty of rope. Now out of the way, my friends, and let me have a clear start." He walked slowly to the edge of the cliff, looked over to see how much the rock shelved outwards; then returned, looked to see that there was plenty of rope for him to carry out, then took a short run, and leaped as if from the springing-board of a plunging-bath. He touched the, water full five-and-twenty feet from the edge of the cliff. Down into its dark depth he went, like a plummet, but soon to rise again. As he reached the surface, he saw the crest of a mighty wave a few yards in front of him,-the wave that he had been told was to dash him lifeless against the cliff. But now his old experience of the Pacific stands him in good stead. For two moments he draws breath, then, ere it reaches him, he dives-below its centre. The water dashes against the cliff, but the swimmer rises far beyond it. A faint cheer rises from the shore as they feel him draw upon the rope. The waves follow in succession, and he dives again and again, rising like an otter to take breath, making very steadily onward, though more below the water than above it. We must now turn to the ship. The waves have made a clean breach over her bows. The crew are crowded upon the stern. They hold on to the bulwarks, and await the end, for no boat can live in such a sea. Suddenly she is hailed from the waters. "Ship a-hoy!" shouts a loud clear voice, which makes itself heard above the storm. "Throw me a rope or a buoy!"The life-buoy was still hanging in its accustomed place by the mainmast. The captain almost mechanically takes it down, and with well-directed aim throws it within a yard or two of the swimmer. In a moment it is under his arms, and in half a minute he is on board. "Come on board, sir," he says to the captain, pulling one of his   178         , GOOD STORIES. wet curls professionally. The captain appeared to be regarding him as a visitor from the lower world; so, turning to the crew, he lifted up the rope he had brought from the shore. Then for the first time the object of his mission flashed upon their minds, and a desperate cheer broke forth from all hands, instantly re-echoed from the shore. Then a strong cable is attached to the small rope and drawn on board, - then a second, - and the communication, is com- plete. But no time is to be lost, for the stern shows signs of break- ing up, and there is a lady passenger. Whilst the captain is planning; a sort of chair in which she might be moved, Tyrawley lifts her upon  his left arm, steadies himself with his fight by the upper rope, and walks along the lower as if he had been a dancer. He is the first on shore, for no sailor would leave till the lady was safe. But they soon follow, and in five minutes the ship is clear,--five minutes more, and no trace of her is left. Ravelstoke Hall has been aroused by the news of the wreck, and Mr. Ravelstoke has just arrived with brandy and blankets. Him Tyrawley avoids; and, thinking he can be of no farther use, he be- takes himself across the country once more, and by the aid of the friendly elm regains his chamber without observation. The lady, whom Tyrawley had deposited in a cottage, with a strong recommendation that she should go to sleep immediately, was soon carried off in triumph by Mr. Ravelstoke to the Hall, and welcomed by Lady Grace at half past three in the morning. There were very few of the guests who slept undisturbed that night. The unusual noise in the house aroused everybody, and many ex- cursions were made in' unfinished costume to endeavor to ascertain what was going on. The excitement culminated when the miscel7 laneous assemblage who had conducted the captain and some of the crew to the Hall, after being well supplied with ale and stronger liquids, conceived that it would be the correct thing to give three cheers at the hour of half past five. It was then that Lord Todmulton, an Irish peer laboring under an erroneous impression that the house was attacked, was discov- ered on the landing-place, in array, consisting principally of a short dressinz-gown, flannel waistcoat, and a fowling-piece.   COLDSTREA M.           179 Breakfast that morning was a desultory meal. People finished, and talked about the wreck, and began again. It seemed quite im- possible to obtain anything like an accurate account of what had taken place. At last the captain appeared, and though almost over- whelmed by the multiplicity of questions, nevertheless, between the intervals of broiled ham and coffee, he managed to elucidate mat- ters a little. Then came the question, "Who is it who swam to the vessel?" Tyrawley had only been at Ravelstoke a few days, and was a stranger in the neighborhood. None of the servants had reached the coast till it was all over, so there had been no one to recognize him. "I scarcely saw him," said the captain, "but he was a dark, tall- ish man, with a great deal of beard." "Was he a gentleman?" asked Miss Constance Baynton, who had been taking a deep interest in the whole affair. "Well, d' ye see, Miss, I can't exactly say, for he had n't much on; but if he is n't, he'd make a good one, - that I'll go bail for. He's the coolest hand I ever saw. Stay! now I think of it, I should n't wonder if he was a naval man, for he pulled his forelock, half-laughing like, and said, 'Come on board, sir,' to me, when we pulled him up." "Perhaps it was Rutherford," said Mr. Ravelstoke, naming the lieutenant in the navy ;b "he is tall and dark." "And he has been letting his moustache grow, since he came on shore," observed a young lady. "Where is he?  But Mr. Rutherford was gone down to the cliff, to inspect the scene of the disaster. "Begging your pardon, sir," said the butler, " it could not have been any gentleman stopping in the house, for the door was fast- ened till the people came down to tell you of the wreck." At this moment - half past ten, A. M. - Mr. Tyrawley walked into the breakfast-room. He was got up, if possible, more elabo- rately than usual.   180         GOOD STORIES. "Now here's a gentleman, captain, Mr. Tyrawley, who has been all over the world, and met with some strange adventures. I'll be bound he never saw anything to equal the affair of last night." "You'd a nearish thing of it, captain?" inquired Tyrawley, speaking very slowly. His manner and appearance quite disarmed any suspicion the captain might have had of his identity. "Five minutes more, sir, and Davy Jones's locker would have held us all. Begging your pardon, Miss," apologizing to Constance. The captain had already repeated the story a reasonable num- ber of times, and was anxious to finish his breakfast. So Miss Constance gave it all for the benefit of Mr. Tyrawley, dressed in her own glowing periods. Tyrawley made no observation upon her recital, but took a third egg. "Well, Mr. Tyrawley," said she at last; " what do you think of the man who swam out to the wreck?" "Why, I think, Miss Baynton, - I think," said he, hesitating that he must have got very wet. And I sincerely hope he won't catch cold." There was a general laugh at this, in which the captain joined; but it is to be feared that Miss Constance stamped her pretty little foot under the table. Tyrawley turned, and began to talk to Miss Mellish, who was sitting on his right. As he was speaking, the door on his left opened, and Lady Grace Ravelstoke entered with the lady passenger. The lady heard him speak,-and there are some voices which a woman never forgets, - and the dangerous journey over the rope had not passed in silence. She laid her hand upon his arm, and said," O, sir, how can I thank you?" Tyrawley rose, as in duty bound, saying, "Do not speak of it. I did not know, when I came off, that I was to have the pleasure of assisting you."? But the astonishment of the captain was beautiful to behold.   COLDSTREAfM.           181 "Why, you don't mean to say,-Well, I never;-dash my wig, - well I'm - Here, shake hands, sir, will you?" And he stretched across the table a brawny hand, not much smaller than a shoulder of mutton. The grip with which Tyrawley met his, seemed to do a- great deal more to convince him of his identity than the lady's recogni- tion of their preserver. The. day was as wet as the preceding. Half an hour after breakfast, Mr. Tyrawley lounged into the back drawing-room. There sat Miss Constance Baynton, and, by the singular coinci- dence which favors lovers or historians, she sat alone. N. ow Constance had made up her mind that she was bound to apologize to Mr. Tyrawley for her rude speeches of yesterday; she had also decided that she would compliment him on his gallant conduct. She had, in fact, arranged a neat, quiet, cold, formal, appropriate form of words, in which she would give her views expression. And how do you think she delivered them? She got up, said, "O Mr. Tyrawley!" and burst into tears. If a proud woman's pride is a shield to thee, O man, as well as to her, against the arrows of love, remember that if ever she throws it away, - after she has compelled you to acknowledge its value, - you are both left utterly defenceless. Frederick Tyrawley capitulated at once. They alre to be mar- ried this month. And if Mr. Tyrawley does not, at some future time, achieve a reputation which no mystery can cloud, it will not be Mrs. Tyrawley's fault.   : "/ M A'D O N N A. ONE morning  quite at the beginning of the half--a new boy was brought into the schoolroom. A very gentlemanly boy he was; for he stepped inside the door, and made a low bow to the school generally, which was received with a loud laugh (Styles being ill in bed). His name was Bright, -Harry Bright, eleven years old, with large dark-blue eyes, and long bright ihair parted in the middle of the forehead, and turned under at the back, like a woman's, in a heavy glossy curl. Every chap in the school had a nickname of some sort, and we furnished our young friend with his before he sat down to his desk. We called him Madonna, from his beauty and the fashion of his hair. Altogether he looked so smart, good-humored, and engaging, that everybody was pleased except Alf Bathurst, junior cock. Alf saw that he should have to fight for his comb and dignity. Madonna and he were just about the same age and weight. Alf, we knew, was game enough, and took lots of punishing; and Ma- donna looked pluck itself. In short, the general impression was that it would prove one of the most gratifying mills in the annals of the school. Bets were covertly made (the amount of brandy-balls and rock-cakes staked on the event was something absurd), and, in a series of secret conferences during school-hours, it was arranged that the fight should come off at twelve o'clock. Two boys were sub- sequently chosen as seconds for each, and a deputation of juniors waited upon the illustrious senior cock (under color of a difficult passage in the Georgics), humbly inviting his presence in the char- acter of referee. The reply to this was all that could be desired. Meanwhile, Madonna sat quietly at his desk,--next to Als,   blithely unconscious of the arrangements so anxiously making for his comfort and honor. Somehow, we forgot to tell him. It seemed so natural that they should fight! Madonna seemed inclined to fiaternize, and asked a whole lot of questions. What time we. dined? If there were puddings every day? Was it a decent playground? Was smokinog allowed? &c., &c., to all of which Alf Bathurst replied with a stern politeness, as one who felt that, until the event of the morning had come off, the relative position they were ultimately to hold towards each other was not sufficiently defined for unrestrained social intercourse. Oddly enough, it never occurred, even to Alf, that his neighbor needed to be informed of the ilmpendingc passage of arms. Madonna was a little puzzled by Alf's dignified manner, and still more by some expressions'which escaped him. Attached to every two desks was a small receptacle for the lexicons, &c. Perceiving that there was room here for some of his helps to learning, Madonna proceeded to fill up the vacant space, when Alf arrested his hand, -quietly observing, - "Betterl wait till after the mill." Madonna looked at him with astonishment, which was increased when Alf added, in an easier tone, - "Do you mind my having a squint at your wrists?" Totally unconscious of the cause of Alf's sudden interest in his anatomy, and wondering, further, why -he should prefer the oblique mode of observation referred to, Madonna, nevertheless, frankly ex- tended his hands, which Alf examined with much interest, feeling and pinching the well-defined muscles, and the firm yet flexible joints. "Tough work, I expect!" muttered Alf, thoughtfully, and let it fall. Madonna opened his magnificent. blue eyes to their full extent, and could by no means make it out; but the next moment classes were called, and-no more opportunity was afforded for general con- versation till the sch6ol rose. At the first stroke of the clock the entire body, seniors and juniors, 8   184         GOOD STORIES. started up, and, with a wild shout, rushed to the playground, Madonna yielding readily to the common impulse, and rather curious to see what was to follow. Arrived at the scene of expected action, his doubts were quickly resolved. Alf himself curtly informed him that, according to the custom of the school, it was necessary to decide, without an hour's delay, which was the better man, and entitled to the position of ju- nior cock. Madonna colored to the eyes. "I cannot fight," he said. "You admit," said Bathurst "that I can lick you, and may kick yolu also, if I please?a This was a mere formula; but Madonna took it differently. c You have no right to touch me," said Madonna; "but I can't fight, - and I won't fight." He turned away. The eater crowd were, for a moment, stunned with surprise. Wonder and incredulity were stamped on every face. The boy who was marking out the ring stopped as though petrified. The senior cock himself betrayed as much emotion as was consistent with his dignity. I must not dwell upon this scene. It was too true,-Ma- donna declined to acknowledge Alf the better man, and yet refused to fight! There was but one inevitable conclusion, - he was a cow- ard! At first it was, hoped he was jesting; chaffing, and remonstrance were tried,-both were inefficacious: fight he would not. In this dilemma, Robelrt Lindsay stepped up to the still blushing Madonna, and taking him by the arm led him a few paces apart. The two conversed eagerly in an undertone, while we anxiously watched the conversation. At last, Lindsay was observed to give an almost convulsive start. He carried his hand to his forehead, gazed for a moment in his companion's face, burst into a wild laugh, and turned - upon his heel.  "Gentlemen," he said, Mr. Bright persists in declining the con- test." (Bob Lindsay was always choice in his expressions.) "But   MADONNA.            185 the reason he assigns for it will hardly obtain credence in an assembly of British boys. He has given his word of honor to his mamma to be careful of his general beauty (of which, it would appear, that lady is justly proud); but especially of his fine eyes; anid he is pledged never to expose those cherished organs to the chances of a fistic encounter." Howls of derision followed this speech, mingled with shouts of genuine laughter; one chap throwing himself on the ground, tearing- up the grass, and flinging it about him, in ecstasies of mirth. ' I have," resumed the senior cock, pointed out to him the inevi- table consequences. He is immovable. I leave the matter in your hands, and only regret that I should have been allured to the extremity of the playground on the pretence of a fight which was not to take place." cCoward! Milksop! Send for his mamma! Where's Hannah with the pap-boat?" &c., yelled the incensed and disappointed crowd. Poor Madonna turned from red to white, and looked as though he would have cried, but for a strange fire in his eyes that seemed to burn up the tears. It was a miserable sight. But how could we pitty him? A fellow with a wrist like the fetlock of a thorough-bred, who almost admitted he could fight, and would n't! What was a1 black eye, or a mouse on the cheek, compared with the horrible scorn of boys? Alf Bathurst had a spice-of the bully. Thinking moreover, to fall in with the popular view, he walked up to Madonna, and slapped him smartly on the face. Strange to say, the latter seemed scarcely to feel this additional insult. Some applause followed; but Robert Lindsay suddenly reappeared in our midst, and made another speech. "Gentlemen," said Bob, " far be it from me to condemn your honest -indignation, but let us not stoop to be bullies and persecutors. To my mind, a coward is an object of compassion, not of resentment. Nature dozed over his composition, and omitted the most common and familiar ingredient of our mixed humanity. I have," added   JtUV         T U jJJ. o .i t. UlA./" d iC . the kind-hearted cock, "no title to dictate lines of conduct to the junior division; but I will say this, whoever shows consideration to this unlucky stranger is the friend of Robert Lindsay." Boys are queer animals. No one would believe it possible, that, after the scene of the morning, Madonna would become by bedtime one of the most popular fellows in the school! By Jove he was! When he recovered his spirits a little, we began to find out (fightinog aside) what a jolly chap he was, - gay, generous, - with altogether the sweetest temper I ever knew-. he did n't know what malice was, and would have been on good terms, even with Bathurst. The latter, however, like a sneaking bully as he was, never from that day forth let slip an opportunity of annoying and insulting poor Ma- donna. He made him a sort of fag, often struck him, a;nd more than once spat in his face. On these occasions, Madonna's eyes would light up with the same strange fire we noticed before; but he never struck again, and seemed to accept the necessity of submitting to every indignity, as the inevitable and only alternative of his not fi rllting.          . I'm now going back to the day of Madonna's arrival. His bed was in a large room, in which I, and a whole lot of other chaps - fourteen, I think - already slept. And after old Mopkinsj the spoony usher, had taken away the candle, we began to talk as usual. Madonna was rather silent. "I say - you - new boy, what 's your name?" "Madonna!" said his next neighbor. "A penny for your thoughts. I bet I know what they are." "Tell me," said Madonna, who was sitting up in bed, swinging his nightcap, " are any of you fellows in love?" A perfect volley of affirmatives replied. Love, you must know, was a sort of epidemic at Styles's,--that is to saty, it came in at intervals, with other games. There was n't much usually in the summer half; but when cricket, and hockey, and trapball were stopped, love came regularly in. It happened to be highly fashion- able at the time of Mtadonna's appearance, havilg recently received an immense impulse froim the arrival at Miss Billiter's, Pallas House Academy, of three new pupils, all pretty.    MADONNAA.            187 P1,s House was so capitally close to us, that, by great skill and str gth, a cricket-ball might be propelled over an immense wall into theirtiyground. It was a rum old house, with two little turrets at one end (that nearest us), one of which was called the Peniten- tiary, and used as a place of confinement for pupils in disgrace. We saw (4t different times, of course) lots of little golden-haired captives blbbing about in this cage, sometimes playing with a smuggled doll, sometimes trying to relieve the monotony of prison-life by killing flies, or other innocent pastime. We tried to establish a system of communication by signal, but it failed. One ingenious boy thought he had hit upon a method of conveying relief and sympathy in its sweetest form,- sugar-candy. -A small parcel was carefully made up, and attached to the tail of a kite, the wind being fair for the Penitentiary, and the prisoner -on the alert; the kite was dropped gradually down the wind till it reached the necessary point, then suddenly loosed, in the expectation that the tail would drop past the prison window. It did so with the greatest accuracy; but the small prisoner's arm was too short to -catch it: the packet descended lbwer than was intended, and flop it went, right through the window of Miss Billiter's study! Kites were stopped for the rest of the half. To go back to our bedroom chat. A sigh from Madonna was the next sound audible. "Tell us all about it, old chap," said a voice from an adjacent couch, in a mock sympathetic tone. "If you won't make fun of it," replied Madonna. "It 's no laugh- ing matter, I can tell you. I 've seen a good deal of the sort of thing. I 've had much sorrow.' "Have you, though?  I should n't have thought it, to look at you," squeaked Poppy Purcell, across seven other chaps. "What's she like?" "I 've been in love," said Madonna, " ever since - I don't remem- ber when I was n't -nine times, I think, with all sorts of women; but bosh! It's all hollow, sir,--hollow! They go to school and forget a fellow, or -" "A fellow-them!" put in Matilda Lyon (whose name was   ALuu         OvuL i3J U1'J TlJSi. Matthew). "I fear, Madonna, those precious eyes of yours have much to answer for*" ' I 'm as constant a chap now as ever lived," rejoined Madonna, warmly, " whatever I have been in my younger days. The world soon smudges off one's romance! Besides, I 'm tired of change. I 'll tell you a secret. I 'm in love, and mean to be, forever and a day, with the sweetest little creature breathing." "O0,ofcourse!"   ' What's hel name?" "Howold?" "Dark or fair?" "Ringlets?" demanded several beds, the room becoming much interested. "Eleanor Wilton," said Madonna, in a low voice; "she 's an orphan, a kind of fifth cousin of mine, sixteen times removed. She came over from India last year, after the death of her mother, to be educated, and she lives with a Mr. and Mrs. Perfect (perfect brutes, I call them), the husband a snobbish agent of her deceased papa- She 's nearly ten. She fell desperately in love with your humble servant. I 'd nothing in hand at the moment, having just had a split with Anne Chilcote about dancing twice with a fellow in tunics. And we 're engaged." "Engaged!" i Regularly booked, sir. Why not?  I've had my swing. I've done.  I cannever loveagain, after Eleanor. And sheis a darling, I promise you!" We further gathered from the heart-worn Madonna that his present lady-love was in appearance precisely his opposite, having large night-black eyes and raven hair, colorless cheeks, dark shades under the eyes, sad, dreamy expression, &c., &c. In short, the lover drew a very interesting and poetic picture of his lady; and con- cluded by assuring us that her attachment to himself, however unmerited, approached to adoration. As for the engagement, he certainly showed us next day a paper written by his beloved, which the constant youth wore (in a small velvet case like a needle-book) next his heart. It was to the following effect, written upon pencil lines, only half rubbed out, and was evidently one of her very earliest efforts at penmanship: -   -Mr AUilV i A.         189 "This is to give notis that I have promessed to be your true-love and when I groe up I will mary you if you like and to be your Dutiful wife till death and if not I would rather go to my mother- "You believe me, "Dear sir, "Yours truly, "ELEANOR WILTON.: We thought the conclusion rather stiff, considering the frankness of the foregoing portion; but Madonna explained that it was to be regarded rather in the light of a formal instrument than as a warm expression of feeling. Certainly if seed-cakes, mince and other pies, and macaroons, speak the language of love, Madonna's account of his lady's devotion was fully corroborated. Every week -parcels were arriving, con- taining such articles as the aforesaid, and covered with the strictest and most earnest invocations to the railway authorities concerning their safe and punctual delivery. How the little lady provided these testimonials was a. mystery to Madonna, -assuredly it was not through her guardians; and the most plausible theory was, that she had won over the housekeeper, -as well she might, the little dar- ling! -to forward these proofs of attachment to her chosen lord. But a chance was destined to come over MDadonna. One fatal half-holiday it so happened that, in returning home from playing cricket on the neighboring downs, we met the establishment of Pallas House in full procession. The usual file-fire of glances was exchanged as the two trains swept past-each other on opposite sides of the road, but only one casualty occurred; and who should that be, but the love-wasted, used-up Madonna. Tripping at the governess's side was a new pupil, the most ex- quisite little fairy you can conceive. Don't think I am romancing, when I declare to you, that in all my life - and I 've seen something, knocking about the world-two more beautiful human creatures than Madonna Bright and Augusta Grosvenor (for that we soon learned was the new girl's name) I never beheld. She had a per-   1.90         GOOD STORIES. feet cataract of rich, brown, silky hair, eyes that glittered like stars, and she walked with the air of a little princess. "Poppy," faltered Madonna, who was walking with Purcell, catching his companion's arm, "I 've seen my fate." "Hold up, my pippin!" replied the more philosophic Poppy. "Have a brandy-ball?" Madonna answered (in substance) that no amount of lollipops could minister effectually to a mind diseased; that it was, in fact, all over with him; that he never loved before; and, finally, that he could be content to perish in the course of that afternoon, if his doing so might afford even a momentary gratification to the object of 'his unquenchable passion. On being reminded of his engagement to Eleanor Wilton, Ma- donna replied, with some warmth, that he was tired of her childish. homage, and should take an early opportunity of pointing out to that young lady some more eligible investment for her affections; and finding, on arriving at home, a plum-cake of unusual dimensions, he divided it among us with a sort of disdainful pity, not reserving a crumb for himself. -Perhaps, if he had known it would be the last love-offering, save one, he was ever to receive from that source, he might have been less generous. I won't bother you with all the extravagances committed by poor Madonna while suffering from this severe attack. Positively, the boy scarcely ate or slept. He seemed to live upon the thoug^ht of this little fairy, and nothing else. As it happened, he saw her several times in a week. A series of lectures upon scientific sub- jects were being delivered at the public rooms, and these were attended by detachments from both the schools, in which the lovers were included. I say lovers, because, either attracted by his uncommon beauty or his speaking gaze, or influenced by some odd instinct or other, the little lady seemed fully to comprehend the state of our friend's mind, and to accept his worship with considerable satisfaction. She had a thousand funny little coquettish airs and graces, all directed   MADONNA.            191 at Madonna, yet all tempered with a most becoming haughtiness, which plunged him deeper than ever in love. I should think Ma- donna must have derived a good deal of information from those lectures. I never saw his attention awakened but to one experiment, and that was when the whole room took hands, and the same electric shock that paralyzed Madonna's elbow elicited a scream from Au- gusta Grosvenor. A strange thing was now about to occur. I think it was about three weeks after our first meeting with Augusta, that the school one day went out to walk. At the first turn in the road we came pounce upon the establishment of Pallas House. The schools met. As they did so, I felt my arm squeezed hard by Madonna, with whom I walked, and heard him draw in his breath as one in terrified surprise. At that instant Augusta Gros- venor passed. By her side there walked a little girl, with jet-black hair, small pale face, and the largest eyes I ever saw. Those eyes she fixed upon Madonna with an expression that haunted me--I don't know why - for days and days. It's foolish to say days; for, to this very moment, I can recall it, and I see it now. I knew, without ever having seen her, that this was Madonna's little true- love, Eleanor Wilton. We walked on in silence, Madonna amazed and bewildered as though he had seen a little spirit. In truth, she had passed us almost like one. I don't remember that we ever talked upon the subject. I did not know how Madonna migrht receive it; and, as I saw he was really very unhappy, I thought it best to say nothing. He moped about the school and playground, a totally changed being, and so provoked Alf Bathurst by his apathy, or, as Alf called it, sulkiness, that the latter tyrannized over and worried him in every possible manner. It was pitiable and disgusting to see. O, if I had but been two years older! I would ..... No matter. One day Alf struck Madonna a severe blow in the face. The flush that followed it did not subside, as was natural. Headache and sickness followed; and the doctor, being sent for, directed that     Madonna should be kept apart from the boys, and, if possible, de- spatched home. This, with proper precautions, was done, and we shortly after learned that our schoolfellow was lying at home, attacked with small-pox. During his absence we saw but little of our fair neighbors, and only heard incidentally that the little new girl, Eleanor Wilton, was in rather delicate health, and rarely went out with the rest of the school. The poor little soul, however, seemed to be no especial favorite of the savage old governess, for we twice saw her in the Penitentiary. At the end of two months Madonna returned to school, perfect in health; but O, my gracious, what a change! His beauty every bit of it, except his eyes-was gone; his forehead seamed. his cheeks hollow, his hair cut short. Poor old chap! We all pitied him, and gave him a jolly welcome, pretending not to see any alteration. All but that bully, Alf Bathurst. The ill- natured brute laughed, and made fun of* him, asking what'mamma said now to our pretty face? Wlo was to be his next love? &c. "Look sharp, you beggar," he added, "and bring me that ball (flinging it to the other end of the playground). I '1 seeif you have forgotten the use of your stumps, anyhow." "Stop," said Madonna, very pale. "I can't run much yet; but, if you like, I 11 show you instead a capital new game." "Cut away, milksop! Is it one of nurse's teaching? What a lot of asses' milk it will take to make a man of you!" said Alf. "Come here," said Madonna, addressing the fellows generally. He walked into the middle of the ground, Alf following. A circle of boys collected round them. Madonna turned up the cuff of his jacket, like a conjurer. You see this?" he asked, showing Alf his open palm. "I do, you donkey!" "Feel it, too!" replied -Madonna, and dealt him a smack on the face you- miht have heard at the end of the playground. Bathurst staggered from the blow, and the surprise; but, recover- ing himself, flew at Madonna like a tiger. Several of us, however, X         - +     .             .,^^^^O   threw ourselves between them. A fight was n't to be wasted in that slovenly and irregular manner; and it was clear that Madonna's blood was up at last. "You coward!" screamed Alf, over the heads of the crowd, "will you fight?" "With the greatest pleasure," replied Madonna, politely, cool as a cucumber. "My mother, sir, is very much of your opinion as to the value of my beauty; and having now withdrawn her prohibi- tion, my fine eyes are at the service of your fists, provided you can reach them. Yes, you coward, tyrant, sneak, and bully!" cried the boy, growing warmer, as he proceeded, with the recollection of what he had endured, "I have a long account to settle with you; and I 'll make your punishment remembered in the school as long as Styles's stands!" Tremendous cheering greeted this warlike speech. The fight was arranged to come off after the school rose at five. Preliminaries were duly settled, seconds chosen (Ophelia and a boy called the Tipton Slasher, from some supposed resemblance to that distinguished gentleman, for Alf; and Poppy Purcell and Matilda Lyon for Madonna); the senior cock, in the handsomest manner, vol- unteering his services as referee; and this time the mill came fairly off. I suppose that a happier five-and-forty minutes never fell to the lot of boys than those we now enjoyed. There we sat in a wide circle, hugging our knees, sucking brandy-balls, cheering, criticising, at the very climax of human happiness. The end, satisfactory as it was, came but too quickly. Never was boy more beautifully and scientifically whopped, than Alf Bathurst. He wore a pulpier look ever after that polishing he got at the hands of the despised Madonna. It is believed in the school to this hour, that Styles himself wit- nessed the fight. All I know is, that the curtain of his window was ostentatiously drawn, in a manner to show that he was n't there, of course; and also, that a mysterious order reached the kitchen, di- recting, without any assignable reason, that tea, which was always served at six, should be delayed twenty minutes. 13   If our suspicions ere co t, Styles alulated the tmet would take to lick Alf Bathurst to a nicety; for, at ten minutes past six, the "Tipton" announced that Alf gave in. Amidst tumultuous applause Madonna was declaredvictor, and advanced to the proud position of JUNIOR COCK! Bob Lindsay pressed his hand with tears in his eyes and led him towards the house. It was a beautiful sight to see the two cocks walk away, arm in arm; the senior, the boy of fifty battles, kindly and patiently com- menting upon the noticeable points of the contest; and, further, explaining to his young brother the means he had found most effi- cacious in removin the traces of such encounters. Scarcely les beautiful was it to notice the manner in which the senior cock af- ected to ignore the fact, that any portion of the cheers that pursued them up the playground was due to his own manly condescension. But, althouh victorious in the field, our poor Madonna had other and more painful battles to fight. He had come back apparently as much in love as ever with his little coquettish princess, and, I have no doubt, counted the minutes till his first chance of seeing her. This soon occurred. Madonna had leave one day down the town. He came back the imsge of anguish and despair. He had met the Pallas House school, --and Augusta, looking radiantly beautiful, had turned quickly fi;om him, with-a look of such unmistakable horror, surprise, and disgust, that he could no longer doubt the effect upon her heart of his altered visage. Eleanor Wilton was not with them. Only one chance of reviving her interest in him suggested itself to poor Madonna,-- it was n't of much use, - and one or two fellows of experience whom he consulted begged him not to risk it. I-He had brought back with him to school a present from his grand- mother, a beautiful ruby heart set round with small rich brilliants. hs Madonna resolved to offer at his mistress's shrine. In spite of, ill advice he did so. It went by post, unaccompanied by any com- nunication, excepting only his initials, , H. B." We heard no more of that. As for Augusta, although he met her   JrL3JL \yLw J{A jway JiW a score of times, she never again turned even a passing look upon her unhappy lover. It seemed as though she had come to a secret resolution not to do so. But one remembrance did arrive for poor Madonna. It came in a queer way. We were marching one day in single file round the playground, under the superintendence of Sergeant Grace, of the 7th Hussars; a rough chap he was, and stood no nonsense. As Madonna mournfully strutted by: "Number nineteen, -fall out!" growled the sergeant. Madonna accordingly tumbled out, and stood at attention; a wor- rying position for a heart-broken lover! The sergeant fumbled in his pocket. Madonna's heart stood suddenly still, for it flashed upon his memory that Sergeant Grace was an attendant likewise at Pallas House, to teach what the ser-' geant himself described as "polite walking." "Look 'e, now," said Grace, "I believe H'm a blessed old spoon, for running this yere risk, - but, darn it all! I could n't help it,- she's such a dear little thing,-and I don't think she -she will March!" concluded the sergeant in a voice of thunder, thrusting into Madonna's hand a small packet. That drill seemed interminable to the anxious lover. At ltsf "dismiss!" was given, and he darted into the schoo1, and tore open the missive. It was a little box of choice bonbons, and under the lid was writ- ten,- "DEAR, DEAR BOY, "I am glad you are well, I 'm not. "E. W." "Good little heart!" thought Madonna, with a pang at his own, over and above the disappointment, and quite different from it.? "She does not turn from me, at least." An interval of a fortnight or so now passed. And I wish that you did n't want to hear any more! I always feel choky somehow, when I talk or think of the marvellous thing   -v x o          V U V I'U PS 1iT'OIS. . that followed. Perhaps you won't believe it; but it's as true as that I'm now sitting here. About three o'clock in the morning, on the 2d of June, a loud cry that sounded like "Help!" roused us all from our sleep. We started up in bed. The shutters were not closed, and the room was already gray with the coming dawn. The cry had proceeded from Madonna, who was sitting up like the rest, but motionless, his hands clasped upon his forehead. We asked him if he was ill, and why he had cried out. He made no answer, but took away his hands from his face, and looked so pale and strange, that Purcell was mov- ing away to call the usher. Madonna caught his dress. "No, no, Poppy; I'm not ill. All right," he said, forcing a smile; "I was dreaming-only dreaming,-go to bed, old boy. You don't think they heard me, do you?" In a minute or so he seemed, as he said, all right, and we tumbled into our nests again to finish the night. The next day AMadonna's bed was vacant.  His jacket and trousers were missing, his shoes and stockings remained. The win- dow sash was open. He had made his exit that way, and, no doubt, by means of a familiar leaden water-pipe, which had often assisted us to terra firma. The rest of the story I shall tell, partly from his own account, partly from what we learned elsewhere. He said that, on the night in question, he had felt very odd and uneasy for several hours after retiring to bed, and could not close his eyes for a moment. A curious sense of lassitude and hunger possessed him; he would have given five shillings for a hard biscuit. We remembered his asking if any chap happened to have any eata- bles under his pillow, - but nobody had. At last, towards morning, he dozed off, and- had a dream. He  thought that his little true-love, Eleanor Wilton, came and stood at his bedside. She was dressed in white, and carried a bas- ket filled with curious and beautiful white flowers, just budding. Although she did not speak, the idea-seemed to be conveyed to him   AIV Ali iYVA2t.         .it i that site had brought them as her last,--her parting present, and that he must take them. Madonna strove to obey the intimation, but found he could not stir. Paralyzed, somehow, he could neither move nor utter a sound. This quiescence seemed to grieve his little lady. She gazed at -him for a moment with sad, reproachful eyes, then faded into nothing. Madonna awoke. Presently he slept again. A second time came the little ghostly visitant, with her basket of flowers now fully blown. In the centre of each was a ruby heart encircled with diamonds. Eleanor looked very wan and pale, but she smiled as she offered the flowers, and though, as before, he was powerless to reply, he understood that she was to come once again, and if he did not then answer, he would never--never-- never-- Before the meaning was complete, she was gone, and once more e he awoke, and once more he slept again. For the third time the fairy figure stood at his side; but now so attenuated and indistinct, that he could only faintly trace her outline; and the flowers in her basket were broken, drooping, and dead. He thought she stooped over him as though bestowing a shadowy kiss, then began to disappear. MadonnaC struggled fiercely to move, in vain, and uttered the cry that awoke us all. He was now perfectly convinced that Eleanor was ill, -was dy- in,--perhaps dead. He would not mention his fears, but hastily resolved upon his course of action. No sooner had we settled off to sleep again -which must have been in some five minutes - than he got up, threw on some clothes, softly opened the window, and slid down safely into the garden. It was early twilight, -not a soul astir. Scaling the garden wall, he hurried round outside that of the playground till he arrived in front of Pallas House. Something drew his attention to the window of the Penitentiary, - doubtless because it was the only one that had neither curtain nor shutter. ZNothing indeed was visible; but Ma- donna felt as certain she was there, as though she had beckoned him with her hand from the window. Yet, how to reach the room? z  .              .  z"   GOOD STORIES. Suddenly he remembered te gardener's fruit-ladder, hich lay in an empty cow-fhed. Back he fiew,-found the ladder,--draged Pitched, and slu it acrss the all and, in three minutes, had reached the window. He could ak eached the windomake out nothing in the darkness within, so tried the sash, -it was not secured. He ushed daitiup softlyand looked in. A- chair - r, a small table with a book and a mug of water, a low couch, and upon it, sittin up as though in epecta- tion,-Eleanor             p as though in expecta- She exhibited not the least surprise. "I knew you would come, dear boy," said the little thin faintly; " nbut you were very long. I ant tospeak to you." a Moadonna bs artn the room in an instant. I afewwordsuttered with difculty, she told him that the arrival of the ruby heart had been notified to Miss Billiter, who taxed Augusta with receiving it That young lady having, it would appear, a desire to retainthe ornament, though she discarded the donor, at first denied its posses- sion; but, after two hours' confinement in the Penitentiary, resolved re no more for the sake of either lover or offen ing, and gave ine the                     ring, and gved She asserted, however, that it was not intended f' her, but f' Elen andrWln a wieted  whoer anste r t ende focri herbtfr anor Wilton, with who   se affction for Madonna she was well a ind, on d hIor he an                 I  -e acqaited ad woshe knew, would "nhesitatingly take all responi b  i ieity. biss BSillteratonce t urned all her fury upon the latter- and, on her refusing to reveal the name of the sende;committed her to the usual prison, directing that she should have nothing but water-not even a    crust of b read --until she had discarded he r sullens, and accepted her mistress'sn terms. Poor Eleanor, however ,had been for some time very ailing, and the confinement and privation, not to mention the excitement of her mind, told more heavily upon her delicate fr am than mii ght have been apprehended. Still, nothing could Justify the keeping of the poor innocent nineteen hours without notice, solace, or -refreshment of any kind. As she- cam'e to thi's climax of -her story, Madonna's rao,e zsee his grief. He started to his feet, inteh- din t see massitane;bu Eleanor excerted all her strength, an he-Id hnire fast.  "( It is no use, Harry," she said, "I'm going to my mother; you know, I said I would rather. Don't leave me again, - O, don't,- don't! O, I am so glad you came! I asked God if you might, because you were my only friend. Let me lean my head on your shoulder," said the little thing. "Wait!" she added, and gently parting the long hair from Madonna's scarred forehead,- white and smooth as ever to her loving eyes,- she gave it one long kiss, then sunk lower, and hung upon his bosom as he knelt. He thought she was sinking to sleep, and, almost afraid to breathe, remained perfectly motionless for nearly half an hour. Then a feel- ing of anxiety and dread stole over him. He looked closely at her. One tiny finger had hooked in his button-lhole. He would not move it; but tenderly lifted back the small head. The heavy black curls fell back. One glance was sufficient. He thought, poor boy! he -had been soothing her to rest, and a better Comforter had, mean- while, laid his little true-love in her mother's bosom! Bewildered and stupefied with grief, poor Madonna remained, for some time, kneeling beside the corpse; then, recollecting himself, placed it fitly on the low couch, kissed the yet warm lips, and went down stairs. He met an early housemaid, who started and screamed as though he had been a ghost, which, it is probable, he much resembled. To her he said that a child - his cousin -was lying dead above, and that he was hastening to tell his friends and hers. The servant tried to detain him; but he walked down stairs, opened the front door, and proceeded straight to the school, and to Styles's room. There he related the circumstance of his dream, and the sad story of his little lady's imprisonment and death. Styles - when he was n't in school - was a kind, good old chap, just and decided, and always did the right thing, -which is a great point, you know. He wrote instantly to his friend the clergyman of the parish, who was also a magistrate. This gentleman came to him directly, and, -- I don't know exactly what was the result of their consultation,- but a rather rapid correspondence ensued with the governess at Pallas IIouse.    100:i :        GOOD STORIES..  It was reported that a coroner's inquest would be held on the poorti child. This, indeed, was not done; but you '1 be glad to hear-at li least, I was--that that act of tyranny cost Miss Billiter her school,  and that she now goes out teaching at eighteen pence an hour.  Madonna never recovered his former spirits. Hle left at the end ;'-l of the half, and his friends sent him abroad with a tutor; but he ,: became so fretful, irritable, and impatient of control,- at least, of  that sort of control,-that his father yielded to a curious fancy that - had seized him in Paris, and procured his enrolment in the French marine. This was just at the beginning of the war. Madonna was appointed to the Ville de Paris, and sailed to they East, carrying the flag of Admiral Hamelin. At the attack by the ships upon the sea-forts, at the first bombardment of Sebastopol, the Ville de Paris got into a hot position. She lost several officers and many men, and a fragment of the same shell which killed two aides-de-camp of the admiral laid poor Madonna lifeless on thei deck.  -The French officers kindly collected every little article of value! belonging to him, and? cutting off a mass of his bright curls, trans-. mitted the whole to his relations. Among other things was a small i velvet case which was found in his bosom, and within it a little paper i written in a child's hand. You 've heard it:- "This is to give notis that I have promessed to be your true-love" and when I groe up I will mary you if you like and to be yourd Dutiful wife till death and if not I would rather go to my mother -: You believe me,  "Dear Sir,  Yours truly, 'ELEANOR WILTON."   Cambridge: Stereotyped and Printed by Welch, Bigelow, & Co.  
         
       
   
