
    ----CITATION----
        Douglas, Amanda Minnie, (1831-1916). Lucia .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6315 wright2-0785
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            ALLEN'S CIRCULATING LIBRARY,
            Nos. 251 and 253 North Main St.,
            NEXT ST. JOHN'S CHURCH.
            
               REGULATIONS.
               Subscription for 3 mos., in advance. $1.00
               Subscription for 6 mos., in advance. $1.75
               Subscription for 1 year, in advance. $3.00
            
            SUBSCRIBERS are entitled to the use of one work at a time, and are privileged to change as often as they desire.
            Non-subscribers will be charged six cents per week for the use of each volume. No charge of less than six cents will be made for a less time. For some new works we shall charge ten cents per week, or six cents for four days.
            A deposit will be required of strangers wishing to take valuable books; also of strangers wishing to take books into the country.
            Books are not to be lent, and should be returned in two weeks, and may then be taken again. We shall claim the value of the books and fees, if not returned within six weeks.
            Books, Periodicals, Stationery, Fancy Goods, Holiday Goods, SCHOOL SUPPLIES.
            
               JAMES H. ALLEN.
            
         
         
            
               LUCIA: HER PROBLEM.
            
            BY AMANDA M. DOUGLAS. AUTHOR OF "WITH FATE AGAINST HIM," "IN TRUST," ETC.,
            
               
                  
                     
                        If all want sense,
                        God takes the text and preacheth patience.
                     
                  
                  GEORGE HERBERT.
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               SHELDON & COMPANY.
            
            1872.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1871, by SHELDON & COMPANY. In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
               STEREOTYPED BY WILLIAM McCREA & CO.
               NEWBURGH, N. Y.
            
         
         
            Novels by Miss Amanda M. Douglas.
            
               WITH FATE AGAINST HIM. 1 Vol. 12mo, Price $1.50.
               LUCIA: HER PROBLEM 1 Vol, 12mo, Price $1.50.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. A Mystery 5
               
               CHAPTER II. Mr. Thorndike 16
               
               CHAPTER III. What it cost 27
               
               CHAPTER IV. The Dorcas 37
               
               CHAPTER V. Afterward 51
               
               CHAPTER VI. Showing Hands 65
               
               CHAPTER VII. The Golden Side 76
               
               CHAPTER VIII. Summer 87
               
               CHAPTER IX. Among Shadows 97
               
               CHAPTER X. Taking Counsel 108
               
               CHAPTER XI. With the Tide 119
               
               CHAPTER XII. By Night 129
               
               CHAPTER XIII. The Tree of Knowledge 141
               
               
               CHAPTER XIV. Friend or Foe 150
               
               CHAPTER XV. Loitering on the Brink 161
               
               CHAPTER XVI. Through the Sea 174
               
               CHAPTER XVII. In the Desert 185
               
               CHAPTER XVIII. Fighting Fate 197
               
               CHAPTER XIX. Desperation 207
               
               CHAPTER XX. Crowned with Rue 219
               
               CHAPTER XXI. Rest and Refuge 230
               
               CHAPTER XXII. Facing Destiny 246
               
               CHAPTER XXIII. Girt by Fire 257
               
               CHAPTER XXIV. Against the Tide 268
               
               CHAPTER XXV. Going Back 282
               
               CHAPTER XXVI. Out of the Shadow 293
               
               CHAPTER XXVII. The New Dawn 300
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII. Autumn Blooms 307
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Lucia
            LUCIA: HER PROBLEM.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               A MYSTERY.
               "MR. THORNDIKE has come back. He will be here to supper. Rachel, I depend upon you to have every thing in order."
               Rachel Garth bowed her head at these words of her father.
               "And—you may as well have a fire built in the best room, I think."
               "The best room!" exclaimed a young, fresh voice in strong contrast with the other, for whereas his was cold and leaden, without an atom of elasticity, hers had a ringing, buoyant sound.
               "The best room, I said to your sister."
               There was a very decided rebuke in the tone, and something more—a kind of astonishment that any one, most of all this child that Mr. Garth had striven day and night as it were, to reduce to a state of passive obedience, should express the slightest remark upon any command he chose to utter.
               Mr. Garth had just risen from the dinner-table. He walked to the fireplace now, and standing with his back to it, crossed his hands in the warmth of the blaze, for it was a chilly November day, and though he was not cold, he would soon have to breast its inclemency. Then he glanced around and his eye fell reprovingly upon his youngest daughter.
               "Lucy," he said sternly, "you would commend yourself more to any proper and judicious person by keeping your hair in better order. Those untidy ends flying about are very annoying to me. How often must I speak of it! The Apostle Paul especially discountenances outward adornment and plaiting of the hair—"
               Mr. Garth paused. In his zeal he had rather overstepped the mark, becoming aware too late that plaiting of the hair could not exactly apply to his daughter, who had allowed her soft, golden-tinted curls to droop daintily behind one small ear that looked as if it might have been sculptured.
               Her quick brain caught at the blunder. She was in a strange mood to-day, or she would not have dared to brave her father the second time.
               "I believe my hair is not plaited," she returned with an almost flippant air. "Rachel's is. Turn round, Rachel, and let father see the difference between braiding that you have to do yourself, and curls that nature insists upon doing for you."
               After Lucy Garth had uttered this she felt so thoroughly frightened that she would have been thankful to have the floor open and swallow her. In her childhood's days these out-breaks had been punished by being put in a dark room, sent to bed supperless, or even the use of the rod. When she thought of the blows he had given her, father though he was, she hated him! She used to set her little white teeth vengefully together at such recollections, and if she was a bitter, faithless, satirical heathen, he had helped make her one.
               "Lucy!"
               She could imagine the sensation of any one being shot through with a bullet. She experienced a cold, terrible wound somewhere that deprived her almost of breath. For disguise it as she might, she still felt afraid of him.
               "Will you never learn to show proper respect to your superiors, girl?"
               It would have done Mr. Garth a great deal of good if he could have marched across the room and boxed his daughter's ears soundly. But the last time that he had indulged in this parental liberty, nearly two years before, Lucy had turned upon him with the passion of a tigress.
               "If you ever dare to strike me again you will repent it. I shall kill myself, and you will be a murderer! How will you answer that to my mother at the last day?"
               Her flashing eyes held him spell-bound. The threat possibly might have had some effect, for though many a time since, the desire had been strong upon him, he had restrained himself.
               Lucy made no answer, but looked cold and sullen, Mr. Garth turned around and warmed his face, which did not need it, being hot and red with anger.
               Then he gave some unimportant charge to his elder daughter, who had risen from the table, and marched out pompously.
               The room was large, but gray and cheerless looking. Even the fire of logs blazing upon the hearth could not give it a pleasant air. A dull hempen carpet covered the floor, and this in turn was covered with a still more dismal square under the table. The high mantel was surmounted with a pair of brass candlesticks at the corners, and a snuffers and tray in the centre. The wall was a hideous dingy yellow, the paint a forlorn tint of drab, selected because it would not soil easily. The window shades, and there were five in the room, were of faded buff holland with fade drab trimmings.
               If the master of the house inveighed bitterly against the pomps and vanities of the world, he would have made but a poor ascetic after all, for he was not given to stinting the inner man. There was a remnant of demolished turkey upon the table, flanked with oyster salad and various other delicacies. The plates of pudding had been generous too, and the sauce rich, if one could judge from that still floating on Lucy's almost untouched plate. Mr. Garth liked good living, it must be confessed.
               I may as well pause here and describe these two girls. One was seventeen, the other seven-and-twenty. You would not fancy them sisters by any subtile trick of nature, though she does sometimes indulge in far-reaching resemblances. They had different mothers, which must account for the extreme dissimilarity, though there was much of the Garth about Rachel.
               The first Mrs. Garth had been a hard-working, self-denying woman, very religious also, of the severe type. Nothing ever kept her away from church on Sunday mornings. In winter, when the services were in the afternoon, she always went twice. She read her Bible aloud in the evening, and there her outward observances stopped. I think she meant to be honest and earnest, but her creed was narrow and her nature was narrower still, if such a thing were possible. From Monday morning until Saturday night she worked and saved. Not an idle moment was allowed, not a penny, a candle end, or a pin was wasted. Of course Mr. Garth prospered. He was one of the proprietors of a large woollen mill at Dedham, a small, but flourishing manufacturing town.
               Perhaps in his early days he might have been made more comprehensive and tender of soul, but he fell easily into his wife's ways, and by practising them at the Mill, he considered himself much the gainer. That he was a hard master I need not tell you.
               Four children were born to them. Mrs. Garth had peculiar ideas about managing children. When she was through with the most important of her morning's work she took up her babe, washed, dressed and fed it, and deposited it again in the cradle. If it felt disposed to cry, it was allowed to cry until exhausted nature fell asleep. She would have no interference, for she did not want her children spoiled.
               Three of them found life too severe a struggle and gave it up in mild wailing despair. This might have been Rachel's fate, but her mother overworked herself too soon, and between cold and fever, died.
               Miss Garth came to keep house. She had never admired her sister-in-law, but in her way she was equally sharp and decided. Rachel was put out to nurse, as being the cheapest way of solving the difficulty.
               When the child was three years old her aunt married and went West. Then arose strifes and heart-burnings, jealousies and gossip in Dedham. Mr. Garth was a rich man, and not too old to marry. Widows and spinsters were on the alert, smiles, kind advice and attention were showered upon him, and fondest love upon the child.
               He surprised and angered the town very much by his second marriage. He went West to buy wool, and met with a certain pretty Miss Mackenzie with whom he fell in love. It must have been love, for he lost prudence, judgment, and every quality that should be brought into requisition at such a time.
               He might have known that this gay, young thing would find nothing entertaining or satisfactory in his dull life. He had no right to ask her to share it unless he felt willing to make it a trifle brighter for her sake.
               She accepted him with a girl's romance. He was much older, and therefore she could look up to him; he was grave, and it would be both a pleasure and duty to soothe and comfort. His little girl was motherless, and her heart absolutely yearned over the child, for she was fond of babies and children. Her uncle and aunt found that Mr. Garth was a well to do, responsible man, and thought it a lucky chance for her. Six months afterwards they were married.
               To a girl who had done nothing for the first twenty years of her life except to go to school, read, write letters, visit, attend concerts, lectures and parties, make herself pretty and entertaining, and be petted on every hand, this was a great change. A cheerless looking home, after all the old gayness and brightness, a cold, self-contained child whom no advances could win, and a host of ill-natured critics that nothing could satisfy, but she never tired.
               
               Mr. Garth came to his senses and repented his marriage. His home was not a comfortable one, contrasted with the past reign. A servant was called in, and the ancient sisterhood held up their hands in horror. "There had been no such thing in poor Mrs. Garth's time!"
               Young Mrs. Garth longed to beautify inside and out. She wanted the place newly furnished. She wanted pictures, and vases for bouquets, and books. Mr. Garth would as soon have thrown his money into the sea. When she ordered the hired man to uproot the rows of sunflowers and hollyhocks and lay out regular flower-beds, he gave a doubtful and rather sneering laugh, but it was never done.
               Then she made another attempt at cultivating Rachel. She had been used to happy, frolicsome children who did a hundred naughty things, said they were sorry, and then straightway did them over again. But they were loveable, had clinging arms and soft, sweet lips, laughed and tumbled about and were a constant pleasure and trouble.
               This precise little Rachel Garth was neither. A martyr-faced child, who seemed a continual reproach, a being who studied her catechism and psalms, went to church, and was precociously religious. The sisters attended to her spiritual welfare and pitied her for falling into the hands of such a heathen as her step-mother. They even sympathized with Mr. Garth, who was weak enough to concede that his marriage had been a mistake.
               So you may imagine that poor Mrs. Garth's days were miserable enough. She used to resolve sometimes that she would run away, but she had no friends to shelter her now, and knew not where to go unless she threw herself into the river, and she fancied that she was much too wicked to die. Then her child was born, and for awhile came blissful content.
               The first dispute was about the child's name. Mr. Garth wished to call her Patience, after one of the earlier children and his own mother. She insisted that it should be Lucia Mackenzie, and he declared that no child of his should have such a name. Finally, after much disputing and tragic grief on her part, a compromise was effected. The child was to be called "Lucy Patience."
               Mrs. Garth had learned to circumvent her husband. She had been frank and open as the day when he married her, but latterly she had gained some points in a less honorable fashion. She gave in at last, and actually called the baby Patience in its father's presence.
               So they went to church. "Name this child," said the clergyman.
               She had slipped a bit of card in his hand before the ceremony, and he had made himself master of the appellation. Now she whispered it again.
               "Lucia Mackenzie I baptize thee—"
               Mr. Garth was horror struck! It was all over, and the mother kissed her babe with devout thankfulness. That day she asked her husband to give her enough money to support herself and child and she would go away, for even purgatory would be heaven compared with this place.
               He actually hated her as much as his phlegmatic temperament could be roused to hate. A mean, spiteful, underhand way of thwarting and making her feel his power. She lived in and for her child, and somehow he never dared interfere. If he had ill-treated that in any way I am afraid she would have murdered him, for her fury would have been like a tiger's.
               The poor thing pined away, and no one ever saw it. At last she died suddenly when Lucia was nine years old. God was merciful to her, and kept the burden of her child's future life from crushing her soul utterly at that moment. I think He had infinite pity upon the warped and thwarted life that had been made by man's cruelty to bring forth thorns instead of roses.
               Rachel was nineteen at this time, and her father's housekeeper. Rather above medium height, and not a bad figure if she had possessed a particle of taste. Her hair was dark, soft, and very abundant; her complexion decidedly good at this time—but at seven-and-twenty, rough and sallow. Her features were well enough, except that her lips were thin; but she had very peculiar and uncomfortable eyes, a sort of opaque leaden blue, like her father's.
               She was neat, energetic, without possessing quite the driving spirit of her mother: economical, handy with her needle, the pet of the Dorcas Society, and her father's pride, as far as he could be proud of any thing that was not absolute gold. She had never made any pretence of liking her step-mother: and even before her death, could dissect her in a most admirable way, for the entertainment of the sisterhood at the tea drinkings.
               But to Lucia, her mother's death was the knell of hope and love. First, her long, golden ringlets were shorn—but still the ends obstinately insisted upon making countless curls, which were an abomination. The dresses and aprons were despoiled of their dainty ruffles, and a blue checked bib substituted, for the child had altogether too much vanity.
               There were some hard battles between her and her father—but she soon learned that there was no course save submission. She was not conquered. She ground her teeth and waited. For the last year she had been emancipating herself rapidly.
               Her father had insisted now upon her being called Lucy. She used to ridicule it with her keen sarcasm, and marked every article of her clothing in full—Lucia. There was a sort of smothered, tacit war between her and the household.
               After her father had left the room, she drew the next chair nearer, and placing her small feet upon it, leaned back lazily. A very pretty girl was Lucia Mackenzie Garth. Smaller and slighter than her sister, and rounded with the perfection of Greek sculpture. This coarse brown merino dress could not hide it; and the plain linen collar was only a foil for the whiteness and graceful turn of the neck. She had one of those fair, flushing skins that was a subtle charm in itself. Her features were not altogether regular, but one only remarked the effect, which was exquisite from the broad, low brow to the rounded dimpled chin. Her eyes were very dark, and changed with every gust of feeling. There was in them a wonderful capacity for pleasure or pain, an almost fierce hunger and a sort of caustic scorn. It was a peculiar face, for it could soften radiantly or harden to crystal coldness as the mood swept over her—and it could also flash and flame in a way that warned the beholder to be ware of the volcano that might burst forth with a word. It was this blaze that had cowed her father a time or two.
               So you see she was not altogether defenceless—and yet she was one for whom you dreaded the battle of life. The rapid manner in which she could traverse abysses of pleasure or pain startled you; for to such souls the strife is often fearful, the victory and the crown come too late.
               Rachel began to pile the plates together, and pack up cups and saucers. She was quite thin now, which made her look taller, and sallow, as I have said. Her really beautiful hair was gathered at the back in a knot of braids, because it kept smoothly and was less trouble. Her morning care of it lasted the whole day.
               She still retained much of the martyr-like look, and had adopted a peculiar sniff caught at the Dorcas meetings. A hard, cold uncompromising woman, whose virtues were scarcely less exasperating than positive vices.
               "Lucy," she said, with a certain asperity, "you had better be carrying some of these dishes to the kitchen."
               "What do we keep Hetty for?"
               With that Lucy Garth took up her plate of pudding and began to mince dainty little morsels.
               "Lucy," her sister rejoined, in a tone of despair, "one would think that you had been told times enough about that habit. Father would not allow it even now."
               "Well, he is not here," in a cool, indifferent voice.
               
               "And you always were an eye servant."
               Lucy's cheeks were scarlet at that.
               "I am no one's servant;" she flung out, angrily.
               "No, you are a vain and indolent girl, disrespectful to father, and insolent to every one else. I have tried my best, I am sure, to bring you up as a respectable girl should be reared—but you turn aside after evil continually. I've done my duty, and I shall wash my hands of the matter. It must be settled between you and father.
               She gave her peculiar sniff, and turned away, with a tower of plates and saucers surmounted by cups. The door being shut, she had to set them down while Lucy trifled over her pudding, her eyes growing darker and darker.
               "Yes, wash your hands," she returned, scornfully. "You said once, Rachel, that my mother begged to go away, even if it was into the cheapest retirement. I wish she had—I wish she had! I think you and father both hate me for her sake;" wringing her hands. "Can I help being pretty? and that's a cause of offence to you and those maundering old women, who are enough to set one's teeth on edge. Sometimes I'm tempted to run away. I'd do well enough, I dare say! I might marry some one!"
               "Marry!" With that there was a crash, and the steeple of cups lay in fragments at Rachel's feet.
               Lucy laughed. A provoking, elfish peal, that rasped Rachel's slow nerves.
               "That's my fault, too, I suppose?"
               One peculiarity of Lucy Garth, was the readiness with which her moods changed. A second ago, she was in a white heat of passion; now Rachel's woe-begone face, as she studied the pieces upon the carpet, was too ludicrous.
               "Laws a massy! Miss Rachel, what has that child been doin' agin?"
               This was from Hetty, who put her head in the opening of the door.
               "It wasn't me this time," announced Lucy, triumphantly.
               Hetty began to scramble up the fragments. Rachel, without a word, carried the rest down to the basement kitchen. Lucy rose and crossed to the window.
               This fatal facility of change was her misfortune, perhaps. Some days she worked herself up to that pitch of energy when a different state of affairs brought about by her own will appeared possible. Then some trifling incident diverted her, and she fell back into the restless, dissatisfied condition, where hanging or drowning was an absolute temptation. And yet she was not one of the kind who ever do commit suicide.
               She drummed upon the greenish window-panes with her slender, rosy fingers. The sky was leaden, the trees bare, and some hard, round pellets of snow were blown about by the biting wind. How miserable it was out there—and how miserable it was within! Life was humbug, a flat, dreary, uneventful probation. Some girls married; but here was Rachel, twenty-seven, and not one lover yet. Could she get out of this hateful round, by marrying?
               What was Mr. Thorndike like? He had been away five years; and she could hardly remember whether there was any thing pleasant about him or not. He had an interest in the business—at least his father had left him some money invested in it, but he had been out on Lake Superior, interested in a copper-mine. What had brought him back? Did Rachel like him?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER II.
               MR. THORNDIKE.
               LUCY went up stairs presently, wrapped herself in an old shawl, and curled up into a little round ball on the bed, producing a surreptitious novel, and forgot her woes. Novels were a rare luxury with her—for Rachel's eyes were sharp at discovery—and then she had very few friends who indulged in such questionable literature. This heroine was a very unwholesome and unnatural specimen of humanity; but the eyes of seventeen are not over critical. Any thing of the kind was such a treat to her, in her forlorn and solitary life. She had begun to emancipate herself, it is true. With a father worth sixty or eighty thousand, she had no fancy for toiling like a bond-woman!
               So while Hetty and Rachel scoured and moiled in the kitchen—she read, and dozed, and dreamed. Through it all, she kept thinking—"Mr. Thorndike is coming, and father has ordered a fire in the best room." What did it mean? How old could he be? Would it make any difference in their lives—hers and Rachel's?
               If she could have seen the difference that is was destined to make! I wonder—but then we never can see, and we always drift on to fate in a blind, helpless sort of way.
               She felt cold and shivering, so she ran down stairs. The parlor door was open the merest space, for Rachel had found it rather warm when the fire was once fairly going.
               Lucy ventured in. There sat Rachel, primmer than ever, stitching wristbands for her father. Sewing-machines were her abomination.
               Rachel Garth looked neither young nor pretty. She should not have been as old, hard, and weather-beaten—for I know of no other word to express the peculiar effects of sun, wind, and toil—at twenty-seven. Sitting there, she was the impersonation of an "old maid," with the absence of that grace and tenderness which alone can bring the term into fair repute. Lucy smiled in a little derision.
               Ah, youth and beauty, you are too pitiless! There are cares and sorrows for you as well, trials and thorny paths, and are you always brave, always wise!
               "I'm nearly frozen!"
               Lucy curled herself in the corner like a kitten. She might have purred in content had the face opposite been a cheerful one, for after all she was not hard to please.
               Rachel sat uncompromisingly upright and sewed steadily.
               "I suppose they will not be here until clear supper time?"
               This was so decided a question that Rachel answered stiffly, without raising her eyes—
               "You heard what father said."
               Not minding, Lucy went on—
               "How old a man is Mr. Thorndike, Rachel?"
               "I don't know—precisely'" she added after a pause, for she was conscientiously truthful where her feelings of judgment were not warped.
               "Well, guess," rather impatiently. "Forty?"
               "I should think not so old."
               "Thirty, then?"
               "Somewhere between. I am not sure."
               "You are very provoking, I am sure."
               "What is Mr. Thorndike to us, particularly?"
               "Oh, we might one of us want to marry him," in a flippant manner.
               
               Rachel Garth turned pale when she was angry, and her infrequent blushes were a kind of swarthy tint, as if her blood could not be fine and clear.
               "Lucy, you are growing too bold and forward. Father would be shamed by your immodesty."
               Lucy's cheeks were bright enough.
               "Call things by their right names, if you please, Miss Garth. A little girlish nonsense!"
               "I wish you were not so frivolous. The time may come when your eyes will be clearer."
               This with a sighing sniff.
               Lucy was getting not only thawed, but baked. She rose suddenly and leaned her elbow on the mantel. Something caught her eye, and she paused, her scarlet lips slightly apart, and quivering with the unuttered retort.
               Her father was coming up the garden path with the guest. Mr. Garth turned to explain some matter, and Mr. Thorndike stood quite still, so she had a fair view of him.
               A rather tall man, moderately stout, with a fresh complexion, full, dark beard, and dark hair, worn quite long, inclined to curl. Contrasting him with a few of the young men it had been Lucy's privilege to meet at the Dorcas." he appeared undeniably fine-looking.
               "Oh! my goodness!" she exclaimed, in her girlish excitement; "there they come, and I'm not dressed!"
               Rachel gave her a glance of stately reproof, as much as to say—"Whose is the fault?"
               She flew up stairs, and then, tumbling in the middle of the bed, burst into tears. It was only an ebullition of vanity. For the last eight years of her life her father and sister had striven with all their might to uproot it. They had cropped her hair, made her wear the forlornest of old-fashioned garments, preached and punished; but, like a thistle root, here it was firmly imbedded in the soil.
               "If I only had any thing pretty to wear!" she sobbed.
               It was a severe grievance to her. She liked beauty, and sweetness, and grace. When she read of soft silks flowing about some slender form, delicate laces, pearls, flowers in one's hair, and all that, her heart was filled with longing. And yet it was not all vanity. A rose or a bit of ribbon would have answered her.
               She dried her tears presently, and took down her two last winter's dresses. A green and brown plaid delaine that she hated, and a merino which had been dyed black. Besides, there was a shabby brown alpaca, and a faded drab of the same material. This for a girl who might have forty or fifty thousand in her own right! No wonder that she was angry! Rachel had two silk dresses, a black and a brown one. It was hateful and heathenish that she should go so shabby!
               She basted a bit of edging at the neck and wrists of the rather dingy merino; but then the lace was real, and had been her mother's. And this when she so loved dainty bits of brightness and beauty! After that she washed her face, and let down her hair that had been confined in a thick net. Rachel always bought them because they wore better.
               And then a temptation flashed into her brain. Sometimes, for pure pleasure, the forlorn child would curl her hair in a mass of shining ringlets. It looked so lovely in its shimmering golden sheen, and almost seemed alive.
               She twisted the silken, soft mass idly around her fingers. One by one she reeled them off, those lovely, graceful pendants. Her father had never tried the shearing process but once, for while the effects of that lasted, the curls were a necessity. No amount of brushing or soapsuds could subdue the luxuriant crop.
               "There's not one word said anywhere against curls," she began, as if to fortify herself in her flagrant disobedience. "And God made it—if He made any thing—"
               She was beginning to doubt already; indeed, she had never believed in any thing but her dear, dead mother. Heaven help and pity her!
               She put on her dress in a strange, defiant mood. Although she was chilly, and her small finger ends blue with cold, her cheeks were in a glow of carmine, and her eyes like deep wells, subtle, flashing, and dangerous.
               Lucy Garth went straight down stairs and opened the parlor door. Her father was not there. Mr. Thorndike was seated in Rachel's vicinity talking quite earnestly, but he paused, and looked.
               "My sister," said Rachel, coldly. "Mr. Thorndike, Lucy."
               He rose, bowed, and as a second thought, took her hand. It was such a soft, tiny thing, and a seemed to nestle like a trembling bird in his.
               "How cold you are!"
               "Am I?" in the most musical of tones. "Oh! only the tips of my fingers. Do you know what I would do if I were rich, Mr. Thorndike?"
               "No; what?"
               "Have heaters, and all those lovely things for comfort."
               She sighed, shook her ringlets with a sort of regal air, and moved toward the fire.
               Something else she did with those unfathomable eyes of hers—lured him across the wide room. Neglected Rachel was nothing to her.
               It was her first taste of a dangerous power, an intoxicating draught that so many women drain to the bitter dregs, and at last sit in the ruins of a heartbreak.
               She came to her opportunity by a series of odd chances. Her father, displeased at her absence, had gone to seek her. Crossing the hall, he bethought himself of a charge to Hetty. They must have green tea for the guest. While he was in the kitchen, Lucy went down. Not finding her in her room, he passed on to his, to put away some valuable papers. The key to the small safe had been mislaid, and, after much searching, he found it in his pocket, so it was not possible to take any one else to task.
               In the mean while Hetty had stuck her head in at the parlor door, and summoned Miss Rachel. So Lucy and Mr. Thorndike had the room to themselves.
               He thought her wonderfully beautiful. The shabby merino and real lace he never noticed, but the flashing hair, the beguiling eyes, the red and white of her bright young face was like a picture. He had seen many pretty women too, but there was an indescribable charm about this one.
               Mr. Thorndike was a very commonplace man, and no hero, though he appeared so to Lucy's inexperienced eyes. There was not one noble or manly attribute in his whole soul. Still, the world found no fault with him though he did make close bargains. He was seven-and -thirty, and looked neither old nor young. He had a certain prompt business air that seemed an indication of power to her—and then she rather liked the suggestion of mastery in his eyes.
               Oh, youth, how credulous, how ready to venture the most precious freight on an unknown sea without pilot or helmsman! Is it any wonder that wrecks are strewn along the shore?
               "So you wish you were rich?" he said. "Why your father has made a fortune."
               "Does it benefit me any? Do you suppose that I shall care for his hoarded-up thousands when he is dead and I am an old woman? Besides, my mother died young. Is a marble tombstone the only glory of life—in death?"
               She said this with the air of a tragedy queen. Her face was so impassioned, so full of expression!
               "How strange you are!"
               Oh, you judged me from my sister, I suppose."
               I cannot describe all that she put in this short sentence. Pity for him that he could see no more clearly—a sort of stinging disdain for Rachel, and a sad isolation for herself. She felt it all at the moment.
               
               "Oh, no; you are very, very different."
               "I wish I were like her," she began with a sudden fiery vehemence.
               "Do you? I do not."
               "As if it could ever make any difference to you. Mr. Thorndike, such people are always the happier. They have no yearnings beyond their commonplace life—no fond tastes to gratify, no ambitions. And they are always appreciated. Rachel is father's favorite; old Mr. Howe thinks her a saint; and the Dorcas Society fall down and worship her."
               I am afraid much of the worship was because her father was still a widower.
               Half of Lucy's sentence was lost upon Mr. Thorndike. Nevertheless, in return for the part he understood, he studied her face, lovely and glowing as it was, in a vague way, and asked, abruptly—
               "And you?"
               "Oh, I'm an inveterate heathen! I have not a grace or virtue in their eyes. Why, when I was a little girl, after my own dear mother died, Rachel and father cut my hair close to my head, to give it a religious tendency."
               "A what?" he exclaimed, in amazement. "Why I never say any thing so handsome!"
               "Then you don't think it wicked?"
               She asked this in an eager, heedless, childish fashion. He twined one silken strand around his finger, and a thrill seemed to quiver in every pulse.
               "It was barbarous! Cut it off!"
               "It was poor mamma's pride," and her face saddened.
               He wanted very much to take her in his arms and comfort her—so far had he gone already. And yet I don't know that he was at all in love, only bewildered by the radiant vision.
               She possessed a peculiar magnetic power for so many of her kind as could from any occult cause be brought en rapport with her. I do not say congenial spirits—for these two found, after awhile, that they had not the slightest feeling in common. It was rather people whom she could influence. Perhaps the dull earthworm feels the sunshine in a torpid way, though he may not rejoice, gladsomely, as the butterfly.
               Something of this crept over Mr. Thorndike, and with it a consciousness that she was the injured party.
               "Why don't they like it?" he asked, in a wondering manner, as if he could not understand any one's objection to beauty, since it could be had so cheaply.
               "Oh, they all think it's wicked! If I curled it myself now, and spent hours over it, the case would be different. Are you very religious, Mr. Thorndike?"
               There was enough in her face to tempt an anchorite.
               "Why—no—not particularly. Of course I think it's a good thing; and my father, you know, was one of the elders. Yes, it's a good thing—" in a sort of hesitating way, as if he was balancing his soul between her good opinion and some old ideas that he was not quite ready to disavow.
               "I liked mamma's. She used to teach me beautiful hymns—though I didn't go to church then. I hate those long prosy sermons!" and her eyes flashed. "It seems to me that there's no love in it; and somehow I don't believe St. John could have loved the Saviour if He had been cold and cruel.
               "No, of course;" in a vague way, for it was like an unknown tongue to him. "But—what's the old adage—Love begets love—isn't it? That's my sentiments."
               He gave a rather coarse laugh. It jarred upon her soul—but she was quite too heedless to attend to the admonition.
               "Are you going to stay?" she asked, after a pause, finding his stare somewhat uncomfortable.
               "Stay?" He had a great habit of repeating the last word, as if he heard that the most clearly. "I've a lot of business to do with your father. You know my father's money was never taken out of the mill. To-morrow night I've promised to see a cousin at Fairfield—yes, I suppose I shall stay for some time."
               "On Thursday there's to be a Dorcas meeting here," she said slowly. "I wish you could come."
               She felt impelled to attach him to herself in some peculiar manner.
               "Do you? By Jove! I'll come then. Excuse me," and he flushed rather awkwardly; that is, the sentiment and grace of embarrassment were not there.
               She was immensely flattered. That any man should apologize to her for so mild a type of profanity seemed wonderfully chivalrous.
               "What do they do? Let me see—wasn't Dorcas a sort of good woman who was followed to the grave by the clothes she made—I mean—"
               Lucy laughed. It was such an arch, beguiling laugh, that it didn't hurt him at all. Indeed it seemed as if her rosy lips had been made for sunny smiles.
               She was rather delighted to find him going so easily astray in religious biography. Why, the Dorcas women had every thing at their tongues' end, from Eve's pomological experiment to the brilliant and sinful attire of the Scarlet Lady.
               "Yes—I don't know but that it would be a gratification to follow some of these to their graves. Oh, that's very wicked, isn't it? Well, they sew together garments for the Feejee Islanders, and pull their neighbors apart. I don't believe the first Dorcas did that. Then the gentlemen begin to come in, and we have supper. After that it's a little gayer."
               "Dancing and such, I suppose?"
               "Dancing!" with a comical horror. "Oh, goodness, no! That would be going straight to destruction. But do you dance, Mr. Thorndike? It seems to me that it would be the loveliest thing in the world. Tra la, tra la," she murmured in her soft, untrained voice, exquisitely musical, and inclining her head until the shining curls were like a shimmering sea of gold.
               "You'd like it," he commented, strangely roused.
               "Like it! Why, it would be a passion with me, and carry away my whole soul!"
               Every nerve in her impulsive and vehement nature seemed roused, her eyes were deep with some far light struggling to the surface, her cheeks aglow, and her swelling lips quivering with inward delight that was hardly anticipation.
               The door opened and Rachel entered. She was shocked, nay more, indignant. Half an hour ago it appeared to her that she had left these two people in the same place, and here they had laughed and talked, until now she dared to smile in his face, and he took it approvingly. Like many another woman, she did not blame him, it was Lucy's forwardness, her audacious boldness that she had tried to check at every turn. If ever a sister had done her duty it was she, Rachel Garth?
               There was a deeper feeling than mere impropriety with her. Five years before, when Warren Thorndike had come on to attend his father's funeral and look after the business, or the money, he had been in the habit of dropping in quite frequently of an evening. Lucy in those days ate her supper of bread and milk at five, and marched off to bed. If there was company at any meal, she took hers in the kitchen. She might have seen Mr. Thorndike, but he was as unfamiliar to her as Adam. Rachel, however, had frequent opportunities. She sat and sewed patchwork or knitted stockings, now and then putting in a sage word. Her father considered her judgment remarkable.
               
                  She thought Warren Thorndike a very handsome young man. If he had asked her, she would have been delighted to marry him. He went away without asking her, however, and though he seemed to take something out of her life, she worked the harder to fill up the vacuum.
               His coming back was most friendly. He shook her hand in a very warm and earnest fashion, and began to talk of old times. Lucy's thoughtless and unwomanly remark came back to her. Of course, if he married one of them, it would be her. He was too sensible to take a wife twenty years younger than himself; and then, too, she fancied that there was hardly a man living who could make such a stupendous blunder as to marry Lucy. All her faults, her indolence and frivolity, her tempers, her impatience and utter lack of steady application to any thing useful, were heinous sins in Rachel's view. I am not sure but she considered her prettiness an evil and a snare. All these things were so patent to her, her father, and the Dorcas society, that she supposed all the world saw them with the same eyes.
               There was little love between these sisters, and none of that tender grace that smooths over faults and failings. Rachel would have considered that deception, and she prided herself upon uncompromising truth. It never occurred to her that some one, looking at her with similarly prejudiced eyes, might work her woe as well.
               "Supper is ready," exclaimed Rachel, staring at Lucy with sternest disapprobation. "Where is father?"
               "I am sure I don't know," in a cool, insolent tone.
               His step was heard at that moment. He had been lost in a little business calculation, otherwise Lucy Garth would never have gone to supper with the triumphant glory of those curls.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               WHAT IT COST.
               MR. GARTH glanced at his younger daughter with the utmost incredulity, and for an instant forgot to say grace. Even after he closed his eyes he could not collect his thoughts, and groped and stumbled in a strange fashion for him. Then Rachel began to pour the tea, and Mr. Thorndike passed the bread. Rachel's housekeeping soul was delighted as she viewed those thin slices of snowy bread with their crisp golden brown edges. Hardly another woman in Dedham had such luck, and everybody nearly begged a bit of her yeast cakes.
               Mr. Garth felt strongly inclined to send Lucy away from the table. He was afraid that she would make a scene, perhaps refuse to obey him, and he felt quite sensitive about his authority. Then too he had been revolving another plan in his mind, and he considered it wisest to be gracious.
               They began to talk of the improvements in Dedham, the rise in real estate, the new streets and factories. Now and then Mr. Thorndike appealed to Lucy for the verification of some statement. She felt herself quite extinguished, but she still held a reserve card and a trump at that—her beauty. She warmed and glowed in the lamp light like some rare opening flower from tropical lands. Now and then she shook a flood of golden waves over her drooping shoulders. Then it was the gleam of her white, slender hand, the flash of her deep, lustrous eyes. She felt in a mood of enchantment, as if indeed she were acting a part, and so she was, early in life, poor child!
               
               Mr. Thorndike was by no means delicate or ethereal. Every thing appealed in the strongest manner to his taste, the preserves were richness, the cold tongue soft enough to melt in one's mouth, the custard delightful, and the cake superb. He allowed himself to be persuaded into a second helping of fruit cake, it had just that damp fragrant deliciousness that he liked.
               Rachel watched him with a good deal of complacency. She had a vague idea that the royal road to a man's heart was through his stomach, and it did not lower him in her sight. Lucy thought—"if I should ever marry him, how nice it would be to have Rachel come and keep house—but I suppose she wouldn't. I wonder if there are any splendid cooks to be had in the world!"
               And then she smiled in that peculiar way as if richly satisfied with some wandering fancy of her own.
               They rose presently, Mr. Garth seemed to grow pompous and severe.
               "Rachel," he commanded, "conduct Mr. Thorndike to the other room. Lucy, I wish to see you a few moments."
               She raised her eyes to Mr. Thorndike like some wild, shy thing, haunted to the last covert. Her lips quivered, and her eyes seemed fairly to throb, as if they were tremulous with a distinct life. But he could not translate their meaning—it was so much Sanscrit to him.
               Rachel cast a longing glance at her china, but she obeyed with a feeling of gratification that Lucy was about to be taken to task for her high crimes and misdemeanors.
               Mr. Garth approached her, and his greenish eyes fairly glared. He caught Lucy by the shoulder and shook her.
               "How dare you!" he began in a low hoarse voice, his face white with passion. "How dare you, after what I said?"
               Her insolence and effrontery were gone. Her heart beat with great frightened bounds, and every nerve shrunk from the contact.
               "How dare you! disobedient and ungrateful child. If the Lord was just He would cut you off in your sins! Beware, lest at the last, like another evil-doer, you find no place for repentance!"
               "He is more merciful than you," she could not help replying.
               The eyes glared fiercely upon her again. He was amazed that she ventured to speak.
               "I tell you, Lucy Garth, that I'm master of this house, and master of you until you are eighteen. I will be obeyed. Brave me once again in this matter and you'll find that it is at your cost! You'll repent it bitterly!"
               Oh, she was sick at heart, weak, miserable! She was paying dear for her trifling bit of vanity. If she could run away—drown herself even!
               "You'll rue it, I tell you! You're given over soul and body to the evil one, and if no one stood by to pluck you as a brand from the burning, you'd go straight on to destruction. No child of mine shall walk in the broad path of evil without my voice being raised against it! You are stiff-necked and rebellious, full of sin to the core. I've prayed for you and with you, and what good does it do?"
               "None," she might have said honestly. She wanted no such prayers, she even thought, heathen as she was, that the broad road looked inviting.
               "Answer me!" and his grasp on her arm tightened, while his angry and cruel face was distorted by her mental vision.
               She wrenched herself away with sudden courage, for her arm felt nearly crushed.
               "Don't touch me," she cried in terror. "Keep away, for you make me feel savage. Say what you have to say, and let me go!"
               "Hetty," he called, "bring a candle."
               The maid obeyed the command. Mr. Garth took it and motioned Lucy up the stairs to her room.
               
               "I advise you to spend the night in prayer on your bended knees," he said in his most sanctimonious manner that made her feel as if she should scream. "Think of your heinous sins to your God and to me, your wicked vanity that is luring your soul to perdition. And never, while you are in my house dare to appear in this frowzy, ungodly manner. It is a shame to any respectable woman. Remember this—at your peril!"
               "Oh, go!" she cried in her anguish. "In mercy leave me!"
               He was not to be thus bidden away by his sinful child. He exhorted, he even prayed, but she sat on the bed's side, her dry eyes strained and wild with pain, and her scarlet lips curled in scorn.
               At last, when every nerve was stretched to the last point of endurance, he bade her good-night, closed and locked the door.
               She flew to the window and raised it. Her first impulse was to precipitate herself headlong at his very feet, a crushed and mangled mass. Just so her mother had battled in impotent rage. And yet both were women whom a word might lead. Oh, blind and cruel masters, are your eyes never to be opened?
               Of course she paused. There is a sort of latent combativeness that hates to yield before it has made one good, fair fight. She felt that hers was yet to come.
               But the night air, chilly and piercing as it was, did her good. It cooled the scarlet heat of passion in her cheeks, and the throbbing fever of her lips. Clasping her hands, she looked up at the pitiless sky, dark and leaden, and cried—
               "Mother! mother!"
               I hope her mother's heart was not yearning and suffering over her child, whom she was powerless to assist, even amid all the glories of Heaven.
               As Lucy became calmer she went back to her little cracked mirror, the consolation of youth and beauty always. And then she whispered to herself in a triumphant tone—
               "He did like me. It was because I am pretty; and if I should see him again at the Dorcas—for I can't well be shut up then. I wonder if he would ever care enough to—to marry any one!"
               She hated them both for keeping her up here away from Mr. Thorndike. If she had only made him promise that he would surely come!
               Her candle was burning low, so she hurried into bed without the form of penitence her father had enjoined. In his blind, arbitrary way he prided himself upon doing his duty to his refractory child, just as Rachel did in her cold, methodical fashion. That she had not been made a hypocrite, was owing to her own sense of truth and honor; but they were doing their best to crush it out.
               Mr. Garth returned to the parlor in evident discomposure. His visitor was quite too obtuse to make fine distinctions however. Rachel stole a few moments to attend to her beloved china and damask napkins, and then she took out some of her Dorcas work and sewed in a heaven of content.
               Mr. Thorndike found it very dull after his talk with Lucy, that seemed so sparkling by contrast. If Rachel could have but known how immensely she was losing, as he compared her with her absent sister, she would not have felt flattered. But as she did not know, she stood the scrutiny with great complacency.
               "I suppose they make her wash the dishes;" Mr. Thorndike mused in his unquiet soul, her meaning Lucy; but when he had waited an hour or more, he ventured upon a bold step.
               "Where is Miss—your daughter, I mean?"
               "Gone to bed. She flagrantly disobeyed me—and that no child has ever done in my house, without punishment of some kind. I hope it may prove a salutary lesson. Women, of all others, should be strictly obedient. If they do not respect their parents, how will they honor their husbands!"
               Mr. Garth delivered this in a dictatorial tone; and then studied the pattern of the carpet, which was an ingrain, in extremely modest hues, the device beginning one side of the room and ending at the other.
               "Stout old governor!" Mr. Thorndike commented internally. "Wonder how she liked it?"
               She was crying herself to sleep in another paroxysm of anguish.
               "I guess I'll go;" and Mr. Thorndike walked slowly toward the fireplace.
               "Oh, no, Thorndike, don't be in a hurry. You can go home when there's no other place, you know." And Mr. Garth looked consciously elated at his second-hand facetiousness.
               "I'll drop in to-morrow. After dinner I'm going down to Cousin Hollisters. There's a mortgage to settle."
               "You had better go in for some property here, Thorndike. It'll be a good investment."
               "Think so?"
               "Yes. Oh, Cunningham's place has been offered."
               "Pretty grand, isn't it?"
               "Yes, but going at nothing. He's cramped—as such as man deserves to be. They've all been flying high, the Cunninghams; and pride must have a fall." With which Mr. Garth shook his head in extreme satisfaction. "The place can be bought for half its value; cash down. A good chance for speculation."
               Mr. Thorndike was tired and disappointed, and inclined to be cross. What did he care about the Cunningham place, or how many falls pride had!
               "Yes, I must go;" almost abruptly.
               He shook hands with Rachel, and said "good-night." His host followed him to the door.
               "It is very dark," said Mr. Garth. "You had better stay and take a bed with us!"
               "Oh, no, thank you: I'm used to roughing it on cloudy nights. I'll be in again, soon."
               He went stumbling along, wondering a little if he could have seen Lucy in the morning.
               "A pretty girl, by Jove! Garth has a nice pile, too. But a fellow ought to have a good deal of money with Rachel! How she's faded! Must be pretty hard on to thirty, though."
               Mr. Garth came back to his seat, and presently began to dilate upon Lucy's enormities.
               "There's too much of her mother in her," he exclaimed, with an ominous shake of the head. "No one knows the anxious hours and the prayers that unregenerate child has cost me! What it will be as she grows older, I shudder to contemplate."
               And well you may, Mr. Garth. Her future that might have been so bright and happy, was deeply shadowed by your hands: and her salvation was worked out amid bitter suffering.
               Rachel and her father were peculiar friends in a cold, rather repressed fashion. He told her many of his plans, and she listened—all he required of her; he bewailed the sins of his youngest born, and she sympathized, if the feeling had in it warmth enough for that. Sometimes he touched upon business and the people with whom he came in contact. Still, he was pompous and dogmatic even with her; but she had no nerves to be rasped.
               "Thorndike has not changed much," he said, presently, holding his slippered feet to the fire.
               "No. I should have recognized him anywhere."
               "A fine fellow. A good, sharp, energetic business man Made a fortune out in the coppers, I heard. Rachel!"
               "Sir?" as he paused. She, at least was respectful.
               He was looking at the fire, not at her. The inattention was of no moment.
               
               "Rachel," and he cleared his throat—"I could not wish a better husband for you."
               Rachel Garth did not blush nor betray any surprise.
               "I shall do handsomely by you. You were always my favorite child. I'm not a poor man, Rachel."
               "No, father."
               She uttered this with conscious pride, and thought too of the piles of bed and table linen packed away in the press up stairs, and the bed-quilts she could count by dozens. It was all hers, of course. She would never have thought of sharing it with her idle and foolish sister.
               "I'd like to see you well settled, Rachel. You have been a good daughter, and good daughters make good wives."
               He announced this in his inflated fashion, as if it had been a grand discovery.
               "I am sure I owe it all to my judicious training," she answered meekly.
               "Yes, you deserve it, Rachel, you deserve it."
               She thought she did also. Her humility extended only in a limited range, and was oftener the outward form than the inward grace.
               Rachel Garth sat and sewed complacently, while her father figured up that Rachel's children would be worth a million at the very least.
               Lucy was called at the usual hour the next morning, for the Garths were early risers. She heard the key click in the door, and was no longer a prisoner. So she rubbed her lovely sleepy eyes and wished she was a resident of that happy land were people did as they liked.
               One of the worst things was yet to come. Her father always labored to make her express some contrition. As a little child she did it from very fear, but now she had gained sufficient courage to refuse. She hated the talk, the whining tone and the eyes so keen and masterly.
               She entrenched herself behind a sullen dignity, and admitted nothing. As well talk to the wind.
               "You will have nothing but bread and water to-day," was her father's fiat.
               Hetty received her orders, but then Hetty had a weak point and could be coaxed. Lucy therefore did not starve.
               "It's as much as my life's worth," she said. "Oh, child, if you'd only listen to them prayers of your father's and repent. He allus does it for your good."
               Lucy, the little wretch, laughed and put her arms around Hetty's scrawny neck.
               "You're the best Christian of the lot, Hetty. You feed the hungry and visit those in prison sometimes. I believe I love you."
               Lucy was on her good behavior that day and the next. The obnoxious curls were hidden in the thickest net that she could find. Cold as it was she spent much time in her room, and any one with the least penetration could see that she carried a mystery in her face.
               Thursday was a bright, cheerful day. A fire was made in the parlor again, and a great basket brought from the pantry. The Dorcas people were usually very prompt. Rachel had to look after the supper. She dealt the butter and biscuits out to Hetty, sliced the ham and tongue in the merest wafers, and then arrayed herself in a dress that was not her best by any means. She never gave a thought to Mr. Thorndike during these preparations.
               "She looks like a fright," commented Lucy inwardly. Oh, I wonder if he will come! What did they tell him the other night, and what did he think? If I can make him like me!"
               She had reached that climax of mental aspiration already. If any one would like her and marry her, she would hail it gladly as a means of escape from this galling serfdom. Some way the chain must be broken.
               
               You could see a fine desperation in those deep eyes, one of the resolves that wins or perishes in the attempt.
               Poor child! how was she to know that it was but an exchange of masters? that hard as this slavery was, the other could be still more intolerable? No warning hand was the raised, alas! most pitiful of all, there was not one soul who loved her well enough to be solicitous for her welfare. They all considered food and raiment sufficient, as if the soul could feast upon that!
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE DORCAS.
               IT was high tide with the Dorcas. Miss Kip had sailed in with her, "Well! I never was so beat in my life!" which was a kind of streamer flying from the mast-head. A woman of five-and-forty, with a very high forehead and very thin sandy hair. She did not have the traditional sharp nose, but her teeth were narrow and long, and gave you a sort of uncomfortable feeling, as if in any emergency she might take to biting.
               There was a knot of middle-aged women around her, eager for the dish of gossip. Then at one window a group of younger ladies, who were still discussing Mrs. Freeman, the missionary who had gone from their church to far Burmah. She had sent a letter home to Mrs. Howe, begging for a box of different articles, and the Dorcas was trying to complete them this afternoon. Three or four of these were envying Mrs. Freeman in their hearts. Why couldn't they as well have gone off in triumph, instead of wasting their sweetness on the desert air of Dedham.
               Lucy sat quite apart, sewing on a pinafore for Henry Martyn Freeman, aged four. The tricky Burman servants, the snakes, centipedes, boiled rice, and journeys to the interior were of no great moment to her, neither Miss Kip's strongly seasoned dish. She was wondering for the hundredth time at least whether he would come.
               Presently there was a lull among the elders. Nearly everybody's erybody's short-comings had been discussed, Mrs. Burnam's turned alpaca picked to pieces, Mrs. Snow's new bonnet held up to execration, the Cunninghams' extravagances severely condemned, and Mrs. Deacon Peters "had told her husband he needn't look for that last quarter's pew rent to be paid. People who could flaunt around in silks and satins, and have Pershy carpets, never gave much to the cause of religion."
               There was a pause, and they all took breath. Their eyes glared furtively round for the next bit of prey.
               "So Mr. Thorndike's come back, Rachel?" and Mrs. Bowers slyly took a pinch of snuff.
               "No, you don't say!"
               That was news to Miss Kip, for a wonder.
               "Yes, he was here to tea on Tuesday evening."
               Rachel Garth said this with a certain air of meek importance.
               "Why, where is he staying?"
               "He went to his cousin Hollister's on some business."
               "Is he going in actively with your father, Rachel dear?" asked Mrs. Peters plaintively, as if the fact would aggrieve her very much.
               "I don't know."
               "Will he stay?" asked Miss Kip.
               "I believe he intends to."
               Rachel Garth was not much of a gossip. Being reticent by nature, it was necessary to question her at every step.
               "Now there will be a time. Girls, do you hear that?" and Miss Kip glanced toward the window circle. "Why, Mr. Thorndike's come back! Now I do hope there won't be any goings on in this congregation. The way girls sometimes act about a marriageable man is scandalous!"
               Considering that Miss Kip had "acted" unsuccessfully from eighteen to forty-five, she was quite capable of judging.
               "Mr. Thorndike is not a young man."
               "I'm sure he's not an old one, snapped Miss Kip. His mother and my mother were bosom friends, and always wore the same colored gowns. Many's the time we've played together as children. Why, I wonder that he didn't call! Poor mother would have been so glad. She used to look upon him quite as a son."
               Some of the girls in their twenties tittered a little. Ah, girls, when you are forty and single it will be no laughing matter.
               "He's made a fortin' off there on the Lakes, I've heard say," Mrs. Bowers announced.
               There was another onslaught upon Rachel, How Mr. Thorndike looked, how much he was worth, where he expected to live, what he intended to do, and every question that ingenuity could invent. Rachel felt herself quite a heroine, since she was the object of so much attention.
               "I wish I'd asked him to the Dorcas," she thought within herself.
               Lucy smiled in her odd self-absorbed fashion. What if she knew more about Mr. Thorndike's movements that all the rest?
               It was five o'clock and beginning to grow dusky. He had not come in the early train, but if he took the next one, she might reasonably expect him at six. Rachel went to see about the supper. Lucy brought some lights, and then ran up stairs in the gathering gloom. Jerking off her net her beautiful hair fell to her waist.
               "It's a shame I can't curl it! They're a mean, hateful, jealous set, every one of them!" which included her father and Rachel half a dozen times over. "Oh, wouldn't it make them stare! And he thought it so beautiful! Just wait till I have a chance!"
               She wet the comb and passed it through the long, silken tresses; then, instead of twisting it in the usual coil, she gathered it loosely, parting out a few ends, and took from her bosom a net that she had been crocheting at intervals. It was made from fine black glace cotton, as glossy as silk, and with large meshes. There would be a golden glimmer through that! And she knew well, cunning little minx, that when her hair became dry, it would be one mass of bewildering waves, and perhaps a few stray, suggestive curls. Then she tied a blue ribbon about her shapely head. It had been washed once, already. How she hated all these petty meannesses and uncalled-for economies! They did it to humble her pride; but pride throve like a giant, and was only waiting for an opportunity to rear its head.
               The gentlemen began to drop in. It must be confessed that the old First Church in Dedham could not boast of very decided intellectuality or progress. It was narrow in soul, opposed to any innovations; and when part of the congregation had once undertaken some improvements, it became the cause of a quarrel and division. The energetic ones branched out, and were soon a flourishing society. It was a power in Dedham—had a reading-room, and young men's society; and their social circles were of the higher order, and really entertaining. Consequently, these people kept more strictly to their old ways, and indulged in sundry flings at the worldliness and pride of the Shiloah Society.
               There were very few young men among the First Congregation, and these of the fledgeling order, but they were made much of, nevertheless. They seldom condescended to make their appearance until eight or so in the evening.
               Lucy went down again very quietly. Somehow she seemed under a sort of social ostracism. Miss Kip had been her Sunday-school teacher, and labored in season and out of season—especially the latter, for her conversion, and finally pronounced her the most hardened child that she ever saw; but latterly, Miss Kip had taken the office of Assistant Superintendent; and Miss Gorham, who wore gold-bowed spectacles, and was less energetic about lost souls, had supplied her place. The Sunday-school was more comfortable for Lucy therefore.
               At half-past six, the first table were invited out to supper. These were the married people, and those who could not by any possible stretch of the imagination be considered young. The rest meanwhile had a good time in the parlor. Lucy always helped wait upon the table.
               For the last half hour Lucy Garth had been in the most intense state of suspense. With every knock at the door her heart had bounded to her throat, and her pulses quivered. What if he should not come? In that case not only this evening, but all of life would be a blank. Courage, Lucy. Neither pains nor pleasures are outlived at seventeen.
               Mr. Howe said a grace as long as ordinary prayers. Lucy began to carry the cups mechanically, gave Miss Kip's green tea to Mrs. Bowers, and that lady's weak coffee to Miss Kip. When mild Mr. Gorham, a bachelor of fifty summers, asked for a glass of water, she brought him milk.
               "Lucy," said her sister severely, "if you can't pay any better attention to your business, you may as well go to bed!"
               This covert threat roused her a little. Being sent to bed was not a pleasant possibility.
               At last, when they were eating and drinking and talking in good earnest, she stepped into the hall for a breath of air. What a miserable farce this life was! Why were people born into the world to be jostled about, starved, misunderstood, all their best purposes turned to ill, their hidden fire warming no one, and only scorching themselves! What was the use of the pain and anguish that no one ever knew or saw, save the one wretched soul that was even forbidden to cry aloud! Why was she not like these other people? Why did a word or a look sink deep into her soul that every one pronounced shallow and frivolous? Why—
               A knock at the door interrupted her reverie. It was sharp and decisive, and she opened it in the same manner, ready to frown at the intruder.
               It was Mr. Thorndike!
               
               "Oh, ah—hillo!" he said in his rather bluff fashion. "I'm glad to see you. Show's under good headway, I guess."
               A vague feeling of dislike and detestation sprang up in Lucy Garth's heart. The man was coarse, without the graces of either refinement or feeling.
               "Did you think I wasn't coming?"
               Lucy started violently. If she had obeyed her impulse and fled from this man, and fought her way up to the light alone!
               "Why, how white and scared you look! And your curls! By Jove! I'll murder the one who's cut them off!"
               "They're not cut," Lucy returned in strange bewilderment. "And—I had given you up. Walk in."
               "Did you care about my coming?"
               His eyes were fond and eager, his face handsome in a kind of healthy animal fashion. Somehow it went to her heart.
               "Because, I wouldn't give a pin for the rest! The train met with a detention, but didn't I hurry along, and if you've no welcome for me—"
               His voice and face and a curious effect upon her. And then the exultant thought swept over her that she could make this man love her, could leave this hateful life behind at a bound.
               She flushed deeply and then smiled, and with it the tears came to her eyes. How very lovely she looked! It moved him strangely, and before either of them understood the import of the caress, he had taken her sweet face in his hands and kissed the soft, fragrant, trembling lips.
               "Oh!" she said with a little sigh which she hardly dared utter above her breath, and though it was fright, the repression toned it down and gave it a touch of longing and satisfaction.
               "I could make her love me!" he thought, and with it came the resolve.
               "You haven't said that you were glad to see me!"
               "Haven't I?" with a saucy smile that made her radiant. "Why, do you suppose I asked you to come—because I would be sorry to see you?"
               "Well, no;" and he laughed.
               "Was there an accident?"
               "Oh no, at least not much. A pipe or a pivot or a screw—I don't believe any one knew except the engineer. What are they doing in there?"
               A Babel of voices issued from the room. The hall was long and this little corner quite out of sight. The young folks had shut themselves in the parlor, and were absolutely telling fortunes!
               "Eating and drinking!" with the utmost disdain.
               "That coffee smells tempting."
               "Will you go in and have some?"
               She raised her head haughtily, and her voice had an icy crispness in it.
               "Not now," and he smiled in a peculiarly satisfied manner. "Will they send you to bed to-night?"
               Lucy colored and gave a little vexed laugh.
               "It was awful mean. By Jove, do they think you a child?"
               "I believe they do," rather dryly.
               "I found it dull enough without you," he said, puzzled by the changes in her manner.
               "Lucy!" some one called. "Where is Lucy?" the last in Rachel's voice.
               "Oh, I must go. Wait a moment. I'll send father out. Yes, it is better."
               He clung to her hand, but she drew it away with seeming reluctance.
               "What is the matter with you, Lucy? Why can't you stay where you are wanted?"
               Rachel's tone was sharp and her brow drawn into a frown.
               "Some one knocked at the door and I went; it was Mr. Thorndike—I must tell father."
               This in a low, hurried whisper, and she passed on to announce the new arrival.
               
               Rachel smoothed her face, and wished she had worn a better dress—or even put on her brooch. So you see she was troubled with some small vanities as well.
               Lucy had decided in a momentary flash of consideration, that it would not answer for her to bring Mr. Thorndike into the room. Those hawk-eyed gossips would pounce down upon her too soon, and set themselves to work watching every word and look. She was not quite sure of any thing, even her own mind, and she had a fancy that it would not hurt Mr. Thorndike to hold a little aloof. The idea of being kissed at the second interview! Why this corps of propriety would tear her in pieces if they knew it.
               Ah, Lucy, it was more the burst of honest admiration, than any idea of impertinent freedom. And yet how strange! No one ever kissed her save old Hetty and motherly Mrs. Howe, who had been kept home by the rheumatism.
               Mr. Garth ushered Mr. Thorndike into the room; and great was the astonishment. The women took possession of him immediately, and asked a thousand questions, uttered a thousand wonders, and sighed profusely over his dear, dead father, who was a pattern, and his dear, dead mother, who was a saint. It was some time before he could get around to Rachel.
               During this while, a host of feelings and impressions flitted through Lucy's brain. Mr. Thorndike was much the finest-looking man in the room, which perhaps was not saying a great deal. His figure was stout, strong, and with a certain harmony that cultivation might have moulded into manly grace. His face was bright, cheerful, and healthy; and the majority of people would have pronounced him handsome at once, those who were not on the keen scent for soul and the higher attributes. But after all, this is what makes the true man—though with some the body counts for a great deal.
               It was not wonderful that it should obtain with Lucy at this stage of her life. She certainly would never be ashamed of Mr. Thorndike, she thought. Then she remembered that his hands, as they touched her cheek, were soft, that his lips were firm, and his breath sweet with health. A trifle coarse and rude, but that had probably arisen from his mode of life. She liked the geniality, the hearty voice, and she decided that he was superior to those here, to all whom she was in the habit of meeting.
               By some accident he stationed himself at Rachel's side. She poured his coffee with a slow smile, expressed her regret that she had not asked him for this evening, and her pleasure that he had happened in to surprise them all. There were so many old friends. It must be very agreeable to meet them all again.
               This was quite an effort for Rachel. He discreetly kept his own counsel, and glanced furtively at Lucy, who was most intent upon the duties of her office. How provoking that she would not even look! But Lucy was taking in all this attention and honor, and being won by it. It was a powerful ally for him.
               Presently some one remembered the second table, and the leaders started reluctantly. Mr. Thorndike was not half through of course, so Miss Kip came back from the hall, marshalling in the younger set, and began to wait upon them. Mr. Garth remained too, and Mr. Thorndike grew restless. How could he get away?
               "Oh, there's Kitty Forbes," he said. "Why she was only a little school girl when I went away. I'll take a plate of sandwiches over to her."
               Miss Kip longed to follow, but here was such an excellent opportunity to have a little talk with Mr. Garth. She had not quite given up all designs in this quarter. True, in one of her sympathetic conversations on the subject of the "unfortunate Mrs. Garth"—"a lazy, good-for-nothing hussy," she termed her elsewhere. Mr. Garth had said, with much decision and solemnity—
               
               "I confess that my punishment was just, Miss Kip. I had no right to set such a woman over my dear Rachel, who has never given me an anxious thought in her life. But I have learned a lesson by this chastisement, which I hope the Lord will sanctify to me. I never shall pain my daughter by a similar trial!"
               But if the daughter married, perhaps Mr. Garth would have no such conscientious scruples about Lucy's comfort; and Miss Kip almost ached to be her step-mother. She'd see if the child wouldn't walk in the straight and narrow way! It was best, therefore, to pause and do the agreeable to Mr. Garth, and learn what the prospect promised.
               Mr. Thorndike marched over to Kitty Forbes, and blockaded Lucy in the corner.
               "Come, you must take something, too," he said.
               She picked up a sandwich in the daintiest manner possible—and gave him a smile in return. In fact, she was rapidly developing a spice of coquetry.
               "Don't you want some coffee?"
               "You could never get back if you went."
               "Couldn't I? Why?"
               He was not very sharp at discovering hidden meanings.
               "Some one would keep you captive. There are so many old friends, and I am quite a new one."
               "But of more account than all the rest."
               "Go for the coffee, then. Ten minutes from this, you will see me wearing the willow."
               "Orange blossoms are sweeter. Isn't that what they wear?"
               "They? Who?" in the most charming state of innocence. "For recreant Knights?"
               He looked puzzled and studied her face a moment. It was so arch and fascinating that he smiled, while a brighter flush came into his cheeks.
               "Oh, you know what I mean." Then, lowering his voice—"I wish you did care enough to wear the willow for me."
               "You are cruel;" in a tone that was sweet, cunning and pitiful, and ensnared him afresh.
               "No, I couldn't be to you."
               The dialogue had been carried on in the lowest of tones, both feeling intuitively that it was hardly wise to proclaim their interest in each other at this early stage. He went, but soon returned, and she bestowed upon him a most beguiling smile. Then they took up their by-play.
               Lucy had to stop and help clear away the fragments. She washed and wiped dishes that night with a fervor rarely displayed in so distasteful a cause. She must see Mr. Thorndike for a few moments.
               Fortune favored her. It always seem so easy to take the steps whereby one makes a wreck of life, so hard to climb the higher and rugged path leading to safety.
               It was nearly eight o'clock when the supper was finished. For the next hour Mr. Thorndike was the hero of the evening. There had not been such a positively gay "Dorcas" for a long while. No one but he missed Lucy, and it would have fretted him a good deal if it had not been for his vanity. He had an inordinate share of that. To be made much of by these foolish girls and women was delightful. He liked to feel himself of importance, and some of the slow going men asked him about improvements and investigations in a way that was exceedingly flattering. He was shrewd and clever. So he did very well, despite the thought of Lucy washing dishes, or gone to bed.
               The doors were all open now. Some of the young men unusually hilarious, proposed a game of blind man's buff, which would have been severely frowned down but for Mr. Thorndike's hearty approbation, for he thought the rest must be having a dreadful dull time of it.
               Lucy dried her hands, took off her big apron, and being send out of doors by Hetty, ran around to the back hall way, resolving that she had done her duty by the kitchen. Mr. Thorndike stood by just as she opened it and caught sight of the picture-like face. Instead of her coming in he slipped out, and caught her with both hands.
               "Oh," she said, struggling, "let me go! Some one will see! Oh, please!"
               The voice was so deliciously entreating! He thought he would like to be coaxed in this fashion every day of his life.
               "I don't mean that they shall;" and before she hardly knew where she was, he had whirled her down the path with his arm around her.
               "What have you been doing all the time—washing dishes?"
               "Yes," with an indignant stamp of her little foot.
               There was a moon, but the sky was partially filled with drifting clouds. They broke away just at this moment, and disclosed her in her radiant loveliness. A tiny fringe of soft rings lay around the edge of her pearly forehead.
               "Why won't they let you curl your hair?" he asked. "It's a shame!"
               "Oh, everybody thinks it wicked!"
               She thought her strongest point would be to make him admire irreligion, for she knew well that she could lay claim to none of its graces except in the natural way. At heart she felt that she was really better than some of the women with whom she came in contact. If left to herself she would have been strictly truthful, noble and just in her dealings, warm and generous in her temper, but she felt afraid that there must be something more than this. Would such flimsy faith and principles give one the strength of a martyr?
               "What a set of humbugs! You must have a gay time of it!"
               "Gay time! Oh, Mr. Thorndike, many and many a night I cry myself to sleep. Many a time have I wished myself dead! What was I born for? No one wants me, no one cares for me!"
               It was a very honest burst of feeling, without the slighest thought of effect.
               He felt her trembling against his strong arm.
               "Yes," he said, "I care for you. It's abominable that you should be so ill-used! Those old women have made Rachel as rigid and fussy as themselves. Why, your mother never was ugly to her!"
               "Mamma was a sweet angel. They hate me for her sake. But oh! let us go in. I am cold, and they will miss you."
               There was another reason. She was not quite ready to have him make desperate love to her. And yet his fond tones and strong arm seemed so good. She might overlook all the little things that were displeasing to her.
               She did not understand then why these attractive and repellant forces had been given. She was so very ignorant of the world, of life, and most sad of all, her own soul.
               Mr. Thorndike had received a check to his ardor, and would not have plunged headlong down the alluring stream, smooth as the tide appeared. A question came in his mind as to whether Mr. Garth meant to portion his daughters alike.
               I told you in the beginning that he was not a noble or high-minded man. How Lucy would have turned from him if she could have read these sordid thoughts!
               She would not go in with him, but ran round the kitchen way again and joined the party after the merriment had subsided, bearing with wonderful patience the many exclamations of, "Oh, you should have been here! There never was such a nice Dorcas!"
               Mr. Thorndike managed to exchange several little sentences with Lucy. At last the usual hymns were proposed, and here he again distinguished himself. He had a fine bass voice. He was besieged immediately to come to church and sit in the choir.
               
               There was a prayer made by Mr. Howe, and then the dispersion commenced. Miss Kip lingered, promising to come over and help pack the box for Mrs. Freeman. The next meeting was to be at Mrs. Bowers'. "Of course Mr. Thorndike would come—they had a good many gentlemen members, even if they couldn't sew."
               "But I suppose they pay?" and Mr. Thorndike extracted a bill from his waistcoat pocket. "I'll come till this runs out, and then you must tell me."
               Miss Kip simpered in a delighted state of mind, for her sharp eye caught sight of a V. Rachel looked delighted with her hero.
               "I'm sure we're very, very grateful;" and Miss Kip pressed his hand with a sigh. If he were only a little older!
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               AFTERWARD.
               MISS KIP went to the dressing-room with her arm around Rachel.
               "My dear," she said in a whining tone, which she meant for sweetness, "he's a most worthy young man. His father was the salt of the earth, and it will be your blessed duty and privilege to bring him back to the covenant of grace. I see it all, my dear Rachel, and you have my prayers for your happiness. It will be clearly a Christian duty, and he will make an excellent husband. To think of his giving me five dollars! Why, we'll have to make him a life member!"
               Rachel Garth blushed in her swarthy fashion. It was not ill-pleasing to know that some one had remarked his attention.
               "Father speaks very highly of him," she said modestly.
               "He's worthy of it, I'm sure. He lacks only the 'one thing needful,' and you'll be the instrument of saving grace. It's worth waiting for, Rachel. He is just about the right age, and settled in his habits. I wish you joy;" and yet Miss Kip sighed as she enveloped her head in a gray Nubia, which made it look higher than ever.
               Rachel went down with her, leaving two lamps burning in the room, in the height of her complacency. Lucy started from the nook below the bedstead, where she had stooped to pick up a stray shawl pin.
               "I wonder if she thinks he will marry her?" and the child laughed scornfully. "Old as she is, and she never could have been pretty when he first knew her! Oh, Rachel Garth, you think you are keen and far-sighted—you can stay at home and drudge, since you like it so well, but I mean to ride in my carriage. He almost said that he loved me!"
               The lights were out presently, and both girls dreamed of Warren Thorndike. I'm not sure but Rachel thought the most truly of his happiness, both temporal and spiritual.
               Mr. Thorndike spent nearly all the following morning at the mill. He had no fault to find with Mr. Garth's management of his capital, and he concluded that he would not withdraw it. Mr. Garth endeavored to persuade him to give up roving, settle at Dedham and marry.
               "You've done capitally, Garth! This musty old pile of wools and dyes is almost as productive as coppers. Your girls will have a handsome start!"
               He thought that quite an adroit move.
               "Yes, if they marry to suit me. Rachel has been an excellent daughter, an efficient and economical housekeeper—and she will prove a treasure to the man who gets her. But Lucy—"and the father paused in perplexity.
               "And Lucy?" said Mr. Thorndike, with more interest than he cared to avow.
               "The child is wayward and rebellious. Of course you know, Thorndike, that my second marriage was not a happy one. Lucy inherits her mother's fatal beauty and vanity. She might easily become the prey of some designing villain, but so sure as she ever marries against my will, not one dollar shall she have!"
               "Oh, she is not likely to," was Thorndike's careless response. He was quite satisfied, but he would win Lucy before making the subject public.
               They went on skirmishing in a light way, neither exactly showing his hand, but when they parted Mr. Garth renewed his cordial invitation.
               "Drop in any time," he said. "You'll always be welcome. Your father and I were good friends, and if it comes to any thing nearer, I'd be proud to call you son."
               "Thank you."
               Thorndike wrung his hand. The matter was settled then, only he had a vague idea that Mr. Garth much preferred that he should take Rachel. He proposed to have all the good things of this life, brightness, youth and beauty, since they would be as well dowered. He had an idea then that he was actually in love with Lucy. He liked to yield to that peculiar and subtile sway of hers, he liked to watch her deep eager eyes and see the smiles flit around her small scarlet mouth. He determined now to see as much of her as possible. Being wayward and rebellious did not in the least intimidate him, brave man that he was.
               That any person in the full possession of his senses should prefer Lucy to Rachel never once entered Mr. Garth's mind. He had daily proofs of her worth and ability, and knew that she was her sister's superior in nearly every respect. He quite forgot that he had once fallen in love with a pretty face, while Miss Kip and several others whose sterling qualities were unquestionable stood by and sighed over the sacrifice.
               So he said to Rachel that evening.
               "I have almost persuaded Thorndike to take an active interest in the mill. He or some one is very much needed."
               "Yes," was Rachel's quiet, approving response.
               "And I think he will," rubbing his hands in the light of the blaze, as if the idea afforded him great satisfaction. "I think he will, and—Rachel."
               Rachel glanced up when the pause became unusually long. Her father appeared to be studying her face intently.
               "It is as good as settled, I may say. He spoke to me to-day. I shall be proud to give you to so worthy a young man."
               Lucy, who sat quite out of range of these two, dawdling over some sewing that she hated, felt every nerve tingle with a thrill of surprise. The fair face was scarlet, and she bent it still lower to hide her confusion, and perhaps a little indignation.
               Rachel smiled complacently, that is, her severe look relaxed a trifle, and a faint curve came to her usually straight, thin lips. Somehow she felt very proud of this admirer. She, as well as Lucy, fancied that he was superior to the men they were in the habit of meeting.
               Could it be possible that he had spoken! Lucy thought. What then was the explanation of his conduct toward her? Did he, like the others, consider her of small importance, to be toyed with and set aside as the whim or prudence dictated! Perhaps that was it—prudence. She gave her head an angry toss and ran the needle into her small, white finger.
               "He shall see," she whispered to herself," he shall see I am not to be trifled with. A man would be base indeed to say such things to a woman and not mean any thing!"
               And then Lucy remembered the kiss with a sensation of shame. Surely it had not sprung from any boldness on her part, for she could not have guessed that he meant to take such a liberty. But she would be wary in future. If he married Rachel he must be therewith content. She did not propose to bestow any sisterly fondness upon Rachel's husband, no matter who he might be.
               For several days Lucy nursed her indignation and kept it up at white heat. In the mean while Mr. Thorndike called and spent the evening. She sat in the kitchen with Hetty and darned stockings, listening with a very inattentive ear to the old woman's gossip.
               "I always knowed Rachel would marry well," was the starting-point on which she rang the changes. "I've said a many time—don't you be in a hurry, Rachel. There's allers as good fish in the sea as is caught, and if you get a good husband you won't be sorry for waiting; and if he's a poor stick, you'll have years enough to live with him. And she'll get a good one! she deserves it, too!"
               She did not know whether it was Hetty's harrangue or the sound of that strong, inspiriting voice sending a reminder through chinks and crevices that so stirred the angry blood within her. When the last stocking was finished she lighted her candle.
               "You're not goin' to bed?" exclaimed Hetty in dim amaze.
               "I am going to bed!" biting off the words in a savage fashion.
               "Well, the dear bless us!" muttered Hetty. "That child has an uncommon temper. Why don't she snap off one's head."
               The child crawled into bed without studying her pretty face in the cracked mirror. What was golden hair or pearly cheek if there was no one to please with it—no one to admire?
               Mr. Thorndike's next advent was on Sunday. And so when Rachel said—"Oh, Hetty, I promised to send some of this custard over to old Mrs. Bowen, will you take it after supper?" Lucy offered to go immediately.
               "She will be glad to have it, I know," returned Rachel, amazed at the proposal.
               So Lucy went and stayed to tea, a heinous offence in her father's eyes, for which he called her to account. Had she not been forbidden to do such a thing without permission?
               "I dare say Rachel was obliged," was the answer in a dry hard tone. "Perhaps it is not a bad thing for her and her lover to have a fair field."
               Mr. Garth hardly understood this, and hesitated so long whether to resent it as insolence or not that Lucy continued—
               "I am sure Mrs. Bowen needed a little company. You praise Rachel for visiting the poor and the sick, and why is not the deed as good when performed by me?"
               "You would do better to speak more respectfully," he returned with a lofty air.
               But Lucy was very miserable it must be confessed. Not that she was in love with Mr. Thorndike, though it stung her keenly to think that she had been trifled with, and then neglected ed. It seemed to her that she hated everybody. Her emotions varied as easily as her thoughts traversed space. A waft of hope could transport her to the highest state of satisfaction, and the next instant she could be plunged into the blackest despair.
               The despair predominated for the next few days. She was captious, idle, refractory, and as great a torment to herself as to any one else. So one clear, cold morning she went out to do some errands and to walk off the nervous excitement that was next to fever.
               Crossing a street she saw Mr. Thorndike at the end of the next square. The tall, full figure, with its brisk air was unmistakable. Should she go on, or turn? One moment she was wild to meet him, at the next ruled by the utmost disdain.
               He settled her doubt, however, for he came striding towards her. She had an uncomfortable consciousness of looking shabby and envied the bright girl opposite who tripped along in ruffled skirt, velvet cloak, and dainty hat. If she only could dress like other people?
               He had clasped the hands in their cheap worsted gloves, and peered through the flimsy veil.
               "I thought I was never to see you again," he began vehemently.
               "As if it would have made much difference!"
               There was a fine, cool sarcasm in her tone, and she would have withdrawn her hands.
               "What do you mean?" he asked in dull amaze.
               "What I said," and her laugh had a bitter, dainty flavor.
               "Lucy, are you angry with me?"
               His tone was so downright honest and earnest that she glanced upward involuntarily.
               "Yes."
               "I have not seen you since that night, you know. I've been to the house twice."
               "To see Rachel. I understand it, Mr. Thorndike. I am only seventeen, it is true, but I am not quite a child. I have some pride and some feeling, and a good deal of respect for myself, when you come to that!"
               Her face flushed a lovely scarlet—he saw that through the veil, also the dark eyes that looked as if they might fill with tears the next instant, so tremulous were the lids.
               "What do you mean?"
               "Oh, nothing," and she turned away.
               He turned with her. Obeying an odd impulse he drew her hand through his arm, so tightly indeed that she was compelled to keep step by the very power that he put into the movement.
               "What is it all about, Lucy?" he began in a beseeching tone. "Why did you hide away when I came? You must have known that I wanted to see you."
               "How could I know? Mr. Thorndike, this is ungentlemanly, nay worse, dishonest, when you have as good as asked my father—"
               Lucy paused. Up to this point her indignation had been honest, but now she colored with a sense of shame. She knew that he liked her. This clasp of the arm, this warmth and tremor of the voice, and these eyes devouring her with troubled and questioning looks, all told it. To go any farther would be like forcing him into an explanation.
               "I had a slight talk with your father—"and a light seemed to dawn upon him, for the fresh face turned a deeper hue—"you can't mean—you haven't misunderstood—"
               She held her breath. For which one did he care. It had gone too far to remain unexplained.
               "It is Rachel," she said, "and you have no right to—please to let me go," she begged almost piteously, her eyes downcast and filled with strange tears.
               "No, it isn't Rachel. You haven't much vanity, or penetration, I was going to say, or you would have guessed. Why, I love you! Zounds! a man must be a fool not to choose youth and beauty instead of—"
               
               "But Rachel is good," she interposed, with a sudden twinge of remorse. "She will make a better wife than I, Mr. Thorndike. She loves to work, and I don't; she understands housekeeping and cooking, which I hate. Then I'd always like to be dressed pretty—but I'm afraid it would cost a good deal; and she is content with a little."
               "I want to see you look like a real beauty; I'm sure you can be as grand as any of them! I mean you to have silks, and diamonds, and all that; and if you like, I'll buy the Cunningham place. What made you think that I was in love with Rachel?"
               A glimmering vision flashed before Lucy's eyes. Poor child, caught as easily as the most brilliant butterfly of them all!
               "And you don't love her?"
               She wanted to be sure. She was quite ready to crowd out Rachel, and take the good things of this life that had been dealt so sparingly to her thus far. Now that the alluring bait was within reach, she could not let it slip through her fingers.
               He was delighted, taking the question as if actuated by pique or jealousy, or perhaps best of all, love. Clasping the small hand fondly, he said—
               "Set your heart at rest, my darling. I don't love any one but you; and I've loved you since that first night when you came and leaned your arm on the mantel, and your beautiful curls were like a shower of gold. As if I could have cared for—"
               "Hush," she said softly, touched by the tender flattery. I believe with all her frivolity and ambition, she would have been kinder towards Rachel than her sister to her, had the case been reversed.
               "How generous you are!" he exclaimed in slow amaze. "Why you know they say handsome people are always selfish and vain: but, by Jove! you're enough better than some of them with their long faces and sanctimonious ways."
               "But I'm not very good; I don't want you to believe that and be disappointed."
               "I'm not afraid," was his confident reply.
               Then they walked on in silence, neither heeding the direction of their steps.
               "But you haven't said that you loved me," he began, abruptly.
               Did she love him? What was love? She had a curious feeling about it, a presentiment that if the matter was sifted to the finest grains of truth, it would be impossible for her to love this man beside her with a high and noble affection. It was more for what he could give her and the pleasure of being taken out of this miserable life, than any touch of earnest regard.
               "I don't know," she said hesitatingly. "It is so sudden and strange! And I have never thought how it would be. You are so much older—"
               "But you won't mind the difference?" he asked, anxiously. If he could only go back to six-and-twenty for her sake!
               "I do not believe that it is so much the years as the—the love. Oh, are you sure that you will always be good to me, and not get tired when you find me vain and foolish and full of faults? I believe that killed poor mamma! She wasn't like them you know, though she was good and sweet, and if any one had only cared for her, it might have been so different."
               It was very easy to promise there, with her trembling on his arm. His slow and obtuse soul could no more take in the full and fine nature of her demands than it could have soared to the sun. He was thinking that to give her a pretty house and elegant clothes, to pet and admire her continually, was love in its breadth and fulness.
               "Yes, I will always be good to you; and you'll try to love me, won't you?" in a pleading tone.
               "I'll try—and I'm sure that I shall succeed some time. It has only been a little while since we first met, you know?"
               
               Her voice had such a soft, coaxing strain in it that it won him entirely.
               "Would you like the Cunningham house?" with a little hesitation, as if he was not quite sure of its being good enough.
               "Oh, it would be lovely to go and live there! The grounds are so beautiful in summer, and such hosts of flowers! I love them so much."
               "It can be bought for a mere song, cash down. Your father recommended it as a speculation. I think I'll look in some day—would you like to see it?"
               She blushed vividly—and he, catching a glimpse of the scarlet, laughed.
               "Why yes, it will be your house—so why shouldn't you see it?"
               "I am afraid father will think it too—too—expensive," she said hesitatingly.
               "Oh, I shall not ask him for any thing, you know," in his commonplace way. "He has only you two—and he said that if you married to suit him, you should have your share, and that he wouldn't object to me as a son-in-law. Rachel's name was never mentioned."
               "And you thought of me even then?" she rejoined, clasping his arm with a sudden impulse of tenderness, her heart beating quicker at this proof of his regard.
               Oh, Lucy, if you had known the mercenary depth of that first impulse, you would not have clung to him so eagerly!
               He rather congratulated himself as being in luck all the way round.
               "Yes. And about the house?"
               "Oh, if it pleases you that will be enough," she made answer, bashfully.
               He liked the manner in which she deferred to him, and he resolved that she should have whatever pleased her, as well.
               "Oh, where are we going?" and Lucy stopped suddenly. "I was to do an errand for Rachel, the last of all—and I've rambled quite out of my way. It is almost noon."
               "No matter, we will go back. And now I want to know why you hid yourself when I called? I expected to see you."
               "I didn't hide. I've never been invited in the room when there was company, unless it was old ladies or a Dorcas."
               "But you'll come now?"
               That arrangement was difficult to make. When it came to the point, Lucy was afraid to take a decisive step. She was not sure that it was hardly safe to confess so soon; and then she had a young girl's foolish romance concerning the charm of secrets.
               "Let me think about it," she begged; and finally he consented, provided that she reached the conclusion speedily.
               He would have accompanied her home, but this she positively forbade. Dinner was nearly over, for Mr. Garth would not have waited for the queen. Rachel had marvelled at her sister's long absence, and now Mr. Garth had reached a very exact and exacting mood. Where had she been? Had she made any calls? Had she met any of those idle, trifling girls against whom her father had repeatedly warned her?
               Lucy was thankful that no questions were asked which she could not answer with perfect truth. For the rest, she volunteered no information, and, when her father questioned her closely, took refuge in a rather haughty silence.
               Rachel left her to herself and her thoughts. They were a chaotic mass indeed. Her mind seemed to change with every varying mood, and withal her secret weighed upon her spirits. Had the elder been keener eyed, she would have found sufficient grounds for suspicion of some kind.
               Matters were in this state on Sunday as the congregation clustered around the old church doors for an interchange of friendly or curious greeting. Mr. Thorndike was conspicuous among them. He elbowed his way to Mr. Garth's vicinity, hardly thinking of the watchful eyes that were upon him. He shook hands very cordially with Rachel, it must be confessed, while Lucy drew back in confusion, and turned a trifle pale. They all kept together until the groups thronged out upon the sidewalk.
               "Lucy!" exclaimed her father peremptorily.
               Lucy fell back a step or two beside him.
               It was a proud moment in Rachel Garth's life. She knew that dozens of envious eyes were upon her, and she also had a consciousness that Warren Thorndike was held in rather superior esteem. As rich now, perhaps, as her father, in the very prime of life, and really fine-looking—who among her acquaintances had married as well? So she held her head somewhat loftily, admiring the man who walked beside her with a feeling that surprised herself.
               He meanwhile bit his lip, thinking of the fair face and slender figure just behind, that he could not even see. Rachel's platitudes were wearisome, her very voice seemed harsh and cold contrasted with the other. Marry her, indeed!
               He saw very little of Lucy, though he accepted the invitation to dine solely for that purpose. She was more than discreet, and Rachel bestowed upon her a grim smile that was absolutely approving. The little witch enjoyed this state of affairs as she saw the sharp frown cross her lover's brow, and the gnawing of the lip indicating displeasure.
               "He does love me!" she thought exultingly.
               Rachel spent but a very few moments in the kitchen. Lucy assisted Hetty as usual, washed her hands and gave her hair a little brush. Then she put on her hat and cloak, as the hour for Sunday-school was at hand.
               She began to feel somewhat disappointed. A brief sentence or a clasp of the hand would have satisfied her, but that was quite impossible now. She must go away and let him believe—what?
               And then she bethought herself that she must make a journey into his presence. Her father never allowed her any money beyond the present needs, so she had to go to him regularly for her small missionary stipend. She opened the door, but her father was at the opposite end of the room, perusing his religious paper. So she preferred her request in a whisper.
               "Where are you going, Lu—Miss Garth?" Mr. Thorndike asked, coloring and correcting the familiarity.
               "To Sunday-school," announced her father in a pompous manner.
               "I think I'll walk down the street with you," he declared in a very deliberate fashion.
               Lucy trembled in every limb, and half expected that her father would command her to stay at home. The frightened look rather won upon Rachel, who attributed it to surprise and humility. And then, as he was to be her brother some day, the freedom was quite allowable.
               "No, don't go, Thorndike," exclaimed Mr. Garth.
               "Indeed I must. I wish to see a person particularly;" and Mr. Thorndike rose.
               "My friend," said Mr. Garth, "I hope soon to see you lay aside worldly cares on such a day as this."
               "I don't know that it can justly be called a worldly care," Mr. Thorndike returned, with a little laugh at his fancied cleverness.
               Lucy's face was scarlet. She drew her veil down hurriedly, opened the hall door, and was half way through the small court-yard before Mr. Thorndike had said his adieus.
               He soon strode up to her, but her heart was beating fiercely.
               "This won't do, you know," he began in his abrupt way. "I can't stand it, and I may as well ask your father at once. To be put off with her continually."
               "Oh, if you do care for me, be patient," Lucy exclaimed pathetically.
               "A man likes to see a little of the woman he loves," was the grim reply.
               
               "It will come right sometime," she pleaded." Only wait until we are sure that we love each other!"
               "I am sure now."
               Her list of arguments had not reached its end. Somehow he could not resist her pretty entreaties. She begged for a week or a fortnight, and promised to think of him every moment, and he left her at the church door a good deal dissatisfied, but more in love than ever on account of the obstacles in his path, after the fashion of human nature.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               SHOWING HANDS
               LUCY was late for Sunday-school, and Miss Kip eyed her severely. That she should be absent and inattentive was not wonderful; and she was glad at last to go up stairs and take her seat in the quiet end of the pew and resign herself to dreams. Little did Rachel or her father imagine the worldly thoughts that held a carnival in the busy brain—perhaps she hardly realized it herself.
               She was honestly afraid of making her secret known. It might be possible that her father would forbid any marriage until she was twenty-one, almost four years. Did Mr. Thorndike love her well enough now to remain true through such a probation? She was afraid not. With that grand house looming up before her, and the promised luxuries of dress, she hardly dared risk and lose. She knew so little of the world and life.
               Thursday evening of that week another Dorcas was held at Mrs. Bowers's. Mr. Thorndike did not make his appearance until then. He meant to treat Lucy to a little show of coldness, but fortunately finding her alone in one of the odd nooks in which the house abounded, he could not resist the temptation of stealing a caress. She was in a fond mood too, a sort of tender, clinging passion, that won upon him immensely. And then he coaxed her into promising to walk with him the next afternoon, as she had an errand to call her out.
               
               She saw the nods and winks, and the pointed sentences with which Rachel was greeted. How she could take it so calmly and complacently puzzled Lucy, who blushed whenever any one gave her a sudden look, and found her heart beating loudly at the slightest word. What this would eventually prove to Rachel she did not pause to consider. There was no fine tenderness between these two girls, no real love indeed, though one possessed a fond and loving nature.
               Mr. Garth, much to his dissatisfaction, was compelled to escort home some ladies, so Mr. Thorndike took the two girls. Lucy's soft hand lay in his, and received numberless tokens of affection.
               "Write me a note for to-morrow," he whispered with his good-by.
               Lucy went straight to bed, but Rachel sat up for her father. Some way he felt a trifle disappointed at not finding Mr. Thorndike there, though he did not express this to his daughter.
               I hardly know why Rachel Garth felt so secure, and placed such perfect confidence in a man who had not as yet allowed himself the first lover-like word or action, unless it chimed in with some peculiarity of her nature. She would have been astonished by the freedom with which he treated Lucy. Her ideas ran in the old orthodox channel of propriety. And it might have been because she never dreamed of a rival in her sister. Her father's opinions about Lucy were hers; besides, she looked upon her as a hardly grown-up child, and little suspected that one step had taken her into womanhood.
               Lucy met her lover, and during the walk they exchanged notes. Hers had been a great source of perplexity, and was brief as well as proper. She had no opportunity to peruse his until after supper, when she made an excuse to go to her room for a dress that needed mending.
               A love letter in the fullest sense. An ardent, persuasive, pleading missive, begging for her love, for liberty to speak, for the privilege of seeing her openly, picturing their future happiness ness together, the impatience and tenderness of his regard, and giving her pet names that were sweet to linger over. If it did not reach the highest point of delicacy and refinement, she was hardly able to perceive this. She had not attained to any of the loftier summits of womanhood from whence she could look down with clear eyes upon her own soul and its needs. The love which he offered her was so above any thing that had come in her narrow life, that she accepted it as a supreme good.
               The letters and stolen interviews went on for a few weeks; but though Warren Thorndike's conscience was not touched, his selfishness was, and he made so strong a protest that Lucy was forced into a reluctant assent. He could not endure being thwarted at every turn, starved and repelled, when the magical land of love lay before him in all its alluring sweetness. If Lucy had wished to strengthen and deepen his passion, she could have chosen no surer course; but it had come about more from her fear and the force of circumstances.
               Mr. Thorndike was a trifle embarrassed when he had gained his point. His conscience was clear about Rachel, for he had never uttered a tender word to her, but he felt that these attentions, and the familiar dropping in to meals, had misled Mr. Garth.
               Still, he was not a man to blunder over explanations. He generally took a straightforward course, and after the Christmas dinner, which had been a rather unusual gala time, seeing that Mr. Garth generally dismissed festivals of this kind with a virtuous frown, he prepared himself for an explanation. Rachel had gone to make some changes in her attire. Since the advent of her lover, as she esteemed him, she had begun to take an almost worldly pleasure in dress, even going to the length of a bit of modest colored ribbon. Lucy, Cinderella-like, was still in the kitchen.
               If Mr. Thorndike could have understood how strongly the tide ran against Lucy, he might have hesitated a moment, at all events he would not so soon have made an opportunity to say, as the conversation was cautiously led to this subject.
               "Mr. Garth, I fancy that there is some misunderstanding here. It is Lucy that I care for, and not Rachel!"
               "Lucy!"
               Mr. Garth rose and approached his visitor to see if he could discover any signs of mental aberration. "Lucy!" he repeated in an astonished and wandering manner.
               "Yes, Lucy!" Mr. Thorndike was losing his patience. He could see nothing so wonderful or reprehensive in what he had done. Did not men fall in love with pretty girls often enough to make it no marvel? "And I ask you for the right of visiting her honorably and openly, with a view of making her my wife?"
               All that was plain enough. Mr. Thorndike had risen in his heat, and was pacing the room. He would not be an easy man to go against, although Mr. Garth's first impulse was to dismiss him upon the spot.
               "Yes, I like your daughter Lucy," he went on in a decisive way. "I am old enough to know my own mind, and when a man resolves to settle down, he generally takes a wife. My means, I believe, are amply sufficient to support one."
               Mr. Garth gasped in anguish. This handsome fortune placed in the hands of a vain, ignorant child like Lucy! This man's comfort dependent upon an indolent and wayward girl, who, if left to herself, would fill her house with servants! He thought of his own unfortunate experiment, and longed to warn him.
               "You will regret it," he said with a shake of the head, "you will regret it!"
               "Like the boy, I want to see the folly of it for myself;" and Mr. Thorndike laughed carelessly.
               "Have you mentioned this subject to Lucy!" asked her father, somewhat sternly.
               He had promised to shield Lucy from her father's anger as far as was possible. To confess every word and look seemed absurd folly.
               "We discussed the subject a few days ago," he said in his firm, almost insolent tone, "and she was afraid that it might lead to some difficulty. I don't see why, Mr. Garth, since you do not object to me as a son-in-law. Possibly you may never meet with a better offer for your daughter."
               He uttered this last proudly. Mr. Garth knew it well. He was not anxious to let Mr. Thorndike slip through his fingers.
               "Thorndike," he said slowly. "I have your interest at heart as well as hers. Lucy is too young and ignorant to become any man's wife. I could not so go against my conscience as to consent without one warning. I am qualified to speak from experience. Rachel is her superior in every respect."
               "But the fact is that I do not want Rachel," was the impatient interruption. "You take me as Lucy's husband, or not at all."
               The latter contingency was not to be entertained for a moment. Mr. Garth felt that he would give him Lucy rather than lose him altogether; but if he could be convinced of the folly of this step.
               "Have you any reason to suppose that Lucy looks upon this matter with favor?" was the sharp question.
               "I think she could be won. Girls are not usually obdurate where lovers are concerned."
               Very few girls would object to this great, strong, manly fellow, with a fortune to back him. Mr. Garth felt convinced of that, and also that his favorite daughter's case was hopeless.
               "This is so sudden, Mr. Thorndike, that I must have time to consider. I wish to learn Lucy's feelings upon the subject."
               "Will you summon her now?"
               This effrontery was astounding! Mr. Garth was not used to being thus bearded in his own castle.
               "I wish to see her alone first."
               "Very well. When may I have an answer? Pardon me if I am impatient, for I fancy that I have put off this important step long enough. Some of my new arrangements depend upon its success."
               That sounded almost like a threat to Mr. Garth. For Thorndike to withdraw his money and interest from the mill now, would be rather unfortunate; but he did not mean to be bullied into consent for all that.
               "I must consider. No one shall say, Thorndike, that I hurried you into an unwise marriage. Think of it seriously yourself."
               "I have thought and decided!" rather moodily.
               Rachel entered at this juncture. She saw that her father was pale and discomposed, and Mr. Thorndike flushed as if in anger. Half an hour ago they had been the best of friends. What could have occurred?
               She drew her low chair near the fire and took up the inevitable sewing. That exasperated Mr. Thorndike in his present mood. Doubtless she would have to improve her wedding-day by some such trifle. Why, she would never be able to devote a moment to her husband!
               The three sat silent enough. Mr. Thorndike glanced out of the window to the Southern sky, where the bright day was clouding over. He felt undeniably cross.
               "Mr. Garth," he began presently, rising as he spoke, "when can I have an answer! Excuse me if I think the case somewhat urgent."
               Rachel glanced up, startled by the sharpness of the tone. Something in the eyes bent fiercely upon her chilled her to the heart.
               "In a day or two," Mr. Garth responded meekly. "It is best not to be too hasty."
               Mr. Thorndike replied by a haughty stare, and in the doorway uttered a brief good-day.
               "Father," Rachel asked in alarm, "what is the matter?"
               "He is in love with Lucy!" groaned Mr. Garth.
               Rachel's face turned ashen pale, and her lips quivered. Her lover! She could not believe it at all.
               "But he asked you—"and then she paused.
               "It was a mistake. I thought he meant—how could he be so blind!"
               "Lucy!"
               She hissed this through her half shut lips that made a thin blue line.
               "I could not have imagined—why, the man is surely wild!"
               "She did it that first night with her flaunting curls! And they have used me for a cloak—false, deceitful wretches!"
               Rachel Garth was passionately angry. The blow had come upon her so suddenly; then, too, she thought of the mortification in store.
               "Lucy!" called Mr. Garth.
               The culprit came slowly. She had a presentiment of impending evil, and feared to face it.
               Mr. Garth seized her roughly by the arm, and for a moment was too much enraged to speak.
               "Miserable girl!" he began at length, "how dared you carry on this wholesale system of deceit in my house? How dared you brave my authority, and deal so treacherously with your sister? Had you no shame that you could thus engage in a clandestine acquaintance with a man who—"
               Mr. Garth could get no farther. His face was of a dull purple, and his lips quivered without sound.
               Lucy looked at him and then at her sister. How much had Mr. Thorndike confessed?
               Rachel was pale and stolid. She felt in some indescribable way that Lucy wronged her at every turn. They beauty that she had always despised stung her now, and she fairly hated the sight of it.
               "Yes, how dared you? Answer me!"
               For a moment Lucy felt inclined to laugh at this bit of high tragedy.
               
               "How could I help his loving me!" she exclaimed with sudden courage. "I'm sure I've not had half your chance—"to Rachel. "It's just been a moment now and then, and if he cared—"
               She looked as if she could brave them both. She was beautiful, and her very power seemed to hold them in awe.
               "How long has this been going on without my knowledge?" Mr. Garth asked in a commanding tone.
               "He was to tell you. I left it all to him."
               She felt afraid to commit herself by any explanations. How much or how little Mr. Thorndike had confessed she could not know.
               Her father meant to wrest the truth from her, but she entrenched herself behind a cold and sullen silence, and listened to his reproaches and questions with an unmoved face, knowing well that this was her only safety. Rachel took no part in the conversation.
               "Go to your room," her father thundered at length. "Go to your room, you ungrateful and rebellious child, and pray for a better frame of mind. Stay there until you have subdued the evil spirit within you, and are ready to pay due respect to your father!"
               Lucy left the room with a swelling heart. It was early in the afternoon, and the sun shone pitilessly bright over the broad sheets of snow. She heard the chime of merry bells; she thought of the delightful home festivals that so many happy hearts were keeping, and she shut out of all—she who could have so enjoyed love, tenderness, and innocent merriment. Why had this mark been put upon her? Why must loneliness and despair be her portion?
               It was very cold, so she wrapped herself in a blanket, and sat by the window watching the travellers until she became chilled, when she crawled into the bed, and sobbed as if her heart was breaking. Was it any wonder that she should think of Mr. Thorndike and a few sentences that he had uttered at their last interview? He had said that he would marry her anyhow, even if he had to run away with her. She felt ready for any desperate step now, if it would but take her to happy liberty. The life with Mr. Thorndike looked so bright and alluring by contrast.
               By-and-by twilight came on, but she still lay there in silence. It was not mere stubbornness, though her father and Rachel thought her strongly endowed with that quality. There was nothing in the past for her to repent of, she believed, for she could not feel sorry that Mr. Thorndike had loved her, or she him. As to the secret meetings and little notes, she would not have descended to them in preference to frankness. Indeed, she thought it would be almost Heaven to live with some one to whom she could confess all her faults and follies and longings without reserve.
               She was not summoned to supper; and after awhile she took off her dress, groping around in the dark, and shedding a few vain tears. I am afraid Mr. Garth would hardly have been satisfied with her prayers, since she asked for happiness and a way to be opened out of this miserable life. But then it was just what she wanted.
               Hetty came up with a little supper, but Lucy had no heart nor appetite for a mouthful, although the kindness touched her. Soon afterward she fell asleep, and there her troubles ended.
               She came down as usual the next morning. Rachel's face was grimly cold, her father's severe in the extreme. He read her another lecture upon the enormity of her sin, but found her still unrepentant, and predicted terrible judgments for her. In bygone days these denunciations used to fill her with extremest terror; now she tried to shut her eyes to them.
               It must be confessed that Mr. Garth rather dreaded the coming interview with his proposed son-in-law. Mr. Thorndike was a prompt man, and a fearless one. It was true that he had comforted Lucy in the midst of her fear and unhappiness, with the promise of an elopement, if it were necessary, but he did not mean that it should be. He wanted Lucy's fortune as well as herself, and he intended to be received into the house of Garth as an honored member. He fancied that the threat of going away would bring Mr. Garth to terms, and in this he was right, though the father was not lacking in the quality which he so bitterly condemned in his daughter—stubbornness.
               He knew very well that morning that it would end by his acceding to Mr. Thorndike's proposals; but he went over with the old arguments and warnings until Mr. Thorndike began to lose his temper. Then he fell back upon the same excuse—time for consideration.
               But shortly after the commencement of the new year Mr. Thorndike carried his point, and the matter was settled with a rather ungracious consent. He was to be admitted to the house as the lover of Lucy Garth, though her father reserved the right to make the engagement as lengthy as in his judgment it was proper to do. He still clung to a belief that when Mr. Thorndike came to study Rachel, he would find her so much her sister's superior that it might be made an excuse for breaking the unwise bond.
               Lucy's heart gave a bound of delight at this announcement. She had not dared to seek an interview with Mr. Thorndike through this trying time, so when he came to tea by special invitation, though she did not know it, and Rachel had not considered it necessary to take out the china, hope rose at once in her mercurial temperament.
               Mr. Thorndike's obtuseness stood him in good stead. A more sensitive man would have found the interview very trying. He had a great deal of rough good nature about him when he was pleased or elated; and in spite of Mr. Garth's lofty severity and Rachel's obstinate silence, he made himself at home. Lucy was extremely shy, and yet wonderfully enchanting. He contrasted her grace and airyness with her sister's prim, cold manner, and felt not in the least disposed to change his allegiance.
               Mr. Garth had many strictures and much advice to give with his concession. Lucy was young, totally ignorant, and quite indifferent to the acquirements of a good housekeeper. She had been an idle and wayward girl, and her father did not consider it his duty to conceal any of her faults. Mr. Thorndike should never feel that he had been deceived in the slightest particular. And so on and on until Lucy's face was scarlet, and her blood at the white heat of indignation.
               She went to the hall door with him—he was her lover, and she had not been vouchsafed the opportunity of exchanging a single private word with him until now.
               He put his strong arms about her neck and kissed the throbbing lips. She seemed so small, so helpless, and most unjustly used.
               "Oh," she whispered, clinging to him as her only friend—"you don't believe all that miserable story. I would work, I would do any thing for the one who loved me. I will try to make you happy! You are so good, so kind, and so much to me. You won't let anybody come between us?"
               Her sweet face was full of tears. This, and the soft, pathetic voice, touched his rough heart.
               "My darling, no. Don't let them worry you. It will all come out straight. I've been to look at the Cunningham house, and if it suits you, we'll go there in the spring."
               "Oh, you are so good!"
               The promised change seemed almost like Heaven to her narrow and material vision.
               A few more tender words and the lovers parted. Lucy came back and sat down by the fireside, while her father held forth in one of his wearisome lectures. She gave small heed, for in the blaze she seemed to see a soft-haired woman queening it at the Cunningham Place.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE GOLDEN SIDE.
               LUCY GARTH'S engagement did not long remain unknown to the gossips of Dedham. If it had depended upon Rachel or Mr. Garth, they could have kept the secret up to the hour of the ceremony. Mr. Thorndike had an idea that publicity would prove his best ally. Why should he be ashamed of it? he argued. Lucy was a handsome girl, and would make an elegant woman when she came to be dressed in style. The Garths were a good old family, and could trace a pure descent back to the revolutionary times; and best of all, there was a fortune in prospect.
               So Warren Thorndike marched proudly into church on Sunday morning and took a seat in the Garth pew, though prosy Mr. Howe bored him intolerably. After they were married, he thought he and Lucy would go to the Shiloah society, for they had a brilliant young minister, whose courage was not even intimidated by driving a fast horse, and whose name was down upon some of the most attractive lecture courses. To be sure, the Shiloah people paid three thousand dollars a year for this luxury, and gave him a six weeks' vacation, which was not high, all things being considered.
               The elderly gossips exchanged sundry nods and winks. It was all settled then. Rachel Garth would not need much time to prepare an outfit, for every one knew of the piles of bed and table linen and store of blankets. Mr. Thorndike would go to house-keeping, of course, and a vacancy would occur in the Garth household, to be filled by somebody. Lucy was passed over as a very unimportant member.
               But when Warren Thorndike drew Lucy Garth's hand through his arm and walked home with her, the busy tongues were half paralyzed. And to see this repeated again before the day was over gave unmistakable force and truth to the matter.
               Miss Kip made her call early on Monday afternoon, for the morning was devoted to washing.
               "I never was so beat in my life," she began. "You don't mean to tell me that he's to marry that child!—and they walking out of church like husband and wife already!"
               Rachel Garth turned her dull, swarthy hue. The mortification had been very severe, and now to have to explain the truth, when she had been congratulating herself, was humiliating. But she could not evade and patch up such an affair gracefully.
               "Yes. Father has consented against his better judgment. Lucy is a mere child; and though I have done my best, I am sure, I have not been able to make any thing out of her."
               "I dare say. If ever any one was marked in soul and body, it is that girl! She is her mother's own child!"
               Miss Kip spoke with some asperity. Rachel had been so used to hearing her step-mother condemned, and she thought justly, that there was no feeling of honor about it.
               "But when did it happen?" asked the eager questioner.
               "He spoke on Christmas day. I must say that it would have looked more manly and honorable not to have used me as a cloak."
               "And you didn't suspect all that time?"
               "How should I? We have never considered Lucy as at all grown or mature. But she is very forward."
               This was uttered in a sharp, spiteful manner.
               
               "The man must be crazy, my dear Rachel. He will live to rue this day's work!"
               Rachel hoped in her heart that he would. It was something deeper than the passing disappointment with her. She was not discriminating or analytical, but she had a clear brain and a good deal of common sense. She seemed to understand Mr. Thorndike from the very first, and know better than himself what manner of wife he needed. Just now he was very much infatuated by Lucy's pretty face, but she could remember a time when her step-mother had grown thin and wan and plain. When that day came, Lucy's reign would be at an end over such a man as Mr. Thorndike.
               That day never came, but in its stead something that Rachel little dreamed of now.
               "It is a foolish piece of work; but he is obstinate, and she of course ready to marry the first man who asks her."
               Rachel spoke with severity, as if she had refused scores of lovers.
               "How can men be so foolish, my dear Rachel!" and Miss Kip sighed over the time when she, too, had been set aside for a pretty face.
               "And with twenty years difference in their ages!" flung out Rachel. "However, I've washed my hands of the matter. I told Lucy so. I've tried my best to do my duty by her, and now she must work out her own salvation."
               "I expected better things of Warren Thorndike! It's enough to make his poor old mother rise in her grave. Ah, she was such a house-keeper, my dear! I've said many a time that you were enough like her to be her own child. It doesn't seem to me as if it could be true. When are they to be married?"
               "I don't know," Rachel said simply.
               "It's my opinion that he will come to his senses some time, and so I should be in favour of a long engagement. It would be dreadful for them both to be dissatisfied afterward, and it doesn't seem to me that Lucy can appreciate a man like Mr. Thorndike.
               "That is just it," returned Rachel warmly. "All she will care for will be dress and company, but he's been warned. It's his own fault."
               And so they groaned and predicted a dismal future for the girl who was combing out her shining hair singing a bit of a forbidden love song in the room above. Perhaps both women secretly hoped that Mr. Thorndike's safety would be brought about by some interposition of fate powerful enough to separate him from Lucy Garth.
               I cannot say that Rachel had been disappointed in her love, for the feeling had gone no deeper than a strong satisfaction with her; then she was not the kind of a woman to love entirely. Yet her practical good sense led her to see that Lucy and Warren Thorndike were not suited to each other. Could he understand Lucy's vague and dreamy moods, her romantic tendencies, her strange sympathy for things and subjects that would interest no other person? And when Lucy neglected his house, left the meals to servants, fell into untidy habits, as she surely would when this constant supervision was removed, then would come his time of trial; and Rachel absolutely pitied this man of her vision, like a mother yearning over a son.
               The courtship was not a very satisfactory proceeding. Lucy proposed to kindle a fire in the best room, but this Rachel forbade except on Sundays. So the poor child had recourse to stolen walks again, and brief, whispered sentences, when no sharp ears were listening. Mr. Garth discussed business with Mr. Thorndike until Lucy felt as if she could fly to the ends of the earth.
               He came one day in a small wagon that he used for all ordinary purposes, and announced that he wished to take Lucy to visit the Cunningham place, as he was negotiating for it.
               Lucy dropped her sewing in radiant surprise.
               
               "Of course she would go!"
               Rachel gave a sharp glance at the wagon and then at her sister. It was evident there was no room for a third, and yet she was not quite settled upon the point of propriety. And while she was debating, Lucy had vanished.
               "You don't mean to buy the place for—"and Rachel paused, not able to put the enormity into words.
               "For myself and Lucy? Yes, if she likes it!"
               Rachel gave a gasp of surprise. He took a rather malicious enjoyment in it.
               "For you two! It is an extravagant beginning. What does Lucy know about the management of such a place?"
               "She can learn."
               Rachel sniffed in disdainful silence. Then Lucy returned flushed and happy, in spite of the dull, Bay state shawl and faded brown veil.
               He wrapped her snugly in the blanket, and drew the wolf-robe over her lap, asking her if she were comfortable. It was so delightful to have him glance at her with that sweet anxiety, and for the first time she felt as if her lover was really her own.
               "It's good to have you here alone," he exclaimed, falling into her train of thought, at which both laughed, and she shyly confessed her satisfaction.
               "I saw Cunningham yesterday. The family have all gone to town, and he's anxious to get the place off his hands. It's proved rather a heavy speculation for him. He wants to sell part of the furniture."
               "Do you really think of buying it for—"and Lucy blushed with his ardent eyes upon her.
               "For the man in the moon!" and Thorndike laughed.
               "I don't deserve so much good fortune," Lucy said with a sudden touch of humility.
               "Oh, you don't! Well, shall we turn back?"
               "No, no," and her face was more radiant than before.
               "I shall be quite lost in such a grand place," she went on slowly, with a lingering tenderness in her voice that was sweet to hear.
               "I mean you to be as great a lady as the best of them, my darling," he said with a sort of rough pride.
               She, who had never been cared for or held in any esteem since the death of her poor, fond mother, thought this promise a draught of golden wine indeed, and seemed touched in every pulse by the subtle flavor. So they talked, and laughed, and loved, or thought they did, which is the same while it lasts the world over. Then they stopped at the wide gates.
               There was a spacious lawn with a drive around, while the house stood on a ridge of rising ground. In summer it was beautiful, with the embowering shrubbery; and even now the clusters of evergreens kept it from looking dreary. An odd place as to architecture, with a great variety of windows, angles, verandas, and set off with a tower at one corner, whose elevation was high above the gables of the roof.
               The man left in charge answered the summons, and ushered them into the spacious hall, which was covered with thick, soft carpet. A handsome drawing-room and library on one side, that could be shut off by ground-glass doors, on the other a sitting-room, furnished much more elegantly than the parlors Lucy was in the habit of seeing; a large dining-room, with its oaken and walnut floor, and appointments to correspond, and back of all two kitchens.
               The chambers up above were quite in keeping. Lucy could only exclaim in a delighted and astonished manner. Her ignorance and pleasure were alike charming, and her piquant gratitude the most fascinating of all. And then she appeared so perfectly at home amid this luxury in spite of her shabby dress.
               "Then you like it?"
               "Oh, like does not seem any word for it! I am afraid that I am dreaming. Why it would be living in Paradise!"
               
               "But suppose I didn't like it?" he asked with quick jealously, for the narrow soul could hardly bear to share her regard with any thing beyond his own person.
               He had thrown himself into a cushioned arm-chair, and looked very handsome and lordly she thought, and somehow she felt extremely proud of him and tender towards him. She knelt beside him, laying her soft cheek on his knee.
               "But you do like it," she said in her winsome voice; "and if you did not, I should still have you. It seems to me that any place would be delightful if you were only there and cared for me as you do now."
               He took her in his arms and kissed her times without number. Ah, if they could have lived there unknowing and unknown! If they could have believed always that this passion they held for one another was love in its height and fulness!
               They rambled around gayly, she appealing to him now and then in an ignorance so sweet that it was an exquisite pleasure to be her instructor. And yet he felt in some vague way that she made daring flights above him, and had glimpses of a higher world, and that there was something in her aspiring and passionate nature that he could not comprehend. But he could dress her handsomely and make her mistress of this stylish mansion.
               He could not guess all that her fatal beauty was to cost him; and if she had seen, she would have shrunk back in dismay and borne the old, hard life awhile longer.
               At last they were ready to go. The visit had been a rare holiday to her, and she could hardly realize that at no distant day its beauty and luxury might be hers. She clung more closely to her lover, feeling that all this happiness must come through him alone. He was very tender of her, and the devotion touched her to the very soul.
               Mr. Thorndike and Mr. Cunningham haggled for awhile about their bargain, while Mr. Garth used his best efforts to dissuade his son-in-law from so wild a step. Buying a house to sell again at an advance of eight or ten thousand dollars was one thing, but to live under all this expense was preposterous!
               Each day Lucy's home grew more intolerable to her. She had no anxiety whatever to delay the wedding-day, indeed when she looked forward sometimes to the prospect of a long engagement, her heart sank within her.
               It was not to be, however. Mr. Thorndike bought the house, and his energetic manner soon brought matters around to his views. They would be married in May.
               Rachel Garth declared the thing impossible. Lucy should have a year's instruction at least in house-keeping; her wedding outfit was to be made, her household linen prepared; and so it was folly to talk of May.
               "Let her learn house-keeping by experience," laughed Mr. Thorndike. "As for a wedding outfit and all that, it can be bought in New York without half the bother. I have some cousins there who would be delighted to take it in hand"
               Rachel retired from the field in high disdain. Not a word of advice and counsel would she give Lucy—not that the girl asked or desired any. She rather liked the new system that her sister inaugurated, and appeared quite capable of looking after herself.
               So the gossips at Dedham had enough to occupy their minds and tongues. The wildest stories were credited; and Lucy walked about with a haughty air as if she were already queen.
               She went to New York for her bridal attire. Mr. Thorndike's cousin, a pretty and fashionable married woman of thirty, came for her and marvelled not a little at the Garths' frugal virtues. Lucy received a very moderate portion from her father, though it appeared large to her inexperienced eyes; but Mr. Thorndike charged Mrs. Wilder to do all that was befitting, regardless of expense.
               It was a new and peculiar experience for Lucy. She took it in a most superb manner. She had been born with a rare eye for beauty of the most perfect type, and one would hardly have supposed from her selections that it was her first experience in the world of fashion.
               Of course Mr. Garth paid the bills. If he could have dressed his child in sackcloth and ashes, and shut her in a convent, I am not sure but that it would have been a great gratification to him. But all of Dedham thought Lucy a lucky girl, and congratulated him, so he bore it in grim silence. Rachel was comforted by her dear friends, though I cannot say that she envied Lucy any of her splendor; but she groaned in secret over the extravagance.
               So Lucy Garth was married one bright May morning in the dull parlor where she had first flashed the syren light of her beauty upon Mr. Thorndike. As she said her vows over, she meant to keep them every one—"Love, Honor, and Obey." It looked so easy. She was leaving all the misery and coldness behind and going to light, warmth, and tenderness.
               As for Warren Thorndike, he was still deeply infatuated. The opposition that he had met with had been just keen enough to lure him on, the obstacles of a kind that he liked to demolish. He had carried every point, and they were still good friends; indeed, Mr. Garth was secretly proud of him.
               And yet it was a cold, sad bridal. No tender and loving friends to wish the young wife joy and happiness for the years to come, no sweet and gracious prayers, no warm smiles nor fond tears.
               "Suppose there should always be a shadow on my life?" Lucy Thorndike thought, with a frightened gasp, and her soft cheek paled involuntarily.
               Mr. Howe was giving Lucy some prosy but kindly-meant advice in the parlor, when Warren Thorndike found himself quite alone with Rachel in the ordinary living room. Something of the man's disposition to triumph flashed over him, and turning his keen eyes full upon her, he said—
               "You have not congratulated me yet?"
               Rachel knew that he was studying her from head to foot, and comparing her with his bride. She was neither young nor pretty, and possessed no winsome, deceitful graces, but she was, or honestly believed herself, an upright, truthful, conscientious woman, superior to her sister in all useful and necessary qualities.
               "Why should I congratulate?" she asked, coldly.
               "Because it's the fashion," and he laughed a little. "Because I am going to be happy, also. You surely do not grudge me your sister?"
               She was not complimented by this. Her leaden eyes were still steady and cold, and her voice passive as she answered—
               "No, I do not grudge you Lucy."
               "Nor our happiness?"
               She made a sort of bitter, disdainful gesture.
               "I do not think you are going to be happy, Mr. Thorndike, if you will have the truth."
               "Not happy? Why?" he asked, in amaze.
               "I need not tell you."
               "Yes, you must. It is unfair to make such a prediction without some theory to base it upon. Come, why not?"
               "I never soften the truth, Mr. Thorndike. You have chosen a woman with a pretty face, but who is frivolous, indolent, ill-tempered when controlled or annoyed, who thinks of nothing but pleasure and personal adornment, and to whom the slightest duties were ever irksome. I am sorry for this. You deserve a better wife—and Heaven knows that I have labored to make my sister a more worthy woman. She has been indifferent to all the pains taken for her welfare. An undutiful and disrespectful daughter will not make a good wife. But you have chosen—and you must bear it."
               "Yes—I will;" he returned angrily, with a flash of fire in his eyes. Then he looked at her with an amused pity. She was narrow and jealous; and yet he rather liked her for having loved him, as he thought; but Rachel Garth would have said the same about her sister under any circumstances. Her love for him had very little to do with it.
               "We shall see;" she went on in the same cold, calm, exasperating tone. "I am sure I wish her no ill. I hope God will change her vain and trifling mind, and give her grace to do her duty."
               "Warren!" called the loveliest and sweetest voice in the world; "the carriage has come—and here are your gloves. I believe wives always have to be gathering up the little traps their husbands leave around—so you see I have begun;" with an arch, bright smile at Mrs. Howe.
               She looked exquisitely sweet and dainty in her soft, silvery wedding dress, "that never cost less than five dollars a yard," Miss Kip declared. Her straw hat of a shade darker, had a band of velvet and a cluster of bronzed ivy leaves, while just underneath the brim was a cord of azure blue, that gave a seductive softness to the young face.
               Warren Thorndike thought the vision perfection, as he took his mislaid gloves. Then he handed her into the carriage as if she had been the greatest lady in the land—as she was, to him.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               SUMMER.
               IT was the middle of June when Lucy Thorndike stepped out of the carriage in front of her own elegant mansion, where roses, honeysuckles, and blossoms of all kinds in the wildest profusion were showering their beauty and fragrance on every hand.
               The month had been a gala time to her. She looked back with a touch of contemptuous pity at the Lucy Garth who had gone shabbily dressed through her coarse, common paths of life. How much the ignorant child had learned in those brief weeks! How much enjoyment had been crowded into every day! Some of the rare wonders of the world had been unfolded to her gaze, the beautiful and the sublime.
               When Tennyson said, in his grave, inspiring fashion, which must touch many a human soul— 
                     
                        "For I, myself, with these have grown,
                        To something greater than before,"
                     
                   he uttered the profound experience of others as well. There had not been a moment, either sleeping or waking, but what Lucy Thorndike's soul had grown. You could see it in her face, and you could also see what would have pained a clear-eyed, thoughtful person, that the lofty and spiritual part of life would be on her side, the material upon her husband's.
               He had grown stouter and handsomer, I was about to say, but it was mere physical ruddiness and health, with the added ease and enjoyment. He had a full, square lower jaw, which gave him an expression of extreme satisfaction, but told also that self predominated. He had given Lucy much pleasure this month, but he had not gone one step out of his way for any of it. That was never in the man, and human nature, I believe, has but few century blossoms.
               There was, with all the loveliness in her face, and it seemed to have improved tenfold, a look of awe and wonder, as if she was groping about after something that was not quite clear to her own mind. A kind of newness, subtle and intangible, pervading the atmosphere she breathed.
               Now and then some human soul at this period of inception comes in contact with the teacher or the influence that moulds it aright, and goes on to a maturity as perfect as any this side of heaven. But for the one so circumstanced, hundreds blindly grope along, betrayed by false guides, stabbed to the heart by treacherous friends, or left by the wayside bruised and maimed, and sore beset by foes. Is it any wonder that so many are lost, that so many souls go down to perdition when no ear listened to their cry save the God of whom they know so little?
               Lucy Thorndike was full of questioning surprise. The world was so much wider and greater than she had imagined, and human souls were capable of so much more than she could have dreamed in her wildest moments. She looked back at the old narrow life in sickening disgust, and daily gave thanks that she had escaped it.
               Of course her husband should have been her guide and instructor. You know how thoughtlessly she married him, and what she was herself the night she came down in her flood of golden hair and took him captive. I don't know who was answerable for her ignorance—it is one of those far-reaching, subtle questions that can never be decided on this side of eternity. Souls and bodies are continually going astray, you know, and we ask, was it this man's fault or his parents?
               She took her husband for guide and instructor, for priest and king. There is a little of the old leaven of heathendom in most women's hearts, and they are prone to make unto themselves gods. She could hardly imagine any one more generous or tender; but he would have been a brute if he had failed in this during the first month—the honeymoon.
               And yet some things had pained her. He had laughed over two or three pretty sharp business transactions, and when she had flared up with her girlish ideas of honesty, he had shown a touch of displeasure. He had not scrupled at an invention of the moment to serve some purpose, which seemed to her an absolute falsehood. So she had found a flaw in her hero. Perhaps the same things were in the old life—indeed, when she cam to think of it, had she been quite fair and open?
               Perhaps the humiliation did her good. It enabled her to take a more just view and to be merciful. And yet, the guide, the instructor was gone. The sweet blossoms were already shadowed.
               She did what most women do, I suppose, adapted herself to the circumstances. There was so much left, you know. Brightness, beauty, wealth and love. She resolved to make her own soul pure and true, and keep it so, to make her home lovely and attractive, and her husband's life happy.
               She paused a moment on the threshold and glanced around.
               "How very beautiful it all is!" she exclaimed with childish eagerness and enthusiasm. "I wonder if the Cunninghams were not sorry to leave it?"
               Mr. Thorndike laughed. It was a kind of answer that he had for a great many things, and expressed his mood very thoroughly.
               She did not quite like the habit. In her pretty, coaxing way, she had dissuaded him from his usual expletive of "by Jove," and now she wished that the laugh was less coarse, or that he would not use it so frequently.
               "But he is too good to be found fault with continually," she said to herself, with her own bright smile.
               "Does it look just as it did last summer?" he asked presently.
               "I don't remember—"a little puzzled at the question. "I used to steal down here once in a while to comfort myself in the garden. I thought it very lovely then."
               "They've been working upon it the whole month, outside and in. It ought to be improved. I dare say the bills will be large enough!"
               She wondered if he grudged any of the money! He had been very lavish on their journey, at least in some respects. No dainties were too costly for his taste or appetite, and he had bought her a set of diamonds, with many other luxurious articles. But one day he had refused to give even a few pennies to a woman with a sick baby.
               "They're a set of impostors," he had said roughly. "Come away."
               The poor pitiful face haunted her for hours afterward.
               "Father thought it was extravagant, you know," referring to the house. "I wonder how they are—father and Rachel? It seems as if I was some one else."
               "But you like it?" ignoring the last part of her remark.
               "Oh, so much! I wonder sometimes how all these delightful things came to happen to me. If you had not loved me, first of all—"
               That was what he wanted—praise and admiration. When Rachel Garth had enumerated her sister's vanity among her other faults to this man, she did not realize that his was enormous in comparison.
               Lucy had begun by being very demonstrative, but her fine tact and fast-growing delicacy soon intervened. Even this brief contact with the world imparted an air of high breeding.
               The changes were not very numerous. The Cunninghams had been glad to dispose of their furniture, with no better home than a boarding-house in view. Lucy was pleased on several accounts. It relieved her from a world of perplexity, and since Mrs. Wilder had declared it in charming taste, she was satisfied.
               That lady was staying in the house now to receive them. She swept down the broad stairs in her flowing robes and greeted her cousins warmly.
               It must be confessed that she stared a little at Mrs. Thorndike's newly-acquired style, which fitted her with the grace of a long-used garment.
               "A pretty enough girl," she said to her friends, while descanting upon the bride, "but without a particle of taste or style."
               A radiantly beautiful woman, she was forced to admit now, with the air of a princess.
               Tired as the poor princess was, she ran around to explore every nook and cranny—the vases, the pictures, the brackets with their rare article of virtu, hardly an atom of beauty escaped her eager eyes.
               "Does it suit your ladyship?" inquired Mrs. Wilder with a pretty, but rather set smile.
               "It is very beautiful, only there are not half enough flowers in-doors. Don't you love them?"
               "Oh, yes. I'll send for some more. I have brought you a treasure for an upper servant, Warren, a girl that has lived with a friend of mine for several years. I know Mrs. Thorndike will like Maggie."
               Maggie was graciously introduced to her new mistress, and the order for more flowers given.
               Lucy bestowed upon her an odd, indrawn smile.
               "And what about a cook, Warren?"
               "I left these things to you, Kate. Lucy will not want to be troubled with such matters right away. Give us a fair start," and Warren Thorndike lounged back in his easy-chair.
               
               "I know of a magnificent cook, but she objects to doing any thing else."
               "In what way?"
               "Housework, to be sure. If you want to keep up a great deal of stylish company, she would be just the one."
               "With another servant to wait upon her?"
               "Yes."
               "We're not going to be quite as grand as that."
               "Oh, Warren, two servants will surely be enough," exclaimed Lucy imploringly, frightened at her own grandeur.
               "I think so."
               "There is one here now that you may like pretty well, a native I believe. The minister's wife sent her over."
               "Mrs. Howe?" asked Lucy.
               "No, Mrs. Glenfield."
               Mrs. Thorndike smiled dreamily again. Six weeks ago Mrs. Glenfield would have stared at her. How odd it all was!
               "Mrs. Glenfield called one morning, and I found her quite invaluable. You don't go there to church, Warren?"
               "No, but I think I shall. Glenfield's a capital fellow! And, Kate, oughtn't we to have some kind of a fandango?"
               "Reception," corrected Mrs. Wilder, with elegant ease.
               "Yes. Can't you stay and see it through?"
               "If you—if Mrs. Thorndike desires it."
               "Oh, Lucy will be glad to have you set her straight in these matters," and he laughed.
               Lucy sat as one in a dream. Was it her own house and her own future that they were so coolly discussing?
               She was glad to get away at last to the quiet of her own room. The soft carpet, with its bright clusters of flowers, the falling curtains, the elegantly carven furniture and wide mirrors were like a fairy tale. Hers, all of it. She, who used to be Lucy Garth in faded stuff dresses, and hair tucked out of sight! Its beauty clung around her shoulders now like a royal mantle.
               She dressed herself for dinner in white—a soft India muslin with a trail sweeping over the carpet, and her husband's rubies lending their glitter of an autumn sunset. It was quite delightful to be waited upon in this fashion.
               The next day Mr. and Mrs. Glenfield called. "They were really within his boundary," the clergyman explained, "and he should be glad to welcome them among his flock if Mrs. Thorndike desired to make any change."
               "I think we shall. Howe's a good old soul, but prosy; and that tumble-down fabric is about as uncomfortable a place as I ever was in. I suppose it was all very well in my father's time, but these old fogies can't understand that the world changes."
               "Exactly," returned Mr. Glenfield, with his most gracious smile. "This is a world of improvement and progress; and religion, to be of service, must keep pace. We don't want these old effete systems, but something broader and more attractive."
               Lucy was listening to Mrs. Glenfield's pretty talk of flowers and the grand harmonies of nature, with liberal quotations from Ruskin, and pity for "those unfortunate but rather imprudent Cunninghams," and a great many kind wishes for herself. She was a very pleasing woman, this Mrs. Glenfield.
               Now and then a sentence from the clergyman floated over to her. Already she had come to have a strange, sensitive feeling regarding her husband; but Mr. Glenfield was bland and courteous, and seemed to enter into the acquaintance with hearty good fellowship.
               Lucy contrasted this with the religious influences of her past. That was narrow, rigid, and cold, repressing all the tender feelings, and too often degenerating into ill-natured gossip; but was this any more ennobling? Did it supply the needs of the longing, hungry soul?
               Afterward Mr. Thorndike took his wife home to her father's. He had met Mr. Garth at the Mill in the morning. Rachel was alone, cold and precise as ever. She had firmly resolved to set her face against the rumored doings of her sister. The grand house should have no enticements for her. Indeed, it had not. She would have felt lost and miserable amid the fashionable people with whom her sister had cast in her lot.
               Mrs. Wilder knew how to make that life very tempting to Lucy. To tell the truth, she half envied her cousin's wife, though she had never admired him very extravagantly. She could see that he was deeply infatuated, and would make a very indulgent husband if properly managed. Then she smiled rather contemptuously at the idea of this foolish Lucy managing any one.
               "But she has so much in her hands," she thought, with a touch of envy. "And yet in five years' time he will make a perfect slave of her, I'll warrant. She loves him too much!"
               The reception proved a grand affair. Mrs. Wilder was in her element here. The guests had been chosen with some discrimination. Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike had made their first appearance at the Shiloah Church on Sunday morning. The bride, in her elegant mauve silk, with gloves and parasol to match, was considered the perfection of taste, and she certainly did look very lovely.
               So no one thought of declining an invitation. The Garths and the Thorndikes both belonged to the oldest families in Dedham—if that was any warrant for gentle blood.
               Warren Thorndike felt immensely proud of his position and his success. He liked to be the great man anywhere. When he found these people ready to do him honor, he accepted the homage as so much due his worth. Where his father had made hundreds, he had made thousands.
               And yet Lucy Thorndike had a vague consciousness that she stood almost alone in her new life. She would have no assistance in climbing any grand height. But was there not enough here to satisfy!
               Her love for luxury developed rapidly—her tastes, that had hitherto been repressed in every direction, began to expand, and blossomed fairer than the world would have supposed. The past was like a distasteful dream to her, and she resolved to make the future, that seemed to lie so entirely in her own hands, brilliant and satisfying. She, too, had her ambitions, though she understood many of her own wants and defects.
               Warren Thorndike was quite content to see her elegantly dressed and the centre of admiration. She possessed a wonderful degree of tact and adaptation, and copied the small ways of society with the utmost ease; and when she had once fairly plunged into the round of gayety, she found it very engrossing.
               Ah, why must there always be some fatal knowledge lurking in the background to tempt human souls? Why could she not pause and be satisfied? Some far-reaching chord in her soul had been touched, and sometimes a word or a look, that she alone of all, caught in her dim way and pondered, roused her strangely and made her pulses unquiet for hours afterward.
               Mr. Garth proved less obstinate than Rachel. Condemn though he might, he was secretly proud of his daughter's position, and the manner in which she graced it. He came to the grand house for a quiet supper now and then—for business was prospering with them, and that softened his feelings somewhat. Mr. Thorndike had infused new spirit and energy into the Mill, and though Mr. Garth had frowned at some improvements in the beginning, he found their working decidedly beneficial.
               But Rachel sat rigid on her throne. Her brother-in-law's good-natured but rather clumsy overtures could not mover her, and to Lucy's pleadings she turned a deaf ear.
               "Take your own way," she would exclaim. "It is not my place to advise Warren Thorndike's wife:" and a sniff of humility always followed such a remark. With that she would look at her sister's silks and laces with severely condemnatory eyes.
               "But there are only two of us, and we might be friends," Lucy would plead.
               "I did not know that we were enemies. I am sure that I did my best for you while you were under my care"—with a most exasperating resignation.
               "If you would only let me do something for you now?"
               "What do I need? I am content with my own life, I am most thankful to say."
               And then Lucy would glance around on the cold, bare walls and dull carpet. Not a ray of brightness, not a flower—not even a warm and friendly smile. At such moments she would only be too glad that she had escaped it all, and fly back to her own charming home with a child's eager delight.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               AMONG SHADOWS.
               IT was September, and Lucy Thorndike had been married nearly two years and a half. She lacked but a few weeks of being twenty. A little less than three years before she had shocked her father's sense of propriety by appearing in a cloud of golden ringlets. She had changed somewhat since then, and Dedham had changed also. A new railroad had given it a wonderful impetus, not only connecting it with other cities of importance, but opening up a large iron and coal district, and also a new route for extensive grain operations. Mr. Thorndike was early in the field of speculation. He had seen enough of the world to understand these advantages, he thought, and to turn them into money, his one idea.
               Then a company came to build a large iron foundry and rolling mill. This brought an influx of population; new streets were laid out and cottages went up as if by magic. The conservative element seemed to fall farther into the background; and though the Dorcas Society were true to their colors and old Mr. Howe, they felt that they were no longer a moving or even a stationary power in Dedham. There had been a time when a frown from Miss Kip and two or three of the severely virtuous would have been sufficient to extinguish the volatile spirits of a young woman, but now they bemoaned in vain. The young people went to social gatherings outside of their own immediate circle, and in some instances had been actually known to dance!
               
               Indeed, Dedham seemed just waking up and bestirring itself. Indirectly Warren Thorndike and his wife had much to do with this movement. She of course carried weight from the old sphere to the new. Some of the ladies found her very charming, and hesitated a little in endorsing either Miss Kip's or her sister's verdict. Perhaps, too, these were a trifle less severe.
               Looking at Mrs. Thorndike you would hardly admit that she had altered perceptibly. She was not a day older in appearance, and then her manner of dressing was so much more advantageous. Her house was admitted to be perfection. She had improved somewhat upon the Cunningham idea of beauty. And yet there were hours when she scarcely knew herself—when she stood in perfect amaze at the remembrance of Lucy Garth as she had been only a brief while before.
               Her marriage had taken her into an entirely new sphere at the most important epoch of her life. The powers of her mind were roused; imagination, taste, love of beauty, and an exultant sense of liberty, had crowded out the severe and distasteful lessons of the past. She plunged eagerly into every enjoyment, though at first her ideas were quite simple. But prodigality grows upon one.
               Her first keen mortification was at her own ignorance. She knew nothing of music, of poetry, of intellectual pursuits. Much as she loved dress and outward adorning, she saw that some cultivation was necessary if she was to stand on a level with those whom she most admired. Mr. and Mrs. Glenfield had made much of her, it is true, and under their auspices she had been introduced to the best society at Dedham. But she learned thus early that there was a power besides wealth, and this she began to long for, and debate how she might best acquire it.
               So she attacked music indefatigably. She had a quick ear and a fine voice, but her impatience bid fair to make sad work of it at first. And when her ideals tormented her beyond endurance, she turned to literature.
               In this she ran riot, as is the case with most untrained minds. She fairly revelled in romance of a much higher type than the stories she used to smuggle into her bedroom at home, and imagination held a daily feast. It might not have been healthy food, but it was delightful, nevertheless, and there was no guiding hand to restrain.
               She made many attempts at first to charm her husband by beguiling influences. She was ready to love him very much at this period of her life, feeling in the depths of her grateful heart that she owed every thing to him. She longed to include him in her ambitions, but his were of a widely different type. When she read to him, he fell asleep in his luxurious easy-chair; and though he admired her singing, no tender depth of his heart was touched. She would turn her lovely eyes to him, needing but a sympathetic glance to make them swim in lustrous tears; but the sentiment that had so stirred her soul had no subtle meaning for his. And at such moments an awful sense of loneliness would rush over her, a pain and despair that she could not understand, but only suffer from.
               By degrees her world of fancy narrowed. She would not have excluded him from choice, but her fine sense of propriety and harmony led her to see that he was not fitted for it. Perhaps men and women were different. He never wearied in discussing the new road, the rise in property, the investments that were likely to pay the best and all that, which tired her exceedingly. Sometimes three of four gentlemen dropped in of an evening, and the talk was all on business, until it seemed to her that half the world must be crazy about money. She said so to her husband at length. He laughed in his coarse, good-natured fashion, which seemed to rasp some sensitive nerve.
               "It is the great thing," he said. "Where would your fine house and your silks and diamonds come from if there wasn't any money? If men stayed in the house and read and sang love songs, where would all your great enterprises end?"
               She glanced intently into her husband's face. It was stolid, and yet with a certain shrewdness, not tender or sympathetic, and with no fine lines. Where had she learned to be so critical? Was it not sufficient to have him kind, and both proud and fond of her?
               This September day she was sauntering round the lawn in a most restless and dissatisfied mood. She had spent two weeks at Newport with Mrs. Wilder, and two weeks at Saratoga with her husband. She had received much admiration; indeed, it had been a continual round of pleasure, and hers was a nature to be warmly excited by it. The people with whom she had been brought in contact were of a different type even from those she had known at Dedham. So, coming from pleasure, homage, delicate compliments and the beguiling delights of music, dancing and lovely, dressing, Dedham seemed stupid.
               True, she could drive around in her pony carriage; she could fill her house with lovely flowers, alter the arrangement of pictures or furniture, have the dressmaker in to freshen up her attire, receive calls and pay them in return. She had been doing this for just three weeks; and looking at the future this afternoon, seeing the thirty or forty years stretch out before her, life appeared absolutely insupportable.
               And yet there was Rachel happy and contented, with no society or dressing or beauty of any sort. It would kill her to be there.
               "I must do something," she said to herself, stopping short in her walk. "Why isn't there some one to teach me? Mrs. Glenfield—"
               Beside her parish duties Mrs. Glenfield had two babies. And then she was not the teacher Lucy Thorndike needed. A kind of fashionable minister's wife with some sweet and admirable qualities, but little depth or strength.
               "It's just as if I were hungry all the time," she went on, pulling some late roses to pieces and scattering the velvety leaves on the gravelled walk.
               Her revery was interrupted by the click of the gate latch, and she went forward mechanically to meet her husband. Last summer this had been a joy—now she did it from habit.
               So she never raised her eyes until some occult action of the mind told her there were more than two steps, and the other was that of a stranger.
               She came to a sudden pause.
               "In a dream again, hey, Lucy?" exclaimed her husband with his cheerful jocularity, "My wife, Rutherford—my friend, Mr. Rutherford, Lucy."
               Paul Rutherford had been glancing at her since the gate opened. She looked so like a child, or rather hardly grown girl, that he was a little surprised at the introduction, but responded in a courteous manner.
               Mrs. Thorndike gave him a startled look, and then colored deeply.
               "See what it is to have a devoted wife, Rutherford!" and Mr. Thorndike laughed as he drew Lucy's hand through his arm.
               She glanced up again with a positive blush. Mr. Thorndike had a way of perpetrating small and often execrable jokes, though for a moment Lucy could not tell whether it was her mood that made it sound so disagreeable, or whether she rebelled against the offence as a matter of taste.
               Mr. Rutherford smiled gravely.
               "What a charming lawn," he rejoined with graceful tact. "Your selection of trees is admirable."
               "It's what I call a handsome place," said its owner with pride. "I bought it two years and a half ago for less than two-thirds of its real value—a lucky speculation."
               Lucy was in a critical mood. Her husband's voice sounded harsh contrasted with the finely modulated one of his friend.
               
               "Fortunes seem to be lost and won easily nowadays," said Mr. Rutherford. "If I had ever owned a home like this I should have been more than sorry to relinquish it."
               Mr. Thorndike began to enlarge upon the circumstances which had led to his buying the place, and they lingered awhile on the porch for him to finish. Lucy stood a trifle behind the guest, and had an excellent side view of him. It seemed to her that she already liked him.
               Both face and figure were peculiar. There was a physical and intellectual force that impressed you immediately, although it was hard to describe. You felt at once that he was strong, a man not lightly to be set aside or easily thwarted, cool, wary and patient. Two inches perhaps taller than Mr. Thorndike, and yet he looked more than that. A compact and well-proportioned figure, with a broad, full chest, and rather sloping shoulders, his head set well back, and it might have been this that gave him the appearance of more than ordinary height. There was not a weak line or a weak movement, and yet a kind of sad, self-centred power, as if something long ago past kept him from glorying in his strength.
               The face was of the same order. Not one to be called handsome at the first glance, although the brow was full and broad, the hair a rich chestnut, and fine and soft in texture, the nose straight, with flexible nostrils, the mouth good, and the abundant beard a shade or two deeper than the hair. It was the eyes that gave the face its power and peculiarity. They were a bright, yet deep hazel—eyes that could flash devouring flame or soften to the tenderest depths of pity. The fire of life was burning steadily and strongly in his soul, restrained by a master hand from any outburst that might scatter devastation in its track. He had learned the secret of life, the art of keeping calm through stress of storms and trouble that might have hurried another on to destruction. The habit of restraint, growing year by year, had touched some underlying chord of the inner life, and made him outwardly tranquil quil, while his temperament was ardent and excitable in the highest degree. Some men arm themselves for destiny long before, and when the fatal hour comes they are prepared.
               Lucy Thorndike did not understand all this now, nor for long years afterward, yet she felt that the man before her had been cast in an exceptional mould. The face interested her strongly, the voice piqued her curiosity and lured her on to the verge of discovery.
               Mr. Thorndike ushered his guest within doors, but made an abrupt pause in the hall.
               "Lucy," he exclaimed, "I suppose the chambers are in order? I brought Rutherford over for there was absolutely no accommodation at the hotel. What Dedham wants is a first class hotel—something better than the small affairs in which it abounds at present."
               "Yes."
               She uttered the word rather slowly; but if there was any suggestion in her mind, she left it unspoken. Now and then Mr. Thorndike exercised his right of hospitality in this style, a free and easy way contracted at the West. If the persons thus invited were not to Mrs. Thorndike's liking, as it frequently happened, she saw as little of them, as possible.
               So Mr. Rutherford was marshalled up the wide staircase to a spacious and airy chamber, where all was in complete order.
               "Make yourself at home," exclaimed his host. "You needn't wait up here until the dinner-bell rings, for it's quite early. I have some papers to look over and send back with the boy who brings your valise, but you'll find Mrs. Thorndike in the library or parlor."
               Paul Rutherford turned the water into the marble basin, bathed his face and hands, and ran his wet fingers through his hair. All this time, for he did it very slowly, a sort of brooding quietude being natural to him, he was thinking of Lucy Thorndike. Lucy seemed a soft, characterless kind of name, not at all applicable to the being who bore it. The vision rose before him, a slender, graceful woman in flowing white robes, shining golden hair escaping from its net in two or three long curls, her radiant complexion and deep eyes. Very lovely indeed in spite of the expression of ennui that he had been so quick to detect. Then the incongruity of her marriage flashed over him.
               "What could have brought it about," he mused. "Her father was rich, it seems, and she so young—why she is only a child now!"
               He did not admire Warren Thorndike. Circumstances had compelled him to accept the man's hospitality, and much of his business in Dedham was connected with him, so there seemed nothing out of order in the proceeding. He had expected to find a florid, over-dressed woman verging on towards middle life, a counterpart of commonplace wealth without its refinements; and though she had only spoken twice, her air and manner, the expression of her face and her soft, rich voice, settled her claim.
               He was a very fastidious man about his womenkind, this Paul Rutherford, although he had much chivalry for the sex. But the one who commended herself to his attention must possess some peculiar grace or characteristic. Loud-voiced, dominant women, purse-proud vulgar ones, or the shallow dolls of society were alike distasteful. Indeed, he rarely met one to whom he gave more than a passing thought.
               "I suppose the match was of her father's making;" he continued. "Sold for a little money perhaps, poor child! There is a tired yearning look in her eyes as if she had found nothing to satisfy her."
               He brushed his hair carefully, pulled his cravat straight and walked to the window. A very inviting room and a very inviting prospect. He felt strangely at home, it must be confessed.
               Mrs. Thorndike had been to the kitchen to announce the guest and give some orders. In spite of Rachel's dismal foreboding, her house was very nicely conducted. She was fortunate in having efficient servants, but she was by no means an ignorant mistress, neither was she unreasonable.
               She walked back to the library and took up her novel at the place she had left off an hour before.
               "If there was any thing like it in real life;" she said with a sigh. "If one met noble and earnest souls, and found true friends—"
               A face smiled in the doorway. There was something fresh and strong and promising in the smile, and she half rose.
               "Mr. Thorndike said that I should find you here," he began, as if in apology for the intrusion.
               "Yes, He is unavoidably busy. Will you be seated?"
               He crossed the room and placed himself by the opposite window. What an atmosphere of rare grace surrounded this woman, the innate refinement of a high soul!
               There was a soft sunset dying in the west. Through an opening in the trees rays of gold melted into rosy haze, and the tint of purple twilight loomed slowly upward from the distant hills.
               He followed her eyes.
               "How very beautiful!" he said; "soft and tranquil as the close of day should be."
               "When it has been a satisfactory day."
               "Are there not sometimes good endings to days that are filled with trouble and perplexity?"
               He turned his keen eyes upon her so suddenly that she flushed.
               "But after all, the day has little to do with one's mood," she made answer, disregarding his question.
               "Are you subject to no such impressions? I should judge that you had a very susceptible temperament."
               "Should you?" with a bright smile of interest. "I did not mean exactly that, Mr. Rutherford. A dull day often depresses one when there seems no other cause, but it is not always true that one is happy on a bright day."
               There was an expression of grave questioning in his eyes, and yet he did not speak.
               "At least I am not," she continued frankly.
               "Did you ever decide just what was necessary for your happiness?"
               "How odd! No, I am sure that I have not. I do not believe that I could tell."
               "Are you unhappy?"
               She flushed again and then she laughed, a clear, bell-like sound that was enchanting.
               "No," she made answer. "It would be folly to give it so active a name. A little dissatisfaction and restlessness that haunts me when I am idle."
               "And idleness is the root of much misery."
               "But what is a woman to do, Mr. Rutherford? I don't love to work. I never did."
               "Honest, at all events;" and he laughed this time.
               It was a light, pleasant sound, and yet perplexing. She glanced up as if she were studying it.
               "Men can always find some business or some ambition to gratify. But after a woman is married—"
               She made a long pause.
               "After she is married—" he repeated, looking at her intently and compelling her to speak, as it were.
               "If she is rich she has servants to do her work. There are calls, shopping, driving for pleasure, the bother and excitement of having a dressmaker, gossip and parties, and a little reading when life grows too stale. I wish something would happen to me as it does to the book heroines."
               "What! to have a fortune left you?"
               "No, I should not care for that."
               "To lose yours?"
               "That would be an excitement, but as I told you before fore, I do not like to work. No, I think I will not take poverty."
               "Do not wish for any thing else," he said suddenly, for he, knowing the world, was aware of one more danger that might cross a woman's path.
               "Then I must be content with the small round that sometimes wearies me intolerably," she said almost pettishly.
               "Can you not enlarge that a little? Has it so few duties? Does it not comprehend nearly all that a woman needs?"
               There was a shuffling step on the porch, and at the same instant Mr. Thorndike ran clumsily down the stairs and gave a loud greeting through the screen door, as the other had been opened for air.
               "Just ready for you, my lad! Did you bring the valise?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "And here are the papers. They're tied up so that you can't possibly lose one. Be sure that you deliver them rightly."
               "Yes, sir."
               As he turned, the dinner-bell rang, and he ushered his guest into the dining-room with an air of pride, as if the latter might reasonably be astonished at the display. Lucy flushed and drew her brows together. She showed too soon where the thorns wounded her.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               TAKING COUNSEL.
               MR. RUTHERFORD was a critical man, and yet he would not have guessed that Mrs. Thorndike had not been born to this state and elegance. She presided so gracefully, she had that half indifferent air as if she had lived so long among luxuries that they wearied her, and in her conversation she was choice and refined. She had another quality that he remarked very soon, and honored her for it.
               When Lucy Thorndike first began to shield her husband's little faults, smooth down his roughnesses and cover his vulgar commonplace with her fine tact, she hardly knew. At first he had been strongly idealized, or rather, through their brief acquaintance, she had no means of understanding him thoroughly. She was eminently loyal in her affections, and at that period of her life would have worshipped him as a god, had he possessed any godlike attributes.
               His ways did not jar upon her soul as keenly as her father's and Rachel's, for here there was unlimited indulgence. Therefore, out of pure gratitude she made herself blind to his foibles, and began the habit of covering them up to herself, which was very easily extended to the rest of the world. So now she made him appear at his best estate.
               It was not much that she said, to be sure, for her husband talked in his loud energetic way about some business advantages into which he was endeavoring to persuade Mr. Rutherford; but her soft tones now and then seemed to restore an equilibrium.
               They sat a long while over their wine, while she toyed with her grapes and almonds, and dangerously contrasted the two men. There was such a wide difference between them. She had thought of this before, when she had seen him with others who were his superiors, but to-night it gave her a peculiar sadness that rendered her the more lovely.
               They had just risen from the table when a messenger came for Mr. Thorndike. Mrs. Thorndike led the way to the drawing room, but was presently summoned by her husband.
               "Lucy!" he said impatiently, for he did not at all like being interrupted, "look over my desk and find those Harvard papers. Jim's sick with a fever, and can't start off to-morrow, as I expected. Hang it! Every thing always goes wrong in a heap."
               Her deft and dainty fingers found their way through the numberless packages with which the desk was filled, for Mr. Thorndike had a trick of keeping many of his valuable papers at home.
               "Here they are." she announced, glancing at the label.
               "Now find—but no, I'll do it myself. Lucy—"
               "Well," she answered, and a long pause followed.
               He ran through the package and made several selections, quite forgetting that she awaited his bidding.
               "Lucy—"
               "What else can I do?"
               She looked as if she might fly to the ends of the earth at his summons.
               "Nothing but listen. Make yourself as agreeable as possible to Rutherford to-night."
               "Why?" with her old arch smile.
               "Because I want you to. Jim couldn't have done a worse thing than to fall sick, for now I must post some one else off to New York to-morrow, or what is worse, go myself. And I wanted to get Rutherford to commit himself to-night. The man has a mint of money to invest."
               
               "But I don't know any thing about the business," she said, in a rather amused tone.
               "Oh, I don't expect that of you. You're not as long headed as your sister Rachel, but you're a sight prettier, and that takes wonderfully with us poor fools," and he chuckled.
               She never felt angry when he compared her with Rachel in this manner, or jealous, when he spent whole evenings at home, as it always appeared natural to call the old place, discussing business projects with her father and sister. She preferred staying by herself and reading novels.
               "I asked Rutherford here with a purpose," he went on. "We may as well have the benefit of his money as any one else. So you make it pleasant for him this evening. I'm sorry enough to go."
               "I will do my best," she returned, rather gratified at the idea of so great an exercise of hospitality.
               "Run down now. I'd like Rutherford to stay a week at least—so don't be backward about inviting him."
               She laid her hand on her husband's arm and looked steadily into his eyes.
               "Warren," she said, slowly, "it is all right! There is no danger of your speculations going wrong, as sometimes happens!"
               "Danger! No;" and his loud, unmusical laugh grated on her ears.
               She was barely seated when her husband entered, partially explaining the sudden interruption, and excusing his absence in a most profuse manner.
               "And so I must leave you to the tender mercies of Mrs. Thorndike;" he said, with his adieu. "Lucy, don't let him fail asleep. I'll not stay late."
               Mrs. Thorndike was really glad to have him go. He always seemed to make such a stir and confusion with his eager bustling about.
               As for Lucy Thorndike, she quite enjoyed the command of making herself agreeable to such a man as Mr. Rutherford. And yet a girlish sense of embarrassment seized her when she was left quite alone. She did not feel half as free as she had over in the library.
               But Mr. Rutherford was not the kind of man to sit in awkward silence. Truth to tell, he was not quite sure but that he should enjoy this quite evening best. There had been an afternoon of rambling around and diving into every thing, added to his morning's journey—and altogether he felt rather fatigued.
               How could they think sitting there comparative strangers, of the influence they were to exercise over each other's lives! This careless conversation beginning with Dedham and its future prospects, she intent only upon playing hostess in a charming manner and pleasing her husband, for then most of her aims, so far as she had any, were his; and Mr. Rutherford listening in rather luxurious content, was destined to sway an eventful future.
               She did make herself very bewitching. Leaving the commonplace topics at length she soared to flights of fancy which opened the far regions of her soul. It was so rarely that she felt free to touch upon these hidden springs, so seldom that she found a listener to her taste.
               He saw the manner of life in which she might revel, he read it in the flush on her brow, the quiver of her lip and the excited breath that made her falter, or sent the words along with a peculiar rush and thrill. It answered to some dim dream in his nature.
               "And you have always lived in this little town?" he asked presently.
               "I never was ten miles beyond it until my marriage."
               "You are still in bridehood?"
               "Oh, no!" and she laughed gayly. "I feel quite ancient when I look back to that past girlhood."
               "Childhood," he corrected.
               "Yes, it was that."
               
               "You have a peculiar nature," he said with a grave half smile. "When I first saw you, wariness and ennui were impressed upon your brow."
               "You read that?"
               "I fancied that I did. Now you are like a changeful ray of light; first you dazzle over the water, making it sparkle with gems, then you bring to view some dryad nook from far forest, or haunt of fairies. Which am I to believe—this mood or that of a few hours ago?"
               "Believe both, Mr. Rutherford," she said, "believe both."
               "I do desire to believe that you are happy," he said in an earnest tone, for the felt that she was one who had better not be roused to higher views. Let her go on like a dancing butterfly. The cross of life in its bitterness would be too heavy a weight for her.
               She saw how she had misled him. What mattered his opinion? In a day or two he would be gone, and it was quite possible that she should never see him again. She had entertained him and that was sufficient. He would remember her as a pretty bright woman, fanciful, frivolous, leaving no permanent mark anywhere.
               Then she glanced at that face of inflexible strength and integrity. The man or woman who could of right call him friend was doubly blest. She envied this fortunate creature.
               Some wild, daring impulse urged her on.
               "I do not think that I have ever known happiness in your acceptation of the term," she exclaimed with sudden vehemence; "or if so for a brief moment."
               Her words and tone startled him out of his composure, and the resolve he had made concerning her.
               "Yet why should you not be happy?" he said almost coldly.
               "True," and there was a light mockery in her voice and smile. "I have all that wealth can bestow, a husband who adores me in his fashion, which I dare say is as good as the regard men usually give to that which is not gold; youth, health, beauty," and she made a short, abrupt pause. "Yet sometimes I ask myself what I am living for, and who is made the better for my presence? If I were to drop out of sight tomorrow, I should be covered by the next wave and forgotten."
               "There is something better and higher," he said with the tone of a man who knew.
               "But how to find it?"
               Her deep eyes were turned full upon him, and he started at the spirit that he had evoked.
               "That ought not to be a difficult task for a woman."
               "Don't treat me to platitudes, Mr. Rutherford. I used to have them a year or two ago dinned into my ears until they ached. It is harder for a woman to get into the right place than it is for a man. He can confess to ambition, love of power, he can join in the exciting strife, and if he fails there is always some friendly hand to raise him up and to enable him to try again. But who would have confidence in a woman after her failure? Who would fancy that it hurt her to be laughed at for her want of success?"
               Her eyes were in a blaze of dangerous light, and her words rang out crisp and sharp.
               "Women rarely try it earnest, and are too easily discouraged. And God made their sphere to differ."
               "So we come back to our dressing and dancing. When we want something a little higher and more ennobling we have—dreams."
               Her beautiful scarlet lip curled in scorn.
               "And you look down upon us from the shadow of your broad, clear brains, smiling at our little failures and commending us to the smaller graces of life."
               "Are they to be despised?" he asked.
               "Heaven forbid. And yet if they are so lovely, why do you not practice them? There would be room for both, I think."
               
               He smiled sadly.
               "We are all at fault," he said in a low tone.
               A step crunched on the gravel walk without.
               "And I have been talking rank heresy," she exclaimed with a gay laugh. "I will promise to give you a different course at breakfast."
               Warren Thorndike came up the porch and entered at the French window. The room presented a very elegant appearance in the softened light of the chandelier, and his wife looked very handsome sitting in her high-backed crimson chair, her clear brow without the slighest mark of care, and her cheeks delicately flushed.
               Her reign was over, she well knew, but she abdicated gracefully. Mr. Thorndike proposed an adjournment to the library, and rang for wine and cigars. Mrs. Thorndike bade them both good-night.
               Paul Rutherford sipped at the edge of his wine-glass, but did not smoke. Mr. Thorndike was loud and eager, and as the other listened he wondered again and again what fateful charm had brought these two together.
               "For she has an impulsive and passionate nature," he mused, 'quick to catch at any promise of beauty or delight. Her dreamy and refined enthusiasms, her mysterious and undefined aspirations, her rare spiritual appreciation, crude as it is, render her the more liable to temptation from without and within. If she had but love for her safeguard—"
               Then he roused himself and attended to his host, but he was thankful when he could retire with respectable grace.
               As for Lucy, she went straight to her room, and as was her fashion when strongly excited, buried her face in her hands and gave vent to a flood of foolish tears. Some inward sobs shook her slight frame, but they grew fainter and fainter.
               "Of what avail is it?" she began vehemently. "Was not he right who said—'Eat, drink, for to-morrow we die?' Why this continual longing for something beyond our reach! If fate had placed me elsewhere, I too might have come up to some grand height, but Lucy Garth or Lucy Thorndike, the weight of a millstone hangs around your neck!"
               The new life on which she had counted in her ignorant girlhood had proved a failure. She was impatient with those of her kind who were not congenial, and to-night she stood as fatally alone as in the dreary little bed-chamber at her father's. She liked this better, because the luxury appealed to the sensuous side of her nature, but she had no friend to whom she could open her heart.
               She had tried her husband. His coarse, good-humored materialism was a trifle more endurable than Rachel's rigid coldness, but it checked that source of highest and sweetest confidence just as effectually. He could no more understand her than if she had talked Sanscrit. And the misfortune was that every thing tended to spiritualize her. Certain passages in music always moved her to tears, a sentence from a favorite author stirred every pulse of her being, or the sentiment of a poem roused her from earthliness, and moved her to strange, high desires, quite unattainable, as she realized the next hour.
               There was a certain volatile essence in her composition. If these moods had lasted, her wild struggles for light would have brought about some result; but at the most important moment some incident diverted her. We do not all reach the highest standard at twenty, you know.
               And although Mrs. Thorndike had many admirers in Dedham, she was not a general favorite. Mediocrity is always startled at the word "peculiar," when applied to a woman. It may include some hidden danger, an earthquake at one's feet, to yawn frightfully at any moment.
               Mr. and Mrs. Glenfield had first tried their hand with her. They had been warmly welcomed among the Shiloah congregation, and Lucy was prepared to find something higher and finer than all that had gone before.
               
               A truly noble woman might have exercised a great and beneficial influence over Lucy at this period. Mrs. Glenfield was lady-like and superficial. She pretended to a certain intellectuality; indeed, in her school days had quite signalized herself by some literary productions, but now she rested gracefully on her husband's laurels. Lucy amazed her by broaching bold theories, at which the soft, womanly woman recoiled, and she found that she was trusting to a broken reed. Then she tried Mr. Glenfield in all honesty.
               She interested and amused him, nay more, unwittingly flattered his self-love, of which he possessed no small share. She had come to learn, but the fact that she had come to him quite overwhelmed the truth, and he fed her with sweet, tasteless crumbs, such as men too often dole out to women. She was so honest and earnest that she never understood what an object of admiration she became to him. I do not mean that he would have degraded his priestly office or his pride of position by any unlawful love, but he did like to linger in her presence, to drop in of an afternoon and run over a few duets with her, to lunch or dine, as the case happened, when he could do so alone. He fancied he enjoyed these little informal hospitalities so much better; but the truth was he was more at liberty without Mrs. Glenfield.
               Lucy would have been shocked if she had known herself the object of such a regard and such attentions. She was not keen sighted in these matters. Mrs. Glenfield was not long in making the discovery, aided by a little chronic jealousy. And yet, inconsistent being, she could hardly forgive Lucy for being so utterly unconscious of her husband's charms.
               The warmer part of the friendship died out, as those things usually do, when no strong feeling is enlisted. Mrs. Glenfield smiled very sweetly, and said of her—
               "Mrs. Thorndike is peculiar, but what can one expect of her youth and her training, and we must make allowance for the great change in position that was brought about by her marriage. I always hope for the best of every human soul."
               At which her listeners rolled their eyes and clasped their hands. Such a lovely and charitable woman!
               So Lucy Thorndike, being insensible to the admiration of the one and the graceful patronage of the other, was allowed to wander out of the fold if she so elected. The ladies always came to her for any charity they had on hand, and she gave freely.
               Then she turned her attention to the more worldly minded. Fresh to the gayeties of society, she entered upon them with a wonderful zest and eagerness that quite shocked the ancient spinsters she had left so far behind. Warren Thorndike enjoyed the parties to some extent. He liked the suppers and the wines and the business talk of the men, so Lucy danced and laughed with others, some of whom were very attractive young persons.
               She was tiring of this second stage now. She had a sharp tongue, and was too honest to be made the victim of foolish flatteries, so some of those who had met with a decided rebuff endorsed Mrs. Glenfield's verdict—peculiar.
               Not that she stood alone outwardly. Her dinners and parties were too elegant to miss, and Mr. Thorndike was becoming too much of a power in Dedham to affront, so if the wives had any fault to find, the husbands invariably smoothed it over.
               She was a little proud of her power. It was something to drive through the town in her pony-carriage and have hosts of smiles and nods bestowed upon her. She possessed exquisite taste in dressing, and though the articles might be copied, and frequently were, her style was her very own and beyond reach of imitation.
               But the bitter hours of loneliness that her soul knew could never be shared. Some fateful shadow stood between her and happiness, and not unfrequently the cry for rest and comfort passed those brilliant lips that an hour before had been wreathed in gayest smiles.
               It was this discrepancy in life that so tormented her, this change of moods without any apparent cause.
               "If I only had one true and tender friend," she moaned, as she shook out the long golden curls that had first caught Mr. Thorndike's eye and heart. "No, he could never like me," she added as an after thought. "I am silly and weak, and turned about with every mood. Oh! mother, mother, why was I born at all!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               WITH THE TIDE.
               THREE days had elapsed and Paul Rutherford was still Mr. Thorndike's guest. Business grew upon him, and every night left something to be undertaken on the morrow. The investments promised very fair. He had become guardian for the child of a friend, and just now there was a considerable amount of funds lying idle, besides much of his own. But he was a wary man, and wanted to be quite sure before he risked much.
               Mrs. Thorndike had seen very little of him. Her husband took him off in the morning, and perhaps by accident they dropped in to lunch, and at dinner there was always company, half a dozen men who were presidents or directors or secretaries, and who appeared to have the art of money-making always at their tongue's end. They sat a long while at the table and then adjourned to the library, where wine and cigars were served, and no women were needed to grace this festal board.
               Lucy Thorndike dressed herself with exquisite care every day. She did not desire to attract any one, but simply to please herself. At one time she made her hair a mass of silken waves; another, it was a coil of shining braids, with here and there a stray curl escaped from bands. There seemed to be no end to her diversity, and each new attempt rendered her lovelier.
               To Mr. Rutherford her patient grace was something remarkable. She had not looked ennuied since that first night. Indeed deed, he began to question now whether this had not been partly due to imagination. Still, she had confessed that she was not happy! How could she be?
               For that she had fine feelings, rare sympathy, and a tender soul, he could not question. Each day he was drawn more closely toward her. Not in any sense of love. The man was too essentially noble to have one thought derogatory to her or any woman. His was not a nature to love easily. He must respect and admire a long while before he could yield his soul, for with it, to him, went the larger part of liberty.
               Unwittingly he endorsed the verdict against her. She was peculiar. Sometimes as he watched her, for he had keen eyes and saw what passed around him without much effort, he really longed to rouse her soul and direct it aright as the kindest of brothers might have done; but prudence restrained him. Would it be for the best? Was wisdom such a boon?
               She was putting on her driving-gloves one afternoon, and her pony phæton stood at the door, when he sauntered up the walk. She certainly could not accuse him of looking ill, so she smiled in her radiant fashion, and said carelessly,
               "Where is Mr. Thorndike?"
               "He went to Graysburg an hour ago. I was to tell you not to wait dinner for him, as he cannot be back before nine this evening."
               "And you?" she continued, rather hesitatingly.
               "O, do not disturb yourself about me," he answered in a cheerful voice. "I thought I would give my brain rest for an hour or two, as it has been rather overcrowded of late. I shall do very well alone."
               She knew by that his intention was to remain indoors; and thinking of what her husband had said in the beginning, she almost fancied that it was her duty to stay at home and entertain him. And there was just the faintest tinge of disappointment in his face.
               Then she remembered that she had started to take some word to Rachel, who asked a favor so seldom, that it would not be wise to neglect this one.
               "I wish you would go with me," she said earnestly.
               "Do you? Is it just a mere pleasure drive?"
               "We will drive for pleasure. Then I am going to make one call—on a lady."
               There was a mischievous light playing about her eyes. He drew down his brows.
               "My sister," she pursued. "You have not seen her, I think."
               "No, though I have been in the habit of meeting your father daily."
               "Well, will you go?"
               "Yes."
               Something in his ready compliance rather piqued her. Did he fancy that her sister might be like her? she wondered.
               She came down the steps, and was handed in with grave courteousness. He took the reins.
               "But you must direct," he said.
               "We will drive straight down the street first. It is the prettiest in Dedham, I think. These touches of autumn improve the landscape."
               "But at what a cost!"
               There was a strange and sudden gravity in his voice.
               "Don't you like autumn, then? I think it glorious."
               "It is that indeed, and yet it is so painfully suggestive of change. From the glowing ripeness, it is but a step to decay, dreariness."
               "And you feel this dreariness, you, a man, who can mould events to his liking?"
               "Can I?"
               He gave an odd, abrupt smile, and there was a far look in his eyes that puzzled her.
               "Perhaps you do not desire. You may be content."
               
               "You are laughing at me;" for he was quick to detect the light irony of her tone.
               "No, I am not laughing at you. Look at this picture, Mr. Rutherford."
               He glanced in the direction that her eyes indicated. A silvery river, winding round, and on the opposite shore the gradual slope of gray and purple hills, for to-day the sun was soft and hazy, and these were lying in the shade. Nearer there was an emerald tint broken by clusters of late wild flowers, among which the golden rod was conspicuous. A low, continuous chirp of crickets and insects throbbed in among the pulses of the river that gave slow, rhythmic beats.
               He studied that for a moment, and then her face, which was soft and dreamy as the brooding air.
               "It is very lovely."
               The words were not much, but the tone was deep and heartfelt. She understood it so thoroughly. Here was the kind of man with whom life would be a perfect enjoyment. I believe she thought to herself a little sadly that his wife would be a happy woman. Then she remembered that she knew absolutely nothing of his circumstances or situation.
               She flushed and changed the tenor of the conversation. He misunderstood the effort, and attempted to set her right. He was not insensible to the beauty of nature, to such exquisite coloring and harmony.
               "No," she said, "I should never fancy that you were. I know that your soul is neither deaf nor blind."
               Then she lapsed into silence, and though he talked, he could not rouse her. Her eyes were fixed on the bit of road before them, but her thoughts were upon him. Grave by nature and capable of suffering keenly, but with a deep, unwearying tenderness for all others in the depths of pain or care. With such a guide one might grow pure and strong—come up to the grand heights of life.
               "But it is quite impossible," she said in a dry, hard tone.
               "What is?" and he looked up in amaze, startled by the sudden and incongruous outburst.
               "The subject that I have been considering for the last five minutes."
               He felt a trifle displeased.
               "You forget," he said, "that I really know nothing about your thoughts."
               She gave a weird little laugh.
               "If you were wise you could guess them from my face."
               She turned toward him as she spoke. He only saw the dazzling complexion, the deep eyes, which were as mysterious as an unseen world, the soft tint of the cheeks and the sculptured features. If she had not known that she could baffle him she would not have dared. There are some secure moments in all lives.
               "No, I cannot guess," he made answer after a long pause.
               "Will you turn this corner, then? And—take the next street. My father is a plain man, Mr. Rutherford."
               She uttered the last almost sharply.
               They stopped before the door. He fastened the horse and she gathered her flowing skirts as she picked her way daintily up the path.
               Rachel received them with her usual severe countenance. She had scarcely changed in appearance, and still sat with her work-basket by her side. That would always be indispensable.
               Lucy's message being of a rather private nature, she presently withdrew Rachel from the room and delivered it.
               "This Mr. Rutherford is staying at your house?" Rachel said.
               "Yes. Warren went away this afternoon, and sent him home for me to entertain, so I thought I'd bring him to call upon you."
               "And Warren approves of your riding round with any picked-up acquaintance! What do you know of this man?"
               
               "Nothing. My husband brought him to the house—that is sufficient for me."
               Lucy Thorndike's eyes flashed, and her words had an incisive ring.
               "I never was taught to consider it respectable for married women to be gallanted here and there by strangers!"
               "Rachel, you are a fool!"
               Rachel Garth bit her thin lips and turned pale.
               "Go your own gait," she said, snapping off her words. "Warren is blind, and you are a weak, silly coquette. He will rue it some day!"
               "Oh, I'm not so far on the high road to destruction as you think;" and she gave a mocking laugh. "And I am going to give a party. Will you come? it is to be on my birth-night."
               "I never go to parties, as you well know," was the frigid answer. "But I have warned you!"
               "Yes, I never come here without a lecture!" Lucy returned hotly. "But you are an ungracious mentor, Rachel."
               With that she led the way back to the sitting-room, and signified to her attendant, in the most bewitching manner, that she was ready to depart.
               Rachel glanced after them. "I'll never utter another word if she becomes the town talk," she said angrily to herself.
               It did fret her to see Lucy revelling in the luxuries of life in this careless manner. And what was worse, Warren Thorndike looked on and smiled.
               They drove for some time in silence. Mr. Rutherford's face wore a perplexed expression.
               "Shall I guess your thoughts?" she asked gayly.
               "If you can."
               "You are wondering at the difference between my sister and myself."
               "Yes." He turned partly round, with an air of interest that deepened into a smile.
               "We are sisters on my father's side only."
               "I remarked her likeness to him."
               He wanted to add that she was fortunate in not possessing any more marked resemblance.
               "She finds a work to do in this world, and I fancy dreads the old couplet about idle hands. But I believe the lilies of the field were not censured."
               "There is such a thing as ennobling labor, Mrs. Thorndike," he said gravely.
               "But I like idleness. There are times when I could throw myself on a mound of grass like that yonder, and quaff its damp, delicious perfume, as if it were some rare wine. Or, stealing into forest depths, fancy myself a dryad haunting mysterious groves, ready to take shape of bird or bee; or of a zephyr, to float on the edge of a rosy cloud, drenched with the incense of sweetest flowers."
               Her eyes were dangerously luminous, and the scarlet lips seemed to throb with inward passion, refined to a degree of subtleness.
               Why disturb her, sweet heathen that she was! Let her go on, and perhaps never awake to needs that might be madness.
               Rachel's warning had the opposite effect upon her. Since her husband had asked her to entertain his guest, she would do it in a royal manner. As for danger, who dreamed of such a thing! It was a figment of that fussy, over-scrupulous brain.
               They dined alone, and afterward she sang to him. Weird, sparkling melodies, that were crisp and piquant, rather than sentimental. And there Mr. Thorndike dropped in upon them with his commonplace.
               Her vague dissatisfaction reached a crisis that evening. A great gulf seemed to yawn before her, cutting her off from her kind. Not human kind—there would always be some to admire and applaud, but the pure, high souls, whose clear, steadfast eyes glanced over to the other shore where they were to be crowned victors, when their good fight had been made in this. They would always stand aloof—as this man had hours ago. She was not worth the helping hand!
               She ran up stairs presently, tore off her jewels, and dragged the flowers out of her hair. Oh, if she could go back, if she could leave Warren Thorndike unwedded! She had sold herself soul and body to the liberty and gold that looked so tempting. She knew now that she did not love him, never had, and that life was a hideous mockery. So soon had she come to the knowledge that Mr. Rutherford would forever have hidden.
               Although it was late, she sat there at the window in the floods of perfumed moonlight, for the falling dew had rifled every shrub and tree of sweetness. Her husband had gained his point and was coarsely good-humored; and then too, she looked very lovely, so he kissed her in his rough manner.
               It seemed as if she could not endure it, and she raised her hand to push him away. Every pulse of her body revolted at the caress.
               Then she remembered that she had become his wife of her own accord. In his fashion he loved her.
               "You'll be moon-struck sitting here," he said with a laugh.
               "And lose my wits? I sometimes think that I have lost them."
               She shivered visibly.
               "Come, it's too cold," and he closed the window. "Do you know how late it is? Rutherford's won at last, though he's a long-headed fellow. And now what about your party? When do you want it? I saw some fellows to-day that I'd like to ask."
               "Warren," she said, solemnly, laying her hand on her husband's arm, "there's no danger about this investment? For it seems to me that it would be the blackest of treachery to share your hospitality with a man you might drag to ruin months hence."
               "Ruin!" he exclaimed, angrily. "Who thinks of that? Why, it's my own money as well as his. Do you suppose I'd be fool enough to burn my own fingers?"
               No, he was in earnest, and believed what he said. And then since he would be a sharer in any loss, she felt safe.
               "The mine is to be opened just as soon as matters can be brought into shape. It won't pay so amazingly the first year or two, but there's a fortune in it. We have the capital now, and can go on with a rush."
               "Be careful!" she entreated.
               "Oh, you women had better not bother your brains about such things. 'Tend to your laces and fol-lols."
               She was his wife! "'Till death do us part." With a faint, sickening sensation, Lucy Thorndike turned away and longed for freedom in the little room that she had once despised.
               The young feel keenly and suffer strongly, but they are susceptible to so many influences. Circumstances bear so strongly upon us all. What might in solitude become a master passion, is weakened and changed by the pressing cares of life.
               The following morning, Lucy Thorndike found herself a good deal interested in discussing the party. Her husband felt inclined to make a very splendid affair of it, and asked her to write out a list of invitations, and also the more elegant kinds of refreshments.
               "Two weeks from Tuesday—last night. Don't forget a single thing."
               They stood in the library, and he was waiting for Mr. Rutherford to come down. She felt a trifle ashamed of her tempest of last night, and asked herself if she ought not to be thankful that she had so generous and indulgent a husband.
               "Warren, I took Mr. Rutherford out driving, yesterday. He came in just as I was going down to father's."
               "That was clever."
               "And Rachel said—that it did not look respectable for me to be driving round with strange men."
               
               She glanced at her husband very earnestly, but no fine sentiment stole into his face.
               "What did you say?"
               She repeated her defence.
               "Good! You're a spunky little thing, and she's a fussy old maid, according to the Kip training."
               "He was your friend. I don't even know to this moment whether he is married or single."
               "Oh, he's single—and it was uncommon kind for you to give Rachel a sight at him. He's a nice fellow, too. She needn't fret herself!"
               That was all. A quick elastic tread came down the stairs, and Paul Rutherford halted in the hall, a nobleman of nature's stamp, a find pure soul. She tried not to contrast them. Indeed, she turned rather coldly away from some remark he made.
               She was soon deeply engrossed in party arrangements. Her list of guests was made out, and then she bethought herself of the delicacies that might grace her table.
               Yet she was startled when the two came in to lunch, to hear Mr. Rutherford announce his departure.
               "You'll be back in a fortnight, Rutherford! We're going to have a sort of blow-out."
               Lucy winced a little at this inelegant announcement.
               "We expect to entertain a little company on the evening of the twenty-third," she said quietly. We shall be most glad to see you."
               "Thank you. I have some business in Baltimore; but if it is possible, I shall be happy to come."
               Their good-byes were quietly said.
               Lucy Thorndike fell into a dreamy mood afterward.
               "It would be just as well if I never saw him again," she thought. "He represents a class and a type beyond my reach. To awake to such a life and find myself chained here, would be madness!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               BY NIGHT.
               IT was the night of the party, and the Thorndike mansion was ablaze with light. The evening air was crisp and cool, but not damp, and there being no moon, the winding drive was ornamented with colored lanterns, which lent a weird enchantment. The fountain in the midst of the lawn sent up jets in rainbow hues that returned in soft spray of gold, crimson and purple.
               The drawing-room windows opened to the floor, so the orchestra was stationed on the balcony. The room itself was a palace of beauty with its lights and flowers. Opposite, the library had been arranged for the card-players, while the spacious dining-room at the back was necessarily closed.
               The second flood was devoted to dressing apartments. An Abigail of the most elegant type waited upon the ladies, and the gentlemen were by no means neglected.
               Warren Thorndike had given this party with a purpose of his own. He was not only courting popularity for himself, but he wanted to draw within his circle men of means and influence. He wanted money to develope his schemes, for he thought he saw a very brilliant future. Before he had passed the prime of life he meant to be a millionaire. He believed that he had the energy and foresight to compass this.
               So he had spared no expense. He might grumble a little when the bills came in, as he was not above that infirmity of husband-nature, but he would have nothing stinted now.
               
               Neither had Mrs. Thorndike economized personally. Her pale-blue silk was rich and soft, her point lace of the most exquisite quality, and her diamonds were the envy of Dedham. She moved a miniature queen in this charmed circle, and was startlingly beautiful. Mrs. Wilder had been asked for a week, and as she always liked full scope for her executive abilities, Mrs. Thorndike left much of the management to her. She had only to smile and he enchanting.
               She had been introduced to one and another until her brain seemed in hopeless confusion. And yet one face that she had rather longed for and expected was not there. The feeling was hardly active enough to be called disappointment, still she fancied that he would enjoy this gay scene with its fair women; and certainly the array of masculines was not to be despised.
               Then came another, "Mr. Marchmont, Mrs. Thorndike."
               She would not be likely to forget this man or confuse his name with the others. At the first glance she thought him the handsomest man that she had ever met. Many another woman had reached the same decision as rapidly.
               If I said he was tall, with a fine figure, purplish black hair and beard, a clear, but rather pale complexion, features that might have been chiselled out of marble, indeed all that goes to make up manly beauty, you would still have an indistinct idea of him.
               When you came to examine him critically, you found some rather unpleasant combinations. The forehead was narrow at the temples, the lips were thin, though of a brilliant scarlet, and wore a smile that the least change made sardonic or seraphic as his mood might be. His eyes were quite light, a kind of steely color, and gleaming through the long, black lashes gave them a most peculiar expression and power. They were merciless, and I was about to say treacherous, and yet they could soften to the most bewitching tenderness. He understood his power—heaven knows he had tried it often enough.
               Lucy Thorndike gave him a careless glance—it was not her habit to inspect strangers minutely. Her indifference piqued him, and then he smiled when she looked again.
               "Mrs. Thorndike," he said, "you seem to have a palace of enchantment here."
               For answer she gave her clear, low laugh
               "You are used to compliments, and perhaps flattery, for there is no lack of that coin. Excuse me for making such a commonplace remark, I dare say you have heard it dozens of times already."
               "No, Mr. Marchmont, no one has made that particular comparison. I am not sure but that I should delight to have it true."
               "And the power in your hands?"
               "In my hands, of course."
               She made a very charming inclination of the head; and standing in the wake of the chandelier her hair seemed to be transmuted to waves of molten gold, and there were soft, wandering lights in her eyes.
               "Well," he went on with gay good nature—"how would you rule?"
               "Oh, mercifully, I think," in a slow, vague tone. "I should want every one to be happy."
               "In your way? For I observe that seems to be the ideal of all governments."
               "I do not believe that to be the true method," was her prompt answer.
               "What then?"
               "Each one in his own way."
               "Mrs. Thorndike you are Utopian, impracticable—in short, a woman."
               He uttered this in a soft, musical tone, as if it were a compliment.
               "Well, that does not distress me."
               
               There was so much piquancy in her manner that he felt charmed and lured on.
               "What is your idea of happiness?"
               "I confess I hardly know."
               "Have you not attained it?"
               This was a bold question. A woman better versed in the ways of the world would not have answered it frankly.
               "I do not think I have," she said slowly. "I wonder if it is always so as we go on with life. Three years ago a very little would have satisfied me. I do not want you to fancy that I am morbid or miserable now, far from it. I have a very thorough enjoyment of life, and—"a little proudly—"a great deal to enjoy. But it puzzles me why one delight should always suggest a keener and higher."
               "That is one of the mysteries of human nature."
               "And yet that one can feel it without being wretched."
               "Hope was at the bottom of the box, you know," and he gave one of his peculiar, mystical smiles.
               "Then you think we unconsciously hope for any lost or missing joy?"
               She was not looking at him and he saw it. A brief mood of thought was passing over her, as a light cloud drifts athwart the summer sky. Did she hold any dim dream in her heart?
               "A peculiar and beautiful woman," he mused, "with the heart of sixteen. I shall not be utterly wrecked on this narrow and forlorn coast."
               "I know we do. It is right that we should; and who can blame us if we take every method to compass it. Mrs. Thorndike"—in a peculiarly pleading tone—"I wish I dared ask you to go out to the fountain. This view is most tantalizing. But I suppose it would be too great a favor."
               There was such a longing look in his eyes that she smiled.
               "I dare say no one would miss me for a few moments; as all the guests must have arrived. Were you very late, or was it simply that I had not chanced to see you before."
               "I was very late. Indeed, I considered some time whether I had better venture or not—being a stranger."
               "Have you seen much of Dedham?"
               "No. I was here a month ago for a few hours, and came in again yesterday. I owe this pleasure to the kindness of Mr. Thorndike. But it is likely to be my home for the winter, at least."
               In the mean while they had gone down the steps. The fountain was not far distant. Some curious spell had urged him to detach her from the rest—perhaps he fancied that he could judge her more correctly.
               The great waves of music surged upon the night air, almost drowning out the soft, murmurous tones of the falling spray. The beautiful blending of lights added to the picturesque scene. So wayward and half fascinated was her mood that she almost wished the crowd were gone, and he and she might linger there undisturbed by any consciousness of duties.
               He spoke presently. He had a subtle and dangerous gift of language—and now his thoughts flowed in a channel of exquisite imagery. The light, half scoffing tone had vanished, and she listened with the curious sensation of being charmed, if such a thing were possible.
               She was pursuing a train of reflection while her brain appeared to him simply receptive.
               Why should she not make friends with some of these entertaining and agreeable men? No one questioned Mrs. Glenfield's right so to do.
               The weird notes of the Lava Strome floated down to them, thrilling the soft air. She turned. Music like this swayed her powerfully.
               "Oh," he exclaimed," you waltz. One would know it from your slender, swaying figure—and such eyes."
               "And what else?"
               "The rest will keep. If I told you too much at a time, you would soon tire of me. Let us go back to the dancers.
               
               He meant that she should waltz with him before the lights were out, but he said nothing now. Quadrilles he set down as stupid, and despised them.
               It was nearly eleven then, and the dancing continued for the next hour, when supper was announced. Mrs. Thorndike had been wonderfully brilliant and fascinating. Now and then the waves surged round bringing a face with a puzzling smile and eyes deeply intent upon success.
               "For it will quite enliven a winter in this dreary place, "he thought between the pauses of talk and music.
               The supper-room lost nothing in comparison with the rest of the house. As for the table, it seemed a shining mass of glass and silver—while fragrant flowers blossomed and drooped from dainty or antique vases. Here a mound of purple grapes, with the bloom still upon them, as if they were dreaming through the long summer afternoon under golden suns, with festoons of ivy and clustering roses, to make an agreeable contrast. There the large oval Malaga, with their pale sea-green tint, lighted up with sprays of scarlet flowers; fruits from tropical shores, and rare wines sparkling beyond on the sideboard. Captious indeed must be the guest who could not find some pleasure
               They ate and drank, talked and laughed. Mr. Thorndike grew rather boisterous, enjoyment was quite apt to bubble over the brim with the man, but he was not alone. Here and there some clear, fine brain, retained its cool self-possession. Lucy Thorndike noted them with an eye that seemed alive to any defect, or any grace. Through it all Mr. Marchmont preserved his high-bred demeanor—and he in turn, watched her.
               "What a dolt that Thorndike is! Gad! if a man could be in his position!"
               He washed the thought down with a sip of sparkling wine. And then another—"How had that lovely girl come to marry him?"
               Some of the guests went away soon afterward. Mr. Glenfield laughingly declared, after his wife had insisted upon departure parture, that it was very gay for sober people like themselves, but he had no warning voice to raise.
               The place was more comfortable after the thinning out. The dancing went on, and Lucy, who had scarcely participated in it during the earlier part of the evening, as her time and attention had been devoted to her guests, gave herself up to the alluring enjoyment. It was a passion with her—pure, though entrancing.
               The lights, the perfumed air, the rhythmic pulses that blended "viol, flute and bassoon," seemed actual voices to her as with half-closed eyes she floated dreamily from ware to wave. Her first experiences of it had been almost overwhelming, but since then a subtle refinement had set in, and now she had grown exclusive.
               Mr. Thorndike never put any check upon this pastime. He had no fine sentiment to be pained—and as yet he had not reached the estate of jealousy. So Mr. Marchmont was not haunted by any fierce, glaring eyes—and if he had been, it would have been characteristic of the man to go just the same. In fact, obstacles always gave a vim to success.
               At last the good-nights were said. Some of the faces looked a little weary, flowers were faded, and dresses limp; but it had proved delightful, every one declared. Most of the women envied Lucy Thorndike, for there had never been so elegant an entertainment in Dedham.
               Lucy had her room darkened, and stayed in bed until noon of the next day. By that time the débris had been cleared away. She was fresh and radiant, and yet she listened to her husband's gratulations that evening at dinner with an absent air. Of course it had been a crush and a success, and she wanted to hear no more about it through this coarse channel.
               Mrs. Wilder finished her visit and went away. There were the usual calls, drives, and small breaks to wear away the days. A vague feeling of unrest began to steal over her again, a perplexing and tormenting desire for something she had not. What was it?
               Mr. Rutherford came in town and missed her by a few moments. She felt deeply disappointed.
               "And yet what does it matter?" she thought to herself, unconsciously contrasting him with Vaughan Marchmont, "It is hardly likely that the friendship would raise itself above the level of commonplace."
               What was there in the mystical land beyond that presented such alluring glimpses of a higher life than this she was leading? But how should she aspire to it?
               Perhaps it was not strange that Lucy Thorndike threw herself into society with a greater zest than ever. It was very agreeable and attractive this season, beginning with her party. The men with whom Mr. Thorndike surrounded himself were refined, accustomed to society, and to a wider range of thought and conversation than the ordinary residents of Dedham. There was a continual coming and going, orders for dainty lunches or more pretentious dinners. Lucy graced these in a very charming fashion. Without understanding there might be any possible danger, her husband approved, and that was all which seemed necessary for her.
               Of course there were not wanting jealous and grudging souls to cavil at her course. Rachel groaned in secret over the dissipation, perhaps the most honest of them all.
               As for Warren Thorndike, he fancied himself on the high road to a most brilliant success. His schemes were working well. Not only that, but he would be an actual benefactor to his native town. He had hosts of improvements in his brain against the time when gold began to pour a steady stream into his coffers.
               Mr. Marchmont was well pleased to be a welcome guest at the Thorndikes'. He took the gentleman at a very true estimate, if it was not exactly complimentary. It did little harm, since he proposed to keep it to himself. Mrs. Thorndike he admired after the fashion of a man of the world. She was so fresh and piquant, so frank and innocent withal. He knew that she did not even understand herself, so there would be little fear of her penetrating his subtler plans.
               Not that he meditated any wrong or harm that would lower her in the eyes of the world. He esteemed himself a conscientious man. He had also learned by experience that women were not as tender of heart as poets suppose, and some who had come under his observations were quite ready for a small flirtation. Girls might become too warmly interested, but a married woman was altogether safe. Such a one had a position to maintain, and as he was never likely to persuade a women to throw away "name and fame and all" for his sake, his friendships were always perfectly respectable.
               Lucy Thorndike was pleased with his delicate attentions. She was not sure, after a month's acquaintance, but that she liked him better than Mr. Rutherford. Mr. Marchmont gave her no depressing idea of herself. She liked to be appreciated. There was something exhilarating in a talk with him, and yet she could rarely remember any thing that he had said. But one evening they drifted to the verge of dangerous ground.
               They had fallen into a careless discussion of personal harmony as affecting love and friendship.
               "I am not sure that I ever had a real friend," she said slowly. "Is it because I am incapable of attracting one?"
               She glanced at him out of deep, restless eyes. She had unconsciously taken up the habit of asking him direct questions without much thought as to consequences.
               He smiled curiously. The lights burning low in their ground globes gave her a peculiar charm. He viewed her critically, as a rare bird or plant would have been inspected by some.
               "I think you have never tried."
               "Mr. Marchmont, how do people try?"
               
               Her eyes were luminous with expectation, and a half smile, wayward and wandering, crossed her lips.
               "As if all women did not know!"
               "They do not. I have a fancy that some women always stand alone."
               "Because they are cold and self-centred. And that is an anomaly. They should be tender, clinging."
               "And you believe all that soft nonsense about women," she laughed.
               "Is it nonsense? It seems to me that they are peculiarly susceptible to the finer emotions, such as answer the call of love and friendship. She who is not, would be a monstrosity."
               Lucy Thorndike smiled in her abstracted way.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she said suddenly, "I heard you dissecting character with a great deal of nicety at Mrs. McLaren's. You were describing all the qualities that made a perfect equipoise. Can you do that with characters not properly or correctly balanced?"
               "Why?" with a quick look, like a flash from his light eyes.
               "I was thinking as I listened to you that evening, what a pleasure it would be to hear one's self mapped out in so concise a manner. Take me for a subject, Mr. Marchmont."
               He might have fancied her laughing at him, but for her pleading tone and the warm color in her cheek.
               "You understand your own capabilities too well," he said evasively.
               "No, I do not;" and now she was grave. "Did you never wish that you could go out of your own body for a brief while and look at it from some unconscious stand-point while it talked and went through with its brief play, peering down into its soul?"
               A strange earnestness came into her eyes, and her scarlet lip seemed to quiver.
               He was not quite sure that he cared to inspect his own motives with such critical precision, so he said carelessly—
               "You are in a strange mood to-night."
               "Then I can hardly fail to become a good subject. Begin. What are my strongest characteristics?"
               "Love of enjoyment is one," he said slowly, and then paused.
               "Right," she answered, with a daintily-flavored laugh. "But, Mr. Marchmont, there ought to be something higher than that to existence."
               With that sentence her face became grave again.
               "After all," he said in his low, musical tone, "enjoyment is the great aim of every life. It is as various as human nature. There have always been ascetics who mortified the flesh to make martyrs of themselves, but what real good did they accomplish for the world at large?"
               "Yet if they loved pleasure it was heroic in them."
               "But I fancy they did not care for it, and did love notoriety. That you know is heaven to some souls."
               No these were not her heroes.
               "But it seems frivolous to waste days upon mere pleasure," she said.
               "Does it?" and a faint flush mounted to his brow. "In my experience I have found that those souls quick to take in a scent or sound, the flash of a bird, or the ripple of a wave, are the ones who minister delicately to the happiness of others. They are not blind nor dumb, neither are they utterly wrapped in self. And is not this a trifling good to say the least? Shall it be despised?"
               She paused in her rapid yet aimless thought. Perhaps her life was not altogether wasted.
               "And what then?" she asked presently, going back to the old, gay mood.
               "You have been formed for enjoyment, for friendship, for love."
               He repeated each clause in a slow, distinct voice, and with a peculiar emphasis.
               
               "Yes, I know about the last," she said impatiently, beating imaginary time with her restless foot upon the carpet. "Tell me what I must do to inspire friendship?"
               He looked steadfastly at her for a moment. Did she believe that she truly understood any thing of love? Ah, she could be shown depths and heights which she had never imagined! A warm, thrilling current started in his mind, and for an instant he almost wished the power to teach her were indeed his.
               "You don't answer me," she went on with childish petulance.
               "I cannot now," he returned abruptly. "And do you know how late it is? Ah, you need not ask any questions—I think you understand the fatal syren charm of beguiling the way-farer."
               He rose and came nearer, but there was a strange haughtiness in her smile and her next movement, so he said his good-night courteously, not being pressed to stay, as was sometimes her eager wont.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE TREE OF KNOWLEDGE.
               LUCY THORNDIKE stood in the centre of the room where Vaughan Marchmont had left her. Her cheeks were flushed with a brilliant carmine, her lips slightly apart, her eyes full of wavering lights. She was both annoyed and pleased. Her sense of refinement and honor, which was innately high after all, had been touched, wounded. And yet it was partially soothed by the half acknowledgment he had made of her power.
               Her husband came up the steps with a clatter. She drew her straight brows into a little frown.
               A ruddy, healthy man, whose mental status would always be lamentably less in the scale than the physical. His hands were large and coarse, his motions clumsy in spite of the briskness. Every day this knowledge seemed to grow upon her.
               "I met Marchmont down the street," he said.
               "Well?" She stood as if she were going to receive sentence.
               He laughed loudly.
               "You didn't quarrel with him I hope? You look as if you were equal to any thing."
               She softened a trifle, and made answer—
               No, he did not give me any cause."
               "Don't pick one then."
               
               "Warren," she asked, "how much do you care for me? Half as much as for your schemes and your gold?"
               He glanced at her in astonishment, as if he was not quite sure of her being in a right mind.
               "Why, you have your share of the money," he said.
               "Yes, you have been very kind to me, very kind. I have had a happy life here contrasted with the old one, but I feel sometimes as if I would like to make it better. And if any one would help me—"
               There was a vague, puzzled look in her eyes that he did not understand.
               "You took up the Glenfields and their church-going ways, but that did not satisfy you," he said not unkindly, yet in a straightforward manner, as if it was folly to clothe facts in soft raiment.
               "No, that did not satisfy me," in a thoughtful tone, and glancing to the far corners of the room.
               She was so used to his plain manner of talking that it seldom gave her any pain, even if she did sometimes long for a little more tenderness.
               "Are you not happy?" he asked, thrusting both hands deeply in his pockets, and lounging down until one shoulder touched the mantel.
               "Yes;" she answered, sharply, though with a little twinge of conscience. She could not confess as freely to him as she had to others, and her cheek flushed at the thought. But it appeared blackest ingratitude to find any fault with what he gave—with what she had once been so happy to take.
               Warren Thorndike glanced at his wife in dull amazement. Every now and then she broke out into some wild dream quite beyond his comprehension. It seemed to him that she was not altogether a comfortable woman to live with in spite of her beauty and grace and winsome ways.
               "What do you want?" he asked, with a kind of blunt good nature. "A new shawl, or a silk gown, or laces and fol-de-rols? How much money will it take?"
               He pulled out his wallet as if he would settle it then and there, and get it out of his mind.
               She crossed over to him and laid her soft, white hand upon his shoulder. Her eyes were bathed in a kind of appealing tenderness, and her voice was almost hysterical as she said—
               "I don't want money, Warren. I want a love that can come near to me in sad hours or joyous ones; that can awake better and loftier motives than any I have ever had, that will give an impetus to life, and make me thankful every day that I am here."
               "Oh," he returned, half laughingly, "you get that out of novels. I'm sure if I hadn't liked you, I should not have asked you to marry me."
               "No," and a faint, sad smile crossed her lips. "I am foolish, that is all."
               But she turned away cold and heavy at heart. Most plainly she saw the wide gulf between them—the gulf that could never be bridged over. Had her early fancy invested him with qualities that he did not possess? She had seen so few men at that period. It seemed as if she had been set in the wrong place in life; and now there was no getting out of it.
               She choked down a bitter, gasping breath that might have been a cry of despair, had she allowed it a voice. And then she tried to go back to the old belief. Why should she worry herself about all these things? Other women did not! Mrs. Glenfield accepted all the homage that was laid at her shrine with an air of perfect complacency. She made some distinctions to be sure—she did not dance; but then she walked with other gentlemen, talked and allowed herself to be complimented—and was really the centre of attraction to the young men of the Shiloah congregation. She loved her husband, and it was no wonder that she was proud of him—that was her safeguard, perhaps.
               Mrs. McLaren was a happy wife, too—but if the whole truth were admitted, she did flirt pretty deeply sometimes. There was no sentiment in it with her, but just a love of pleasure and excitement. She occasionally boasted of her petty triumphs; indeed, she fancied that if she were a widow, there would be strifes, heart-burnings, and even duels.
               But then Mrs. McLaren was very attractive—had been to Europe, could talk of art, music, and great people with perfect readiness and a certain kind of familiarity that quite extinguished Lucy's more moderate pretensions.
               Why not enjoy the pleasures that other women found so fascinating? Of what avail was this unquiet longing? Her husband would never help her to any higher sphere; indeed, she had an awful presentiment that every step in this direction took her farther away from him.
               The result of her meditations was a deeper plunge into gayety. She little fancied that Vaughan Marchmont, made more careful by his slight rebuff, was watching her with a curious intensity. He understood every phase of womanhood, save the highest and best. I do not mean that he placed them on any degrading level, he simply had no faith in the permanency of any passion or affection. If it had been true for a lifetime, it was because it had encountered no sufficiently strong temptation.
               And so at thirty he looked at matrimony as a far distant event. When he began to grow old and wearied with excitements, he would marry some woman with fortune, position and beauty. This great, stupid Thorndike had done much the same thing. Then he would settle down into a steady-going life; but the vision had few charms for him now. In the mean while he would now and then take a sip out of some other overflowing cup.
               He paid Mrs. Thorndike a good deal of outward deference. He was not quite sure whether she blindly believed that she loved her husband, or that knowing the truth she sedulously concealed it from other eyes. As he came nearer to her soul, however, he found that it was not superficial, that deep streams ran underneath the current, streams that might have been troubled by some passing emotion, but that had never been stirred. A rare bit of satisfaction it would be to rouse the swift tide of something that he called passion in its best sense.
               They met frequently. Of all the men in her husband's circle she was not sure but that she liked him the best. Long quiet talks displayed his culture and refinement, and opened to her the very world for which she had longed. She lingered in delighted amaze at its fascinating brink.
               She stood one morning studying a hurried message from her husband. He was to bring Mr. Rutherford in to lunch, and gave one or two special orders.
               She started in surprise, and yet with a pleasurable emotion. He had made two or three flying visits to Dedham, but she had not seen him.
               It was as if she looked to find him changed in those brief months. The same steadfast face, with its kindly but searching eyes, the grave half smile and cordial voice. And something above mere charm of manner, an earnestness of purpose that she had hardly noted before.
               She was lovely and graceful as usual. Her conversational powers had been quickened by their constant use of late, and he found her very entertaining, yet the contrast between herself and her husband was more marked than heretofore.
               "I am glad I did not speak," he mused to himself. "To rouse her energies would be fatal, unless there was some one to direct their force. It is better that she should go on quietly in the old life with only these little outbreaks of frivolity. And yet what a possibility missed!"
               So they passed each other on the bridge of life. How many times would it be thus?
               She spoke of it that evening to Mr. Marchmont. Mr. Thorndike had been called away and was explaining some of his schemes to the new-comer in the library. Occasionally his unmusical voice grated harshly upon Lucy's ear, although the door was closed.
               "He came to the meeting of the directors," Marchmont replied; "although my acquaintance with Mr. Rutherford dates back years."
               "Does it?" and a flash of interest passed over her face that the other did not like to see. "Have you been friends."
               "Circumstances never threw us into very intimate connection, though I am not sure the touch of so divine a kinship would have made itself felt."
               He uttered this with a slightly cynical and yet very fascinating smile.
               "I am afraid that you have not much faith in friendship!"
               "You are correct—I have not. And yet I think it possible when the right souls meet.
               "It seems to me that Mr. Rutherford possesses some of the requisites. He has so much strength and such a grand patience."
               "But is it not for himself alone? Proud and self-centred he is, I grant, yet is he ready to help any struggling soul!"
               Lucy started at this and flushed. Was it not what she had experienced? He had drawn back from her—but then she was a woman and a wife. Perhaps he was right. Somehow she kept a stubborn faith in him, yet she was silent.
               "Mr. Rutherford will always judge events merely as they affect himself. He is not large and free of vision. If you made a friend of him, you would find him attentive, courteous—but he would pause at a certain bound. He would not pass it himself, nor allow another so to do.
               "Are you quite just?"
               "So far as my experience goes," he answered, with assured gravity and gentleness.
               There were certain moods in this man which she distrusted. At times he held her entranced by the subtle harmony of thought and language, or a brilliant flash of intellectual excitement citement—but he never seemed to warm with the feeling he roused.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she began, with a peculiar smile, "how much would you do for a friend, one who loved you with all tenderness and loyalty?"
               "A man or a woman?" he asked, startled by the question.
               "A man I suppose," and she laughed innocently enough at his confusion. "I fancy men's warmest friendships are with men, and women's with their own sex."
               "Not necessarily," he returned, scanning her face in his keen fashion to see the great want of her soul, "There have been some noble examples to the contrary."
               "It may be possible;" a doubtful light playing about her lips, like the breaking of dawn in rosy skies.
               "Why do you doubt?" and his tone passed the boundary line of earnestness.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she said, with a frankness peculiar to her, and which sometimes betrayed her very soul, "it seems to me that it would be dangerous for a young girl to have such a friend. Every grace that he possessed would win upon her heart. What would there be to keep her from loving him? Even the knowledge that he could never return it, might not prove sufficient at the fatal moment, and it would bring her a life-long misery."
               "Then you believe in an eternity of and for love?"
               "Why not?"
               Her answer was so simply straightforward, so severely honest, that he could but smile. This roused her a little.
               "I believe when a women once loves truly and with her whole soul, it is for life, death, and eternity. We judge too often from the imperfect passions all around us."
               Did she call hers imperfect? he wondered.
               "And I think it one of the fragile luxuries of life, not a necessity by any means. Friendship is more satisfying. That burns with a steady, not devastating flame."
               
               "And to a married women her husband must ever be the best friend," she continued, returning to the subject of which they were losing sight.
               "Ah, Mrs. Thorndike, you confuse the two. A friend's vision is cooler and clearer than a lover's. And there might be some points on which a friend's authority would be better, perhaps, from this very reason."
               A dangerous and subtle light played about his eyes, and his voice was modulated to the finest touch of persuasiveness.
               She was silent, revolving not only the idea, but Mr. Marchmont also in her mind. Though there might be moments of fascination, she felt that she should never love him under any circumstances. And yet he was pleasing. Could any harm lurk in such a friendship?
               He saw his advantage, and was not slow to take it.
               "You might go to your husband for affection, for tenderness and all that it is his duty and pleasure to give—but if he had no ear for music, and you were extravagantly fond of it, would it be wrong to enjoy the pleasure given by a friend?"
               "Not in so simple a thing, surely."
               "A true friendship asks only the simplest of gifts. Wiser than love it makes few demands."
               She lapsed into a dreamy revery, and presently he continued—
               "Mrs. Thorndike, let me be your friend, let me teach you what the world really means—for I think you are yet in ignorance of its quiet satisfaction."
               He might have pleaded more warmly, but he did not wish to alarm. This foothold once gained, the rest could be acquired at leisure.
               The bright, arch smile came back to her face.
               "How have I won you?" she asked. "You know I once asked you what people did to inspire friendship?"
               She was like an eager, innocent child, and his soul warmed strangely towards her.
               "I think you need a friend."
               "But I will not be taken out of pity."
               "Pity? Heavens; no. Surely you cannot be ignorant that you possess many qualities requisite for the keenest enjoyment of friendship. I have watched your face as it warmed with some far thought in a poem that missed other souls, or with the fine touches half out of sight in a picture that few besides discerned. You have a quick and great capacity for pleasure and pain, you suffer deeply, though to many you wear a mask over the wound. You have a rich, full soul that no one has fathomed—no, not even yourself; but all your life you have been kept close to a narrow bound shore, and not permitted to see the high mountains cloud-capped and marvellous on the one side, nor the wide flowing ocean beyond—and yet this restricted vision might make shipwreck of your soul's best life. Make one effort and bear out boldly to the open, boundless sea!"
               His voice had been even almost to monotony until the last sentence, when it rang out fine and clear as if he had beheld a glowing vision of happiness for her. It moved her strangely, carried her out of herself.
               "We will be friends," she answered in a quiet tone which contrasted strongly with his latent vehemence.
               Was she wronging the man across the hall? He had bidden her to be happy in any manner that pleased her. She would try this, for balls and parties had begun to have a vapid flavor. A friend to herself;—what did it mean?
               Mr. Thorndike bade his business caller good-night, and turned to his wife. Marchmont was in a revery, by the window.
               "How dull you are," he exclaimed. "Lucy, why did you not play for Mr. Marchmont?"
               "He did not want music to night," she answered, briefly.
               Marchmont, glancing at this commonplace man, felt inclined to laugh, but was too well-bred for any save the most courteous demeanor.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XIV.
               FRIEND OR FOE.
               THE compact between Vaughan Marchmont and Lucy Thorndike was kept rather more scrupulously in some respects than he had intended. She was not quite sure of the latitude the term implied. She had not been reared to a fine sense of honor, but something stronger than training had implanted it in her soul. Her husband was sacred to her, although she began to understand that she had never loved him, and that each day the distance between them widened.
               She was left so entirely to her own resources, you must remember. The narrow, rigid creed of her childhood outgrown, no other firm faith had taken its place. Her husband was so engrossed with business that he found little time to devote to her. He saw no harm in Mr. Marchmont driving her out, attending her to a party or spending evenings at home. Rachel heard a bit of gossip now and then, but she shut her thin lips firmly as she said, "She had washed her hands of the matter."
               They read, sang, and talked together. He did rouse some of the finer chords of her nature, and woke a new spirit of ambition, a larger and more comprehensive feeling than her soul had yet known. There were moments too when she lingered on the verge of fascination. But just when she might have been swept down the swift current a look in the light eyes startled her, or half smile of complacency chilled with a faint misgiving.
               He had played the part so many times that it had become mechanical. Of course the different natures gave it a flavor, and he possessed an inordinate love of mastery and triumph. His aim was to subdue, to make Lucy Thorndike feel that here was a man whom she could love with her whole soul.
               But Lucy Thorndike was unlike the women of society. Small vanities she had in abundance, but the larger ones on which he had counted for success, did not thrive in this soil. She was too essentially honest. To love any man besides her husband was a sin in her clear eyes, and she would not openly walk into such a snare.
               But most important of all, he was not the kind of man whom she could thus have loved. She had little hesitation therefore in accepting his friendship so freely. He had the taste and culture which appealed strongly to her æsthetic sense. A talk with him was much more satisfactory than an evening spent in fashionable gossip over the nothings of society.
               And so the winter wore away. Spring began to make green the hillsides and blossom in the woods. The heat, the glare, the sameness of her petty round grew wearisome to Lucy, and her restless impatience broke out into long rambles through the woods. At first alone, but even here Mr. Marchmont soon became her companion.
               She puzzled him more than any woman he had ever met. Like many others he could make a liberal allowance for trifles and superficiality, but simple truth was like an unknown tongue to him. Her ignorance and charming innocence that he had counted on at first, became strong barriers to oppose his progress.
               She entered the house late one afternoon with her hands full of wild flowers, her cheeks flushed, and her deep eyes alight with strong and earnest feeling. A figure just inside the library door caught her attention, and she took an eager step forward, expecting to see Mr. Marchmont. She looked very lovely and girlish, her scarlet lips half parted with a smile.
               
               "Oh!" she exclaimed, coming to a sudden and rather confused pause.
               "Am I an intruder? I finished all the business that I could find to do, and then accepted your husband's invitation," Mr. Rutherford said in his bright, pleasant tone. "The servant assured me that you had only gone out for a walk."
               "And I am glad to see you, even if my hands are inhospitably full, and perhaps not in the highest state of cleanliness."
               She dropped the flowers on the library table and pushed aside her dainty hat with its long, brown plume.
               "I am only sorry that I did not come earlier," he said half regretfully. "Nothing would have pleased me better than to have shared such a ramble."
               "And I had no companion. Mr. Rutherford, why did you not have a presentiment?"
               She looked up eagerly. What was there in these eyes that he had never seen before? A new depth and strength and richness!
               "I am a dull hand at these things," he said in a slow tone. "I wonder if any one ever came at an important moment when he or she was most needed? But excuse my taking up the subject so eagerly," and he smiled.
               "It would be a pleasant belief if the old charm were true that thrice wishing could bring an absent friend. Only I wonder if our friends would not sometimes object to their summary journeys?"
               "Every delight seems to have an uncomfortable side," he said. "Perhaps, after all, a wiser hand rules even these small events of our lives."
               "Oh," she exclaimed, "you must let me run away a moment and make myself a bit more presentable. And will you question my taste if I have a vase of wild flowers among these exotics?"
               "Indeed, no. They are too suggestive of balmy skies and fragrant woody depths to cavil at."
               She rang for a vase of fresh water, and arranged them in a graceful manner, sending away the refuse. Then she disappeared herself.
               "Sometimes she spent an hour or two in the hands of her dressing-maid, and emerged from thence in a state of splendor. Now she smoothed her golden hair and donned a soft gray silk, fastening a knot of pink ribbon at her throat. She could hardly miss looking pretty in any thing.
               So she hurried back to her visitor and found him still studying the flowers.
               The day had been unusually warm and delightful, and the grate fire was going sleepily to ashes. Through the open window came genial airs of spring. Somehow she seemed to be a part of the fast dawning season, soft, fair and fragrant.
               "What a pleasure it is to see you here again," she exclaimed in her gay glad voice. "I had begun to think you almost as much of a business man as Mr. Thorndike, who never has eyes, ears, nor time for any thing beside."
               "I have been a good deal engrossed during the last year."
               "I think you are looking rather pale and worn," she said.
               "Am I?" Well, I am going to take a long holiday, and a long journey."
               "Are you? Where are you going, Mr. Rutherford?"
               Her bright face was all eagerness and interest—and she questioned like a child.
               "To Greece—and afterward I shall take some rambles along the shore of the Mediterranean."
               She was silent with surprise; and then a very curious feeling took its place—as if she dreaded to have him so far away.
               "Well?"
               His voice was very pleasant and invited some comment.
               "It will be delightful! I more than half envy you;" in a lingering tone.
               
               "Your turn will come some day. There is a peculiar romance lurking about the Orient. It is just as fresh now as in my boyhood, when it was my one dream."
               "No," she answered, softly, "I am afraid my turn will never come for that. Mr. Thorndike is not fond of pleasure-travelling—it bores him."
               "Mine is part duty—though I mean to make it a source of much pleasure. I am guardian for the child of a friend who has lately lost her mother, and is left to the care of some cousins. Her mother's family are anxious about her; and as I esteem them highly, I am the more willing to undertake the quest."
               "And after you reach them?"
               Somehow she half envied the party who should be under his guidance.
               "The child's health is not very firm—so we shall linger by the lovely sea of which poets and painters dream. In some visions brighter than all the rest, I shall remember you."
               "Still, I wish you were not going. I am very unreasonable, you see."
               He had not the vanity to interpret the words into any purely personal compliment. He thought of her rather as one who fearing the path in which she must walk, stretches out timorous hands for courage and strength. This sympathetic reading of her vague mood touched her and imparted a still keener regret.
               "I shall be sorry to have you go," she said; "and yet it is a selfish sorrow. I cannot bear to think of friends as being quite out of reach."
               "Two or three years soon pass. I shall expect to find you the wife of a millionaire on my return."
               The money fell upon her ears with an empty sound. She was thinking of some few things that were better than gold. And especially that far land of song and romance. She had spoken truly when she said travelling for pleasure bored her husband. So she felt herself shut out of that source of enjoyment.
               "Tell me about it," she exclaimed, "the land of citron blooms and orange groves. You know you once described the Alps for me."
               Ah, she still remembered that—one of their pleasant idle evenings.
               He possessed the rare faculty of making marvellous word-pictures. She listened as the twilight fell softly about them, and the gray ashes of the grate dropped in little mounds on the fender. She heard the cool lapping of the waves in his voice, she saw the dreamy shores, the groves, the mountains, the shepherds with their flocks, the indolent peasant drowsing on banks made white with the snow of orange blossoms. And she thought—what a companion this man would be for such a journey. To have him wasted upon foolish, unformed children, was absurd.
               Why had he never married? She roused herself, and glanced up in the shadowy light.
               "I am tiring you."
               "Oh, no, Mr. Rutherford, I was only wondering—"
               Mary came to light up and receive some orders about the table. Then Mr. Thorndike's step and breezy voice were heard, and the dream of Grecian shores vanished.
               The dinner was elegant as usual. Afterward some friends—Mr. and Mrs. Graham, and the lady's sister, a Miss Ronald, dropped in. When the conversation flagged a little, and somehow Lucy could not come down to commonplace level easily, cards were proposed.
               Mr. Rutherford declined playing, and was meditating a graceful departure, when another visitor was announced.
               "Mr. Marchmont!"
               Mrs. Thorndike glanced up to watch the meeting between them. It was eminently courteous, indeed if there was any secret antagonism between the two, they had the good taste not to drag it into business relations or a chance encounter like this.
               "So you went to the woods?" Mr. Marchmont said, in a low tone, nodding to the vase of wild flowers.
               "Yes, I waited nearly an hour for you, then I remembered that Mr. Thorndike said at lunch, that there was to be a meeting of directors or something. But I was not to be cheated out of my ramble!"
               She uttered this with a kind of gleeful elation as if she had achieved a victory.
               He bit his lip. He had been trying to make himself absolutely necessary to this woman's enjoyment of such small pleasures, and occasionally she surprised him by a mood of brilliant and aggravating independence.
               "I dare say you never missed me. The sunshine was brighter, the flowers sweeter, and the birds more joyous for the solitude."
               "Would it be so with you?" she asked, archly.
               "Not if I had a friend to regret."
               The handsome face took on a half-sad expression.
               "Well, I did miss you. Will that content you?"
               The voice and face were alike gay. There was no trace of latent sentiment.
               He knew she must have gone alone, yet he caught himself wondering when Mr. Rutherford could have made his appearance. A feeling of grudging jealousy stole over him. He could allow no one to sway her but himself.
               Low as their voices had been modulated, Mr. Rutherford had caught every word. And now he glanced them both over with a curious feeling.
               A man of the world—handsome, fascinating, and unscrupulous, whose experience in society had been wide and varied, and a woman with beauty enough to make her an object in this man's eyes, but with no safeguard or security against his wiles. Not that he meant positive dishonor. Mr. Marchmont was not likely to throw himself away for the sake of any woman's love. It was that more subtle destruction of faith and trust, of love raised to a pedestal and then rudely plunged into the black and bitter ashes of despair.
               Warren Thorndike sat unconscious of the little tragedy that might be played before him. He laughed boisterously as he took a trick—he was always delighted with triumphs, large or small. How coarse and common the man was! And yet he was Lucy Thorndike's untrusty keeper!
               The two went on with their by-play innocent enough, and not done by stealth on her side at least; but Marchmont's furtive glances were not pleasant things to encounter.
               Miss Ronald, tired of being beaten in every game, and perhaps looking with longing eyes on the two marriageable gentlemen opposite, declared that she was weary of playing.
               "Come, Marchmont, take a hand," said his host.
               "Excuse me. Not after those tremendous columns of figures which are still floating in detachments through my brain. I should make statements instead of points."
               "Ho!" laughed Mr. Thorndike, almost contemptuously, "I don't let 'em trouble me afterward. They're all safe and right. Lucy, you'll have to be Mr. Graham's partner."
               "No, I shall decline out of good feeling for Mr. Graham, merely explaining an old fact to him that my partner is always a most unlucky man. I have no charmed fingers for cards. Let us go to the drawing-room and have some music. Miss Ronald sings."
               The young lady was delighted with this proposal.
               "Oh, hang the music!" burst out Mr. Thorndike.
               His wife's fair face flushed the deepest scarlet. The small refinements that she had tried to engraft upon her husband had not taken root kindly, and occasionally were flung off with a careless wrench.
               Lucy recovered herself and smiled in a kind of royal fashion over the wound in her heart. So, while timid Miss Ronald stood in indecision, she marshalled the way across the hall.
               "Stay, Graham, and have some wine. Won't you join us, Rutherford?"
               "I think I'll take the music as a first course," he replied, rising.
               Mr. Thorndike's prosperity, although much of it was in prospective, was leading rapidly to indulgences. The bright glow of health had changed to the ruddier one of stimulants. Not that he had fallen into positive habits of dissipation, but he was on a dangerous verge.
               Mr. Graham loved wine, cigars and good cheer. They had the library to themselves while the party in the drawing-room sought a more refined manner of enjoyment.
               Miss Ronald was delighted to have this elegant Mr. Marchmont turning music for her and joining in duets. She rather envied Mrs. Thorndike's power of attracting gentlemen, and perhaps would never have given it credit for a large element of simplicity.
               Mr. Rutherford, in the mean while, devoted himself to Mrs. Graham, a showily, over-dressed woman, rather loud in all her ways. Lucy gave him a grateful look. The friendly element in him seemed to come out so strong and clear that again she thought—how one could trust him!
               So the evening drew to an end very pleasantly. Mrs. Graham excused herself for giving a verbal invitation, but she was going to have a small company at her house on Monday evening next, and she should be so happy to have him join them. Mrs. Thorndike had accepted.
               "I expect to leave to morrow," he replied, "therefore I shall be compelled to decline. I merely came to Dedham on a matter of business."
               "Mrs. Thorndike, won't you persuade him? It's only to stay over a day or two."
               Lucy was very good-natured, and perhaps a trifle selfish. Mr. Thorndike had told her to accept this invitation of the Grahams, and in order to surround herself with some agreeable spirits she was ready to plead.
               "You know the steamer sails on Wednesday," he said in a low tone.
               "And I also know that it is quite possible we may never meet again," with something in her voice that sounded like a smothered pain.
               He started at that, then added—
               "But I really have not time."
               "For my sake. I shall claim the Sunday."
               Mrs. Graham's attention had been diverted for a moment, but now she turned.
               "Have you persuaded him?"
               "She has persuaded me," responded Mr. Rutherford with a smile.
               "And you will come on Monday evening?"
               "I will come," for Lucy Thorndike's eyes were still upon him.
               Vaughan Marchmont had been a witness to the last of this, and ground his teeth. He began to hate the other actively, instead of the passive dislike he had hitherto entertained.
               "Perhaps it wasn't quite right," Lucy said in a repentant whisper, "but the temptation was great."
               Mr. Rutherford gave her a kindly smile, showing that he had not taken her teasing amiss.
               When Mr. Thorndike found that Mr. Rutherford was to remain until Tuesday, as he announced it to that gentleman in the course of his Saturday morning's conversation, an urgent invitation was given for him to accept the hospitalities of the Thorndike mansion. There are ample hotel accommodations now, but Warren Thorndike was anxious to do the handsome thing, as he explained to his wife, when he brought Mr. Rutherford home to dinner on the second day.
               When Mr. Marchmont saw him step out of the elegant Thorndike carriage on Sunday morning, his heart was filled with bitterness. The hours they would spend together rankled thornily; even the remembrance that they would be the last for a long while could not soften the sense of personal injury.
               They were simple enough, with but small chance for danger. On Sunday evening as Mr. Thorndike, overcome with indolence and a good dinner, drowsed in his chair, the two ventured upon a conversation that though it contained no word to which the whole world might not have listened, was still a matter sacred between two souls.
               Where had she gained this depth and richness, this power to grasp finer truths, this insight into human souls? Once he had stood aloof with a man's slow, undecided pity, thinking the old groove the safest for her, but she had stepped out of it. Here was the possibility of a noble woman, strong in faith, truth, affection! What master hand thus tuned the chords?
               He had known love to work this miracle; but the man over yonder, with his narrow, turgid brain, responding only to the clink of gold, had no such power. Had she come up to these heights alone?
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               LOITERING ON THE BRINK.
               MRS. GRAHAM'S party was in full blast. An inelegant term I grant, but no other seems to express it perfectly. Although many of the guests were refined there was still something vulgar and common about it. Mr. Graham had owned part of the mining tract and sold it for a fabulous sum, since copper as well as iron had been discovered. So he had built an addition to his house and furnished it in most exaggerated style. The carpets were painfully bright, the reps in glaring flowers, and the cornices broader than any in Dedham.
               The two things that gave Lucy Thorndike most pleasure were the flowers and the music. Then the night was sufficiently pleasant to admit of rambling out on the wide balcony where a glorious moon rivalled the glare within. Of late she had declined large parties upon one plea and another, influenced somewhat by Mr. Marchmont.
               Mrs. Graham and Miss Ronald were in their glory. It elated her greatly to have Mr. Marchmont walk through a quadrille with her and mark another on her card.
               If he meant to pique Lucy Thorndike he failed signally. He might have danced half the night with Miss Ronald, and no cloud would have marred her fair face.
               But he could not endure finding himself superseded. A dangerous flame sped through his pulses. He would regain his lost ground here before Mr. Rutherford's very eyes. He would have no rival triumphing in secret.
               
               When Vaughan Marchmont resolved he could be very winsome. He beguiled Lucy Thorndike into dancing, and he could render it a most fascinating amusement to her. Then he took her to a quiet corner for an ice, and gave her no time for reflection. He was in one of those subtle, magnetic moods that had won him some difficult triumphs before, and he hurried her along on the swift, sparkling tide of excitement. His voice was eagerly persuasive, his eyes played in depths of strange light, like some brilliant auroral gleam.
               She had never been subjected to his full power before. He kept that for women of the world, old campaigners. Now the forceful flame stirred her blood, her brain seemed to swim in languid mazes of satisfaction, forgetfulness. With another it might have been love.
               She made no resistance, because she saw no danger. He had imbued her with his creed, or rather in some moments she seemed to slip indolently into it. No one had ever raised a warning voice against this lapse into heathendom.
               "There is our waltz," he said presently, watching the slumberous light in her eyes.
               "Not now," she answered almost unconsciously.
               Let her go back to Rutherford when this spell had but half accomplished its work! A hard, haughty smile crossed his lips.
               "Yes, now. It's a long while since I have asked the favor," in that half-sad, half-pleading, and wholly persuasive voice that so often wins a woman.
               They went out to the dancing-room, she moving slowly as if in a trance. The lights dazzled, the gales of melody were wafted from some enchanting shore. Weird voices of mystery, tender, passionate and alluring. Half a dozen couples had joined the mazy whirl, and were keeping time with eager, dainty feet.
               Marchmont drew her in with the tide. Mrs. McLaren was just in front of them with a friend, and Miss Ronald farther on in her flowing white robes. She yielded to the swift current and floated on, her glancing feet scarcely touching the floor, the strong arm encircling her rendering any volition of her own unnecessary.
               All the grace and perfection of her nature, the vague aspirations and enthusiasms, the ardent longing and keen wants that sometimes tortured her were met and answered by these wild, quivering strains of music. Life was an everlasting now! She forgot the unsatisfactory past, and the future with its dreary level and arid wastes. The complete satisfaction blossomed in her face like the glory of a new dawn.
               Rutherford stood in one of the wide doorways. He saw the light form swaying like a lily in the summer air, the drooping, large-lidded eyes with gleams of tropical fire kindling their smouldering softness, the still scarlet lips, the sloping shoulders through their veil of white, and the trembling, panting bliss so near to exquisite pain. Why should he start at such a capacity of emotion visible in every feature and movement.
               Once or twice in his life he had attained to some rare possibility in a day dream, of a woman whose nature might thus be responsive to his own, in whom he could awaken different feelings with his changing moods. For an instant he envied Marchmont madly, and then he roused himself.
               What right had he to think about this woman? She was not for him, nor for Marchmont. And then a black gulf yawned before him, she treading carelessly on its verge, beholding no danger in the flowers that covered its edge.
               In the course of his thirty-five years he had seen the tragedy played more than once. He knew the swift way in which souls were lured to destruction, the bitter depths to which they were hurled. Was there no one to save her? Would these women look on and smile until the last fatal boundary had been passed and then hold up their white hands, guiltless, and only speak her name in derisive pity? He studied the faces. Happy wives perhaps, proud, fond daughters, each intent upon her own pleasure. Doubtless they could preach pretty moral homilies in their serious moments, and with as much complacency watch the soul of their sister go down to perdition.
               And then he glanced at her again. Months ago he had discerned in her a vague, mental hungering after a higher and more satisfying sustenance than she had yet known. He dreaded these crude awakenings in women, and when he looked around on her barren life and saw the utter dearth and poverty of true soul aliment, he shrank from bringing her face to face with these cold bare facts. Had she strength to buffet through dark waves of despair and at last sit alone on the dreary shore knowing herself safe and in the right, and yet with a mere negative satisfaction before her? The souls of women needed warmth and love, and when she came to know truly what she could give, would she not in some moment of fatal weakness reach out her hand for forbidden fruit?
               So he had left her safe in her ignorance, he thought, and another was teaching her the dangerous lesson. In any case the result must be misery. Should he save her even now?
               Paul Rutherford had received more than one hard blow from adverse fate. He had been betrayed in matters of sacred faith—he had been wounded in the house of a friend—and one or two that he had plucked from the burning, had laughed him to scorn. Would she?
               After all, what was she to him? The wife of a mere business acquaintance—a young and pretty woman, on whom the world would smile until the very day that she went down, because her husband carried a golden key. Why should he save her?
               Oh, because Christ died for all! Because the first brother, unfaithful to his trust, had received a fatal mark, that all seeing might know the fearful crime. Because in this world one was to reach out a helping hand to another, and tide over the perilous places.
               French horns blew out their last lingering sweetness. The notes of the viol and flute dropped down to silence, and yet the very air still quivered with melody. He saw the one face full of impassioned beauty and languid grace, with the mist of golden curls lying bright about it. And then he drew near.
               Vaughan Marchmont was wild enough to compromise her in the eyes of this man. He wanted to rivet his claim so strongly that it could never be wholly broken again. He gave Rutherford a haughty, supercilious stare, and she smiled dreamily.
               "Oh, my fan," she said in a soft breath. "I believe I put it on the stand with that Marble Flora."
               He bit his lips fiercely beneath the jetty mustache. If there had been a servant near—but there was not—and he must leave her a brief moment. He whispered something in her ear—
               "You are tired," Mr. Rutherford said, in his cool, clear tones, that seemed to revive her like the plash of falling water in a leafy covert.
               "Rather—yes; but it was enchanting."
               Her cheeks glowed, and a magnetic flame seemed hovering about the drowsy eyes.
               "You danced too long. You will not waltz again to-night?"
               She roused herself a little and glanced at him.
               "Yes, once, after supper—I have just promised."
               "Keep the first quadrille for me—it is my secret."
               He uttered this hurriedly, and it was all that he had time to say.
               Mr. Marchmont came with the fan and her shawl.
               "Let us go where it is cooler," he said, and with a glance the eyes of the two men met.
               In some odd way the look crossed Lucy Thorndike's vision as well. She smiled with a quaint piquantness and that peculiar inward knowledge that her senses were sometimes empowered to translate. They were enemies—and why?
               Vaughan Marchmont shawled her and led her away. They sat by an open window watching the couples go by, and were strangely silent.
               A little while afterward supper was announced. They trooped in two and two, chatting gayly amid the jam and crush. Mr. Thorndike had a very showy young woman on his arm, and nodded familiarly as he passed his wife and Marchmont. Some of the women looked askance. What right had she always to appropriate the most remarkable gentlemen?
               She was not in the mood for eating. Some wayward blood was at Carnival tide in her veins. If life could be one long revel—forgetting that she had tired of it before. To-night she felt inspired. Did she stand on the verge of some daring mystery?
               An hour or two later they left the warm and crowded room gladly. The musicians were making a hideous discord tuning afresh.
               "You must dance one quadrille with Miss Ronald," Lucy said to her companion.
               "Why?" rather impatiently.
               "Because I will not have such exclusive devotion," and she laughed gayly. "You owe the hostess some attention."
               "Suppose I pay her the kind I prefer?"
               "You will please to pay her the kind I prefer!" with a pretty imperiousness.—"Dance this first quadrille, for I am engaged."
               "And for how many more?" he asked moodily.
               "None—except your waltz—" as an after-thought. "Come, here is Miss Ronald."
               They turned facing her. Mr. Marchmont would have let her go again but for the calling of the quadrille. He secretly hoped that some one had a prior claim.
               It must have been of a very high order indeed had Miss Ronald allowed it to stand in the way of such a splendid opportunity. She thought it a decided triumph to deprive Mrs. Thorndike of her cavalier right before her face, and was only too happy and too ready to accept. Little did she dream that she owed the honor to her calm and lovely rival.
               Marchmont gnawed his lips spitefully.
               "And you?" he said, glancing back.
               She smiled and nodded in reply, thinking she had kept the secret in a most charming manner. But where was Mr. Rutherford?
               He came in answer to the unspoken question.
               "We shall be late," she exclaimed, holding out her faultlessly gloved hand.
               "Do you care to dance? I had another thought in my mind—"
               Something in the slow moving eyes and grave face arrested her attention. As if he had come to some perplexed strait and hardly knew which step to take next.
               "No," she returned with a short, forced laugh, "at least not if you can offer any other attraction."
               "I want to talk to you—of yourself," he said abruptly.
               She started at this and looked at him so sharply that he flushed. Was this all ignorance or consummate acting? he asked himself.
               "Will it be too cool to walk down the path? I think I can find your shawl."
               "There is one in the room at the end of the hall. How very mysterious you are! Do you know I am quite afraid of you?"
               There was a solitary light burning in this small apartment. The waves of music surged in more faintly, and gave a curious impression to this scene of rather graceful disorder that might have set itself up for a nameless tableau, so harmoniously were the rich colors blended.
               "No, do not be afraid of me," in a husky tone, with the lips growing a shade paler. "I wish I were your friend, your brother. I wish I had some vital claim that might afford a shadow of support for this—this duty."
               
               She was alarmed now. She came a step nearer, her deep eyes glancing fearlessly at him. Her courage and truth and purity impressed him strangely. There was more in her soul and in her nature than he had ever credited them with, and made her just so much the more worth saving.
               "What is it?" she said in her direct way, an air of surprise lifting her nearly level brows.
               Was not all the danger imaginary? Would he dare point it out to her?
               "But you are to waltz again with him," he said, following out his own train of thought rather than addressing her. And with it came back the vision at which he still shivered. Yes, there was urgent need of his speaking, since it must be now or not at all.
               "Mr. Rutherford," and she made a pretty gesture of imperious disdain, "you men are as hard, and little, and grudging with each other as the most narrow of women are said to be. Suppose I do dance with Mr. Marchmont—have I not accorded you the same favor? I am not a silly young girl to be quarrelled about?"
               Her voice, though low, had a steely, unflinching ring in it, and with a brave expression she seemed to hold herself above them both.
               Oh," he said, "it was for your sake;" and there was a beseeching pathos in his voice such as a mother might have used. "To-morrow I shall go away, and I should never want your face to rise up in judgment against me!"
               "What bit of melo-drama is this, Mr. Rutherford?"
               Could he make her understand that she was dallying upon the brink of danger? Or was she one of those pure high souls that at the important moment soar above pitfalls spread in the way? For her almost scornful voice stung him.
               "God forbid that I should wish to turn it into melo-drama," he said earnestly. "It is because you stand so alone, because when you come to peril no warning voice might be raised—"
               She gave a sudden start as if a gulf had yawned at her very feet. "Peril! peril!" she repeated, as if not half comprehending, and then she looked long and keenly into his eyes.
               What vision came to her through that deep patient endurance of her scrutiny! Again the lights and the music wavered before her, the almost fiery breath upon her cheek, the strong arm encircling her. Yes, she saw his meaning now, and her cheek was stained with deepest crimson.
               "Oh, heavens!" she cried in her wild confusion and distress—"you can't think—no, it would be cruel!"
               "I think you a very child in your unwisdom, your eager, joyous spirits, your love of amusement, and your occasional spasms after a better and higher knowledge. But the world will not let you stay here. You must go on in some fashion. I hoped one dreamy day in the autumn past that the skies might always be as fair for you, the way unruffled; and since for highest joys too many of us pay in keenest pain, I prayed that the one might barely miss, the other never find you."
               "Yes," she interrupted with scornful vehemence, "a man's prayer truly! And I tell you that I hate these narrow bounds of ignorance. Do you suppose that dressing and dancing, eating and drinking and gossip make lofty women? Yet you thrust us back to that! You ask for us vapid, stagnant lives, and then expect us to be strong."
               He folded his arms across his broad chest, and his face wore an expression of pitying tenderness.
               "You found a friend!"
               He would not answer her tirade in kind.
               "Well," she said haughtily, "and what of him?"
               She possessed a certain inborn chivalry that would have made her defend the absent to the latest moment.
               "We have known each other in a casual way for years. So far as the world goes, I believe Vaughan Marchmont stands fair, but I think him a dangerous guide for a woman. Better remain forever in ignorance, than be enlightened by him."
               
               "You misunderstand him—and me also," she said proudly, turning away.
               "No. Listen a moment farther. He is agreeable, fascinating, versed in all the elegant ways of society, cultured and refined. He seeks only the keenest and highest pleasures. Common or vulgar amusements have no charm for him. I have seen him meet with a young, fresh soul that, reaching out for guidance, took him for a master. He opened worlds of beauty and delight, he led it through flowery mazes, draining drop by drop its sweetness. He liked the power to sway, without the responsibility of answering to a well-trained conscience. And when he wearied of the blossom, it was thrown aside and left to wither."
               "He could not be so selfish, so heartless," she flung out indignantly.
               "And if he were true? Child, look into the future. Would it be wise to learn the lore of love from such teaching? Think of another claim!"
               She faced him with the courage of innocence and self-esteem, that always feels itself secure.
               "I am not afraid of love," she exclaimed scornfully. "You pay me a high compliment, indeed, to think that I would fail in the commonest virtue of life—fidelity. Do I not know where my duty lies, think you?"
               "Forgive me," he said. "I have wounded you unnecessarily. But you seemed to me like a little sister, too precious to be brought to any pang. Forget all this when I am gone."
               He opened the door and let in the blaze of light, the swells of music and laughter.
               "We will not need the walk now," he rejoined, and his face was turned away.
               "So longs the moth for the flame," he said sadly to himself.
               She remembered that in some unconscious way she was left alone with a group of ladies, and that presently Vaughan Marchmont came. There was a peculiar, questioning glitter in his eyes, from which she shrank.
               "You did not dance?" he said abruptly.
               "No. My cavalier fancied that he found a more delightful entertainment."
               There was a studied carelessness in her voice that did not escape Mr. Marchmont, and he felt that she was ill at ease. He could only guess that she had spent the intervening time with Mr. Rutherford, or her husband, but they had left Thorndike with a group of gentlemen over their wine, so the last supposition was hardly probable.
               "I am not sure but Rutherford has serious objections to dancing," he said at a venture.
               She flushed and bit her lip. This man was gifted with a peculiar prescience.
               "He asked me to dance," she replied coldly, "but we talked until the sets were formed. I do not believe that we were missed."
               "Yes," he said, pointedly, "I missed you."
               She was in no mood for compliment, and received this silently.
               So they sat through the Lancers, sustaining a kind of fragmentary conversation, the greater effort on his part. Now and then some one gave them a sharp glance that brought the blood to her face. She was revolving the past warning in her mind, angry at Mr. Rutherford, and ready to suspect every one else.
               "There is the Esmeralda," he said. "Will you try it?"
               "No, I am too tired."
               He turned abruptly. The beautiful eyes were drooping and listless, and the scarlet lips wore a cold, resolute expression.
               "But I have your promise," he returned, the determination for mastery showing in his voice.
               She started at it. Had she given him any such right? Did she like the power?
               
               "I think you must excuse me to-night;" slowly, and in a tone that she meant to have been careless, but it was not.
               For a man with his suavity and patience, it was strange how her words ruffled him. Interference was one of the things that he could illy brook, and in his supreme selfishness he longed to crush where he could not control. He might have thought that Rutherford's reign ended with this evening, and that at some other time he would be able to gain a more important victory; but he felt in a vague way that she had been warned against him.
               "Let us go out on the balcony," he said. "It is warm here—and you are looking pale."
               She was really glad to get out of the crowded room. On their way they passed Rutherford.
               His grave, penetrating eye appeared to challenge her very soul in that brief instant, and a tender, pitying, yet positive strength seemed to invite her to lean upon his clear and pure judgment. A moment ago she had hated him—why this sudden revulsion?
               Marchmont ground his white teeth together in jealous rage. Careless friendship and liking to be amused, grew into a deeper and more determined feeling.
               "You shall rest here;" he said, arranging a chair for her with lover-like devotion, and seating himself so that she could not be easily disturbed.
               The night wind blew fresh about her fevered and throbbing brow. She glanced in-doors at the throng, eagerly intent upon passing pleasures, and then at the calm, still heavens above. Were these souls fitting themselves for any of the grand duties of life? Suppose sickness or misfortune came upon them, were they learning to be patient and strong in such a school? Was it not all vanity and weariness!
               He studied her face by the faint light out here. She carried her pains, pleasures, and perplexities too readily upon it, and he could read even now the defence she was meditating. Every moment would give her strength, so he could hardly speak too soon.
               "Come," he said in his most winning voice, touching her hand with the softest clasp; this music is enough to inspire one."
               "No," she answered, in a weary yet decisive tone, for his words had somehow jarred upon her soul. "Excuse me. I cannot dance again to-night."
               "I shall hold you to your promise."
               The cool, bland voice, made her shiver with distrust. His eyes were filled with a subtle light, and his lip wreathed itself in smiles. In some moods this might have prevailed with her, but she shrank now from these tokens of half suppressed power. The man looked dangerous and merciless to her.
               "I cannot," she exclaimed, with the old girlish spirit and vehemence. "I am tired! sick!"
               Her face attested it. Curious, flickering lines were settling about her mouth, and gray, wan shadows haunted her eyes, that seemed questioning for some means of escape like a wild, frightened thing brought to bay.
               He had seen such a struggle before, and knew that if he could keep her from acting upon it immediately, the victory would still be his. And as she rose he barred her with his arm, fain to keep her in her shady corner, now that the crowd was surging out for air.
               "Let me go!" she exclaimed, with flashing eyes. "How dare you!"
               He had no fancy for a scene, though he would not have hesitated to compromise her. But she threaded her way through the throng and disappeared, while some one stopped him with a chance word.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THROUGH THE SEA.
               LUCY THORNDIKE went through the dancing room, through the hall, and peered in among the card-players. He was not there. Turning, she confronted Mr. Rutherford.
               "Will you find my husband and bring him here?" she asked, sharply, her feeling of terror and longing for escape over-powering all else.
               He went without a word. It seemed to her that she waited an age. Her limbs smote together tremblingly, and her brain was in a whirl of pain and confusion.
               At last he came. The keen, far-reaching part of her soul took in the whole at a glance, the face flushed almost to purple, the eyes bleared and with a stupid stare.
               "Warren, will you take me home? I am tired, sick of the heat and glare. And it is late—nearly two."
               He gave a coarse unmeaning laugh.
               "What ails you?" he asked.
               "I want to go home!"
               There was a pitiful entreaty in her voice that would have pricked any other man to the heart.
               "By Jove! Can't you go then? I'm not ready. Why can't you go back to your dancing?"
               Her face was growing frightfully pale, and she swayed as if she would have fallen. That sobered him a little.
               "Yes," he said, not crossly, but in a careless way that cut her to the heart—"you had better return. I'll order the carriage. You won't mind being alone! Hillo! There's Rutherford!"
               Mr. Rutherford acceded to his host's request. He handed Mrs. Thorndike into the carriage—saw that she was sufficiently protected from the keen air, and took a seat opposite. His manner was almost fatherly.
               Neither of them spoke during the drive. He assisted her out, and they entered the library. The light was burning low—the grate was half filled with ashes—books and papers were scattered about the table. The comfortless look struck a chill to her heart; or perhaps it was more the thought of the fearful spiritual desolation that surrounded her.
               "Shall I ring for your maid?" he asked, in a solicitous tone.
               "No." She turned, weakly, throwing off her shawl, and made as if she would have spoken, but her lips moved without sound.
               He wanted to speak, to comfort, but he remembered his rash interference of a short time before, and gave her a look of wise and tender pity.
               "You see it all;" she said, hoarsely, with strained blue lips, and flickering shadows about the unnaturally bright eyes. "You see the life before me—perhaps better than I, for you understand more of the world. I don't know whether you were wise or over hasty, but you have thrust my friend beyond the pale of my faith. And yet it was only friendship—believe that of me, of him."
               "I believe it of you;" he returned, bowing his head.
               She seated herself, and leaned her clasped hands on the table. You could tell how strongly her feelings were working by he nervous manner in which the fingers interlaced each other.
               "But it is dangerous. You are right enough there. Only what shall I do, shut out of every thing? My life went astray at the beginning. How can one gather the confused and broken threads and begin anew?"
               Her voice smote him with its pitiful entreaty.
               "It is a dark and thorny way;" he said, slowly. "This was why it seemed better to my finite and narrow judgment, that you should linger in the paths of negative content."
               "It is too late; too late!" she cried, sharply.
               "Yes, it is too late. You have tasted of knowledge even if it turn to bitter ashes upon your lips. But why should it. Is not your soul brave enough to dare it?"
               "What shall I do?"
               Her voice was so earnest, and her pale face warmed with an expression of eager interest.
               If he could guide her! If he dared to take this trembling soul into his care as a brother might. If her husband—but counting upon him was useless—so she must fight her way up to the light alone. He experienced the most profound pity for her.
               "What shall I do?"
               Her eyes were strained and glittering. It seemed to her as if her soul were vibrating between two unknown shores.
               "It is a hard matter to advise. A mother or sister might guide you aright, or a true and noble friend, but I think you will find that men are apt to bring in themselves, and that the simplest regard might warm into a snare and perplexity. Your first duty will always be your husband."
               She shivered visibly. And yet once she was glad to have him take her out of a life that looked so much more dreary than this. But it was a farce to say that she had ever truly loved him! He had never been positively unkind—but when she contrasted him with those she had come to know and admire now, her whole soul was filled with disgust.
               "And after that some paths are open, which, if rightly followed, may be made to yield much satisfaction. I think you women are too impatient for results. If you cannot make your lives perfect and harmonious in a few months, you give up in despair."
               She answered with a vague, dreary smile of assent.
               "The soul finds many paths of enjoyment. Literature and music are open to you; and highest of all, that of ministering to others who are in trouble and suffering."
               "I don't know any;" she said, vehemently. "I sometimes wonder, if in all the length and breadth of God's earth there is so miserable a creature as I!"
               "You, with your youth and health, and your many blessings! Ah, you know little of distress, and grief, and shame, and the black host of evils that follow in the wake of some lives!"
               She was abashed by his earnestness.
               "You can raise yourself in the scale of humanity. You can cultivate true and noble aims, you can keep your soul pure and lofty—and when you tire of the frivolous pleasure of society, here will be a living fountain at which you may refresh your thirsty lips. Gratification of every passing desire is not always the way to happiness, as you will find. But it seems to me, at times, that the consciousness of action from pure and high motives, proves more satisfactory than mere pleasure."
               Something in his look and tone roused and undercurrent of immortal longing in the keen yet deep-seated fibres of her soul. A wild impulse to cling to him as to a rock of safety whose foundation no tempest or perpetual surges can overthrow, sprang up within her. It seemed as if a woman might blossom into perfection with such a man for her guide and stay.
               He struck the deepest answering chord in her nature. Had she been free it would have proved a pure and irrevocable love; but she was not likely to think of this in connection with him. She felt stronger for the glance of those open, honest eyes.
               "I think you are right in many things," she said in a low voice, that cost her a strong effort to steady. "I have devoted too much of my time and energy to pleasure. I have fretted against the bars to perfect happiness, forgetting whose hand placed them there. My soul was dark and narrow and illguided when I chose my destiny, but it was a free choice. I see my duty clearer. Pray that I may have strength to perform it."
               "I will. I can trust you in God's hands. He hears those who cry to Him out of deepest darkness and despair."
               She rose, and obeying her first impulse gave him her hand.
               "Good-night," she said falteringly. "I shall remember this when you are away."
               "May God watch over you and keep you," he returned fervently. "When you find the way hard, be strong of soul. The good soldier presses ever forward, you know."
               She turned then and went to her room. Tired she was; nay, her physical strength seemed utterly exhausted, but the fire and inward resolution shot up into a steady flame. She would make her life of more worth than the course of sensuous beauty and delight hinted at by Mr. Marchmont, and indolently followed by herself for the last few weeks, could ever bring. There was something nobler.
               And then she shuddered with a sickening despair. The love that perfected and hallowed all true existences, must forever stand apart from hers. She did not deceive herself by thinking that she could raise her husband to any higher sphere. His passions were all of the earth, earthly. Love of money, applause, and position, common endearments when he felt good-natured, and if cross or unlucky in any move, his wife was sure to feel it. Ah, how blind she had been in those days when he seemed a hero!
               He came in an hour or two later, stumbling over the floor with an unsteady step. What if to the rest he should add the horrible vice of drunkenness! She lay breathless in a spasm of agony. Could she do nothing for him?
               Some traces of her vigil were visible the next morning. Paul Rutherford noted them in silence. A pang tore his heart as he thought of her fighting the hard battle without even a word of commendation. For though her husband might be pitiless to any open sin, after the manner of such men, he could never understand the temptation, the struggle, and the victory which ennobles some natures. To escape the danger would be no great virtue in his eyes, for the subtler forms of allurement were not palpable to his dull understanding.
               Their parting words were uttered with a quiet dignity on her side, and a sadness on his which touched her. A vague impression haunted both minds that it might be for the last time.
               Mr. Thorndike was still hilarious, having hardly recovered from his last night's revel. And it must be confessed that he was not sorry at the prospect of Mr. Rutherford's long absence. He dreaded to have the clear eyes pounce down upon any scheme that was not quite perfected, or where a slight flaw could be detected. Marchmont was not half as likely to keep him in check.
               For days afterward Lucy felt languid and irresolute. The main business of life seemed to go on as usual, but its aspect had changed for her. She heard a little gossip about Mr. Marchmont and Miss Ronald when Mrs. Graham called to express her solicitude at Mrs. Thorndike's state of health. She almost wished that it might be true.
               And since she was neither well nor ill, Lucy excused herself from gayeties. They had lost their flavor. Mr. Marchmont held aloof in a curious state of mind. He meant that she should summon him to her side again; but there seemed small probability.
               The season was very early. By the middle of May the days were long and warm, and the dense smoke from the factories insupportable. Mrs. Wilder held herself in readiness for an invitation to accompany her cousin's wife to some fashionable resort. But it never came. Lucy went to a quiet little sea-side place not many miles distant. Her husband could come whenever he chose. She wanted to do nothing to widen the breach between them. Some new and finer ideas had crept into her mind concerning her duty towards him. When he was away she made noble resolves, but in his presence they appeared so utterly impracticable. And then she remembered with a discouraged feeling how her earlier efforts had been frustrated by his indifference.
               With herself she began at the foundation. She was a severe censor—as youth generally is when it takes up a theory in earnest. Her littleness, her vanity, her wretched indecision, her love of approbation, all passed in stern review before her.
               It was a crude and spasmodic effort. Often did she feel inclined to give it up and return to the old careless life, but it seemed as if that had rolled away forever.
               I think she did miss Mr. Marchmont's refined and delicate attentions. The gayeties were of so mild a type that she did not need to dread them. There were some pleasant people here—two or three elderly, motherly ladies, but she was in no mood to tone herself to the insipidities of life. She needed freshness and strength, the two things that seemed to have gone out of her world, leaving the dreariness that it was so hard to overcome. One week she thought she gained a little in steadiness of endeavor, and the next it was lost.
               Yet unconsciously her communings with nature did her good. She was learning to make some distinctions that would stand her in good stead later, in the time of sorer trouble and need. She returned home much improved in health.
               Mr. Marchmont had just left Dedham to attend to some important business connections. The rest of the little world seemed going on the same as ever. Miss Ronald had captivated a dashing major of the regular army, and was preparing to go off to the frontier. Mrs. Glenfield and some of the ladies made their regular calls. Lucy went home and took tea with her father and Rachel, and there outward excitement appeared to stop.
               It was a very dull autumn. The air was rife with uncomfortable fortable rumors and surmisings. Two or three large houses went down with a crash, and dragged the smaller ones in their wake. Mr. Garth shook his head mysteriously, and bemoaned his son-in-law's extravagance to Rachel.
               "It would have been different if he had chosen a prudent wife," she would return with a sigh.
               Lucy felt the change in her husband. He was growing morose and impatient; he flew into unreasonable passions at the smallest trifles. Well for her that she had become in some degree weaned from society. She could have her old dresses made over in perfect security, she could sit at home and practice her music, her only solace now, and not be disturbed by the comments of her neighbors.
               She might have heard the whispers, but all Dedham thought she was holding haughtily aloof. Heads were nodded and significant winks exchanged. There was nothing doing at the mines, the factories were discharging their workmen and contracting daily. The prospect of a hard winter loomed threateningly on the horizon of the little town.
               The crash came at last. Warren Thorndike returned home one night much worse for the liquor he had taken to keep up his spirits, and announced to his wife in tones of derision that her grand reign was over. No more parties and extravagant dinners, no more diamonds and flaunting silks. She must give up her servants and come down to the level of other women!
               She glanced at him in utter incredulity and amazement, not taking in the fact at all. Was it not some cruel taunt of an overheated brain?
               "Well," he shouted coarsely, bringing his fist down upon the table with a giant's strength, "don't you understand? You've flown high my lady but it's all come to an end. I'm ruined—do you hear?"
               "Oh, Warren!" she exclaimed, obeying her first impulse, "If you had not undertaken so many things! The coal mine would have been enough, or the iron—or even if you had gone on with father—"
               "Much you know about it," he returned angrily. "All that you women care for is fine clothes and parties, but there's no more for you! And I want to know if you're any better than your sister!"
               "I never said that I was," and the fire flashed into Lucy's eyes. "And the extravagance has not been altogether mine. You invited your friends here and desired that they should be handsomely entertained. I only did your bidding."
               "And you were glad enough to come and live here in grand style, to make a show and flaunt round in your carriage!"
               Lucy Thorndike glanced at her husband in amaze. She had been willing enough to share the good things of this life, but they had been gifts from him rather than any demands on her part. And now that he should taunt her with it! The indignant blood rushed hotly through her veins.
               Yet he was not master of himself, she saw that with a feeling of shame. Recrimination would only make the matter worse.
               "I am sorry for your losses, Warren," she said, choking down the anger and scorn that would rise. "And whatever sacrifice you require of me shall be cheerfully made."
               Her kind tone partially disarmed him.
               "We must give up the house," he returned doggedly
               "Is it so bad as that? Is it a total loss? And oh, Warren, Mr. Rutherford is away!"
               She thought of that with alarm.
               "Well, is it any worse for him than for the rest?"
               "Will he lose all that he has invested?"
               "The whole thing is flat, I tell you. Twenty cents on a dollar couldn't be squeezed out of it!"
               "And you know that the invested the money of some ward. It's not altogether his own loss. You were so sure, Warren!"
               There was a strange, eager light in her face, as if she wished to save Mr. Rutherford from the wreck; at least, so her husband interpreted it. A hateful, smouldering jealousy kindled in his soul.
               "So, that is it?" he sneered coarsely. "You can bewail his loss. Perhaps your attractions kept him hanging here, with his lordly ways and fine manners. I never did like the man. And you—"
               "Don't say one more such word to me;" and Lucy Thorndike confronted her husband in fearless innocence, drawing her slender figure to its fullest height. "He was your guest. He came by your invitation, and to the very last he was a true and loyal gentleman! He would scorn to utter one wrong word to any woman. And if I regret his loss it is that it seems so like treachery when our hospitality has been urged upon him."
               The tone and manner cowered Warren Thorndike. The truth that had been dimly forcing its way into his soul by slow degrees seemed to stamp itself ineffaceably at that moment. This woman was not on his level, and never had been. She looked so simple standing there before him, her soft dark dress clinging about her graceful figure, a white rose in her hair, and a cluster of geranium leaves at her throat, that he could find no fault with her attire. But the steadfast and almost scornful eyes, the firm mouth, the flush of pride and indignation angered him beyond control. She was his wife, and she should not be lavishing her pity upon other men.
               He told her so in not very choice language; but before he had finished his tirade she swept from the room and left him alone in his unreasonable resentment.
               He had dared to insinuate that this man had been swayed by base and selfish motives! Her heart swelled at the wrong, and hot, passionate tears filled her eyes. It was well, perhaps, that he was not here.
               But oh, the forlorn and miserable life that stretched out before fore her! Still the clear low voice rang through her brain, just as when it had said—
               "Your first duty is toward your husband."
               Yes, it was true. And now it was time to practice the lessons so sternly taught her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               IN THE DESERT.
               DEDHAM was alive with gossip for the next fortnight. Mr. Thorndike's downfall was commented upon in every imaginable manner. There were meetings of directors and stockholders, and censure flowed freely.
               And yet it could hardly be said with strict truth that Warren Thorndike was more to blame than many of the others. There was money in the undeveloped resources of both mines, but these panic-stricken men thought little of that now. Those who had been induced to lend their money in the prospect of large dividends were clamorous for half or quarter. Like the majority of the great accidents of life, most of those engaged lost their presence of mind and rushed madly about for any remedy.
               In one sense it proved the salvation of Warren Thorndike. The shock sobered him effectually. He had a good, strong, keen brain, and a sanguine temperament. On Marchmont's return the two went over the matter with patient carefulness. So unlike in nearly every respect, they still met on the strong vantage ground of self. And when Marchmont said, "There a fortune in it still, if matters could only be tided over," Thorndike took heart.
               The coal speculation was disposed of advantageously, considering all things. Marchmont came forward with considerable ready money and bought up the iron stock for almost nothing. Warren Thorndike sold his grand house for a large advance on its first cost, and managed to come out of the general wreck with tolerably clean hands. He was not dishonest nor a villain. Lucy made her part of the sacrifice cheerfully. She even gave up her diamonds, for somehow they seemed hateful in her sight.
               The next important question was what they should do with themselves.
               "I am not sure but boarding will be cheaper," Lucy had said, and Warren repeated this to Rachel Garth.
               There had sprung up a strange sympathy between Warren Thorndike and his narrow-minded but clear-sighted sister-in-law. She had taken it for granted that he meant to be scrupulously honest and pay his debts to the utmost, and her faith in him when he was an object of general condemnation had given her a strong hold over him. He fell into the habit of coming to her for advice; and when events turned out more prosperously than any one had expected, her pride and triumph for him had proved very flattering.
               He had repeated Lucy's remark for her approbation or otherwise.
               "A very sensible resolve on her part," commented Rachel. "She knows nothing about housekeeping, and you have had enough of servants' wastefulness."
               She discussed the matter with her father. "We might take them in here for the present," she said.
               Mr. Garth did not object. By slow degrees Rachel had come to be the ruling spirit of the small household. He would not have believed that he was failing in strength or energy, but the years began to tell upon him.
               Rachel made the bargain with Mr. Thorndike. She fancied in her narrow but conscientious way that she meant to do the best for them both. With a fair chance Warren might retrieve the past. She would exercise some supervision over Lucy and keep her from rushing into imprudent excesses. Their house was large enough for both.
               It had been a dreary time to Lucy. Mr. and Mrs. Glenfield had come with the usual condolence. Indeed, the lady had improved the occasion as she did every one. It could never be brought against her that she turned away from the poor and unfortunate.
               Yet the well-meaning platitudes roused a feeling of bitter defiance in Lucy's heart. What did this woman's complacent soul know of the keen stings of fate?
               She could blame none of her old friends for neglect. Some came from curiosity—from the pleasure of triumph. They questioned her about the future, mildly regretted the past, and prepared to drop her out of their books until she could reign again in purple and fine linen.
               "It is the way of the world;" Mr. Marchmont said, sitting out one of these fashionable calls.
               Circumstances had brought them together again. He had been floating around Dedham society a little, but he had not found her peer. He had been exceedingly dissatisfied with the abrupt termination of their friendship, and was anxious to renew it.
               "I believe there is a very small amount of true sympathy in the world," she made answer, drearily.
               "It is so rare that it is often classed with the counterfeit."
               "And so one comes to self-reliance, which after all, may be the best."
               "And yet do you harden yourself against the world? Does it not leave a sore feeling in the depths of your heart?"
               She glanced up with a faint flush.
               "I was your friend once. I will not ask you to explain the misconception that came between, for I think it was through the influence of another. But if I can be of any service in the future, command me."
               He rose and left her at that, and she remembered, as he meant she should, the pleading light in his eyes, and the persuasive inflection of his voice.
               
               He had elected to remain in Dedham a year or two longer; for he felt confident that there was some money to be made. He disliked business of any kind, although he had a natural aptitude for it; but he did mean to secure wealth with this stroke.
               Warren Thorndike informed his wife of his plans. They would go home for the present, as it was almost impossible for them to tell now what their future would bring. He had never been in the habit of consulting her to any extent, and was surprised when she replied—
               "You might have inquired whether such an arrangement would be pleasant for me."
               He stared in blank wonder.
               "Why should it not be pleasant?" he asked.
               "I married you to escape them;" was on her tongue, but she did not utter the sad truth because she felt it too true. He had taken her part against them then—had he forgotten all the circumstances?
               Human nature is complex and inconsistent. He had enjoyed his triumph over the Garths at the time of the marriage; but now that it was to his interest, he was quite willing to accept any favors at their hands. He had none of the fine, sensitive pride that characterized her.
               "Well, we can try it;" she said, drearily.
               "I'm sure it's kind of Rachel."
               He glanced sharply at her. She found now that she seldom gained the victory in these wordy contests. He had grown very masterly in argument, and fallen into the habit of treating her as if she were of no special importance.
               She went home to talk the matter over with Rachel—who was quite condescending.
               "I shall furnish my own rooms," she said, "and I wish to bring my piano. There are some pictures and articles that were not salable, and others for which I really care."
               "There's plenty of room I'm sure;" was the elder sister's grim retort.
               Lucy lingered until her father came in. He stooped in the shoulders, and was a good deal wrinkled. Somehow this showed more plainly to-day than ever before.
               Contact with the world, through the medium of his son-in-law, had softened some of Mr. Garth's asperities. Perhaps, too, since his daughter had come to have a distinct individuality of her own, he had respected her the more.
               "I am coming home again, it seems;" and she took his hand in both of her soft palms.
               "Then you've decided?" with a wistful glance.
               "I believe my decision was not needed;" with a hard look at Rachel.
               "It will be a great change, to be sure," eyeing the plain and bare-looking room.
               "I shall bring some of my brightness," she said with a smile. "You won't object to it now. We are all wiser than we were in that old time."
               In his heart he thanked her for the words and look.
               Yet Lucy Thorndike shed many bitter tears at the prospect of leaving her luxurious home. The diamonds, rich dresses, and the parties would not be so great a sacrifice. She had tested them, and knew their hollowness and vanity. But the beauty and grace, the large rooms and wide halls, the flowers, the elegance and order, the ease and home feeling, could not be hers in a house in which her sister was mistress.
               Rachel stood aghast at the loads of things that were sent. She ventured to remonstrate a little.
               "Then we'll burn them up," declared Lucy in her desperate fashion. "As well as to sell them for nothing!"
               Such a step would have been next to the waste of buying them, and Rachel was silent.
               The change and the excitement roused Lucy. She set herself vigorously to work, and absolutely transformed the old house. Up stairs she had a sleeping and a sitting-room, and though they were dingy, low-ceiled places, she made them little nests of beauty.
               Some of her friends followed her even here, and old acquaintances dropped in, rather curious to see if she fitted the niche. Lucy was too young and buoyant of soul not to feel a stir of pleasureable emotion at being thus made somewhat of a heroine.
               "In my opinion it's a good thing," said Miss Kip, whom three years had made sharper of feature and sharper of tongue. And then she had never cordially forgiven Lucy Garth for spoiling her plans.
               "She was going it with a high hand! A fine thing to ruin her husband in less than three years. If he'd had his eyes about him, he'd never a' married her!"
               Of Mr. Thorndike's extravagance no one complained. His ambitious schemes that had overreached themselves, his almost prodigal use of money that was to bring him rich returns was not to blame for the failure!
               Men and women denounced Mrs. Thorndike's wastefulness, though perhaps her own sex were the most unsparing and bitter. She felt the injustice of it keenly. How could she have helped or hindered? Perhaps such a woman as Rachel might have had some influence, but hers had ever been a mere straw.
               And so by midwinter Lucy was settled in her new home, the excitement pretty well over. She had insisted upon her position being well defined, for she knew there was not much to expect from Rachel's sympathy. Her rooms were her castle. She came and went as she liked, entertained her friends, read, studied, or devoted her hours to music. Any thing to keep from dwelling too keenly upon the dreary life before her.
               Mr. Marchmont rendered himself a welcome visitor.
               Mr. Garth admired the hearty manner in which he had made a good fight against misfortune; Mr. Thorndike had come to depend upon him for a resolute carrying out of their plans. Rachel tolerated him. She watched her sister narrowly, and if Lucy had been betrayed into any special admiration of this handsome man, it would have proved the signal for her disapprobation.
               If Lucy had been desperately in love, neither she nor he would have proclaimed their secret upon the house-tops. He brought her an occasional book or piece of music, and sometimes sang with her, but never when they were alone. What Rachel did not see was the tender, unspoken but respectful sympathy, the accidental meetings elsewhere, and the infrequent but always pleasant walks.
               Perhaps if he had knows that he was never again to exercise his olden fascination over Lucy Thorndike, he would hardly have striven so ceaselessly. There had come a higher ideal of manly perfection to her, and the sorrowful fact, in that it was too late, steeled her heart against all lesser temptations. He was a link between this hard and stinted existence and the world of refinement and culture for which she longed. She knew now that money could not always bring it, and she felt that a cruel fate had shut her out. Of what avail, she asked herself daily, was the fitting her soul for this rare possibility that might never come!
               And so she listened to him as one sometimes does to a strain of music that must presently vanish. It was a pleasant break among these commonplaces in which her life was set; a ray of light which served to keep endeavor alive.
               He had begun the acquaintance simply from a spirit of indolence and a desire to be amused. When he had roused her a little, and saw the fine soul ready to leap out of bondage, it became the love of power. If she had yielded and paid him the homage that so many women gave, he would have been satisfied, and soon tired of the victory. Then had come the break between them. He fancied that she understood him, that she had been warned, indeed, and hating the one who had thus secretly baffled him, he determined some day to regain what he had lost.
               Was it the misfortune that had worked this change in her? Instead of the simply charming woman that she had been before, she was surrounded now with an indefinable grace and strength. As if from the old, eager, undisciplined girlishness a higher womanhood had dawned. He was not insensible to purity and goodness, and he experienced a kind of pitiful regret that it should be wasted upon such a being as Warren Thorndike.
               "Why did he not marry the other one," he mused, seeing them together. "What soul has he for any thing beyond money!"
               And as he watched more closely, he saw what he fancied others had failed to note. Week by week Warren Thorndike was yielding to a stronger influence than any his wife possessed. I am not sure but that she might still have made her beauty a foil; had she cared, but he had outgrown its first charm, and her soul had gone so far beyond his that he had come to have an uneasy sensation regarding her.
               The man, too, was changing rapidly. From the free and lavish manner of the last three years he made the not uncommon bound to penuriousness. He meant to retrieve the past and become once more a rich man. Rachel seconded this endeavor.
               "As if money were all!" Lucy said, with a scornful laugh that angered him.
               But when she found herself subjected to Rachel's careful oversight and economy, every pulse within her mutinied.
               "What is it to you?" she said, one day, stung to an angry retort. "Am I not his wife? Is it I who will suffer through his poverty, or you?"
               "You will be a foolish and wasteful woman to the end. You care for nothing but to be dressed in silk and sit at your piano. What word of encouragement do you ever have for him, when his toil is over? What care have you for the future and his old age?"
               "You should have married him yourself, Rachel! My God, I wish you had!" she declared, wringing her hands with a sudden sharp pang. "And you thought once that he cared for you. I know you did!"
               Rachel Garth turned pale with passion.
               "Oh," her sister said, "what a wreck I have made of all our lives! God help me."
               "Put away these foolish tragedy airs!" exclaimed Rachel, sternly. "Act as becomes a prudent, married woman, and study your husband's interests."
               Lucy was awed a little by the tone. Her heart was too full for a reply. And yet she would not have stooped to misjudge her husband or her sister.
               But that night she broached a subject which she had been revolving all the afternoon. The spring was coming, and they ought to be looking for a home of their own. This had been merely a temporary arrangement.
               He looked at her in stupid surprise.
               "What fault is there to find with this?" he asked. "It is your father's house."
               "But I should prefer my own."
               "Has Rachel found any fault? I am sure she has always seemed satisfied;" and he stared hard at the idea.
               "It is not Rachel. I want the freedom of my own home. It may be small and simple—but I want room to breathe. Here I am nothing!"
               "Oh," he said, with a coarse sneer, "you are longing for the old extravagances? I may as well tell you once for all, madam, that they will never be had with my consent again. I was a fool! Those people who drank my wines and ate my luxuries—what did they care for me in the day of misfortune! And your grand ladies may put on airs—they'll never darken my doors again!"
               
               "Oh, Warren," and the tears were in her eyes, "it is not that at all. I don't wish for that show and waste. I want a pretty little home where we can care for each other—"she forced herself to say it—"and study each other's happiness."
               He looked at her sharply, as if he had come to distrust her, and she felt it keenly.
               "No," he said, decisively, "you can't wheedle me into that! I'm very well satisfied, and here I mean to stay while your father is willing. So no crying, if you please; that won't move me."
               She was silent from amazement. Her very heart died within her.
               He tumbled into bed without another word. She knew this decision was final, and that here she must remain, not only with him, but Rachel for a jailor.
               Was it any wonder she should sit there over the dying fire and wish that she had never been born!
               She knew very well that Rachel had been informed of this rebellious outbreak. It was Rachel who curtailed her pleasures, who criticised her friends unkindly until they became distasteful to her husband.
               She gave up with a passive indifference that blinded Mr. Marchmont. He understood the cause of her unhappiness and ministered to her with rare delicacy and feeling. The danger that Mr. Rutherford had dreaded might become a possibility now. Many a woman, feeling herself neglected and tyrannized over, had left the safe conduct of a husband's authority and thrown herself into a lover's arms.
               The business was coming up again rapidly. Every day the stock increased, and those who had been wild to sell at so great a sacrifice looked on with silent dismay.
               Marchmont was high in power. His had been one of the fortunate chances by which men go on to prosperity. Indeed, by some prescience he had foreseen or expected this, and had been holding back his money for the auspicious moment. If he could secure thousands by a sharp bargain, it was no one's business. When it came to that he had hardly the honor or honesty of Warren Thorndike.
               At the next flood tide he would sell out with a competency. He was very tired of Dedham. Miss Ronald, who had been so ready to minister to his self-love, was far away; and he had gone as far as was prudent in two or three rather interesting affairs. He really began to long for city excitements. Consequently, Lucy became a more positive need to him.
               And so he fanned the flame into a steady revolt. He ministered to Lucy Thorndike as only a subtle and accomplished man of the world could minister, and made the hours spent with him seem the only pleasure of her life. That they should not alarm nor pall upon her fine sense, he managed that they should be infrequent. A word of sympathy, a look or tone, and her heart went out in gratitude towards him.
               And yet it was gratitude only. If he could have looked into her heart he would not have felt quite satisfied with the esteem in which she held him. "A friend, who seeing my lonely life, pities me," she thought.
               As for him he really had no plans for the future. When he became necessary to her existence, circumstances would shape his course. He was hardly aware how completely he was drifting into love with her, for the passion had heretofore been a very manageable one with him.
               Lucy Thorndike did not give up all the hopes of her life without an effort. She roused herself to attract her husband's notice. He had reached that state of indifference where it was not on easy task to please. Her attempts at prettiness, whether it were a ribbon, a brooch, or a flower in her hair, were extravagance and vanity. In the early days he had listened to her reading, though he often went to sleep in the midst of it; but now he made no pretence to that much courtesy. "A sensible man was not expected to cry over foolish novels."
               "I will read any thing else," she said in her pleading tone.
               
               "I never did care for reading. I've too many things to think of."
               The tone was hard and indifferent, and like his face, without an atom of sentiment.
               "But you used to like to hear me sing."
               "I've other things to attend to. Don't bother me with your nonsense."
               "Warren,did you ever love me?"
               She looked him straight in the eyes now, a grave, beseeching expression, as if she could still plead for the affection, poor in quality as it had been.
               "Why, yes, I suppose so," in an uneasy, shuffling manner. "But a man is a fool who marries a woman for her pretty face. You can't live on beauty, and it won't help much in the way of making money."
               No, he could not coin her "hair's fine gold" into dollars; and though scarlet lip and pearly brow might have a value, it was not in the soul of such a man.
               "Oh!" she exclaimed with a burst of passion, "you don't know how hard life is to me, Warren! It's like slow starvation."
               "Hard! What do you have to do, I should like to know? To sit dressed in your silks from morning till night, read novels and sing a little. And I'm sure there's no occasion for your being starved! I've never grudged you any thing!"
               A cold, stupid, material soul that could never be warmed by any truly noble feeling. A block of wood, for it had not the fineness of marble. And she was chained to him for life—for life! A spirit bound by a fatal word spoken in ignorance, with which its nature could never have the slightest correspondence. A wild, heaven-appealing cry rose in her heart for freedom; and the dreary years stretching out before her had in them all the elements of a fruitless struggle. From negative endurance she passed to a state of keen, sharp loathing for this her detested bondage.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               FIGHTING FATE.
               WARREN THORNDIKE'S taunts filled his wife's soul with some wild resolves. She was not tempted to fly to the man who admired her, for she had discovered a fatal lack in him as well. Flying elsewhere had crossed her mind.
               She came down to breakfast in the plainest cambric dress she could find, and her lovely curls put out of sight. It was a May morning, clear and balmy. Birds were singing, and great wafts of apple blossoms filled the quivering air.
               "Rachel," she said, when her father and Mr. Thorndike had gone, "can I do any thing to help you?"
               Rachel started in grim surprise.
               Old Hetty's place in the kitchen had been filled by a younger and stronger woman, and by degrees Rachel had given up much to her. Since she paid her for her time she expected to have the uttermost moment.
               "No,"she answered shortly.
               "You think I am good for nothing, let me try."
               Rachel studied her in blank wonder. A fine lady with a slender figure, clear skin, and small white hands. What was she good for?
               "There isn't more than enough work to keep Sarah busy. She's paid for doing it."
               The tone was cold and discouraging.
               "Would you like me to do any sewing?"
               
               "No;" and the elder turned stiffly away.
               Lucy made her bed and put her two rooms in order. Then she stood by the window a long while.
               "It is time to begin at gardening," she thought, and ran eagerly down stairs.
               The door yard was in a painful state of precision. On each side of the path a square of grass, and at the fence edge some roses, old-fashioned pinks, phlox, and the spear-like blades of blue flag. She liked soft, clinging vines, tender blossoms in bright colors or purest white. Where could she make a beginning?
               "Rachel?" she called.
               The elder came out with a striped handkerchief tied over her head.
               "I'd like to have a flower garden since I'm going to stay here for the summer. Suppose we raise a mound in the centre of the grass?"
               "Tear up the grass?" Rachel's leaden eyes fairly sparkled.
               "Yes. I'd promise to keep it in order. It would look so pretty. And I like rare, lovely things."
               What had come over Lucy? For a moment Rachel's power was shaken to its very foundation.
               "I believe that I am mistress here," she said sharply. "Not one inch of the grass comes up for your nonsense. It's always been good enough for me."
               Lucy longed to blaze up in defiant anger. She prayed to be able to keep the resolve of that morning.
               "Can't I have some little spot?" and her tones would have sounded heart-broken to any other ears.
               "I can attend to this myself. The flowers are just as I like them."
               Then Rachel went in. Lucy shed some bitter tears, and presently found her way around to the rear yard. Every thing was in scrupulous order. The brick pavement had been scrubbed late the day before, there was the grass for bleaching, the fruit trees, and a small vegetable garden beyond, whose beds had been already laid out. Not a corner for her.
               She knew of old that Rachel could not endure the least interference. For her to insist would be to make open war. She had been ruled with a heavy hand in a good many things since she had been Warren Thorndike's wife, indulgent as he might seem at times. She must give up and become a nonentity, no other course was before her.
               With a swelling heart she returned to her room. A box of mignonette was just beginning to blossom at the window. She buried her face in it and kissed its soft leaves with a passion of tenderness. It could not refuse her love.
               Oh, what was she to do! Life was becoming so vapid and useless. It seemed to her as if her brain was turning to stone, save for the occasional keen pang. There lay her portfolio of drawings—what did it avail? Here her books, her embroidery—the many trifles with which happy women made bright their days. No one smiled to see her dainty fingers busy, to hear her low, flexible voice giving reality to the loves, passions, trials and tenderness of others. And she was so eminently formed for affection and the finer graces of life. Oh, how dreary!
               A new thought came into her mind after awhile. She put on her hat and light walking jacket, and set forth. No pleasant ramble to the woods was this to be.
               Turning into a common street where there were some cheap, pretentious houses, she stopped at one and pulled the bell. A frowsy-headed woman in a very dirty wrapper answered the summons.
               "The land sakes! It ain't you, Mrs. Thorndike!" and she stood a moment to consider whether she would ask her into the untidy parlor.
               "I ain't had time to get cleared up this morning," she said apologetically, her face flushing a dull red.
               "Oh, no matter. My call is rather unseasonable, I know, but it is on business, and that must be my excuse.
               
               "You'll come in?" rather unwillingly.
               It was not a promising commencement, but Lucy Thorndike's courage carried her through.
               "You remember, Mrs. Howell, that you were discussing your children's music at the Dorcas meeting. I thought you seemed quite anxious that the two younger ones should learn." Lucy hardly dared look at the disorder and shabby pretension around her as she thus spoke.
               "Yes, only Howell, he thinks it costs so much. I'm sure he could afford it, but he says let 'em wait until Araminta gets big enough to teach 'em. We pay fifteen dollars a quarter for her. It would be a good deal for the three, and I always say come what will I sha'n't send my children to no deestrict school. So Howell he scolds about bills."
               Mrs. Howell thrust her hair out of her eyes.
               "Since I have been boarding time has seemed to hang heavy on my hands," began Lucy, her refined voice contrasting strongly with the other's. "I think I'd like to try a few music scholars. I will take both of your little girls for ten dollars."
               It was all said, but Lucy felt as if she had been begging. A delicate flush stole into the fair face.
               "You don't say, Mrs. Thorndike! Land, if you had all my work to do! That's only five dollars apiece. Minta's quarter ends next week, and now if you'd only take the three I'm sure I'll be a world obleeged."
               The dull eyes sharpened at the prospect of driving so good a bargain.
               "I'll take the three," Lucy said, choking down pride and disgust.
               "Everybody has their ups and downs, I s'pose. Howell says there wasn't near so much loss as they thought for last fall."
               Lucy comprehended the ambiguous sentence.
               "Mr. Thorndike will retrieve all his past misfortunes," she replied, rather proudly.
               "When can the children begin?"
               "Any time you choose."
               "Two lessons a week?"
               "Yes. The two little ones can come on one afternoon—and Araminta alone.
               "Very well, I'll send the children to-morrow; but I guess we won't call it a fair start until Monday. They're all powerful fond of music, and will be easy to teach."
               Lucy smiled and nodded acquiescently, but her heart was heavy. To ask a favor of this ill-bred, self-important woman appeared an actual disgrace.
               "But they shall never taunt me again with indolence!" she said to herself, clinching her small hand. "And I should die to go on with this life!"
               She had given up most of her fashionable friends since she found they were so distasteful to her husband; but she felt that she must have some interest, even if it were only that of labor.
               The "children" came, according to promise. Ten and twelve years of age, chubby, dull-eyed and freckled; dressed in a variety of colors, outraging every law of harmony. They were wild and rude, quite unmanageable indeed, and their love of music consisted in fondness for noise, the banging of half a dozen keys at once.
               Every moment of the two hours was martyrdom. She wondered seriously whether her piano would stand these rude assaults, and began to entertain a great misgiving about the success of her undertaking. She resolved not to say one word, though she fancied Rachel must soon suspect.
               The ensuing Monday brought Araminta, who was fourteen, and extremely consequential. Whenever Lucy corrected her, she exclaimed—"Miss Collins said I must always do this way," and with that, the pupil settled the teacher. She was self-willed, assured, and knew absolutely nothing.
               Lucy sighed in despair. Three months of this! It was much harder than she had imagined. Presently she might find some more agreeable pupils and discharge these.
               Her efforts were brought to a sudden and ignoble end. That Mrs. Howell would let such a grand subject for gossip slip, was not to be imagined. She left her housework and her baby to spread the news far and wide. Mrs. Thorndike taking music scholars!
               The story grew, each one adding her mite. Mr. and Mrs. Thorndike were unhappy, they quarrelled incessantly—he had refused to support her, and she had threatened to leave him, but Mr. Garth insisted upon her remaining under his roof. She was idle, ill-tempered, and extravagant; she had ruined her husband, and was actually compelled to teach music!
               When these floating fragments reached Mr. Thorndike, his brow grew purple with rage. Rachel had complained of her bringing in the neighboring children, but that his wife should dare give such cause for scandal about him, was not to be borne a moment. He flew home in a passion, and burst into her room in the mood of a madman.
               "Madam, I want to know if it is true that you have taken those beggarly brats of Howell's into this house and expect to teach them music?"
               "And if I have," she said, "what then? You have taunted me with an idle, useless life—you have questioned the least penny spent for pleasure; and what if I do choose to have something of my own?"
               "Not while you are my wife!" He brought his clinched hand down on the table with such force that it shivered the delicate china vase with its one luscious carnation. "Not while you are my wife! Have I ever refused to support you? And the town rings from one end to the other with the base lie that Warren Thorndike's wife is compelled to work for her daily bread. This is your doing. You want me to be sneered at, despised!"
               "Warren, listen," she exclaimed, in affright. "I said no such word. I told Mrs. Howell that the time hung heavy on my hands, and made no further explanations. But you have taunted me—you can't deny that! You have refused me money for a book or a flower—you have sneered at my white hands, my delicacy. I begged Rachel to let me help her, but she would not; and then I resolved to do something for myself."
               "And set the whole town gossipping! Well, I won't have it—do you hear that? Let one of that crew darken these doors again at your peril!"
               "Oh, Warren, what shall I do? Why did you marry me?"
               She clasped her hands in pitiful supplication, and her whole frame quivered with pain.
               "Because I was a fool! But if I have a helpless, useless wife, she shall not make me a laughing-stock for the town. This very day you'll send over to tell those beggars that Warren Thorndike can earn bread for his own wife; and if she doesn't choose to eat that, she may starve!"
               He gave a coarse, scornful laugh. It seemed to her at one moment as if she could almost murder him for his cruel insolence—and then she trembled to think that he was indeed her master.
               "Oh," she said, with a dry, torturing sob, "why do you hate me, and make me miserable? What can I do? If I were only dead!"
               "A sensible enough wish—but people don't die so easily. Come, put on your hat and go finish this smart business. Next time you'll be likely to ask my advice."
               "Not now. Let me write a note. It will do quite as well."
               "Come along," he said, coarsely, "I want to see that the thing is done."
               It was in vain for her to entreat. Every word exasperated him fearfully. She did have one strong impulse to defy him—but his rough, brute strength and force awed her.
               
               She walked down the street beside him with a sinking heart. If Mrs. Howell had distorted the other simple matter, what capital would she not make of this.
               To her dying day, Lucy could not be grateful enough that Mrs. Howell was not at home. Ten-years-old Bessy was nursing the white-headed baby, and started at a message that she could not understand.
               Lucy crept home laggingly. It seemed as if her strength would fail at every step. Once there, she threw herself upon the bed and wept softly, drearily. She was too sad and worn even for passion.
               This had occurred at mid-afternoon. Warren Thorndike took a drive out to the mine to cool his temper—and by supper time had come back to some of his usual stolidity.
               Sarah was sent to see why Lucy did not come to supper as usual.
               "She's feverish, and complains of a headache, and she looks like a ghost, 'cepting the red spot in her cheeks," was the girl's comment.
               "Wont she have a cup of tea?" asked Mr. Thorndike. He almost wished that he had not been quite so hard with her. Her father and sister had warned him, and now he was reaping the fruit of his folly.
               "No, she won't have any thing. She said don't disturb her."
               Rachel went up to see her afterward. She neglected no duty, small or great, but Lucy was in that nervous state where every sound was like rasping a painful wound.
               "Go away," she begged. "Only leave me alone!"
               Mr. Garth took his hat an went out. Mr. Thorndike settled himself by the open window and tilted back in his chair. Rachel sent the tea things away, and as it was not dark, took up her sewing.
               Three years had not improved her any; but Warren Thorndike looked upon her with different eyes. He would have said with Edmund Spangler, "there was no nonsense about her." No flowers in her hair, no flummery at her throat, but just a plain linen collar, no flounces or furbelows. She never had headaches or nerves, never wasted her time over novels, could cook, bake, make almost any garment, and had a sharp eye for any neglect or carelessness on the part of inferiors. Then such a clear head as hers was! She was as good as Marchmont for going over the books, and she had pointed out little leaks that he had never dreamed were of any importance.
               Warren Thorndike had never been romantic. He looked upon his wild fever for Lucy as the greatest folly of his life. A woman like this was what he needed. He cared nothing for delicate surroundings and refined amusements. Much of the past had been a positive bore to him.
               And with the unreasonableness of a dwarfed and narrow nature he laid the whole blame upon Lucy. She had in some sort inveigled him into this unlucky marriage. She had persuaded him that the great Cunningham place was necessary to their happiness. She had filled the house with grand people, made costly entertainments requisite, and half ruined him. And now she was dissatisfied, a helpless burden. If he had been wise and married Rachel. Youth and beauty were nothing, after all. With Rachel's thrift and carefulness he would never have been unfortunate.
               He went a little further still. Were Lucy to die, of course he would marry Rachel. His thoughts followed coarse, straightforward channels. The man was not as base at heart as hundreds of others. He could have lived here twenty years and never have experienced a tender longing to clasp Rachel to his heart or electrify her pale lips with a kiss. The brief fever heat had burned out with Lucy. He would not even experience a temptation to waver from the strict letter of the law. And yet he would have made slight lamentation had freedom come to him that very night.
               But Lucy did not die. She felt very weak and miserable. A crumb of sympathy from old Hetty would have been like a ray of heaven to her. Rachel brought her tea and toast until she was well enough to come down stairs, and Mr. Thorndike considered his duty completed by looking at her every morning and asking her how she felt.
               She was very wan and pale when she joined the family circle. Her eyes seemed larger and darker than ever, and there was a hunted, wistful look in them. Once she asked Warren to let her go to the little sea-side town where she had spent the preceding summer.
               He consulted Rachel. He had fallen into the habit of going to her for counsel on every subject.
               "What nonsense," she said sharply. "I've never had to go to the sea-side for my health!"
               He made some weak excuse, and Lucy gave up listlessly. After all, it mattered very little. Perhaps it was better not to try to live.
               Her sad face might have given some color to the story that she was not well treated. People did surmise a little, but human nature is so apt to lean on the prosperous side. Others besides himself began to think that Mr. Thorndike might have married more wisely. There was a good-natured hilarity about him that rendered him a favorite with those who did not demand the high types of refinement. And now that he was likely to be fortunate, he was not to be overlooked nor despised.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               DESPERATION.
               LATE one July afternoon, Lucy Thorndike was rambling in the woods at the river's edge, a favorite haunt of hers. There had been rain the day before, and every leaf was crisp and green, the mosses soft, the stones clean and gray, and the slow tide fretted idly along in musical murmuring.
               She was thinking of Paul Rutherford. In the hurry and excitement his business interests had been sadly neglected, she well knew. His lawyer had come up to Dedham and instituted one or two suits, and there the matter languished.
               She wondered what he would say were he to see her now! She had failed in every thing—no one could realize it more bitterly than she. Like that piece of driftwood caught by one wave in play, tossed by the next in scorn, and allowed to find no secure resting-place. Was it her fault that life had been so hard?
               A step startled her. Mr. Marchmont came bounding down the rather steep hill-side, and paused as if in surprise.
               He had spent much of his summer in travelling. For a month now he had been absent. A few evenings before he had dropped in at Mr. Garth's, but she had not come down. Driving through the street on this afternoon he had caught a glimpse of her and guessed her destination.
               He had remarked that Mr. Thorndike deferred to Rachel more than ever, and that she advised him as if his prosperity was the one thing nearest her heart. He had fancied Lucy neglected, but he was hardly prepared for so great a change.
               
               If any thing, she was more lovely in his estimation. The transparent complexion, where a faint shade of pink fluttered with the passing emotion; the large-lidded, melancholy eyes; the lips still scarlet; the chin still exquisitely rounded for all its thinness.
               She sat down on a rock, her heart throbbing visibly. The least thing overcame her now.
               He misunderstood the agitation. Vanity said that it must be for him.
               "Excuse my abruptness, I caught the gleam of a white dress and I knew who frequented this little nook. But you have been ill?"
               "Not very well, perhaps, but hardly to be called ill;" and she smiled gravely.
               "I was disappointed at not seeing you the evening I called. Yet they said you were well."
               "I seem to have dropped out of my old life, Mr. Marchmont. No one remembers me now."
               There was a pathetic sadness in her tone.
               "Yes," he said pointedly, "I do. You once asked me, Mrs. Thorndike, what I would do for a friend. Try me now. You stand so alone, your life has become so desolate."
               "There is nothing that you can do for me."
               There was something deeper than dreariness in her voice, a settled apathy, as if every thing failed to charm. Beyond the shadowy look of suffering in her eyes all seemed a blank.
               "Nothing!" he exclaimed, "nothing? Is friendship an empty sound to you, then?"
               He spoke with an impassioned vehemence and his eyes kindled with a subtle fire. So might look love, so could look hate!
               "I do not need it. I am not above its sympathy, but so far outside the pale that return would be useless.
               He thought this an auspicious moment.
               "No," he said with soft, kindling voice and dreamy eyes that had beguiled more than one woman, "no, that is not what you need. You read your soul aright there. You are starving, dying for a little love. The fatal mistake of your life is bearing its bitter fruit. Friendship must stand by, impotent for awhile, and see you suffer without the power to avert one pang. But it will not always be so. And in that hour let me stand by your side. Let me counsel and advise. For I believe no human soul would guard you with such tenderness."
               "Hush," she returned. "You have no right to say this."
               "Your sorrow gives me a sacred right. Cannot I see that you stand utterly alone? Your very sister would betray you! Your husband casts longing eyes upon another woman, who is of his kind, after all. Your grace, your sweetness, the purity of your soul always were lost upon him. Is such a bald tie to be called marriage? Rather some monstrous and horrible blot upon a sacred sky. It is killing you slowly, sapping a life worth more than his or hers, a hundred times."
               "Oh, you are wrong," she cried with a gasp. "For Rachel is strictly, sternly good, even if he were—"
               "Am I blind, think you? Will they have to wait long?"
               He gave a little satirical laugh. If he were any woman's husband, that would be as hard to bear as Warren Thorndike's coarser taunts.
               Yet she started a having death thus thrust at her. She could not endure that he should understand their satisfaction, since she felt sure that they did not even admit it to themselves.
               "As well that as any thing;" she made answer wearily.
               "No," he returned, "you must live. Why, you have not outgrown youth and its pleasure, you have never tasted the divine draught of love. The bliss of living is yet to come for you. In some far sunny land sheltered and watched by a heart that beats for you alone, smiled upon until the radiance of hope has returned to your lovely eyes, and the glow of health to your cheek; when the warm blood throbs exultantly in your veins and strength returns to your limbs, then you may indeed defy them. There are paths to this boundless, joyful freedom."
               A soft, seductive warmth diffused itself over his face, and a subtle flame burned beneath the dropping lids. It did not conquer her. She almost asked herself why, but the old warning was still lingering in her brain.
               "Let me be your friend," said the tempting voice.
               "It is best that I should go my way alone."
               She spoke with a cold indifference. He had seen her kindled, full of expectation, and he did not despair. The leaven would begin to work when she was alone in her desolation.
               Lucy Thorndike looked far down the river. The shores were hazy with the golden films of summer sunshine, and countless insects dazzled it like swift shooting stars. Somewhere there was rest and peace.
               "Still let me be your friend. You need one here."
               She made no answer; but he studied her face in the silence. The tense lines about the mouth were those of pain, not firmness. He had seen it smile. And then he was in no immediate haste to persuade.
               She rose and walked along the river's edge with Vaughan Marchmont at her side. He noted the faltering step, the slow breathing, the whole change that a month had wrought. And at that moment he gave her a strange, yearning love, so tender, so nearly unselfish that he did not understand it himself.
               They parted at the street, she would have it so; but he said persuasively—
               "You will come again?"
               Warren Thorndike sat on the porch reading his paper. He had turned the corner of forty now and seemed quite an old man to her. How had she ever come to fancy him?
               "I believe you have no sense;" he exclaimed crossly. "You are always moping about the house, and yet you can take long walks that would tire a strong man."
               She made no reply but hung her hat in the hall as Rachel called them to supper. Indeed, through the meal she was thinking of what Mr. Marchmont had said about them.
               They little guessed how narrowly she watched. Would they be—not exactly glad perhaps, but satisfied to have her dead? It was a horrible thought after all.
               They talked of the business as usual. Marchmont's tour had been quite a success.
               "If matters go on this way I shall be back to the old notch presently. Then I can snap my fingers in the face of the whole crew!" and he gave a little chuckle.
               "But wiser, I hope;" said Rachel.
               "Yes. You'll never catch me fooling away money at that rate again;" and he glanced sharply at Lucy, as if she had been the cause.
               She sat thinking. These two people seemed meant for one another. If she were out of the way it would soon come about. She had been so proud to thwart Rachel when they had first known Mr. Thorndike, but she had been sorely punished, heaven knew. If she went away—not depending upon Mr. Marchmont's friendship, but quite by herself, and if some way they could think her dead—she would be dead to all the little world that had ever known her. Would it be wrong?
               Every pulse throbbed and ached. She rose to go to her room but paused in the hall. Her father sat on the door step in the moonlight.
               Some inexplicable impulse urged her forward. She stood behind him, and dropped her hand on his shoulder.
               "Father!" softly and with a peculiar sadness.
               "You are not well, Lucy!"
               He had begun to see it. He missed the old, gay, defiant spirit that had animated Lucy Thorndike.
               The hand crept close beside his cheek. Soft fingers they were, and they touched some long-hidden chord.
               "I've been a great trouble first and last;" she went on in a low, sad tone. "I'd like to say once of my own free will that I am sorry for all the waywardness, the impatience of control, the quick tempers, for every word and deed that has caused you pain. And if you will forgive me!
               The little hands met in an imploring clasp under his chin. The tremulous voice died away in something like a sob.
               Mr. Garth could hardly believe his senses. One of the hardest things in Lucy's childhood had been bending this stubborn will. Many a time had he tried to force some acknowledgement of penitence from her, and failed.
               "You will forgive? You will be tender, and pitiful, and not remember those old sins against me!" she pleaded.
               "Child"—his voice was husky, and the rigid platitudes he had used heretofore seemed cold and unmeaning,—"God knows that I hold nothing against you."
               "Thank you. Kiss me just once."
               "What foolishness is this, Lucy?" but his voice was less stern and hard.
               "Just once. You won't be sorry for it."
               The lips, long unused to such caresses, met for a moment. Perhaps some dim misgiving crowded upon his soul that his self-righteous life had small fruit to show at the coming harvest. Was there not mercy as well as justice?
               "Good-night," she whispered, softly, and stole away. If she had remained another moment, she must have been weeping in his arms. And then Rachel would have come forward and quenched the hysterical tenderness with her strong commonplace.
               But he sat there and thought. What had come over Lucy, to make her so different; so humble? The old self-assertion had vanished—the daily bickerings were no more. Was it loss of health and spirits; or had Mr. Thorndike learned the secret of subduing her? A half formed wish came into his mind that she had not married Warren Thorndike. He would have suited Rachel so well. And it seemed at that moment he had an awful glimpse of a soul which he had wrecked through blindness and hardness. Just so she had come at first and twined her soft arms around his neck, begged for caresses and forgiveness until he had thrust her away. He thought that is he knew of Warren Thorndike's doing such a thing, he should hate him until the day of his death.
               When he arose he felt weak and feeble, like a man who has been through a great strife or sorrow. Rachel was fastening the windows, and still talking of profit and loss to Thorndike. The words came into his mind unconsciously—"What shall it profit a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul?"
               He had always counted so confidently on gaining and saving, both. What if he had made a fatal mistake?
               Lucy did not come down to breakfast with the rest the next morning. She took her coffee and toast in languid silence. Her resolve had been made. If she had lacked courage, her husband's cold demeanor would have supplied it.
               I cannot say that there was much thought or consideration about this step of Lucy Thorndike's. It was a wild resolve to be free—to leave the place where she was so useless. She could make no one happy, she reasoned, and they would be better satisfied without her. She would have been equally glad to die—but death lingered afar.
               Neither did it require much courage. She packed up some valuable jewels, and one change of clothing, in a small travelling satchel; and after writing a brief note, put on her hat and a light walking suit—for the day bid fair to be warm.
               "I am going out, Rachel," she exclaimed, glancing in at the sitting-room door.
               The hard, cold, unlovely face was raised a moment.
               "It seems to me that if I was complaining all the time, I would stay in the house and take care of myself."
               "Good-by," with a terror in her voice.
               She went down the street for a square or two, then turned in the direction of the railroad station. Purchasing her ticket, she took a seat in the forward car. Being an accommodation train there was considerable freight and baggage to be taken on board. She drew her veil over her face and sat there in silence. No one spoke to her, for which she was thankful.
               At the third station she stopped. A busy little town with paper mills, cotton mills, hat shops, and various smaller matters. There was always a crowd of girls and women here at Bradford, and one more or less would hardly be remarked. She went into several shops to dispose of some jewelry, and made a few purchases. For the rest of the day she secluded herself in a small room at the least pretentious hotel and sewed until late in the evening, when, utterly wearied out, she fell into a feverish slumber.
               She went to breakfast in the attire of the previous day, and paid her bill afterward. Then she made a change, and enveloping herself in a long linen duster, stole quietly out in the street with a bundle in her hand beside the satchel. How to dispose of this perplexed her. She wished it to be discovered some time, but not too soon. Where could she hide it?
               Back of the busy town there was a belt of woodland, and the stream that turned these busy wheels must run through it. There might be a safe place. If they thought her drowned, so much the better.
               Finally she settled the matter to her liking. She was very tired, and as a stage came lumbering along she was thankful to take it for some small interior village. Would any one have recognized this slow-stepping woman in her plain black dress, brown hat and veil, without the least attempt at style, as Lucy Thorndike? There were no betraying curls floating around, no slender white hands visible, for hers were encased in coarse gloves.
               When she looked back at this time it seemed as if a fate must have guided her steps, so little thought did she take. From stage to car again, a kind of confused, purposeless journeying neying. Once she asked how many miles she might be from Bradford, and was surprised at the distance. It would be safe to stop and rest.
               And not a moment too soon did she resolve. Her trembling limbs utterly refused to carry her another step. Her brain was weak and wandering, around her eyes had settled great shadows, her tongue was dry and burning, her lips parched, and her temples throbbed fearfully.
               "If I should die!" she thought with a vague shiver—here among strangers.
               "You look very ill, Miss," said a motherly voice, when she was left standing nearly alone on the platform.
               "Yes. If you could direct me—"
               Her head swam round. There was a strange ringing in her ears, a rush as of a mighty sea, then all was dark, silent and peaceful.
               "Poor child! Whatever am I to do with her?"
               A pitiful soul answered the question. Dying or living, Lucy Thorndike had found a friend.
               By this time there was of course a great stir at Dedham. Warren Thorndike had said the first noon. "Where's Lucy?" not that he cared specially.
               "She went out this morning," responded Rachel.
               "She doesn't seem as well as usual," said Mr. Garth slowly.
               "But she is well enough to be continually on the street! To my mind that's a deal harder than work."
               So might have spoken Rachel's mother years before.
               "Work!" exclaimed Warren Thorndike with a clumsy kind of scorn. "There's only about one woman in a hundred who troubles her head on that score!"
               Rachel knew she was that rare person, and gave a grim, satisfied smile.
               "Marchmont's off again—had a telegram or something!" he announced. "I must go down to the iron works at Graysburg, and shall not be home early."
               
               Rachel and her father had their supper alone. Mr. Garth was a good deal disturbed at Lucy's continued absence. He went out afterward and rambled around aimlessly.
               All day he had been haunted by his child's sad face and sadder voice. Old memories that he tried in vain to banish rose up hauntingly. He was past sixty, and nearing the time when he must stand face to face with the deeds of his past life. He had not cheated, he had been a man of truth and honor, a just if not cordial neighbor, and perhaps as charitable as most men in his position. Yet since last night he had experienced a great lack, his self-complacency had been swept away.
               Left to herself, Rachel went up to Lucy's room. Every thing was in order, even to the vase of flowers upon the table. She sighed a little over the waste of time and money these adornments indicated. If Warren Thorndike had chosen a smart, sensible woman! But Lucy always had been unmanageable.
               She raised the books and laid them down again; looked over the trifles in the basket, and wondered why Lucy stayed away. The drawers were unlocked, and she opened them, one by one, as if on the keen scent for some untidiness. In one lay a folded paper.
               Rachel Garth was not very curious. If she had suspected her sister of any imprudence, she would have felt perfectly justified in searching every scrap of paper; but this, which would have told a part of the secret, she never touched. It had no superscription at all.
               She heard Warren's heavy step, and ran down to give him his supper. He was flushed and angry.
               "Is Lucy home?" he asked.
               "No, I can't imagine where she went."
               "She left Dedham in the train, at ten—had a ticket for Westfield. I heard that by a mere accident."
               "Why, she hasn't any friends there!" was Rachel's amazed comment.
               "She might have had the manners to speak of it, at least. And not home yet!"
               Rachel went directly up stairs again. One of those presentiments to which we are all subject, flashed upon her. She took up the note that she had hardly remarked before, and opened it. There were just two lines, in Lucy's own delicate hand.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I am going away. Forget me, and let me be as the dead to you all.
                           
                              LUCY."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She came back, holding it in her hand, her face actually pallid.
               "I saw this not awhile ago, but did not open it," she said, in a thick, excited tone. "It explains her absence."
               Warren Thorndike read it, and then smote the table a mighty blow with his heavy fist. Rachel started, in consternation.
               "The wretched, shameless hussy. She has gone off with Marchmont! He left in the same train."
               "No, it can't be!"
               "I tell you that it is! They used to be great friends; and he's the kind women go crazy over. Why Miss Ronald made a fool of herself about him! Lucy's had something on her mind this long while."
               Warren Thorndike smiled inwardly at his astuteness. He couldn't be easily blinded! Sooner or later he managed to ferret out the sly doings of others. There was no sense of wounded love nor outraged honor—no keen indignation at the thought of perfidy in wife and friend; but a kind of brutal, triumphant passion.
               "What will you do?" Rachel asked the question with trembling lips.
               "Let 'em go? I'm not fool enough to spend my time and money chasing after them. If a women doesn't care for me, I shall not break my heart for her!"
               
               "But it's a hard thing for you to bear, Warren?"
               He looked as if he were quite equal to that or any other burden. A great, brawny, stolid fellow, with no soul visible in the ruddy, heavy face. The grief would not be likely to disturb his slumbers.
               "Zounds! isn't it!" he exclaimed, striking the table another blow. "To think of all I've spent on her—her fine dresses, piano, parties, and fol-de-rols! And now, because she couldn't go on in style, and because I'm not one of your sweet-scented, dangling men, she plays me this shabby trick. Well, let her go! She'll stay away, I can tell you. I'm not to be taken in with a woman's whining and a few tears."
               "This comes of reading novels, and doing nothing;" said Rachel sternly.
               "Not that I blame any one," continued Mr. Thorndike. "You warned me, and so did your father. I was a fool to care about her beauty, and all that; but I thought she loved me—I really believed she did! A miserable, deceitful woman!"
               Rachel felt this was the end that might have been expected for her. She was hardly surprised when it came to that. As for the temptation, the beguiling love stronger than any sense of shame, the possible struggle—all these she could know nothing of, nor realize. She would never have been tempted. Material good would have proved amply sufficient for her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               CROWNED WITH RUE.
               RACHEL GARTH announced the miserable tidings to her father in a more softened manner than one would have expected. And at the first moment he scouted it as utterly impossible! Would Lucy have proffered that request of last night if she had meant to blacken it by this monstrous sin.
               "I don't know what more I could have done;" he said brokenly. "I tried to train her in the right way—I strove to impress truth, and honor, and virtue upon her mind, to control her rebellious temper and wild fancies. And this is the end!"
               Rachel comforted him. She could not see that it was her fault or her father's that Lucy had gone astray. It was the result of extravagance and indulgence, fondness for society, vanity, self will, and a less pardonable coquetry. She had rushed headlong to ruin on her own responsibility.
               Perhaps Mr. Garth rather longed to have this view of the case strengthened. He wanted to feel acquitted in his own eyes.
               "We shall find out the truth of this," he replied. "If it proves so, she is no child of mind henceforth."
               With that they parted. He could not sleep, but revolved all the suspicious circumstances in his mind—and Heaven knows there was no lack of them. And if to the rest she had added this shameful hypocrisy, her cup of offence was indeed full.
               
               The Garths kept their own counsel for the next two days. On the third, Mr. Marchmont walked into the office with his usual jaunty air, and wished Mr. Thorndike a very careless, graceful good-morning.
               There was a blue line about Warren Thorndike's mouth, and his fingers clinched instinctively. They would not be pleasant at a man's throat. He went close up to his handsome rival.
               "Where is my wife, Marchmont?" he hissed.
               Your wife? Mrs. Thorndike?"
               Had Lucy been weak and wild enough to confess that fragment of a conversation at the river's edge?
               "Yes, my wife! She left in the same train, on the same morning."
               "Good God!"
               Vaughan Marchmont struck his hand to his forehead, and stared at the other in such surprise that Mr. Thorndike was staggered.
               "There has been no search made. No one cared to bruit such a truth abroad. After a step like that, she could never be my wife again; so I wish you joy of her!" with a cruel, scornful smile.
               "As I live, Thorndike, I never saw her. I did not know that she was on the train. Why should you accuse me of such a foul deed?" and he straightened himself with an air of injured innocence.
               "Becasue she liked you;" the man said bluntly—little guessing how this flattered his adversary's soul.
               Then they gave each other a long, questioning look. A spirit of bitter hate was in each heart.
               "Thorndike," Marchmont said, "you never did deserve her! You have broken her heart by your careless cruelty and culpable indifference. If she had sought a tender and cherishing love, it would be no sin in God's eyes. But where is she? You may have to answer for this!"
               Thorndike paled, partly with passion, partly with fear. But anger helped him to recover himself shortly.
               "It is a lie!" he returned, hoarsely. "I never was cruel to her. I gave her every thing while I was prosperous. What more could I do?"
               "What more!" Marchmont re-echoed in withering scorn. "No more, perhaps," smiling bitterly. "You never knew what she needed. You could not understand a fine, high soul like hers!
               Thorndike knew it, and the knowledge stung him, but not with the self-condemnation that might have tortured a nobler man."
               "Look here, Marchmont," he said, his face livid with passion, "I'm a plain man and do not understand all this nonsense about higher life and sympathy, and the miserable trash it is the fashion to talk nowadays. You are right enough there," grimly. "But she married me of her own accord, and I was fool enough to think she loved me. Have not I seen this good while that she was not satisfied with me! And I say I've never done any thing that her father or sister thinks wrong. By Jove! Do you suppose I'll take it from any other man!"
               Recrimination with such rude brute force was folly. Marchmont rushed at once to Mr. Garth's, and cleared himself of the foul imputation. But the fact of Lucy Thorndike's disappearance still remained.
               The secret must be confessed, and a search made. Marchmont's love for Lucy was stronger than his hate for Thorndike; indeed, the man was too coarse and vulgar for any emotion that savored of respect. He felt assured that Lucy had cared for him; and if found, he meant to befriend her. If he could once win her gratitude!
               There was another excitement in Dedham. Lucy Garth seemed destined to drag her family into notoriety one way or another. She was traced to Bradford, easily. Rachel remembered bered the dress she wore—a light gray poplin, and no other was missing from her wardrobe. A more thorough search brought the fact to light that her valuable jewels were missing.
               Mr. Marchmont resolved that Dedham should not link his name to any tale of scandal. For this purpose he sought an interview with Rachel Garth. Thorndike had retailed his coarse suspicions without doubt.
               Mr. Garth had become more than anxious. With pain that he hardly dared confess to himself, he saw that Thorndike felt absolutely relieved. But where had Lucy gone? What was she doing?
               "As there is a God above us," Marchmont exclaimed, "I never saw her that morning on the train. You know there could have been no secret correspondence, and I have been away so much that it is preposterous to lay such a charge at my door. I have no more knowledge of her whereabouts than you, Mr. Garth. But Heaven knows there was little enough to keep her here!"
               Mr. Garth nodded with slow, dull belief. If Lucy could have found such a man in the beginning! If—"
               "You acquit me of all complicity!" he said, fastening his deep eyes upon the poor father whose mind was fast becoming confused by the tangle of events.
               "I do not believe that she—went away with any one;" remembering her last kiss.
               "I could swear to it;" Marchmont returned positively.
               He broached the subject once more to Thorndike.
               "The man or woman who dares to breathe such a slander shall be called to a strict account;" he said in a voice that was sharp and steely with resolution. Let such a matter be once discussed here in Dedham, and you'll rue it to your latest day, Thorndike. I have it in my power to make a bitter return."
               Thorndike was awed and admitted to Rachel that he had been hasty and angry when he uttered the suspicion. Yet he held secretly to his first belief, although there could be but the slightest suspicion to warrant it.
               A month or so later a clue was discovered, though it left the matter more of a mystery than ever. Mrs Thorndike's dress was found and identified, and also some articles of clothing, on which her name was written in full. They seemed to have caught in the roots of the trees and stones at the river's edge, a mile or two below Bradford. And then came a story of a woman having been found drowned at the next town; but in such a state of decomposition, that identification was impossible. Several persons thought they recognized one of a number of beggars and tramps, possibly thieves, that had been seen prowling around the place—and as such, she had been buried, after the usual coroner's inquest. But upon minute inquiry, several important discoveries were made. The woman was without a dress, a faded shawl having been tied about her body, She was tall, slender, had the appearance of being young, and with a quantity of long, light hair. There were no marks of violence visible—but the examination had elicited the fact that the woman must have been in the final stages of consumption.
               There were many plausible reasons why this might be Lucy Thorndike's body. Her languor and apparent ill-health, her secret dissatisfaction—and presently, the knowledge that she had sold some of her jewels in Bradford. Finding herself destitute and alone at the last, it was not impossible that she had sought this method of ending a troubled life.
               To Mr. Garth it was a great shock. He had taken the death of Lucy's mother with something of a feeling of relief, but this struck him the keenest blow of his whole life. Rachel almost longed to call her back from her grave and lecture her upon the heinousness of her sin. That a woman with so good and indulgent a husband as Warren Thorndike, plenty of money, no care or trouble—and nothing to do, if that could be a satisfaction—should wish to end her life in this tragic and uncom fortable manner, astounded her. It was such an excellent text for a homily that she could not bear to give it up without sermonizing her dead sister. And so she sighed over the useless life that had gone out thus suddenly.
               Mrs. Glenfield came to condole with her. The bitter feeling between the two religious bodies had softened considerably of late on the natural ground perhaps that all old prejudices weaken. Many of her past friends called, moved in more than one case by curiosity, Some believed that Mrs. Thorndike had never recovered from the downfall of her pride and ambition; others whispered that she had rebelled against and defied her husband's sway. Many blamed, a few pitied, and others confidently averred that it was just what might have been expected. Perhaps it was well that both Rachel and Mr. Thorndike paid little heed to the senseless gossip.
               One autumn day they brought home the body supposed to be that of Lucy Thorndike, and laid it to rest in the quiet old-fashioned churchyard beside her mother. Mr. Howe, with his kindly word for everybody, felt sure that she had not been in her right mind. To Mr. Garth the idea was a great comfort. He wanted to believe that Lucy, with all her sins and follies, had not been utterly lost at the last. Indeed, he wondered sometimes if his own mind was not giving way. There was a great confusion of thought, an inability to distinguish clearly in matters about which he had always felt so positive heretofore. In his secret heart he mourned his child with a strange passion of grief for so cold a nature.
               Rachel, I think, felt relieved. She hated scenes and excitements, and could have gone on in one groove forever. From her birth Lucy had been a subject of turmoil and contention. First with her ill-fated mother, then her own stormy childhood, her unwise marriage, indeed, the whole of her misguided life. It was as well that she should be at rest. She was of small use or service to the would.
               Does Rachel Garth seem utterly heartless to you? That she was cold, rigid and narrow I admit; and yet, comparing her works with Lucy's, the latter was left far behind. Rachel had been a conscientious and careful daughter. Her father's bodily comfort would never suffer at her hands. A good neighbor, ready in sickness, sprinkling her almsgiving plentifully with rather sharp censure and unpalatable advice, but sensible in the main. She never glossed over people's careless and untidy houses, hers was always neat and orderly. She could not tolerate indolence, for she, a rich man's daughter, rose with the sun and worked all day. What she could do without actual compulsion, others might do when it was a necessity. She had fed the hungry, clothed the naked, and ministered to the sick, and in one circle of Dedham she was esteemed as little less than a saint. Lucy had done nothing of this.
               Ah, it is well that God's eyes are not as severe as ours. How often our weak faith is staggered at some mystery as we judge by a few broken links, but God, who is all-wise, can see the end from the beginning, and knows all the blindness, the weakness, and the thorns in the path! Well for us that it is so.
               The great wave surged back again. What matter for the little life gone out? There was buying and selling, eating and drinking for those who were left. No very deep wounds to heal, no despairing sense of loss and absence, no wail from any aching heart. Warren Thorndike went his ways as usual. Rachel set the house in order, and by degrees the luxuries that had so offended her sight were disposed of in a quiet manner, and the house resumed its olden aspect.
               There was one man who did not believe the body lying in yonder churchyard to be that of Lucy Thorndike. This was Vaughan Marchmont. He had been stung by the quiet manner in which Lucy had put aside his offer of friendship and taken her fate in her own hands, but from this steady persistence he judged that she was not one to commit suicide. He felt quite sure that she was hiding somewhere, and he had a presentiment that he should some day discover her. There are men to whom every thing comes sooner or later, and he was of this class.
               It was just as well that the rest should suppose her dead. When he met her again he would like to have the secret in his own hands.
               His prospects began to look pretty fair. One of those sudden impulses of trade in these later days doubled the price of iron and created an immense demand. He smiled over his good fortune. Now he would be able to retire from business with an ample income, and indulge his luxurious as well as fastidious tastes. Lucy Thorndike was still in the world and he meant to find her. This time she could not escape him.
               Mr. Rutherford returned from his trip abroad to be shocked by these tidings and learn that he had been about the greatest sufferer by the rash speculations. Perhaps if every secret deed had been brought to light some of Mr. Marchmont's delicate manipulations would illy have borne the scrutiny; but Warren Thorndike was not one to quarrel with the sources of the golden stream flowing so steadily into his coffers.
               Another spring smiled over Dedham, another summer bloomed in fragrance and beauty. Of course curious eyes were turned upon Rachel Garth and Warren Thorndike. Both his losses and her influence had proved beneficial to him. He no longer frequented grand dinners, nor even drank moderately. A sober, steady-going, middle-aged man he became suddenly, and transferred his religious allegiance to Mr. Howe. He went to church with Rachel and her father, but beyond that the most prying tea-table gossip could find nothing for comment.
               They were not demonstrative people. Mr. Thorndike had resolved a month after Lucy's funeral that at a proper time he would marry Rachel. He had been a great fool for not taking her at first. She was grave, patient, and industrious, and began to look old for her two-and-thirty years, but on the whole felt quite well satisfied with what he saw.
               So one June day he asked her to marry him. The immense piles of bed and table linen were in order, chests of garments laid in lavender and dried rose leaves. There was very little to be done, and a month later she became Mrs. Thorndike.
               Nothing was changed in the house. There was no bridal tour nor display of silver, the black garments were laid aside and a soft gray substituted. The last hopes that any one had cherished concerning Mr. Garth died out. He was ageing fast, feeble and broken in health. Indeed, he had never been the same man since Lucy's death. Rachel looked after him as one would a child. The old arbitrary, dogmatic ways had slipped off, and even the workmen wondered at the change.
               Through the summer evenings he sat on the porch dreaming idly of the soft hands that had once clasped his face, of the sweet lips that had touched his. He seemed to forget the trials, the bickerings, the many times that she had defied his authority. A hazy memory in which even the glimmer of golden curls failed to rouse his indignation. He was always glad that he had kissed her that last time.
               On the May following a child was born to Rachel and Warren Thorndike, a fair, golden-haired, blue-eyed girl; a lovely, soft, waxen thing, that seemed rather the embodiment of Lucy's spirit, than that of her parent's. Rachel was bitterly disappointed in two respects. First, that there should have been any child at all, for she had no motherly love or longings; and secondly, that it was a girl. A boy to inherit his father's wealth and position would have been more endurable.
               She was as methodical in this as in every thing else. Her child was made inexorably subject to rule, as if she were following out her own mother's precepts. And yet Rachel could not get back to the olden routine. A weariness and languor oppressed her. The nerves that had been like iron began to relax. The work she had never minded was a burden to her, though she tried to shake off the feeling. She almost grudged this innocent little life for thus sapping her strength.
               Warren Thorndike might have grown fond of his little daughter if there had been an opportunity. In the morning when he went away she was still asleep, and at noon in her cradle. She came to have a kind of frightened baby shrinking from him, and he did not study any tender means of overcoming it.
               But her grandfather made amends for all. It was marvellous how deep a root the little one took in his heart. She was a strangely quiet baby, and would sit on his knee for an hour studying him with her deep eyes, which had a peculiar twilight softness in their sky of blue. And when she grew old enough to tangle her tiny fingers in his hair and beard, he only smiled.
               There had been some difficulty about her name. Mr. Garth had begged for Lucy when the subject was first discussed.
               "There's a look of her in the baby's face," he said with an absent, dreamy gaze.
               "But her name was not Lucy, you know," Rachel rejoined almost fretfully.
               "No. We always called her that, and I like it."
               "You didn't then."
               Rachel remembered the bitter scenes and sharp recriminations, and it seemed now as if her father had grown childish. Could he so easily forget?
               He sighed and looked vacantly out of the window.
               "But I'd like to have it Lucy," he said after a long pause.
               Rachel repeated this conversation to her husband. She really was not pleased with the proposal.
               "Well," he said, "one name is as good as another."
               She glanced at him curiously. There was a feeling in her mind that she could not quite explain, an objection too subtle and far-reaching to be put in words. It seemed to her that he ought to share it.
               "Yes. You don't think it will bring bad luck?"
               "We shouldn't want her luck for the child. And father fancies that she looks like Lucy."
               "She was handsome, there's no denying that," he exclaimed with a little chuckle. "There was some strange blood in her veins—you always said her mother was queer. But there's nothing in a name. Let it be Lucy or Polly, only it seems right enough to humor your father."
               Perhaps this consideration swayed Rachel ultimately, for she consented, though Mr. Garth began to call her Lucy before she was christened. She seemed the one thing in the world to him.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               REST AND REFUGE.
               FOUR years had passed since the summer morning on which Lucy Thorndike had said good-by to her sister. You know the principal events that had taken place at Dedham. She, though still alive, was ignorant of them all. For a long time she had been ill, and afterward her only thought had been how to bury herself from their sight forever and begin a new life.
               She had destroyed every trace of her identity. Her illness had been utter prostration and a low nervous fever, but never so severe that reason swayed on its throne. When she recovered she found that she had enough to remunerate her kind hostess, and she was thankful. But what could she do?
               Her first essay was as companion and seamstress to an elderly invalid. This coming to a sudden end, she took a vacant village school, but the publicity rendered her nervous and ill at ease, so she plunged into the retirement of a governess.
               She settled herself at last in a quiet, old-fashioned, but extremely beautiful town. A dreamy, refined, aristocratic place, full of old families who were proud of their pure blood. She came to sing in the church, which was s miniature cathedral, and eked out her income by teaching music.
               This really good fortune had come to her through the intervention of the clergyman and his wife. The Reverend Cyrus Wilmer was a Christian gentleman in word and deed, and his wife followed his good example with fervent faith. When he saw a good work lying just outside of his path, he never paused to question why another had neglected it, but went at it with gentle, yet earnest heart and truest courage. His flock loved him like a father.
               He had exchanged with a clerical brother and was to spend a week with an old friend, Mr. Knighton. He came on Saturday but was not introduced to Miss Mackenzie until Sunday morning, when the household were called in to prayers, as a special attention to the guest.
               She had taken her mother's name from a vague fancy that it was part of herself and less of a deception than any newly assumed. And she had also come to feel quite at home under its shadow.
               Lucia was neither happy nor miserable here with the Knightons. Mrs. Knighton was fashionable and superficial woman who paid great deference to society. Not infrequently the governess was reminded of Mrs. Glenfield. There were two girls and a boy, with a baby in the nursery. She tried to love them and was scrupulous about every duty. "A quiet, well-bred person," Mrs. Knighton admitted.
               Up to this period of her life she had been nervous and ill at ease with a sense of hiding away from danger or detection. Yet she felt assured that those most interested would make no search. If they could believe her dead, she would ask no more.
               She sat in a pew back of Mrs. Knighton, keeping watch and ward over the three restless children, and joining in the service as much as she could. Then the text was announced—
               "He shall drink of the brook in the way, therefore shall he lift up his head."
               "The brooks in the way are so often bitter that we are continually tempted to turn aside and find something more pleasant to the taste," began the clear, rich voice, and though she was tired when sermon time came, she roused herself now and listened.
               Was it for her alone, picked out of that assembled congregation, as it were? For she had gone through this warfare and defeat, this turmoil and struggle, and turned aside for something pleasant to the taste. Yet had she not cried for strength, had she not been willing to do her duty to the uttermost? Only at the very last, when the deep waters seemed to have gone over her soul, and the bitterness was too keen, too stinging, had she wandered from the direct path.
               Somewhere he came to quote from sweet, quaint George Herbert.
               "God takes the text and preaches patience." And then he explained how patience was the brother of love, and that through these two must come the redemption of the world; that the souls which hearkened were brought nearer the Infinite Love, the one force that from birth to death could move the human soul, could make the bitter waters of trial, perplexity, and defeat, sweet to the taste, purifying, and life-giving.
               She did not go in the afternoon for the children demanded her attention. Then for two days Mr. Wilmer was much engrossed with his host and hostess.
               For the first time she had a doubt concerning the step she had taken, yet she felt that it was too late to go back. Warren Thorndike had doubtless repudiated her. And what could she do in that old life!
               She was taking her afternoon ramble with the children, who seemed to fret her until every nerve was strained, when she came across Mr. Wilmer resting under a great sycamore.
               Something in the sweet, placid face won her as it had on the preceding Sunday.
               He noted the weariness amounting almost to despair, the hunger and pain bravely borne, he would have said, and his fatherly heart went out to her. So he called the children and soon had them romping on the grass around him.
               "They have tired you exceedingly," he said in his kindly tone that was sympathy, not blame.
               "One of the brooks in the way," she made answer.
               He smiled. "My sermon had one listener then," he said.
               It had been so long since Lucia Mackenzie had dared to talk to any one, that now her old impulsiveness lured her on.
               "I don't know that I understood it," she returned in perplexity. "Are we never to seek to evade any thing? Why even the Saviour prayed that his cup of bitterness might pass."
               "But He bore His Cross afterward."
               She bowed her head and the tears came to her eyes.
               "My child?" he said much moved, "is there any cross that I can help you to bear. It is our duty to minister to those who faint by the wayside."
               She was drawn to him as she never had been to Mr. Glenfield. She saw in him not the man alone, but the sacred office, and took courage.
               "I have been studying out a question since—Sunday," Lucia returned slowly. "Suppose one had unknowingly done a bitter wrong, and at last saw what he or she considered a way of restitution. This person might remain in the same place and bear the result of the wrong doing, or mistake, making others miserable, or give up all and go away, beginning a new life as it were—"
               She paused there, her eyes downcast and her voice tremulous.
               "I should say that it was better for the person to give up the fruit or result of this mistake, if the sacrifice was purely her own and no one else suffered;" he replied in a slow, grave tone.
               "I think others were benefited."
               "Then in my finite judgment it does not seem as if the step was to be condemned."
               His words appeared to lift a great weight from her. She quite forgot that he could not see the picture ever present to her mind. He was judging from other and more trivial matters.
               "You have left your friends?" he said presently.
               "Ah, I had few to leave. Not one who cared, perhaps."
               She had been delicately reared, he decided, and was scarcely beyond girlhood. More than that her fair high bred face looked capable of sacrifice and suffering. He could hardly believe her wrong in any step that she might take.
               "I shall appropriate the other part of the sermon then," Lucia said with a faint, sad smile.—"God takes the text and preacheth patience!"
               "He often does in this life, my child."
               The young group were growing restless again, and it was time to return. They walked homeward together.
               For the next two days Mr. Wilmer watched Miss Mackenzie narrowly, but there was nothing obtrusive in it. She was not pleasantly situated, that he could see. Her beautiful voice and her accomplishments might gain for her an easier and more congenial position.
               Later in the season they met again at a little sea-side resort where she was keeping the children while their mother was in the midst of fashionable dissipation. He had Mrs. Wilmer with him this time, and the two women became friends at once.
               Two months later, when she found that circumstances were drifting her into another change, she summoned courage and wrote to him, asking advice. He saw a niche into which she would fit at once, and drew her thitherward.
               Lucia Mackenzie was introduced into Merecombe under these auspices. She sang on Sunday, and every one was charmed. She was to reside with Mrs. Wilmer's widowed sister, Mrs. Preston, and had already been promised three scholars—the two Wilmer children and Edith Preston.
               Merecombe was on the line of a railroad that connected two distant but populous cities. This seemed to bound one side, and a slow flowing river the other. At this point the river er was not navigable for vessels of much pretension, though miles below it was alive with trade and commerce. The spot was secluded, without being at all lonely, and clustered about on every side with romance and beauty. The march of business had not invaded it, the whirr and hum of machinery was never heard. Framed in like a picture, it slept and woke with every season, quaint, quiet and lovely.
               Lucia Mackenzie was charmed with it the first hour she spent within its precincts. And the Sunday was like a blessed dream, hallowing all her days.
               Mr. Wilmer set about getting his protégé established, and met with excellent success. Her high-bred, lady-like demeanor commended her at once—and her grace and sweetness riveted the charm. Mr. Maurice, the organist, did not suspect the usual rival in her, and indeed received her into his good graces at once.
               There are times in life when one seems to cross off and old score and begin afresh. Lucia Mackenzie had awakened to a higher sense of existence, to a tenderness and sympathy for her kind. It might have happened before, had her lines fallen in pleasant places. And now there was no feeling or intention of deceit. Because she could not explain entirely, she never alluded to her past. Here she could be earnest, truthful and happy. No one starved her on the one hand, or offered her husks on the other. It seemed indeed an opportunity of mental and spiritual salvation.
               It was a summer afternoon now. There was a cluster of youthful figures on the spacious lawn in front of the Catherwood Mansion, and two or three ladies sitting in easy-chairs on the porch. The eldest, a still beautiful woman, past sixty, fair, placid, and with a beaming face that might easily have hidden the shadow of a dozen years. Ample in proportions, and with a motherly look that won at once.
               The lady opposite was much more slender and quite different in appearance, though not without a certain delicate loveliness. Although a daughter-in-law in name, for many years she had been truly a child to Mrs. Catherwood. Three of the girls, and the young man in the group, were hers—and they were all marked by the soft, dark eyes, and fine, glossy hair of a rich brown, and the pure, oval face of their mother.
               The third was Lucia Mackenzie. She stood leaning her arm on the balcony railing, one slender foot crossed above the other. A noticeable peculiarity of hers was that she always wore black or white. To-day it was a white pique, with black braiding, and her only ornament a cluster of deep, velvety crimson buds at her throat.
               Her hair was brushed plainly above her ears, and worn in a large coil at the back of her head. It was like threads of softest silk, you could see, and the complexion was clear and fine. Yet an indescribable change had come over the whole face. In these years her soul had grown and blossomed there.
               She was looking, as they all were, at the stranger on the lawn, at least Miss Mackenzie had never seen her before.
               "My granddaughter, Miss Sturtevant," Mrs. Catherwood had said.
               Miss Mackenzie knew very well that this young lady had been expected for the summer. She was to be married, and her grandmother had insisted upon the nuptials taking place at Merecombe. Indeed, this marriage and this grandchild had not been a source of unmixed pleasure to Mrs. Catherwood.
               By fragments Lucia had heard the story. Mrs. Sturtevant had gone abroad for her health, and died there. Eleanor, her only daughter, had been left in charge of some cousins. Mrs. Catherwood had implored Eleanor's guardian—her father had been dead some years—to go for her.
               There had been several deaths before in the family, and now Mrs. Catherwood was childless. Of her grandchildren, these at home were her favorites. Eleanor's father she had never cordially liked, though she kept this to herself, and always ways treated him well. This daughter had been proud and imperious, a very worldly and fashionable woman—and perhaps her coldness had helped to estrange the mother's heart.
               The Sturtevants were very fond of Eleanor, and unwilling to relinquish her. Mrs. Catherwood had foreseen this and given her guardian some private instruction to be used according to his judgment.
               Mrs. Sturtevant's illness had interfered with Eleanor's tour, which was still to be completed. A quiet summer among the Alps and the lakes, a winter at Rome—and by that time, her grief having abated, her cousins thought it possible that Paris might be taken in. Mrs. Catherwood had hardly approved of this with such chaperones, and was thankful to have the guardian, a man of the highest honor and not young, connect himself with the party.
               Through some mismanagement or misfortune, the greater part of Eleanor Sturtevant's inheritance had been swept away. Paris was not achieved—at least theirs had been Paris without the gayety that renders it so enchanting. But Miss Sturtevant had returned home the betrothed of her guardian.
               Mrs. Catherwood had no objection to this. That Eleanor should stipulate for a two years' engagement was not at all remarkable, considering that she was but eighteen. The intervening time was spent partly with her grandmother, and partly with her father's relatives, who were very gay people; and the two years had lengthened themselves into four.
               It was rumored that Mrs. Catherwood had taken matters somewhat into her own hands. The lovers were summoned to the Oaks, as the fine old place was called, and Miss Sturtevant was to be married at her grandmother's in the autumn.
               As I said, Lucia had heard this in fragments. She gave Frances, Sophie, and Bel Catherwood music lessons, and was an immense favorite with the old lady. When Mrs. Catherwood announced Miss Sturtevant, Lucia looked as she was doing now.
               
               "Do you think her handsome, Miss Mackenzie? She resembles her father's family more than ours. I believe I never did admire very dark women."
               "Yes," Lucia said, slowly, "she is very handsome. You would not call her pretty nor beautiful—those terms seem too tame."
               The elder Mrs. Catherwood sighed a little.
               "Fanny's drooping grace and sweetness appear more admirable to me, in a woman," she returned.
               The face was turned towards her, and Lucia studied it again. It was proud, haughty, and reminded you of nothing so much as fine bronze—for every feature seemed to have been formed in some delicate mould—each was perfect and impassible. The low forehead was set in shadowy masses of purple black hair, the eyes were deep and full of smouldering fire, and the pupil and iris being so nearly of a color, gave them a peculiarly impenetrable look, as if they might baffle you forever. The figure was full of affluent beauty and grace, and every motion displayed a polish and culture that one rarely expects in so young a woman.
               Something about her filled Lucia with a strange feeling of distrust. She tried to shake off the impression. This girl's life and hers would never meet, nor cross on any plane—they were in such different grooves, so why should she care?
               "I believe Eleanor is very fascinating," said the younger Mrs. Catherwood. "Just watch how George listens and admires," and the mother laughed, with careless ease, not a little proud of her own fine-looking son.
               "There may be such a thing as too much fascination. It is a dangerous gift;" the grandmother returned, with some asperity.
               "Am I not to have any pupils this afternoon?" asked Miss Mackenzie, looking at her watch.
               "Oh, yes. I quite forgot how your time was passing; so you must excuse us all."
               Lucia nodded graciously. Frances was summoned, but Sophie came running lightly over the lawn in advance of her sister.
               "Oh, mamma, George wants to take Eleanor out in the boat. The tide will be right in about an hour. Can't I be excused to-day?"
               "My dear Sophie, there will be a month or two for pleasure, and when Miss Mackenzie has been put to the trouble of coming, it is hardly right to make her errand fruitless."
               "But there will be two lessons, for Bel cannot go. And I'll run over to Mrs. Preston's to-morrow morning whenever Miss Mackenzie is disengaged. Do, mamma!" she entreated.
               Lucia smiled her assent, and Mrs. Catherwood finally agreed. Frances went to the piano. Through the French window Miss Mackenzie could see the lawn and Eleanor Sturtevant coquetting with her cousin. She wondered why she gave it so harsh a name. Eleanor was two years his senior, a finished woman of the world. This display of arts and graces might be natural to her, but was it not also a trap for the unwary? How much did Eleanor Sturtevant care for her lover?
               Why should Lucia Mackenzie think of him? Were men so loyal, generous and noble that a woman might freely become a champion of one unknown? He had doubtless chosen her for her beauty and elegance; perhaps, too, for the passion that one might rouse in such a tropical nature. Why should she care? The destiny of these people could affect her but little.
               Though her afternoon work was shortened she still lingered. Bel, who could never go on the water with any degree of pleasure, coaxed her for some songs, and Grandmother Catherwood always took the singing as a great luxury.
               It was quite late when she left them. Bel, clinging to her arm, went down the steps laughing in her gay, girlish way. Something in it all, the eager child, the sunset quivering low in the west, the delicious air, indeed the whole scene touched her in a peculiar manner. She drew a long breath of rapturous content, and then paused.
               "Well, Miss Mackenzie?" with laughing, questioning eyes. "Shall I escort you back? I don't see why you couldn't stay until evening, as mamma wished, and see Eleanor?"
               That was like bringing a shadow over the prefect scene.
               "No, I could not."
               "But you stopped, and cast a lingering look backward."
               "I was thinking that for an instant I felt perfectly happy and contented," Lucia responded.
               "And don't you always?"
               Bel raised a wondering glance to the sweet face.
               Lucia laughed then. It would be quite impossible to explain her feelings to this child, and Isabel Catherwood was already too much given to speculation.
               "I suppose moments of perfect content are rare," she answered carelessly. "And now you must say good-by to me. See, we are at the gate."
               "I wish I were coming to-morrow instead of Sophie. Miss Mackenzie, I should like to be rich, and a queen. I should set aside a portion of my palace and keep you forever, like some wonderful bird, to sing to me."
               Lucia's voice rippled on the summer air, for the conceit amused her.
               "Good-night," she said and turned, and came face to face with a gentleman standing outside of the gate.
               Bel started with a little cry of surprise. Lucia Mackenzie turned deadly white, and shook so that she was glad to grasp the nearest support.
               "Oh, Mr. Rutherford! Our friend, Miss Mackenzie;" for he was studying her with something deeper than astonishment; and Bel ranged herself on Lucia's side, as if she needed some defence.
               "Miss Mackenzie is a past acquaintance of mine also," he returned with studied calmness, "though I little expected to meet her here. I suppose you have been well during these years?"
               He asked the question absently. He was too much surprised to think. Had she been raised from the dead!
               "Quite well;" but her words had a hollow, tremulous sound And then she said, with a strange recklessness—"You remember that you once thought my voice worth cultivation? Acting upon you advice, I have made it of service to myself, at least. And now, my dear pupil, good-night, again."
               She nodded to Mr. Rutherford, turned, and was gone. Swiftly down the shaded road she flew until breathless with terror and fatigue. Then she turned into a by-path, and seated herself upon a stone, covering her face with her hands. The old existence that she had almost forgotten, rushed back upon her.
               Up to this hour there had been nothing to alarm, or in any wise connect her with the past. She had meant to blot it out and commence anew, her own life it should be. Whether they had searched for her, whether they thought her dead or not, she never knew. No word had passed her lips that could betray, and she had never met a familiar face.
               Yet for the first year or two she had lived in constant dread—and indeed, not felt entirely free until she came to Merecombe. In this sleepy little town, so far removed from business of fashionable travel, she had learned to consider herself secure. Day by day the sense of ease and enjoyment had grown upon her. Mrs. Wilmer's motherly friendship, and Mrs. Preston's tender care, were so delightful to experience. She had grown happy in spite of herself. Music had become a passion with her, and there was very little in her present duties that was at all irksome. Day by day the burden became lighter, until an hour ago she was unconscious that she carried any.
               And now how would it end? She did not for a moment imagine that Mr. Rutherford would betray her, but the delightful ful feeling of security was gone. The bright sky gloomed over in an instant.
               "I was too happy and careless;" she sighed, and yet, if she had been ever so watchful, could she have foreseen this?
               The dim rays of twilight clustering about the trees surprised her at length, and she rose wearily. A wild impulse urged her to flight again, but she knew that would be folly. Why should she distrust one who had proved so kind a friend?
               "An hour ago I was so happy;" she still moaned, gathering in the coming darkness shadows for her own life that had always lain on the bitter, wintry side of fate.
               At length she started wearily homeward. Mrs. Preston and Edith had gone out to tea. She was thankful to be alone; and she made her headache an excuse for going immediately to her room.
               She waited the coming of Sophie catherwood with feverish impatience the next morning; and when it grew late, she tormented herself with a thousand fears. These people considered her a friendless orphan. She had never said so—but they had some way taken it for granted; and if they heard the truth now, would they not thing her a base impostor? Oh, far better fly, than be disgraced before them all.
               Sophie made her appearance in the gayest of spirits. They had been riding with Mr. Rutherford, and gone farther than they intended.
               "But it was so delightful! Miss Mackenzie, if he were ten years younger, I believe I should envy my cousin Eleanor!"
               "Envy her?" Lucia repeated, in a vague manner.
               "Yes. He is her affianced, you know."
               "No; I did not."
               The room swam round to Lucia Mackenzie. Her friend the husband of that haughty girl!
               "Yes, it is rather odd. He was very generous to her some way about her fortune, and I suppose she fell in love with him. And yet I have a fancy that it isn't a very warm or extravagant love," Sophie ended, after some consideration.
               Lucia silently pointed out several mistakes.
               It was hardly strange that she had no heard. Frances Catherwood had been her only pupil until latterly, for the two younger ones were at school, and there had been no reason for discussing family affairs before her. She remembered now that they generally said "Eleanor's guardian."
               The engagement appeared to her as incongruous. It was not such a one as she fancied Mr. Rutherford likely to make, and yet she confessed that her knowledge of the man was rather limited. And then she knew very little of his ways of society.
               "And it's so singular that you should have been acquainted with him, Miss Mackenzie!" Sophie paused, with her finger poised over a key, and glanced around. "He was telling us last night."
               "What!" she asked, almost hoarsely.
               "How odd you are, Miss Mackenzie! Was he ever your lover? Oh, pardon me!"
               The face was covered with blushes and contrition. She had asked the question in her eager, thoughtless way, and was both sorry and ashamed.
               "No," Lucia returned in a cold, even tone. "We were the merest acquaintances. He gave me some useful hints concerning my future. This was before he went abroad, and I have not seen him since."
               "I did not mean to offend you. It was unpardonably rude, and I am very sorry. Dear Miss Mackenzie, please forgive."
               "I am not offended, but I should be sorry to have you so careless before your cousin or Mr. Rutherford. And now we will have a little better attention to the lesson."
               Sophie soon recovered her wonted ease, but Miss Mackenzie was quite to constraint.
               
               "You are quite sure that you have forgiven me?" Sophie asked as she rose to go. "I am certain that Mr. Rutherford is noble enough for any woman. I like him so much."
               "Yes," was the brief answer; and now let us dismiss the subject."
               She watched the young girl out of sight before she turned. What was there in the thoughtless words to disturb her so much?
               She had made her defence almost in the dark. Whether Mr. Rutherford had been questioned and what he had said were alike unknown to her, but she had counted strongly upon his loyalty. She shrank from facing him there at the Oaks, in the presence of others, and possibly his betrothed. Her very breath seemed to strangle her at the thought, and every pulse quivered in great, frightened bounds. It seemed as if she were waiting for judgment, for a summons that would bring her forth from her hiding-place.
               The right and wrong of her step she had never paused to consider. The life had become unendurable, and she had taken the sharp and perhaps doubtful remedy in her own hands. Those old days came back to her like a dream that she had striven, oh so hard, to forget, and now for the first time she shuddered with a vague dread of the consequences of her rashness.
               She brought her sewing to the sitting-room, as if she was fearful that her absence might awaken suspicion. A nameless terror struck at her very soul, and she seemed only to breathe on sufferance. What was there in the dark future for her?
               Mrs. Preston chatted in her usual low, graceful fashion. Music, literature and art were her topics, for she was strongly interested in all three. But to-day her companion was silent. Edith had gone over to her aunt's, so they finished the morning alone. Dinner was quiet enough, and then Mrs. Preston retired for her customary rest.
               "You do not look well to-day, my dear," she said kindly.
               Lucia shrank from the sympathy that would have been so dear at any other time.
               "I have a headache," she replied listlessly.
               "You had better lie down and take a rest."
               Instead she went to her room and changed her dress. A presentiment was strong upon her that Mr. Rutherford would make some effort to see her. She stationed herself by a window overlooking the road, and as the house stood on an eminence she could see the winding way for a long distance edging the waving fields and shadowy woods.
               How long she watched she never remembered. One after another passed, and at last a familiar figure came sauntering slowly, casting an occasional glance toward the hill. She went down then, tied on her broad sun-hat and left the house, for she must see him quite alone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               FACING DESTINY.
               A LITTLE strip of woods lay between, and Paul Rutherford looked at it longingly—its green glooms and mossy ways were in strong contrast to the sunny road without. The flutter of a white dress caught his eye, and he paused, startled by the apparition.
               Lucia Mackenzie was nearly as white as her dress. The wild eyes were frightened and imploring.
               "Oh!" he exclaimed, struck by her pain and terror, "you might trust me! I was once your friend!"
               She gave him a keen, searching glance. Every pulse to her very finger ends trembled and throbbed. He came nearer, and took her hand, cold on this brilliant summer day.
               "If I was surprised last night, remember, I—they all thought you dead."
               "Yes. You have been there?"
               "To—" but he did not utter the word. "Yes, I was abroad nearly a year. The business required my presence."
               She flushed through all her paleness.
               "You were the greatest sufferer" she made answer. "I used to think of you in that dreary time. I believe he meant to be fair and honest in the beginning—but his brain was dazzled by the brilliant prospects. And when the crash came, each one considered only his own losses."
               "It might have been worse. I saved a little from the wreck—but those on the spot were more successful."
               "You have seen—"
               Her voice died away. They had both unconsciously turned toward the woods, and now he pointed to a mossy stone.
               "Sit here," he said, in his olden tone of tender, yet firm command. "You are weak and agitated. Yes, I saw them all less than six months ago. They were well."
               "Thank you." She was strangely glad to hear even that.
               He looked at her curiously. How much of the Dedham doings did she know?
               "What have you heard?" he asked.
               "Nothing. I went away one morning. Perhaps they think me dead."
               "They do."
               "Thank God!" She uttered the words reverently, with bowed head and clasped hands.
               "But there was a strange mistake about it. They found some garments which were identified as yours—and the body of a drowned woman, supposed to be yours also. It was buried in the churchyard. There was no reason to question the story—and I believed it with the rest. My amazement last night was unbounded; and if I betrayed too much, forgive me. It was well that I heard your voice before I saw your face."
               "I wanted to be dead to them!" she exclaimed, with a touch of the old vehemence. "Ah, I see that your eyes condemn—but if those dreary days had been yours, and a woman's life, too—"
               He was thinking of the strange complication that had arisen. Should he tell her that a wife and child filled her place?
               "Oh, you don't know—you never can! It was like a death in life. He did not starve me, nor beat me, but he shut out all the brightness until my very hours became intolerable. From morning until night, from week to week! It is like a horrible dream even now."
               "You excite yourself fearfully."
               
               "I went away to die. I was a trouble to them all, and I saw it. Oh, you will not send me back?"
               "My poor child, no. Do not distress yourself needlessly. It would be all too late for such a step."
               "He does not want me. Perhaps it was my fault at first. Oh, Mr. Rutherford, why are we so blind in youth? I thought then, that if he was kind and cared for me tenderly, I should need nothing more."
               He looked at her pityingly. Still so young and so lovely, and yet barred out of the choicest joys of life—hiding away like a criminal. With her gifts and graces, so finely fitted to be the charm of some happy home circle—so warm and tender of heart, and doomed to be forever alone. It was hard.
               "You needed love;" he said, musingly.
               "I suppose nearly all women do. I never had any at home by which I could test his—but when I failed to make him happy, and my own life was only a curse, I wanted to be away from it all. Do you think they cared?"
               "We did not meet on the friendly terms of the past. I have seen very little of Mr. Thorndike," he answered, evasively.
               "I want you to believe that it was no plot, no part of the scheme that you were asked to become his guest. I think I would have died sooner than lend myself to such treachery. He expected to realize a grand fortune for all."
               Mr. Rutherford smiled. This courage and honesty of purpose touched him.
               "I did not blame Mr. Thorndike so much for that. Perhaps we all thought the same. The business looked very fair when I left it. We could not foresee the great revulsion that came before we were prepared. I only complain on of the after treatment. Some came out of the wreck better than I; and it was so long before I could learn the truth."
               "I was more than sorry. I used to think of it so much—and of you."
               That was Lucy Thorndike's face. It took him back to hours that he had said long ago it was wiser to forget.
               "But you have told me nothing about yourself."
               "Do you care to hear?"
               "Yes, all. It is like one coming back from the dead, for me."
               She smiled sadly, and mused awhile with downcast eyes. Should she tell him where her path had crossed lines with another's?
               To do her the simplest justice that last hour with Vaughan Marchmont had made a very faint impression on her mind; and in the swift rush of more important events, it had been forgotten. She remembered only that he had asked from her a useless friendship, and left him out of the account.
               Much as Mr. Rutherford longed to question, delicacy kept him silent. So he listened to her story, beginning from the morning when she had left Dedham. She made it brief, and left out many of its pangs—but its truth no one could doubt.
               "And you were learning to be happy?"
               His eyes questioned her so intently that it brought the warm color to her face.
               "I was content. The ease and freedom of this life, its many quiet pleasures and few cares, lulled me into repose. But now—"
               "And now?" he asked. "What difference should my coming make?"
               "You do not condemn me?"
               "The step is irrevocably taken. I should be the last to advise your going back to Warren Thorndike."
               He could not bring his mind to tell her of the insuperable barrier between.
               "And you think that I have a right to stay here, that it is not base treachery to appear other than I am. To me it was like the beginning of a new womanhood. I took the name my mother gave me—I had never been called by it before, and it was the dawn of a higher life. Some of its lessons I owe to you."
               Should he praise or blame? With a man's cautiousness he could not quite approve the step, and yet perhaps it had been her salvation.
               "Why should you not remain here?" she said slowly. "You have found warm and true friends. There is freedom, ease, and security."
               He uttered this last to reassure her trembling faith. What a strange life hers had been.
               There was a world of entreaty in the glance she gave him, but she could not bring herself to pain him by a question that would imply distrust.
               "Yes," he said, "I understand. It is not merely a secret with me, but a sacred trust. You will find that nothing of the past has been betrayed. If I was startled out of self-possession last night I bethought myself in a moment of all you must have at stake, and spoke of the past as an incidental acquaintance."
               "Thank you."
               There was a wistful look still remaining in the shadowy eyes. Did she care to hear about him?
               Ah, what could he tell her?
               There came to him at that instant a strange revelation. This woman listening with drooping eyes and parted lips that did not smile, held for him a subtle and far-reaching charm. He had always associated her with another, and he was much too loyal to allow fancy to stray in a lawless manner. But if both could be free, and he were to meet her for the first time.
               He drew himself up with a gesture that was almost haughty. Well that she did not see it, for now her face was half averted.
               "You have heard," he began in a clear, calm tone, "that I am to be married in the autumn?"
               "Yes. I hope you may be happy," she added after a pause, and he little guessed the fear tugging at her heart.
               Was there any question in her mind?
               "You have seen Miss Sturtevant?"
               "Yes. She is a very handsome woman."
               "I do not want you to think that I was won altogether by beauty."
               "No, I cannot imagine that. A woman must have some graces of heart or soul to charm you—at least I used to believe so."
               She gave him one of her bright, fearless looks.
               "You may believe it still," he returned gravely.
               "And the business at—"
               "It will not be a total loss. The prospect is fairer now than at any time. If the money had been all my own I would have cared less."
               She felt assured that whatever happened Warren Thorndike would prosper. Let the past all go then, since one could not choose the recipients of fortune. And remembering what had been said concerning his generosity to Miss Sturtevant, she did him honor in her heart.
               Yet the old friendship so suddenly restored must end as briefly. The fact gave her heart a wrench. So she rose from her seat.
               He would not detain her. He was too wise a man to try his strength in foolish tests.
               "I am obliged to you for giving me audience here," he said. "Was it by accident?"
               "No; I knew you would come, and I watched. From my window I could see the turn in the road. I thought it better."
               "It was."
               "I cannot put my gratitude into words," she said in a low, faltering voice. "There are some hours in our lives that I shall always remember. Wish me well—that is all."
               Then she too recognized the barrier that it was best for both to respect to the fullest extent!
               
               "God knows my best prayers will be for you. If this path grows tiresome and dreary, He can only comfort you."
               He studied once more the slender, drooping figure, the arm that hung listless, and yet were the perfection of grace, the soft golden hair blown about by the summer wind, the small scarlet mouth and deep eyes with their hidden and wondrous fire. Would any soul ever sun itself at the full rays?
               "Adieu, my little friend. God bless you!"
               Yet she was the first to turn to leave the spot, though it seemed to wrench every fibre of her being. Why? she asked herself in dismay. They would meet again, and perhaps she should see him happy.
               She took the homeward path with swift steps. Silently she entered the house and sped to her room. More than an hour had elapsed since she left it, and in her contradictory emotions it seemed both brief and long. The shadow that had hung over her since last night was lifted, but in its stead had come a blindness such as the flash of lightning leaves in its wake.
               Groping through it she knew the truth. The love that might have redeemed her soul was a splendid possibility missed. Too soon and too late. This man she could have loved had fate been less cruel.
               It was the first dawning of passion, but it laid quiescent in her soul from very hopelessness. She did not even rebel against its sway that seemed to rend her with agony, but bowed her head to the storm and let the waves of despair sweep over her. Even if he were free she would have no right to isten.
               Going carefully over the past she could find no place where a word or look had betrayed any feeling deeper than a friendly interest. She experienced a strange pride in this fact, for in her heart he was always to stand without a peer. When he had saved her from another dangerous temptation it had been from no selfish tenderness, but the highest motive, her own good.
               She also realized now why it would have been impossible for her to love Marchmont. The volatile fancy, the love for grace, beauty and refinement that was a part of her nature had been answered in his many fascinations, but the depths of her soul required something nobler and truer. It has been nothing deeper than a pleasure of the senses, and with her principles could never have led her astray no matter how trying the emergency might be.
               Yet when she thought of Eleanor Sturtevant she trembled for Mr. Rutherford's happiness. Why indeed? Was it not unreasonable, and perhaps savoring of jealously to thus distrust a woman of whom she knew absolutely nothing?
               She came back to her sweet and gracious mood. Edith Preston had invited some friends, whom she charmed as she had many times before, with her lovely voice. She had ceased to struggle against fate, and she knew that her secret was safe in Paul Rutherford's hands.
               Still she dreaded her next advent at the Oaks. She need not. Mr. Rutherford had left that morning, but his beautiful betrothed appeared in very gay spirits. She and her cousin George rambled about the lawn or made a pretence of croquet. Mrs. Catherwood kept them well in sight. Her eyes were not dim or easily deceived.
               This evening they succeeded in persuading Miss Mackenzie to remain to supper. Mr. Rutherford was quite a topic of interest for them all.
               "The marriage is to be early in October," Frances whispered in confidence. "All the trousseau is to be ordered, for Eleanor declares that she hates looking after such matters. It seems to me that it would be delightful."
               Lucia sighed a little. How often girls lost sight of the seriousness of the step in its captivating adjuncts! And then she remembered her own ill-fated nuptials.
               
               Quiet and eventful days they were after her startling surprise. It appeared very much like a dream to her, and sometimes she almost wondered whether she had ever been any person besides Lucia Mackenzie! For she could not help revelling in the summer's bloom and beauty, and smiling at the rosy hours.
               She had kept up her olden habit of rambling. Mrs. Preston was frequently her companion, but she was never deterred by loneliness. So one afternoon, perhaps a fortnight later, she sought her favorite nook with a volume of poems. A small eminence, for Merecombe was full of tiny hills and valleys, shaded by great trees and carpeted with velvety turf. Below ran a stream that plashed musically over the stones in its way.
               She threw herself on the grass, leaning her elbow upon a ledge of moss grown rock. The glowing sun was sifted through the leaves by the softest of summer winds that merely stirred them to a whisper. Bees droned in the distant clover fields, and occasionally some bird overhead dropped a tender trill of floating melody. Reclining there in luxurious solitude, her brain seemed to fill with shadowy remembrances until it was lost in the hush of loveliness.
               How long she had hovered on the verge of slumber she hardly knew, but she was startled by a sharp, discordant laugh.
               "And you believed this?" a voice said.
               "I believed you loved me!" was the answer in a deep, passionate tone. "Have you not told me so? Have you not drawn me to your side, let me lie at your feet and tell over my wild dreams, enchained me by a glance of your eye? Oh, it must be true! Surely women cannot so deceive!"
               There was a pathetic earnestness that touched Lucia Mackenzie. And yet she would fain have fled if she had known in what direction she would be sure to miss these two in their discussion.
               "But you know what I told you?"
               "A story of paltry gratitude—"
               "Not that alone. I once informed you that I could never marry any poor man."
               "But I am no longer poor."
               "A few thousands!" and again a scornful laugh.
               "Eleanor, you madden me! Did you not once admit that your fancy for him had perished? I am young, and all I ask of fate is a fair chance and I will yet lay a fortune at your feet. And he will give you up if you tell him the truth. No man would claim an unwilling bride!"
               It was Eleanor Sturtevant, then! For a moment Lucia seemed stunned, and the voices were only a murmuring sound to her ear, the man madly loving and protesting, the woman imperious and scornful.
               "No, you shall never marry Paul Rutherford!" he declared in a louder key. "I will go to him, I will confess the whole story, our stolen meetings, our promises, and our love, for you have loved me. I will demand your freedom. You shall not escape me."
               There was an awful silence. The hush even fell over the trees, and nothing save the ripple of the stream was heard. Lucia held her breath in sympathy.
               "All that might not make me marry you," she returned in a light, mocking tone. "Indeed, it is possible that I might hate you for your interference."
               "But love is stronger than hate."
               "Is it?" and she laughed satirically. "Suppose I say that my love for you was a mere passing fancy, and has perished! Women are proverbially fickle."
               "Well, you will never marry him! I would come from the ends of the earth to prevent it."
               "Listen, Harold," she began more calmly. "That I once loved you I will admit, but I am firmly convinced that we could not be happy together. Still, I will let you learn the truth for yourself. Take your journey. Study the beautiful women you meet, and find a rival for me. I shall be in the city by November, and then we will compare notes again."
               "And in the meanwhile you are to be married."
               "Rumor has said the same thing before, but you see that I am still single."
               "Oh, Eleanor, can you never love me again?"
               The voice was full of tender, imploring passion. How deeply he must be infatuated with this beautiful woman, Lucia thought.
               "Harold, will you return those letters?'
               "Never! never!"
               "Then do not talk to me of love. Go your way."
               Eleanor Sturtevant must have moved on, for the next sound was indistinct, and finally mingled with the voice of the stream. Lucia rose and glanced around. Not a figure was to be seen in those shadowy nooks, not a step or a rustle heard. Had she been dreaming!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               GIRT BY FIRE.
               A QUICK, keen pang of anguish tore Lucia Mackenzie's soul. The man for whom she would have chosen a destiny royal in its truth, love and honor, thus at the mercy of a heartless coquette! But why had Eleanor Sturtevant singled out this man of all others to marry? There certainly could be no lack of wealthy and handsome suitors at her feet.
               Now that she remembered, Paul Rutherford had not been at all enthusiastic about his betrothed or his anticipated happiness. He was grave and quiet by nature, but she had seen his eye kindle and his cheek glow with a touch of a hidden fire. Could it be possible that this miserable fate lay before him?
               She shuddered with painful forebodings and began to retrace her steps. Her own wretched life seemed to rise up as a warning, yet what could she do except look on and see him drift down with the current! Even if the secret had come to her honorably, she would still have no right to betray it. But could he not be saved?
               "Miss Mackenzie," said the domestic, as she came slowly in at the side gate, "there's a gentleman in the drawing-room wishes to see you."
               "Where is Mrs. Preston?" she asked.
               "Oh, she and Miss Edith have gone for a drive."
               "Do you know who it is?—the visitor, I mean," she added absently.
               
               "A stranger, I think."
               Lucia made one or two trifling alterations of dress and ran down. Some person on business—though what could a stranger want with her?
               The figure wore a curiously familiar look. The face was turned from her until she had half crossed the room.
               She uttered a low cry of surprise and terror, for Vaughan Marchmont stood before her.
               He would have met any emergency with calmness, but he felt that he was master of this situation. Sweet as the smile was, there gleamed a little triumph in it as well.
               "So I have found you at last, my lost, my still dear friend!"
               She trembled so violently that she fell, rather than sat in the nearest chair.
               "Forgive me," he said, imploringly, "but I could not wait when once assured that you were alive."
               "Who told you?" she gasped; for did any one besides Paul Rutherford know the secret?
               "There was a body found and brought to Dedham; and though others were deceived, I was not. From that hour I have not believed you dead. But why did you go without a word? You might have trusted me!"
               A desperate courage seemed to spring up within her, and she turned at bay like some wild thing driven to the last extremity.
               "And knowing that I wished to be as the dead to every one, this step on your part is hardly kind, Mr. Marchmont."
               He had fancied all along that she had cared for him, and that only her position, and a faint sense of what was due to her husband, kept her from acknowledging it. Her sudden flight had been a severe blow to his vanity, yet he had a man's love for combating obstacles. But as she stood there now, lofty in spite of her terror, and with a higher beauty in her face than that which had first attracted him, he still resolved to conquer. Now she was in his power, he was not likely to forget that.
               "I could not stay away." His tone was low and vehement. "Ah, you can never know how I have longed for some tidings—how often I have pictured you friendless, suffering, with no kind hand or heart to minister to your needs. Others, whose right it was, might let the matter go by in silence, but I could not. A faint, uncertain clue has guided me now and then, and at last led me aright."
               "Well?" she said, glancing at him inquiringly.
               She understood that he loved her, that he had dared to love her when such a passion confessed would have been shame and dishonor to her. In those old days she had not seen clearly, or rather she had not been capable of making subtle distinctions. She would have deemed it an insult to accuse him of unlawful love, when he had placed it on the basis of friendship.
               Marchmont felt that he would gain nothing by temporizing. If he chose to marry her, it was in his power, so far as he was concerned. He was not quite sure that he did. There were women in the world who would bring him wealth and position, with the added lustre of family, and it might not be wisdom to throw himself away. But he did want one deep, delicious draught of her love.
               "There was a time when you esteemed me a friend. Why did you not trust me!"
               "I told you that I wanted to be dead to the past. I desired to begin a new life."
               "Have you found it better than the old one?"
               "More satisfactory, at least, until now;" she replied, pointedly.
               His face flushed, and he bit his lips. If he subdued this woman at all, he must begin by being master. And then he glanced her over. The slender figure with that peculiar seductive softness indicative of tenderness as well as untold depths of passion, the shining hair rippling in its sea of gold, the deep, lustrous eyes with their half-hidden light that dazzled, piqued one's curiosity and yet seldom satisfied. She seemed like a rare, weird psychological study. He felt that her soul never had been roused to its fullest extent, and that quick as she might be to take many impressions, the one that swayed her the most powerfully would be of slow growth.
               He compelled her eyes to meet his by the exercise of the subtle power he knew so well how to use.
               "I think you have felt, if you have not acknowledged to yourself, the tie existing between us," he began, in his slow, melodious voice. "Heretofore I have had no right to speak. I had to look on your daily martyrdom and keep silence, no matter how keen the pang. But now you are free, and I dare to say 'I love you.'"
               "You have yet no right;" and the indignant blood crimsoned her cheek. "Warren Thorndike is alive; and by the law of the land, I am still his wife."
               "He has placed an insuperable bar between you. He is married."
               She started back in astonishment, yet in an instant she took in the whole. Rachel was his wife, of course. The event she had wished for in a vague way had come to pass, and she felt frightened at the result. Did it leave her free? Her brain was in a state of painful confusion.
               "There is the greater need of my keeping silence," she answered slowly.
               He noted the expression of terror and indecision that hovered about her eyes.
               "You are dead to that part of the world," he made answer. "And it appears the more necessary now that you should have a tried and trusty adviser. Who could fill this place so well as the man who loves you, the man to whom you could be every thing?"
               His tone was tender and impassioned. A sad, yet fascinating light quivered about his eyes, like the flame of a hidden fire.
               How should she tell him that she did not love him, that no amount of patience or devotion could move her, that she had indeed lost faith in him? She felt so astray, so far from any trusty beacon light, that she hardly knew which way to go.
               "You cannot have forgotten all the past," he resumed. "There was a time when I read more than a passing interest in your soul. Surely that long interchange of taste and feeling, of similar pursuits, refinements, thoughts and moods could not fail to leave some impress. Then a look would have been wrong; now my soul summons yours by the divine right of love, of a sacred possessorship that you cannot deny!"
               "You judge too soon, Mr. Marchmont," she said. "In those days I was wild and weak. I had no friend or sister to counsel me. From the simplest of lives I went to the extreme of fashionable dissipation. I took no greater license than woman in my station, and yet I understand now that some of those steps were calculated to lead one astray. Heaven knows how truly and earnestly I have repented of them. In my seclusion I have tried to bring myself up to a higher standard. Poor as the effort may have been, it is not without some result. It has made me clearer eyed."
               He saw that. Her soul seemed to challenge his in that brief instant, and to make it understand that she stood on no uncertain ground; that she could no longer be led by a beguiling smile or a few impassioned or unmeaning words.
               He had never felt the guiding or repressing power of a will stronger or purer than his own. Hitherto he had crushed where he could not conquer. Selfishness reigned a very king within him, and even at that moment, much as he loved Lucy Thorndike, he resolved that in the end she should pay to the uttermost for thus daring to oppose. But he was wary enough to glove the iron hand in softest velvet.
               "And you misjudge me, I think," in that soft, injured tone, so potent with women. "The merest legal figment holds you, which any court could dissolve in a few hours. Then you are quite free to become the loved and honored wife of any man. I ask you to be mine. I will take these steps for you in the most quiet manner."
               "Mr. Marchmont—"and she raised her hand entreatingly.
               "Hear me through," he interrupted with dignity. "I have studied you when you were least suspicious. I know the depths and richness of your nature, its marvellous capacity for bliss, its truth, tenderness, and also its needs. I would take you far away from aught that could recall the past, to some of those bright, bewildering lands at whose very description I have seen your eye kindle and your cheek glow. You should have beauty on every hand, until your very soul was steeped in it and every fine pulse of your nature beat responsive. I would shield you from care, from sorrow or trouble, until all of your bitter past should be blotted out, and not one remembrance left to mar the harmony of our perfect bliss. I should prize your love above all treasures, and cherish it night and day. Lucy, you cannot refuse. Think of this life of hiding and exile, where you are never safe, of the toil, the loneliness, and the bleak, barren future!"
               He would have taken her in his arms, but she saw the motion and drew back.
               There had been times when such tender, impassioned tones might have won her, had she stood as nearly free as she did now. But his words touched no deep chord in her soul.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she said slowly, and with a peculiar force upon every word, "one thing you have not taken into account—I do not love you!"
               The force and daring of her nature spoke there. Her deep eyes burned with a steady light.
               "How do you know? There is no past love with which to compare it!"
               His tone was confident, and a peculiar smile played about his lips.
               A sudden subtle flushing, a tremor in every limb, a far illumination lumination of the deep eyes, but with all these outward signs a pang like death at her heart.
               "You are right. I can test it by nothing in the past. It is a simple, present feeling of my own—I do not desire to be your wife."
               "Why?" with incredulous amazement.
               He had overlooked the previous agitation, but nothing was to escape his eyes now.
               "Because as I said—I do not love you!"
               "But you will," with the assured triumph of certain victory. "Give me time and opportunity. It is for your happiness I plead, as well as my own."
               He had taken a firm resolve within himself. If he found her love a more satisfying treasure than the draughts he had hitherto quaffed, he would rest content in its tenderness; but if not, and freedom were quite impossible, there would be ways to alleviate the sameness. He was not a generous man in any respect, and was quite capable, if she disappointed him, of consigning her to oblivion with hardly a pitying pang of remorse.
               "No," she returned steadily. "If you are a true friend you will take my final answer and leave me to the solitude that I have chosen."
               Her face began to betray a peculiar weariness. There was a sinking in the lines about the mouth, and a curious flickering light coming and going in the deep eyes.
               "I cannot. I am lover as well as friend."
               Then came her fatal temporizing. She had put off so many evil days in her short life.
               "At least," she said imploringly, "you will leave me now. I am worn and distracted with the sudden surprise, and all this conversation. I know not which way to turn."
               He could be gentle enough when it suited his purpose.
               "As you will," he replied sadly. "Remember that I love you, and be merciful."
               He took her hand, though she would fain have withdrawn it. Seeing the pain and suffering so plainly impressed upon her face, and quite mistaking its cause, a glow of pity and love suffused his brow and touched her deeper than she would have cared to own.
               "To-morrow," he said, and she did not dissent.
               Then she flew to her room. A wild terror throbbed along every pulse. What should she do?—what could she do? she moaned, fly again?
               Alas! there was no safety in flight. The quiet security of these years and careful isolation had been disturbed, and what could any other place promise! Might not Marchmont track her wheresoever she went?
               A shuddering seized her whole frame, as if it were in a deathly ague, and her throat became painfully constricted. In this spasm of despair the grave looked peaceful and inviting. Why had she not died? And for an instant one of those terrible temptations came over her. What was her life worth? Homeless, friendless, an exile from all that women hold sacred, hunted to the last extremity, what did it matter? Would not God look pityingly on the step when He knew all the terrible causes that led to it? Would it not be better for Rachel and Mr. Thorndike?
               Reason asserted her sway. No, it was not possible. Since God had not seen fit to end the miserable life, she must bide His time. And if He laid some still heavier burden upon her she must bear it, calling upon him for strength and grace.
               She forced herself to go down to the drawing-room on Mrs. Preston's return. Edith had some girlish gossip to relate, and her silence passed unremarked.
               But all through the long and dreary night she tossed restlessly upon her bed and asked herself what she should do. It seemed indeed the great crisis of her life. Vaughan Marchmont held her secret, and she had more to fear from him than from Paul Rutherford. Did he really love her? When she believed this and recalled his persuasive words, his looks of ardent tenderness, a profound pity filled her heart. Remember that she could no fathom the depths of his soul with her unpractised eyes.
               In her extremity she came to one resolve. She would write to Paul Rutherford. Counsel and advice she must have. There was no one here to whom she could apply. Kind and generous as Mr. Wilmer had proved, he would be shocked at her story. He had an old-fashioned respect for the marriage bond, and would be inclined to judge rather severely the wife who had thus set at naught her husband's authority. Mrs. Catherwood would condemn unhesitatingly. Merecombe would be no home for her when the story was once bruited abroad.
               But Rutherford, knowing all her past, would judge with his clear eyes and merciful soul. She had this much confidence in him, that whatever step he decided upon as right, she meant to follow implicitly.
               Her first task the next morning was to write her note. By one of those strange incidents that afterward seem like links in a chain, she remembered seeing his address on a letter ready for the mail, lying on the library table at Mrs. Catherwood's. She was in no state to study elegance and propriety.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "You proved yourself once my friend, and saved me," she wrote; "and now that I am in still sorer need, will you come to my assistance?
                           
                              LUCIA MACKENZIE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She forced herself to eat a few mouthfuls of breakfast, and then set out on her errand, for she could trust it to no other hands. It seemed as if some one was dogging every step, and she shivered at the slightest rustle. She wanted more composure before she could again venture to face Mr. Marchmont.
               It was her afternoon for the Catherwoods. Like one in the grasp of a terrible dream she went about her duty, fearing some rude awakening every instant. How more than comfortable this grand old mansion looked, with its serene mistress and group of happy girls. Miss Sturtevant was among them— regally beautiful and imperious. If there was any sin on her conscience, she did not betray it. Lucia envied her the grace and indifference.
               What charm had she ever had for a man like Paul Rutherford? Lucia seemed so at loss to account for this strange tie. And why should she wish to marry a man whom she did not really love? Had she not the whole world from which to choose?
               The day wore wearily to an end. On every step of her homeward way she expected to meet Mr. Marchmont—for in her highly-wrought nervous state she gifted him with prescience. At last she drew a relieved breath.
               "How tired you look," exclaimed Mrs. Preston. "And Mr. Wilmer has sent for us to come over. There are to be some young people at the Rectory this evening."
               There was an expression of solicitude upon Mrs. Preston's face.
               "Oh, Miss Mackenzie must go, mamma," said Edith. "Uncle Wilmer sent especially for her. It is always so much pleasanter with you;" and the young girl gave her a winsome smile.
               "I think I will, if you can all excuse a little dullness," she answered. "In the mean while, I can take a few moment's rest."
               "You are not going to be ill, surely! And yet your voice has an unusual sound."
               "Oh, no. I did not sleep well last night, and the day has been warm. I shall soon be refreshed."
               Lucia closed her eyes on the phantom before them. Any thing was better then receiving Mr. Marchmont alone there in the evening. And perhaps she would feel no worse for the effort.
               They went early. For that day she was safe. Perhaps she had misjudged Mr. Marchmont. It was her fault that he had dared to love her; and in reviewing the conversation of yesterday in a calmer mood, he might see how little hope there was for him, and accept her decision as final.
               "A gentleman called soon after you had gone," said the servant, on their return. "He left this note."
               Lucia took it, thankful that she had escaped the meeting. She did not open in until in her own room.
               He had pencilled a few lines on a card and slipped it into an envelope.
               "My darling"—it ran—"why do you shun me? My whole life lies in your hands, for happiness or despair. I am deeply disappointed at thus missing you; and beg an interview for tomorrow morning."
               She could not escape the cruel fate then! Oh, if Mr. Rutherford were but here. She placed her whole faith in him with feverish anxiety. But how could she wait? Again flight appeared the only door open to her.
               Every step of this miserable way seemed linked with pain and shame. The old cry rose to her lips—why had she ever been born?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               AGAINST THE TIDE.
               VAUGHAN MARCHMONT sat in Mrs. Preston's cosy drawing-room awaiting the coming of Miss Mackenzie. She was grave and cold, paler than usual, but her voice had a peculiar steadiness in it that was unpromising. It would require nice playing to win.
               One of those subtle laws of fascination was here exemplified. The more she seemed to shun him the more determined he was upon conquest. If he had never seen her warm, impulsive, and glowing with latent mesmeric fire, he would hardly have considered the prize worth the pains. But she should yield to his influence once more, that he was steadfastly resolved upon.
               "My dear friend," he said in his low winning tone, "have you been ill? Why will you not let me advise and comfort?"
               "You can give me no comfort. I hoped, Mr. Marchmont, that you would see this matter in the light that I desired, and leave me to myself."
               "Thus solitary and struggling, knowing that I could make life bright for you, and yet standing coldly aloof. Ah, you wrong me, if you thought that!"
               "It is best and kindest. If you have my welfare truly at heart you must see this."
               "But I do not, cannot see it. I love you, and I am a man of much patience where my feelings are really enlisted. Try me by any test that you will. I have told you that my intentions were most honorable."
               For all that the handsome face and strange eyes with an almost evil significance made her shudder.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she said, "all this talking is useless and painful to me as well. I can never, never be any thing to you. I would sooner return to Dedham and confess my identity."
               "That is quite impossible," with a peculiar smile.
               "Why?"
               She said this with some of the olden spirit that had made Lucy Thorndike piquant. There was a dangerous, half-smothered fire in the dark eyes.
               "Because your sister is Warren Thorndike's wife, and the mother of his child. Will you disgrace them both by a fruitless appeal?"
               "His child! Their child!"
               She sank back in her chair and covered her face with her hands. Not that she had ever thought of asking mercy from Warren Thorndike, but this would take all power quite out of her hands.
               "Yes," he went on in his cool tone that seemed to stab her to the very core of her heart—"you know what that would be. He would legally repudiate you and re-marry her, but the child would be proved illegitimate. And you would be still adrift with the reputation of a discarded wife."
               She turned upon him with fiery eyes and burning, scarlet cheeks, every pulse throbbing with indignation.
               "Why should you be so anxious to link your fate with a woman whom the world, never very generous, might condemn?"
               "Because I love you. Because I would fain shield you from sorrow and trouble."
               How many women have been won by just such persistence. She wondered if it were really true. If she, a stray and exile, might be housed in a warm and tender heart. A moment before fore she had been angry, now gratitude softened every feeling.
               "No," she returned suddenly, afraid of yielding to the spell—"this can never be. If you think me distrustful and wary, I have learned it in a hard school. I was grateful to Warren Thorndike for his kindness in trying to make my lot happier, but after I became his wife I found that love only could make the duties of such a station endurable. I will not sell my soul again for a mess of pottage."
               "You compare us! You place my love on a level with his grovelling fancy or passion."
               There was a fine and lofty scorn in this, and his brow was stained with a delicate flush. To compare this gentleman with that boor were indeed a disgrace. And yet she knew that men as refined and high-bred as this one had crushed the joy out of some women's lives none the less surely.
               "Pardon me," she returned with unconscious softness. "But the fact still remains—I cannot give you gratitude for love."
               "I told you that I would wait. Give me some opportunity for proving my regard."
               "I cannot," with a shiver of misgiving. "Your continued visits to me would attract attention, and bring me into a sphere that I have hitherto shunned. Again I beg of you to let me go my way alone."
               Her voice sank to an imploring pathos. It would be entertaining to have her plead in that fashion for other favors. He had a great love for authority and power.
               "Do not ask such an impossibility."
               "Mr. Marchmont, what do you propose?"
               He saw that a change had come over her, but he treated it as only a passing mood.
               "To wait."
               She was girt in as by fire. At every avenue of escape those steady eyes confronted her, until she began to experience a vague alarm.
               "Your waiting will be useless."
               Then she drew herself up haughtily and glanced from the window to the lawn, never swerving not allowing herself to be provoked into a reply or touched by his pleading.
               He rose at length and came nearer.
               "I want to tell you," he said in a low tone, "that it is better to have my love than my hate, to keep me for a friend, instead of converting me into an enemy.
               Still the same disdainful smile.
               Would she dare him to do his worst? He had seen women brave for a brief while before, but they were generally conquered by a strong fate. Perhaps it would be as well to leave her to her own reflections.
               "Adieu," he said loftily. "Think of this and make your choice."
               He went slowly out of the room. Lucia Mackenzie sat like one in a spell, her eyes curiously indrawn, her lips firmly set, and the lines about the mouth growing hard. She had dared this man. Farewell to peace, to seclusion, to the drop of prosperity that had fallen into her cup. It was hardly worth while to wait for Mr. Rutherford now; yet, since she had written, courtesy demanded that much.
               Vaughan Marchmont fancied that she would essay flight. He managed that both stations should be watched, but Lucia went steadily about her duties. An awful calmness seemed to have fallen upon her, presaging a dangerous storm.
               While he was waiting and bethinking himself wearily of his next move, he learned that Paul Rutherford had arrived at Merecombe and gone directly to Mrs. Preston's. Here then was the secret of Lucia's resistance!
               Remember that he had once felt certain of Lucia's love. Misled by his own vanity and her ignorance, her lack of understanding precisely what his attentions meant, he still assured himself of a certain regard. His dull dislike of Rutherford now blazed into open, ungovernable hate. He bit his lip over a fearful threat. If he could not rule he would ruin. This little world of Merecombe should ring with the story of Lucia's past, and herself be held up to execration in thus accepting another man's love. He would see her once more and give her a choice. Ah, he knew how she would shrink from shame and disgrace. At last he held the winning card.
               Lucia's first anxiety had died away. It was too late for any assistance. The swift current must bear her on to the final wreck, for neither prayer nor hope would avail.
               Mr. Rutherford glanced at her in amaze as she entered the room. Some inexplicable change had befallen her, for she appeared to be turning into stone. Even the drooping eyelids were fixed, and the eyes set hard.
               "What can have occurred?" he asked anxiously. "I came as soon as was possible after receiving your note. Some danger menaces you."
               "Vaughan Marchmont is here," she said under her breath.
               He turned pale, and his fingers seemed to make an involuntary movement.
               "He has recognized you, then! Your secret is in his hands as well."
               "Yes."
               They gave each other a long, questioning glance. She felt so helpless, so far at sea that it seemed as if even his strong arm could not save her. If she could only cling to him as one might to a brother.
               "Well!" he said. It appeared as if there must be something back of all this.
               "He loves me! You were right there when you spoke before."
               Her voice was hoarse and her cheek stained with crimson.
               "Has he dared—"
               "No, let me give him credit for honor, at least," she said with some bitterness. "He has proposed marriage—he is willing to take me with all my legal disabilities, or assist me to liberty."
               "You know he could not. You are still Warren Thorndike's wife."
               "And he has another wife—my sister, and a child!"
               "Yes. He told you this? I would have saved you," with the tenderest pity in his eyes.
               "He told me. It was my mad, miserable folly, that has brought about this complication."
               "He loves you? He wishes to marry you? Liberty is possible, you know. I think Mr. Thorndike will not care to make a change."
               He said this softly, as if afraid of paining her.
               She came a little closer to him, and looked curiously into his eyes.
               "You probably understand what manner of man Mr. Marchmont is. You have seen him in the world, in business matters. He holds something of my destiny in his hands, at least he can make all our lives darker. I would fain befriend Rachel and her child. If I can do this by any sacrifice on my part, God knows it will be a cheerful gift."
               Paul Rutherford pressed his hand to his forehead. Had her early regard deepened into any stronger feeling?
               "Do you love him?" he asked.
               "Love him!" she answered scornfully.
               "Thank God!"
               "Do not remember that old time against me," she pleaded. "I was young, thoughtless, and sometimes felt that life was hard to bear. I hated its coarseness, its vapid gossips, its trivial employments. And then he came, a refined and polished gentleman, fresh in all the elegancies of the world and society, well read, entertaining—and such a man was a new study to me. I was left much alone, you know; nay, more, I was thrown upon the mercies of others. I was fascinated perhaps, but the charm was a passing one. You spoke, and the vision cleared. I saw the perils in my path. In the after dreariness they beset me again, under the guise of friendship—and then I fled from them both, the cold, cruel bond that was goading me to madness, and the other that had ceased to be dangerous."
               "I am glad to hear this," he replied, in an earnest tone, "for your sake."
               "Yet my going away was a false step.
               "Yes. God means us to endure the trials He sends, and not turn away in weak cowardice. You will not marry Vaughan Marchmont then?"
               "No. Yet in refusing him I must prepare for my worst enemy."
               "A selfish, unscrupulous man—one to be dreaded, at least."
               "Counsel me, advise me;" she pleaded, clasping her hands, and raising her eyes imploringly.
               "My poor child, it is hard retracing wrong steps. Every mistake carries with it some downfall of what might have been hope, and brings a sorrowful entail of suffering. I can understand what the temptations were. When I first saw you I felt that your way was set in dangerous places. If I had spoken then!"
               It seemed to her if she had only been set right in those days of inexperience, much of her misery might have been saved. And yet she could not blame him. What claim had she upon any stranger?
               "It will be best to go back to Dedham," he said, slowly. "They will be warned, at least."
               "Not that! not that!" she exclaimed in anguish.
               "Will the tidings come more gently from him?"
               "But would he dare—?"
               "He will dare any thing. I believe to-day that warren Thorndike would have been a more generous husband but for him. I hold him responsible for much that occurred at Dedham. When I reached the town he had left it with a fortune. Thorndike had been a tool in his more astute hands. Thank God that he never really found his way to your heart! And yet I hardly understand how you escaped!"
               Had there been some guiding power stronger than either of them knew? Was it one hand only that could touch the key note of her being? and that one forbidden by honor, manliness and integrity to sway even the faintest chord, she must needs remain forever silent and dumb.
               He did not dare to raise his eyes at the moment. If he had kept his own life free from tangles—but no, she was still the wife of another, as sacred to him as she had always been, always would be.
               "Will you allow him to hold this secret in terror over you—or take off its keenest edge by confessing it yourself?"
               She shrank from the ordeal. It would be bitterer than death to face them all again. Why could she not fly? Ah, was there any safety in that?
               Mr. Wilmer's text flashed across her mind to strengthen her. "He shall drink of the brook in the way, therefore shall he lift up his head." She understood the sermon by a swift and subtle intuition." Here were the treacherous rocks on which she had first been wrecked. Ah, how weak and blind! Did God mean that some human souls should come to the new birth through flood and fire? If so, hers was surely one.
               Rutherford watched the struggle. He saw the faint red lines of anguish thread their way up her temples, and the pallid lips quivered with pain.
               "You will go?" he said, in a slow, decisive way. "Whatever I can do for you shall be done. You need a true and clear-eyed friend—such as only a brave and tender woman could prove. I believe Mrs. Catherwood such a one. If you will allow me to repeat the story to her!"
               "Not now;" she entreated.
               
               "I was at Dedham three months ago. Your father has broken much. Warren Thorndike has aged, and yet the home seems the same except the presence of the child, a little girl. They have called her Lucy."
               That touched her keenly. They did not hate her utterly, then!
               "I will go;" she said, after a pause.
               "When can you be ready?"
               "Must it be so soon?" A wild terror seemed to creep over her.
               "The earlier the better, I think. Mr. Thorndike can take the necessary steps to legalize his marriage—and you will no longer need to hide in secret. It will be a painful task, yet—courage!"
               Something in the tone roused and inspirited. Far apart as they must always stand, she could still pay him the meed of gratitude and respect.
               "I must return to-morrow," he began. "The elder Mrs. Catherwood goes to the city with me. If you would accompany us—?"
               He was right in one thing—nothing could be gained by delay except additional suffering.
               "Yes;" she assented, faintly.
               "Let me win a friend for you in Mrs. Catherwood."
               "If you can;" she answered with some bitterness. "It seems as if the hand of every woman would be forever against me; because my burden was heavier than I could bear."
               "To-morrow, then. Your after life must in some degree be shaped by the result of the coming interview. You can make no plans until that is over."
               He had a strange hope for her that he dared not put in words. Could Mr. Garth's heart be implacable to the last?
               "We shall start early. The carriage had better come for you."
               Lucia acquiesced. She made no effect to detain him after that—and their farewell words were simply said. This part of the way lay straight before her.
               She made a few explanations to Mrs. Preston, and then began her preparations. In the midst of these, she was interrupted by a call from Mr. Marchmont.
               Lucia Mackenzie entered the room quite prepared for the contest. He read this in her proud, steady face, and bit his lips hard under cover of his mustache.
               "Your secret it seems is a secret no longer;" he said, with a touch of scorn. "Have you taken Mr. Rutherford into counsel?"
               "I believe I am not accountable to you for my acts;" she returned with quiet dignity.
               "The truth is no mystery I suppose. Paul Rutherford has become my rival. Shall I congratulate you?"
               A sardonic smile crossed his countenance.
               "Mr. Marchmont," she said, "let us come to a final understanding. That Mr. Rutherford has befriended me, I will not deny; but you may spare your sneers. In a few months he is to marry Mrs. Catherwood's granddaughter, to whom he has been engaged for some time. Probably he will never cross my orbit again, for I shall leave Merecombe. To-morrow I am going back to Dedham."
               "No, you cannot," he began eagerly. "Take that step at your peril!"
               "You dare to threaten me?"
               "I will tell you a secret that you have forced from my lips. I was absent when you left Dedham; and on my return, Warren Thorndike accused me of spiriting away his wife, confessing that he knew she cared for me!"
               If he expected this to cower her, he was mistaken. She saw plainly now that he would scruple at nothing to attain his end, and she began to hate, more than she feared.
               "I can disprove all this;" she answered, undaunted. "Every week of my life, since the day of my departure from Dedham, can be accounted for. I have been in the hands of friends, who will stand by me to the last."
               His final card, then, had proved a failure. He understood now that she was finally lost to him; and as she stood there in her pride and courageous loveliness, he longed to crush, to destroy.
               "You love this Paul Rutherford;" he declared madly.
               "Do I?"
               She turned her face full upon him. Calm amid all the stress of trouble, the currents of fiery blood held in check by the high soul that at this crisis saved itself, and the man whose fair name was as dear to her. No torture could have wrested that from her.
               He could not stab her there. He was powerless, worsted—where a week ago he had felt master of the situation. But if she was beyond his reach, Rutherford might not be.
               "It is my desire that this shall prove our last interview," she said. "Henceforward we are strangers."
               With that she swept regally out of the room, leaving him amazed and angry, but his moods were no longer a matter of consideration for her. She looked steadily forward to the new path, resolved not to swerve, though every nerve shrank from the coming trial.
               She did not take a final leave of Mrs. Preston, although she felt there was a small prospect of her ever returning to Merecombe. A note was written for Mr. Wilmer—full of gratitude for past kindnesses.
               The Catherwood carriage came for her. Mr. Rutherford handed her in with his usual grave courtesy; and Mrs. Catherwood gave the trembling hand a soft pressure. For an instant their eyes met. Those of the elder said that Lucia Mackenzie had found a lenient judge, whether it was the result of her warm heart or the manner in which the story had been related. There was not much opportunity for conversation, but the few sentences exchanged were most reassuring.
               "My child," she said, "you might have told me your story before. No counsel perhaps is as reliable as a mother's—and this it seems you have missed all your life. I know how to sympathize with you."
               "Oh!" Lucia returned brokenly, "you are so good. I hardly dared hope. It seemed as if every one's hand would be raised against me, as it always has been."
               Mrs. Catherwood gave her a look that was far sweeter than a smile.
               "My dear," she said, "I have passed the heats of passion and hasty judgment. Whether your first step was a wise one it is not necessary now to discuss. I can see how you took it with the best of motives. It is hard when we are young to bide God's time, so we take destiny into our own weak hands and make a sad tangle of it. But it is better that you should be quite free. Have you any plans?"
               "None," she answered shiveringly.
               "Mr. Rutherford thinks that this Mr.—Thorndike is perfectly satisfied with his present relations!" Mrs. Catherwood said hesitatingly.
               "Yes," Lucia's head drooped lower. "You cannot understand how entirely my sister suits him. And for the child's sake I desire to do the best I can for them. I shrank weakly from the pain before, but now I will be strong to bear suffering or shame, or whatever may be laid upon me."
               "No one can advise at present; but I want you to feel that you have a true friend in me, one not easily turned about by adverse circumstances."
               Lucia raised her shining eyes in grateful tears. Was the world more generous than she had thought? Mrs. Catherwood's quiet firmness gave her courage to breast the storm.
               She begged Lucia to promise, before they parted, that she would not only keep her informed of events, but in any strait apply to her at once.
               "It will be necessary to begin an entirely new life," Lucia said. "I cannot return to Merecombe and have an air of unexplained mystery hanging about me."
               "I have already thought of this. A friend of mine is going abroad in the course of a few months and would like to have a governess for her daughter. If nothing better offers this can remain open to you."
               "Thank you," Lucia responded with deep gratitude.
               Now and then she stole a look at Paul Rutherford's face. Were there some lines of secret dissatisfaction? She shivered at the fate that lay before him, and yet she could not warn. Were all best purposes crossed and thwarted, noble hearts wrung with pangs of keenest anguish? Who was happy in this dreary world?
               It was mid-afternoon when they parted. She would reach Dedham late that evening, though she preferred to go alone.
               Mr. Rutherford walked across the platform with her. A few earnest, heartfelt wishes, a hope that this step might be the wisest she could have taken, and then he paused with a strange, wistful glance.
               She uttered her farewell. Then she came back a step, impelled by a peculiar power.
               "You are to marry Miss Sturtevant," she said in a low, hurried tone. "Oh, be sure of this one thing—that she loves you with every fibre of brain and soul. It is a woman's only safeguard, a man's only hope!"
               He seated her returned to Mrs. Catherwood, quite disinclined for conversation. Was it a wail of Lucia's sad life in the words, or some subtle fear that had more than once shadowed his own fancies?
               Lucia settled herself in her seat. Mr. Rutherford had provided her with some papers, but she did not care to read. She must summon all her strength for the coming trial. A few sharp pangs, much keen censure, and perhaps fierce upbraiding, a rending of the ties that bound her to kith and kin, but with it all, unquestioned freedom. No secret to weigh down her life.
               Straightly, swiftly she was borne. No windings and doublings in this course as there had been at her departure. No culprit fear of detection, that was over. Henceforward the simplest truth was to guard her life. She had wrought misery enough with her one impatient, lawless step.
               The afternoon waned. Down the sloping skies dropped the sun. Purple twilight gathered at the edges of the woods, and the long line of gold melted into rose color. Familiar stations began to greet her. Nearer, nearer to fate—what had it in store for her?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               GOING BACK.
               THE south wind blew up sweeps of fragrance from the low-lying meadow lands, and the sky overhead thinned into tintless space. The far-off woods threw weird outlines against the sea of pale gold in the west, and the insects began their evening hymns. Lucia Mackenzie had dropped her brown travelling veil long before she reached the station; and though her heart beat suffocatingly at every stray glance, no one gave her a more than casual notice.
               She turned into the high road that skirted the town, though it was much changed. The hills looked lower, the woods dwarfed, the great factories were shrouded in twilight, and the tall chimneys were mere points. She threaded her way quickly, turning her head now and then as if some weird phantom followed fast upon her steps. The slightest rustle made her shiver and her pulses beat in great throbs.
               Only one turn was necessary. The narrow lane had become a populous street, but the faces were nearly all new. Warren Thorndike's predictions bid fair to be realized. She paused and glanced furtively across the open space. There was the old brown cottage with its sloping roof. She could see the chamber window, the scene of many a smothered mutiny or despairing wail against fate. It seemed ages since Lucy Garth stood there envying the very swallows that twittered around the eaves.
               The straight path up the small courtyard, the open door with its dusky background, and a bowed figure sitting on the step. She knew that well. So he had sat one summer night years ago.
               Her limbs trembled with a strange terror. Flashes of burning heat shivered through her veins at one moment, and the next she seemed drenched in a sea of fire. Her tongue clove to the roof of her mouth, and her lips stiffened like the coming the death. Could she go on?
               Pausing at the gate and fumbling around the latch with unsteady hands startled Mr. Garth. He glanced up but did not move.
               Lucia came nearer with uncertain steps. The prim garden looked chill and forbidding, and the one lamp on the dining-table threw a sickly ray in the hall. She saw the worn and aged face, the outlines softened, the mouth less set and stern, and the eyes with a kind of frightened, piteous appeal. In an instant she was on the step beside him, clasping his knees and covering the thin hands with kisses.
               "Father! father! It is Lucy come back! Oh, if you have any lingering love, and pity or tenderness, bestow it upon me now! Your sorrowful, repentant Lucy, whom you have all thought dead!"
               He looked at her in amaze, raising the tearful face and studying it in a vague way. Not shocked as she supposed he would be, and then another terror seized her. What if the once strong mind wavered in the balance?
               "Lucy!" he repeated mechanically.—"Lucy was drowned, you know. They brought her home, and she is buried in the churchyard."
               "No, it was a mistake. Look at me, father!"
               She threw aside her hat and mantle and faced the flickering ray of light.
               "My God!" he exclaimed in wild affright. "It is Lucia Mackenzie!"
               "Your own Lucy, father. Do not cast her out of your heart. Weak, wilful, and yet repentant. Oh, shall man be more severe than God? I think I must have been beside myself when I went away, but I have come back to tell the truth for all our sakes."
               Her vehemence stirred the slow pulses of the old man.
               "It is like Lucy's voice," he said wanderingly. "It is Lucy's golden hair and fair face. God must have made her beautiful, but it was a snare to the child. Yes, I am quite sure that she is dead."
               "Where is Rachel—my sister?" she asked in despair.
               "Rachel? Rachel is dead, too, you know. Her little girl is up stairs asleep."
               Mr. Garth studied the face before him attentively. He threaded the soft hair with his fingers until the tumbled ends began to curl; he touched the fair cheek and looked into the deep, tremulous eyes, swimming in waves of tears.
               "Rachel dead? Oh no, you are mistaken."
               "Come and see her child. It is all I have now."
               He took the lamp and led the way. Feeble, faltering steps, and the arm shaking so that she feared for the safety of the light.
               "She is in here. I called her Lucy for the one we lost, and because her hair was pale gold. You won't take her away?" piteously.
               "Oh no, no." Her tears were falling fast now. She had come too late!
               A miniature face, white and thin, and with that grown-up, wise look which you sometimes see on the countenances of those early familiarized with care—sweet withal, the scarlet lips parted into a half smile, and the small chin cleft with a dimple.
               "My darling," he murmured, toying with the scanty locks of hair cropped close. "The one treasure left me."
               The child moved uneasily, the light full in her eyes partially rousing her.
               A great wave of pain and apprehension stole over Lucia. The house was so deathly quiet, and the very air seemed filled with phantoms. Was Rachel indeed gone?
               The child opened its eyes. "Grandfather!" exclaimed the small voice with precise accent. "Oh, grandfather, who is this?"
               "Child," Lucia said hurriedly, "where is your mother?"
               "Mother is dead," she answered solemnly. "Grandfather, didn't you tell this lady that they took mother away in a box—to heaven?"
               It was true, then! Lucia sank by the side of the bed, overwhelmed. Rachel was spared that pain.
               "Who is it, grandfather?"
               Mr. Garth placed the lamp upon the table, and then looked at her wonderingly.
               Oh, would no one ever acknowledge her again!
               A step came stumbling up the stairs, and it seemed to rasp every nerve in her body. She rose, summoning all her strength.
               Warren Thorndike confronted her in the door-way. A hard, pitiless face, quite changed since the time she had thought him a hero.
               "Good heavens!" he ejaculated. "Does the grave give up its dead? Lucy Thorndike! or is it some accursed phantom?"
               Mr. Garth started at the name, and a gleam of recognition shot into his dim eyes.
               "So you thought you would come!" Thorndike said tauntingly. "But I tell you it is too late, even if she is dead. I am beginning to prosper again, and no woman's extravagance shall ruin me this time!"
               A sordid light shone in the small, eager eyes. Money had become his God.
               She made a gesture of such supreme contempt that it penetrated even his dull brain.
               "I ask nothing of you, Warren Thorndike," she answered in an icily clear tone. "I come because an enemy had invaded the secresy with which I had chosen to surround myself. I did not know until then that Rachel was your wife, but for her sake and your child's sake, I preferred that you should hear the story from me, rather than from one who might use it for his own selfish purposes. I will admit that I have forfeited all claim upon your consideration, and will never oppose any effort that you may make for legal freedom. If my father desires, I will go again into exile."
               Mr. Garth came nearer. He seized her arm and gave a low cry, a sound that touched her to the depths of the soul.
               "She is mine!" he exclaimed, "my child. We were both hard upon her in those old days, but you have no right to her, Thorndike. She is mine!"
               And hearing these blessed words of ownership, Lucia fell sobbing into her father's arms.
               "I don't want her," declared Thorndike gruffly. "She was always too fine a lady for me. I know she laughed in secret over my ways, that were different from her grand friends. She cared only for my money, but she'll never get a penny of that!"
               "She shall have enough," said Mr. Garth tremulously.
               "My child! my child!"
               Lucy's clasp tightened. A thanksgiving went up from her full soul. To be received gladly by any human being was a luxury now.
               "You remember me!" she whispered. "Take me back to your heart, and I will be your child indeed. God has been merciful to us both."
               "It seems sometimes as if I had lost the way," he went on in a wandering tone, "and then He leads, Lucy. I don't trouble myself now. When you went away you kissed me—do you remember, child? Kiss me again, that I may know it is you."
               She kissed the soft, withered lips not once, but many times, and their tears mingled together. He was much agitated and trembled like a leaf, so she drew him to the chintz covered lounge.
               Warren Thorndike went to his own room. The child crept out of bed and climbed on her grandfather's knee.
               "You are the beautiful Aunt Lucy in the picture," she said wonderingly. "Mother told me it was wicked to be beautiful, but you are not wicked, are you?"
               "I am trying to be good," Lucy said in strange awe of those large questioning eyes.
               "Will you stay here?"
               "She is to stay here. And her name is Lucia."
               "Father!"
               For his own free use of that term made her cling more tenderly to him.
               "It was your mother's wish, child. You looked so fearfully like her as you stood in the hall. She loved me once—I can't remember all, but I feel as if I had been shut in prison. God forgive my hardness to her! I thought it a duty when she rebelled—for she was high spirited and refused to listen to admonition. I meant to do right. Will you stay with me and teach me? We all wander into forbidden paths—heaven help us!"
               How changed, how broken! She had not come a day too soon.
               "When did Rachel die?" she asked in a low, awesome tone, for the fact had seemed at first simply incredible.
               "Last week. The place is dreary and lonesome, my darling. We will go away and begin a new life—you, I, and the child. Are you cold, little one?"
               "Not here, grandfather. Aunt Lucia's arm is around me."
               There was something painful in this precision. The freedom and carelessness of childhood had been sternly repressed.
               "Was she ill long?" Lucia continued, thinking of Rachel and the strange mystery attending death.
               
               "She was never sick, nor complained, but just drooped after the little one was born. I believe she never took kindly to the child. And so it went on, but she would not spare herself. They wanted to be richer and richer. And then one day she fainted at her sweeping, and they brought her to her room. She never went out of it again until she was carried."
               "Oh, father! And did she not soften at the last?"
               "She was peculiar, you know. I used to take great pride in her, but somehow—and after you went away—"
               Lucia understood the end; sad for any human life. She gave Rachel the tenderest and profoundest pity. There was a strange yearning in her heart to call back her sister and brighten the lost years with love.
               Alas! Are there some natures fatally endowed with rigid strength that refuses alike sympathy and affection? It seems so. Rachel Garth died as she had lived, and God, who is the judge, knew best what measure was to be meted unto her. Perhaps in that lovelier clime its lost birthright came back to the poor warped soul, that with all its worldly wealth had suffered from starvation and indigence. The narrow creed melted in that endless day where all is warmth and beauty. God in His mercy took account of the good deeds that were hindered and straightened by the darkness in which her soul had existed.
               "Why did you go away, child?" Mr. Garth asked presently.
               "Because I was wayward and rash. I thought I could not bear the burden laid upon me."
               "I remember it all now. You were so different. In those old days I tried to bend you to my will, and there was war between us."
               "But it is ended now."
               She nestled closer to him. Love was sweet at this late dawn, even if its current was weak and wandering.
               "Yes. You will not leave me again? I am not the strong man I used to be, Lucia.
               It was curious that he should cling to that long unspoken name.
               "Where did you go?" he asked suddenly. "Were you with friends?"
               "I found them—kind, generous friends. I have been in no want, no trouble."
               Then she related all that had befallen her. The child listened awhile and presently fell asleep in the encircling arms. The late moon stole in the window, telling that it was near midnight.
               "You will sleep here with her," he said. "She seldom goes out of my sight now. Poor baby!"
               He kissed the sleeping child tenderly. Lucia could hardly believe the change that had come over him. In the dulness of the brain the heart had grown more clear and tender.
               She carried little Lucy back to bed. Her father watched her wistfully.
               "It's like a dream—your coming back. Sometimes I have sat out there on the door-stone and listened for your step. All they cared for, you know, was money—night and morning, working and striving. I used to be like them, but it has all been different since you went away."
               "There is something better and higher than gold," she said, laying her bright young cheek beside the one so wan and wrinkled.
               "Good-night, child."
               She seemed almost afraid to let him go.
               Even after he had reached the door he turned back and glanced furtively around with an air of mystery.
               "Lucia"—in a whisper—"you belong to me, you know. Now that Rachel is dead—he may think—but you won't go back to him?" piteously.
               "No! no! a thousand times no! Nothing shall ever separate us."
               
               She smiled with clear, fervent eyes, and he took the expression with him as a ray of vivifying sunrise.
               Lucia had no thought of sleep—weary as she was. She flung herself on her knees beside the bed, and though her prayer was broken by sobs and tears, and uttered in fragments, it was none the less acceptable to the God who listens to the weakest of his children.
               She was thankful to be at home once more. Her duty was here. This poor father depended upon some one for love and care, perhaps to grow more wandering and feeble as the years went on; and baby Lucy—if Warren Thorndike should not take her away in a moment of petty spite. She studied the pale little face that looked as if it might be sculptured in marble, it was so still and repressed; and yet with a certain rare beauty that appealed to her more powerfully than mere material perfection.
               The morning dawned upon her vigil. The old sounds and sights of Dedham began. Columns of smoke from the tall chimneys, the whirr of machinery being set in motion, shrill whistles and the clang of busy hammers. It all served to bring her to herself. She bathed her face and brushed her disordered hair, when Lucy woke and claimed her attention, though the child's deft fingers worked marvels with buttons and strings. There was a low tap at the door.
               "It is grandfather."
               In this clear morning light she could see the change time had wrought in him. Her heart smote her bitterly for past neglect and lack of tender love. Ah, if her whole life might make amends!
               They went down to breakfast together. Mr. Thorndike had gone. Since Rachel's death the regular habits of the house had been sadly broken in upon. Martha, the rather bright and flippant maid-servant, eyed the new-comer with the most complete astonishment. She had been off gossiping the night before and knew nothing of the arrival.
               When questioned, Lucy replied sharply—
               "It is my Aunt Lucia, who came last night."
               Mr. Thorndike had been considering the strange aspect of affairs with much doubt and misgiving. To him it seemed a most probable event that Lucia would insist upon being restored to her rights, since she had some legal claim upon him. The man had grown so close and miserly that a few hundreds were like untold treasures to him. And he held for Lucia a narrow, grudging hate, as if in some way she had wronged him out of precious years and precious gold.
               A dozen different resolves had passed through his mind—and he came home at noon determined that the matter should be speedily settled, especially as he was to be absent the next few days upon business.
               Lucia had been considering the same subject. It would be quite impossible to resume pleasant family relations in such an incongruous household. If she could persuade her father to go away to some quiet spot, and if Mr. Thorndike would confide to them the care of the child!
               She had again related her story to her father, listening in return to her supposed burial, and all that occurred during her absence, though the years at Dedham had not proved eventful. Lucy clung to her in wondering awe—the fact that grandfather loved the stranger was sufficient for her small brain.
               Warren Thorndike opened the subject. He had not been famous for delicacy in the old days, and coarseness had grown upon him. But he found a different opponent from the one of his imagination.
               There flashed in Lucia's face a touch of high spirit and dignity.
               "I ask nothing from you," she made answer in a clear, decisive tone, "unless you desire to give me freedom—and even that is of but small importance. As for your fortune, leave it all to your child. Not one dollar of it would I ever accept."
               He felt now, as he had so many times before, that in some inexplicable way she was superior to him. He would have liked better, after all, to see her a supplicant, and refuse her and he could not restrain his overbearing temper.
               Once she might have replied to such a tirade—but now she listened in silent scorn. For her father's sake, he should not rouse her into passion.
               Warren Thorndike marched out of the house in a blustering rage. He bethought himself that he could stab them both through his child.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               OUT OF THE SHADOW.
               IF we could go away!" Lucia exclaimed, turning to her father.
               He looked so helpless and frightened.
               "We must take the child," he said; "I cannot live without her."
               Lucy's eyes were large and full of strange meaning.
               "What made my father so angry?" she asked, clinging to the trembling figure.
               "Hush, dear—we will forget all about it," returned Lucia, in a soothing voice.
               But she could not forget. A new and fierce trial seemed staring her in the face. To shield her father from pain would be her first study now.
               Two very peculiar days passed. Dedham was in a whirl of excitement when it was rumored that Lucy Thorndike was not dead but had returned to her father's house. Two or three over-curious gossips determined to see with their own eyes; but their attempts were frustrated by Lucia's positive refusal to admit any visitors. She wrote to Mrs. Catherwood, announcing her safety, and making a few explanations. Mr. Rutherford had said—
               "I shall hear from you through her," and she thanked him for his delicacy.
               So she waited. No plans could be made at present—but go away they must. She could not endure the notoriety that would ensue; and after a few years spent in an atmosphere of refinement and truth, this seemed the more unendurable. Her brief reign here was hateful to her memory. The Glenfields had removed to a city—but the old circle still remained. Ah, how she despised its follies and senseless rivalries! Seen in this purer light, they appeared debasing.
               The summer day had been warm and oppressive. The very air seemed full of molten heat, and the wafts wandering in at the windows scorched her with their glare. A peculiar day with a vague sense of danger and dismay in every passing breeze. A chill presentiment haunted her as if fate held a sharp turn for her in its grasp. She was in a subtle, questioning mood—but there was no stronger soul to whom she could turn her eager eyes.
               At mid-afternoon the electric currents terminated in a storm. A fierce, blinding shower at first, with rolls of heavy thunder and flaming tongues of lightning. The blackness settled into gray presently, and the torrents subsided to a steady patter. Lucia sat with the child upon her lap, singing in her clear, beautiful voice.
               Martha came in to arrange the table.
               "There's been a dreadful accident at Putney, Miss," she announced in her flippant way. "A train of cars smashed, and dozens of people killed! They say all the Harolds were on the train—been visiting at their grandmother's."
               Lucia shuddered.
               "What is it?" asked Mr. Garth, rousing.
               Martha enlarged upon her first terse account. Only a fragment of news had reached Dedham, or at least Martha, but she made the most of it.
               "Thorndike wasn't coming back until to-morrow—was he Lucia?"
               "I don't know."
               "I think not until to-morrow, I am quite sure," nodding his head confidently.
               "I hope so," in an absent way. Men like Warren Thorndike generally escaped dangers; so she hardly felt alarmed.
               "Sing again," Lucy said, climbing in her aunt's lap after the meal had ended.
               So they three sat there in the summer evening, the child and Mr. Garth listening to the rare melody. In the pauses came the patter of rain on the leaves without or a low sweep of the wind with its sad undertone.
               "If they could be together always," Lucia thought; for this strange little being had awakened a strong interest in her heart. It filled her mind with softened memories of Rachel.
               The child reached up to kiss her. Soft, clinging baby arms around her neck, that brought a tremble to her voice and tears to her eyes. If such waxen fingers had come to hold her back in the old years! If the greater love could have saved through the sweet channels of babyhood!
               Ah, it seemed as if she knew then what her whole life had missed. The love that redeems, not the fancies that vitiate, nor the fever heat of passions which destroy.
               "Do you think my mother will sing in heaven?" the child asked. "Mr. Howe said the angels always did. Are there any beside angels there?"
               "No, my child."
               "I wish she had sung to me once, just once. I should know then how it was up there," and the small head was nodded mysteriously.
               "The Kingdom of Heaven is within you," Mr. Garth began in his slow, sententious way. "I used to think it so far off, and life so long. Do you believe He will forgive all those wasted years, Lucia? You may have the money now to spend, my darling, you may give it away to the poor and needy; it never did me any good."
               "But we will have a pleasant home, and try what can be done. We will work together and love each other to the end. Oh, how wise and good it was in God to send me back just at this time. Dear father!"
               He came and leaned over her chair, kissed the fair forehead and threaded his fingers in with little Lucy's. They had her a prisoner now. Unwittingly he smiled at the quaint conceit.
               "Yes," he said, "a home. It was what she wanted," in his slow wandering way. "Flowers and pictures and brightness. I did not know then—" and his voice sank to a piteous whisper. "But I'll make it all up to you. And at the last you'll tell her, Lucia, that I repented sorely, that I hated my blindness and cruelty. You will beg her to forgive."
               "She has forgiven, I know. Ransomed souls are washed from all earthly sins and stains and weaknesses."
               "You think she has? I hardly dare ask God if I might hope."
               Lucia's tears fell on the withered hand. Ah, how much repentance and forgiveness they all needed!
               A heavy knock at the door startled them, and Lucia faced the interruption.
               An old neighbor, Mr. Bowen. He looked sharply at them all.
               "Haven't heard the news, I s'pose?" he asked eagerly.
               "About the accident? Martha mentioned it. Terrible affair;" and Mr. Garth handed out a seat for the visitor.
               "No, thank'ee. I just came in to say—they're goin' down, a crowd of them, t'see the wounded. You didn't think that Thorndike—"
               "No; he was not to come until to-morrow."
               "He's there among them!"
               "Not killed! not dead!" and Lucia sprang up. Why a moment ago he seemed a blot and a shadow on all their lives.
               "Badly hurt, I've heard. Maybe you'd like to go down?"
               "Yes," Lucia said, dizzy, and struck with sharp anguish.
               Mr. Garth stared wildly.
               "No, it can't be," he said with a quavering sound in his voice. "Do you want to see him, Lucia?"
               She never could tell why she considered it such an imperative duty. He had left her in a passion of rude anger, and might spurn her now—yet she felt that she must go.
               "Yes;" she answered in a wild, tremulous tone.
               "But you must not be alone."
               She glanced at him questioningly. Could he endure the shock? But he was right enough there; she must have a companion.
               "You mustn't stop long to think," said Mr. Bowen, warningly.
               "No"
               She placed the affrighted child in Martha's care, and hurried on her hat and shawl. Mr. Garth groped for his cane, and stood in the hall awaiting her.
               Down the dark, wet street they walked, a sudden gust now and then shaking a shower out of the trees. The two clung together in silence. Mr. Garth's brain was too slow and wandering to seize upon any immediate sense of danger.
               Lucia did not think at all. A horrible fear held her in a giant's grasp. Not any latent love for the man who might be in deadly peril, but a feeling that had outlived passion of any kind.
               At the station more than one familiar face gave her an astonished stare. On moved the train. A little knot here, in a buzz of conversation; men leaning over the backs of seats; and women with their handkerchiefs to their eyes. She sat like a statue.
               An hour's ride brought them to Putney. The débris had not been cleared away, and the workmen's lanterns flashed hither and thither. The waiting-room was filled with eager faces and subdued tones. At one end, on a rude stretcher, lay several mangled bodies; but most of the wounded had been removed to the hotel and cottages in the vicinity.
               
               "Sad affair!" exclaimed some one. "Oh, Garth—you've heard? Thorndike was taken to the hotel. An ugly blow on his head, and—"
               "Doctor's just left him," announced another. "Doubtful case."
               Lucia knew by the tone there could be no doubt about it. The worst had befallen him, and she understood now why she had come. They day's impressions were no longer a mystery to her.
               They threaded their way through the crowd, holding tightly to each other's arm. Up the soft, carpeted stairway to the spacious room where Warren Thorndike lay dying.
               There was a serious internal injury, accompanied with fatal hemorrhage, besides the blow above the temple. The doctor had looked on for the last time, when he said—
               "He can live but a few hours."
               Whether it was loss of blood or the absence of human passions in this extremity, but whatever of grace or tenderness the man's face had known came out in it now. Deathly pale, but with no fearful ghastliness, calm and tranquil, for it was past pain, and with a something that no eyes but Lucia's had ever seen in it.
               It pained her keenly, too. If she had loved him, these last moments would have been exceedingly precious to her; but he belonged by right to the one in her grave. Lucia was jealous for her sake, and every smile, faint and wandering as it was, became a torture to her.
               Now and then the lips moved. Once she bent over him to catch a word.
               "You shall have it!" he murmured just above his breath. "You shall outshine them all! Why don't you wear curls? I liked them first—that night you know!"
               Lucia's old girlish vanity was humbled in the dust. Why must he go back to this time?
               Fainter grew the sounds. Midnight came, with the gray shadow of dawn lagging in the distance. Morning followed, and with it a still and shrouded face. Lucia laid a napkin over it and prayed for his soul. Perhaps he had loved her more than either of them knew. Her heart trembled with profound pity. Would God gather the best out of the two wrecked lives, blind as they had been!
               Mr. Garth watched her with wondering eyes. Some dim idea of her strength, her great tenderness, and the rough paths others had made for her feet, struck him with a latent remorse. If he could go back and have it all different!
               He spoke of it in his trembling, broken manner.
               "Yes," she said, "but the wrong was not all your fault, nor his. I should not have married this man. I sinned against him and myself on our bridal day, and God punished me. But that is all past, and He has brought us to pleasant ways."
               They returned to Dedham. There was more than one procession to the old graveyard, and more than one house of mourning. The disaster spread a universal gloom over the village, and drew the inhabitants together by a bond of general sympathy.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE NEW DAWN.
               AFTER the funeral Lucia found their circle widening. Mr. and Mrs. Howe came with the kindness of old and tried friends. The many virtues hidden from girlhood's careless eyes were now discovered, and she stood amazed at her olden blindness.
               No one ventured to discuss the past with her. There was a dignity which forbade any approach of impertinent freedom, and the most curious stood respectfully aloof.
               It was like a strange dream to Lucia. She could hardly understand how the incidents that had appeared so terrible and fatal to her in their inception should have led to these results. But for Mr. Marchmont's wild love and impatient endeavor she would have remained in Merecombe, going on quietly from year to year.
               Would he follow her thither? She had a great dread at first.
               And she remembered then that some pressing duties stared her in the face. She wrote a long letter to Mrs. Catherwood, detailing the sad circumstances. In spite of his cruel sneers and the utter repudiation, she could not help experiencing a profound pity for Warren Thorndike. Both had made a terrible mistake, it was more that than sin. She had meant to love him truly, and if he had been a little tenderer in his misfortunes she would have devoted every energy, nay, her whole life to him.
               For after all, adoration is the inborn impulse of nearly every woman's soul, and each human being longs unconsciously for the love that is superior to its own powers and its own will. And if the world at large could learn, could turn it to a wise account instead of dragging it through the dust at a tyrant's feet, we should all be better and nobler. It is not only the slave who suffers in this, as in every other unjust warfare, but the tyrant as well. The outrage of some laws brings a fearful retribution even in this world.
               But she felt that she could never explain the story to Mr. Wilmer by letter. If he would but come!
               Lucia understood that she needed a clear eyed and comprehensive friend for her own life as well. Mr. Rutherford had fallen out of it. What he might have been she had now no right to ask, and she bowed her head in acquiescence. She was to gather the fragments of a life vexed and hindered of its best estate, and shaping it into whatever earthly beauty and perfection was possible for the late autumn time, make no outward moan over the waste of summer bloom and sweetness.
               And does the soul unconsciously believe and look forward to the dim country lying in the ineffable shadow of a great glory, for the restitution of whatever it has missed in this?
               Do we make our heaven too material? Can all the emotions and feelings and longings that move us so strongly here, be forgotten and swept away there, when we see face to face and know as we are known?
               So Lucia Mackenzie put that "might have been" out of the present life, since it would never have even the solace of friendship. But the spiritual sustenance Mr. Wilmer could give better than Mr. Howe. Besides, she really owed him the confidence.
               Mr. and Mrs. Wilmer both came in answer to her invitation. She found that in them she had lenient judges.
               "And God I think plans these events more wisely than we," said Mr. Wilmer. "If you had told me your whole story when we first met, I should have counselled a return, which would have brought about a graver complication, as it was too late even then to be of any avail."
               "I want you to acquit me of intentional deceit or hypocrisy," Lucia made answer pleadingly. "I would rather have told the whole truth if I could have done so. And I desired to keep my life at Merecombe as simple and open as I possibly could."
               "You have nothing to regret in all that, my child. We learned to love you as if you had been of kin instead of a stranger. Mrs. Preston and Edith will miss you sadly."
               Even Mr. Garth experienced the nameless attraction that drew every one sooner or later to Mr. Wilmer. Perhaps it was because he of all others had learned the meaning still higher than that of the poet, of bringing a little human love to mend the world. No narrow or grudging creed was his. In his large hearted tenderness he considered it no virtue to harp upon faults which had brought their own punishment, or were irremediable.
               The blow that she had feared for her father seemed to rouse new mental vigor within his brain. He went back to business, looked over the tangled mass of papers, and placed matters in a fair way for settlement.
               Lucia had her plans as well. She begged him to leave this dreary old house, for she felt that she could never be happy or rest. She wanted to begin the world anew. With their abundant fortune they could make a happier home elsewhere. He listened quietly, and did not dissent. Indeed, he appeared to hold her in a curious awe.
               I think he saw more clearly, and was anxious to make amends for the hardness of her childhood. Rachel had exercised and unconscious influence over him and aided his natural severity. Now there was naught besides tender love.
               The factory was disposed of on advantageous terms. Guardians were appointed for the little Lucy, for her aunt kept steadfast to her purpose. Lucy should be her father's heiress. The old house was sold, and as the spring advanced they took pleasant little tours in different directions, and Mr. Garth began to understand the power of beauty. He was like a man whose eyes had been suddenly opened, and dazzled by the vision, he was forced to grope and stumble. A sense of the infinite, the goodness and mercy of God, began to steal over him. He was awakened to new perception, new enjoyment; he was capable of a higher appreciation of the power and beauty that he had recently begun to apprehend.
               It was late to begin a new life, and yet it had a certain softening charm. A strange interest too, a new nearness to his fellow-creatures. He had always passed for a religious man, but it seemed as if he had just begun to feel the power of saving grace. The old, rigid, arbitrary spirit gave place to a consideration for others.
               Under her aunt's guidance Lucy Thorndike blossomed into childlike sweetness. The prim air hung about her like a delicate suggestion of quaintness, and occasionally a bright laugh sounded through the rooms. To Mr. Garth it was like the carol of a bird from some fragrant covert.
               They made a decision at last. A pretty sea-side town, with a range of hills for background, broken by belts of timber and long reaches of valley. Near enough to a city to be within easy distance, and yet sufficiently secluded for their quiet fancies. A rambling house with some tasteful modern additions, pretty gothic porches, wide windows with low balconies, nooks of clinging vines and shady trees, and a sloping lawn with evergreen hedges.
               Lucia was delighted with adorning the interior. One end of the drawing-room fronted the lawn, while on the opposite side of the hall the cosiest of all places was fitted up for a library. Mr. Garth supplied his daughter so liberally that she was not compelled to deny her choicest likings. Loved books and pictures, delicate statuettes that she had grown familiar with elsewhere, colors harmoniously blended, and yet quite different from her first grandeur. She smiled a little thinking of that.
               And when it was all done she looked at the life before her. Simple duties indeed, and yet grave. To be a mother to this motherless child, and what she had never been before—a fond and patient daughter.
               It seemed to Lucia Garth, for she had taken the old name when she found how much it would please her father, that she had come to the most peaceful life that she was ever to know. Love had awakened her at last. Not the absorbing, overpowering affection for which she used to hunger and thirst, and which is after all a woman's birthright, though too many souls never attain to their full inheritance in this world. But the floodgates of her being had been opened and the golden river of peace and forgiveness had swept over her baptizing her unto a purer and more spiritual birth.
               In her prosperity she did not forget to recompense her first friend who had nursed her through her long illness. She found her new neighbors pleasant and social, people of refinement and education. What more was there to wish for?
               She prayed now and then for Paul Rutherford's happiness. Did the woman who had his soul in keeping prize it above all other treasures? And would Vaughan Marchmont seek her out again with the proffer of his hateful love?
               How strangely these two men had affected her life! Both had influenced her with the impress of their own individuality, powerful for good and evil. The one she had escaped, the other would always remain in her memory as a type of the highest nobility.
               Later in the summer the Wilmers came again, bringing Mrs. Preston as well as their three merry children. To shy little Lucy it was a rare treat. There were rides and rambles, sails and frolics on the lawn, and all the diversions of eager, restless childhood, days rounded into perfection by Miss Lucia's beautiful evening hymns.
               The two ladies discussed Merecombe as was natural. The old church, the Prestons, the Catherwoods, and a few others who had composed Lucia's circle.
               "Mrs. Catherwood has failed seriously. I never saw any one so changed. Her health and energy were so perfect you know. I can't help thinking that the trouble about her granddaughter was a severe blow."
               "She is married," Lucia said with a gasp.
               "Oh, yes. It was a grand wedding we heard—at her aunt's in the city. Her cousins went down."
               "But I thought it was to be at Merecombe," Lucia returned with a puzzled look.
               "Oh, you know—" and then Mrs. Wilmer paused. "It was not to Mr. Rutherford!"
               "Not Mr. Rutherford!" Lucia echoed in surprise.
               "Oh, my dear, so you do not know. That engagement was broken—how no one ever exactly understood. The Catherwoods are proud and not given to bruit their own affairs abroad, though I did hear a whisper that Miss Sturtevant had another lover. I don't often take dislikes, but I never could cordially admire her."
               Lucia shivered at a remembrance of the proud, imperious face, and the secret that she unwittingly shared.
               "I do believe Mrs. Catherwood loved Mr. Rutherford like a son. She had known him from boyhood. But I never could fancy those two being suited to each other."
               "You know he went abroad for her after her mother died," Mrs. Preston said. "There might have been some change in her then."
               "I am certain that he believed it for the best," Lucia spoke up quickly, her face in a strange heat.
               "And yet I am glad that he has not added another to the list of unwise marriages," rejoined Mr. Wilmer.
               
               "But whom did she marry?" asked Lucia after a pause.
               "She went directly to the city—in November I think it was, and about the middle of the next June married a Mr. Marchmont. Miss Sophie considered him very handsome, and he was wealthy, they all said. It was reported that he had been seen in Merecombe before."
               Vaughan Marchmont! Lucia was silent in utter amazement, and another shackle seemed to fall away from her. No one had connected him with her, and it was well. He was not likely to confide such a secret to Eleanor Sturtevant.
               "There was something in it that touched the old lady. She bore up for awhile, but I noticed a peculiar change in her when Miss Eleanor's name was mentioned. And it was said that young Catherwood fell desperately in love with her. It's my opinion that she was a dangerous girl!"
               Lucy Garth's pulses gave a quick and almost guilty bound. He was free then, not stranded on the fatal shore of misery! And perhaps Eleanor Sturtevant was as well satisfied.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               AUTUMN BLOOMS.
               BUT what had become of Mr. Rutherford? Lucia found herself revolving this question day and night. Knowing how fine his sense of honor really was, she had never thought to see him again, yet now it seemed that in his trouble he might have sought her out.
               She took herself seriously to task at length. Her duties were here, and a few months ago she had been glad to accept them. Had she any weak, foolish longing for love, for the one taste of entire happiness before youth faded?
               The visit was rendered most agreeable to her guests, and proved a matter of great satisfaction and pleasure to herself. Mr. Wilmer's pure and fervent religion shed its light upon every act, and he drew Mr. Garth gently within the circle of his influence. Lucia felt strengthened and ennobled, and laying aside all selfish desires addressed herself anew to her task. Was not this love tender and satisfying?
               Mr. Garth had never seen her brighter. Of all pictures within and without this sweet face glowing with winsome smiles warmed his heart the most. Lucy following like a shadow, the short, golden rings making a halo round the small face, now and then warmed with a faint pink tinge.
               She sat on the balcony one afternoon with her book lying idly beside her. On the distant beach wandered two figures, Lucy and her grandfather. The life stretching out before her was like that calm sea, and they the central figures. Around them was to cluster her tenderest affection, she said. Through stormy paths she had come to a quiet haven.
               Was it a dream of the softened summer sunlight? Far down below the branching elms lingered another form, with slow step and bowed head, as if undecided whether to approach or pass. The bright-brown beard caught a hazy tint from mingled sun and shade, but the face was paler and thinner than in the past days.
               Lucia was neither fearful nor superstitious. She rose and walked slowly down the path, the soft, rich tint of her cheek fading to lily-like paleness, and a tremor seizing all her limbs. But it was no ghost, no phantom of imagination.
               He seemed to hasten forward, and reached out his hand with strange hesitation.
               "Miss—Garth!" he said in a strange sort of voice.
               "Mr. Rutherford! I am glad to see you."
               Her cordial voice touched some far chord in his soul, and his face brightened.
               "Are you? I wanted to see you once more before—"
               A pang of doubt and trembling seized her. She studied the grave face with its added lines, and wondered what fate would have in store for him.
               "You have heard, I suppose, that my engagement came to naught?"
               His eyes were downcast as he uttered this, and could not behold the fine flush that stained her brow.
               "Yes; only recently however. The Wilmers have been staying with me."
               "But you hear from Mrs. Catherwood?"
               "Occasionally. Of late she has been an infrequent correspondent."
               "Her health and energy are failing."
               "So I have heard. She was unusually brilliant I used to think—a woman of the type one rarely meets."
               "Yes;" Mr. Rutherford made answer. He was not thinking ing of the Catherwoods and Merecombe—but of the first time he had seen her as Lucy Thorndike. A new charm had been added to that olden grace; and as he looked and listened, he understood that it might become very dangerous for him.
               "I am going away," he announced, abruptly. "It is barely possible that I may never return to my native land. I have no ties—"
               His eyes were raised now, and he saw the torrent of crimson, fiercer on account of his glance, and the sudden deathly whiteness that followed it.
               "Going away!" dreamily, and in a choking voice.
               "Yes; you do not know that I am a poor man, with my life work to do over again?"
               "No. You have met with losses?"
               All her tender womanly nature was roused.
               He straightened himself and swelled out his broad chest as if with an inspiration of courage. There was a latent fire in the hazel eyes, strength, patience, and something finer still, the fortitude of a soul loyal to a noble faith.
               "Yes; a poor man. It is not much after all, since it entails no pain upon others."
               "Oh, you don't know!"
               Then she paused, and something indescribable came into her face.
               He, seeing it, was startled. Like a revelation, a strange, sweet knowledge flashed over him.
               "If I were to stay," he thought "she might be won from this warm sympathy into love!" But he thrust the temptation aside.
               "I don't know why I have been beguiled into this childishness—but I longed to behold you once more. So many curious scenes and memories have linked us together. And your last step was not a mistake—or failure!"
               "No. I owe it all to you—so much! I have thanked God daily that I came. Were you aware of—of Rachel's death, when you advised me?"
               "No; but I had seen the change in your father. I fancied at one time, that he was a cold, rigid man, with but few avenues of tenderness and sympathy. His love for his grandchild and his sorrow for your loss, amazed me. I hoped you would find a friend in him."
               "I did—and he needed me. How many times I have thought of you with the most fervent gratitude, God only knows. You have proved a friend in my most desperate needs!"
               Something in his eyes said that if fate had been less rapid deciding her destiny, it might have been more than friendship. She dared not read that.
               "And Mr. Thorndike, too, is dead."
               "I was with him at the last;" and her voice trembled. "Not that he had softened towards me. He was very bitter on my return—as he had a right to be. Oh, Mr. Rutherford, I wronged him none the less surely, by the evil marriage; but I think he forgave in those last moments"
               "It was a strange puzzle to me, when I first saw you. Men of that stamp rarely understand the meaning of a tender, generous love."
               "The fault was mine," she said, with a bravery that touched him; "I had a miserable, uncongenial home, though I was a rich man's daughter. And then I was so young, so ignorant, full of childish vanity and love of triumph. He was a hero to my unpracticed eyes, and his admiration for me seemed the most generous love. I meant to do my duty. I even think I might have loved; but—"
               Rutherford gave a peculiar smile.
               "I understand," he said slowly. "It is the wreck of so many lives. I, older and with more experience, would have drifted on to the same fate."
               "Eleanor Sturtevant did not love you!" Lucia said, with the pain and pride of a keen-eyed woman.
               He started at this, and glanced up so sharply that she colored.
               "But she did once—or, at least beguiled me with a cunning semblance of it. May I tell you the story?"
               "I shall listen, gladly."
               He wanted her to know, and to judge him fairly.
               "It was Eleanor Sturtevant's fortune that was invested at Dedham, though with Mrs. Catherwood's advice and consent. We all thought it so sure. I went abroad for her at her grandmother's wish; and the news of the misfortune was late, very late in reaching me. If I had been within call, I should have had a more thorough understanding of the matter; but when I saw her reduced to poverty, through my means, and clinging to me with a girl's helpless trust, I tried to comfort, and resolved to devote my whole life to the restoration of her prosperity."
               He made a long pause, and presently resumed—
               "I offered mine in its stead, but she refused it with a generosity that touched me strangely. Do not believe it all my vanity" and he colored deeply, "but I fancied I saw a love which I could hardly doubt. Still I waited until it appeared cruel not to speak."
               "I understand;" Lucia made answer, though with rare delicacy her face was partly turned away.
               "I thought she loved me, I want you to believe that; my own happiness appeared of less consequence to me since I had seen and known an impossibility before."
               Some far-reaching sympathy drew their eyes together at these words. Both souls were stirred with a pang of the sweet, sad knowledge.
               "There was some fatal falseness in her nature, as I learned too late. I would have given her up then, but she would not accept her freedom; and her grandmother implored me to keep my word. The breach was healed and a marriage-day appointed. Last autumn—perhaps you remember? But a new proof of her perfidy reached me barely a fortnight beforehand hand. A young man whom she had met and corresponded with during her engagement with me, sent me the letters."
               He shivered visibly at this, and there was a strange coldness in his voice.
               "Oh, thank God!" Lucia exclaimed impulsively. "I knew of this. I heard a conversation by accident, when she was imploring this lover, Harold—to return her letters."
               "Harold Cheltenham. And you knew—"
               "I was wild to save you. God only knows the anguish I suffered! But I was bound hand and foot. How could I speak?"
               "Her face was scarlet now with shame and distress.
               "And you had your own bitter burden. Yes, I can believe that my happiness was something to you. But I was saved. We all saw her as she was. A dangerous, fascinating, yet treacherous woman, hungry for power, for conquest. Why she should ever have chosen me, when there were younger or more brilliant men, I cannot divine."
               In her tender jealousy Lucia thought she saw. His love might glorify any woman.
               "And so ended what might have been a tragedy. For though I could be tender and forgiving to one who sinned through any sudden temptation and repented, intrigue and deceit world find but small mercy with me."
               She raised her head proudly. She was not to suffer in his estimation for any such faults as these.
               "I paid over her fortune. I had been managing with studied economy, and through the kindness of a friend I was enabled to make up the small deficiency. Then she met Vaughan Marchmont, and was in her turn fascinated."
               A shudder ran through Lucy's frame. Perhaps the man might be master of such a woman.
               "It left me somewhat in debt. I have had a very good offer to go abroad, and may not only free myself, but retrieve somewhat of the past."
               He announced it as his justification. She knew then that if he loved her ever so well, his pride would forbid his confessing it until he was once more a free man. Yet she would have useless thousands!
               "Oh," she exclaimed, "surely you can succeed here!"
               He saw the tremor that quivered underneath her fine, pure skin, that caused the eyes to droop and the face to flush. A sharp pang seized him.
               "You may have thought me indifferent," he went on, "but I have not been ignorant of any change in your destiny. It is the one bright memory that I shall take with me. I am glad to find you happy and at ease, and in the years to come—"
               They glanced into each other's eyes and knew the secret Iying in the depths of both hearts.
               "Oh!" he said with a cry of pain wrung from him by some strong conquering passion, "I should not have come! I was too weak, and yet for days I have been nerving myself for this—to come and go without a sigh, to school my face, my voice—"
               "Why," she answered eagerlyl—"why? Is it any shame, or am I—" and a cold grasp of despair seemed to seize her.
               He translated the terror of her expression.
               "Oh, no, not that! We all make mistakes, and yours was most bitter to yourself. But how could I offer a life so heavily burdened? I should come to grudge the years devoted to that labor, when they should be spent in making your life blessed and beautiful. But this you may know, though I had not thought to confess it, that I love you with an absorbing passion, always shall; but I am not selfish enough to take any brightness out of your life to put in mine."
               "What if I choose to give it?" She murmured softly, with radiant face and sweet, downcast eyes.
               For now she had come to understand the grand truths of life—that one's highest pleasure and keenest happiness was not in selfish aggrandizement, but the ready ministering to others out one's own abundance.
               "No," he said hoarsely, "don't tempt me. You have borne your share of sorrow, your heavy burden of care, and henceforth life may be bright and blissful. I should shadow it."
               "Stay!" she answered, reaching out her hand.
               He covered it with kisses. One long, passionate, despairing glance. If he had saved this woman from any pang—if he had restored her to any lost happiness—he would not be ungenerous enough to take advantage of it, and so he turned.
               Looking back he saw the white face, the drooping figure, a sudden autumn frost despoiling the summer warmth and loveliness. Should he despise her royal gift? Should he make her wait wearisome years, for he know she would do that!
               One step—one word only. A touch of tender, clinging hands, aud their lives blended into one, the true level reached at last.
               And still they lingered under the branching trees, confessing past errors and mistakes, and learning to judge each other more truly by the light of experience and hope. And then the two figures came slowly up from the sands—baby Lucy with cheeks like the pink of a sea-shell, and soft hair blown about by the wind.
               They went forward to meet them. Lucia laid her hand softly on Mr. Garth's arm, a wondrous light shining in her eyes, and through the quivering scarlet lips came a low, tender word—
               "Father!"
               Paul Rutherford drew the other arm within his strong, protecting clasp, and bowing his manly figure, said as tenderly as she—
               "Father!"
               The old man understood and smiled, then drew the child in their midst.
               "She will never miss the care of mother or father," promised the rich, deep voice.
               Down on the level sands the golden sun lay dying. Up here the new day had begun.
               Lucia Garth bowed her head. Whatever of the old shadows had clung about her, fell away now, in this love glorified radiance.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            SHELDON & COMPANY'S
            
               Lieutenant-General Winfield Scott's Autobiography.
               Two vols., 12mo., illustrated with two steel-plate Likenesses of the General. Price, per set, in cloth $4.00; half calf, $8.00. An elegant "large paper" edition of this valuable book, on tinted paper, price $10.00; half calf, or morocco, $12.50.
            
            
               Milman's Latin Christianity.
               History of Latin Christianity, including that of the Popes to the pontificate of Nicolas V. By HENRY HART MILMAN, D. D., Dean of St. Paul's. Eight vols., crown octavo. Price, extra cloth, $20.00.
               "In beauty and brilliancy of style he excels Hallam, approaches Gibbon, and is only surpassed by the unrivaled Macaulay."—Mercersburg Review.
               
            
            
               Fleming's Vocabulary of Philosophy.
               With Additions by CHARLES P. KRAUTH, D. D. Small 8vo. Price, $2.50.
               "To students of mental science this book is invaluable Dr. K. has done good service by the additions to the work of Dr. Fleming, and the whole volume is one which will be eagerly sought and cordially appreciated."—Evangelical Quarterly.
               
            
            
               Long's Classical Atlas.
               Constructed by WM. HUGHES and edited by GEORGE LONG, with a Sketch of Classical Geography. With fifty-two Maps, and an Index of Places.
               This Atlas will be an invaluable aid to the student of Ancient History, as well as the Bible student. One vol., quarto. Price, $4.50.
               "Now that we are so well supplied with classical dictionaries, it is highly desirable that we should have an atlas worthy to accompany them. In the volume before us is to be found all that can be desired."—London Athenæum.
               
            
            
               
               The Life and Letters of Mrs. Emily C. Judson
               (Fanny Forrester), third wife of the Rev. Adoniram Judson, D.D., Missionary to Burmah. By A. C. KENDRICK, Professor of Greek in the University of Rochester. With a steel-plate Portrait of Mrs. Judson. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.75.
            
            
               The Sexton's Tale, and other Poems.
               By THEODORE TILTON, Editor of the New York Independent. Illustrated by an ornamental title-page and elegant tail-pieces for each Poem, printed on tinted paper, and bound with beveled boards and fancy cloth. One vol., 16mo. Price, $1.50.
               This is the first collected edition of Mr. Tilton's peoms, many of them as sweet as any thing in our language.
            
            
               The Autobiography of Elder Jacob Knapp,
               the great Revivalist. One vol., large 12mo., with steel-plate Likeness of the Author. Price, $2.00
               In this book the author gives an account of the many wonderful scenes through which he has passed, more interesting and remarkable than any tales of fiction.
            
            
               A new Enlarged Edition of Mrs. Putnam's Receipt Book,
               AND YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER'S ASSISTANT. A chapter on Carving has been added, and a very large number of new receipts, with special reference to economy in cooking. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
            
            
               A Complete Manual of English Literature.
               By THOMAS B. SHAW, Author of "Shaw's Outlines of English Literature." Edited, with Notes and Illustrations, by WILLIAM SMITH, LL.D., author of "Smith's Bible and Classical Dictionaries," with a Sketch of American Literature, by HENRY T. TUCKERMAN. One vol., large 12mo. Price, $2.00.
            
            
               The Life and Labors of Francis Wayland, D.D., L. L. D.
               Late President of Brown University; by his sons, Hon. FRANCIS WAYLAND, and Rev, H. L. WAYLAND. Two vols., 12mo., illustrated by two steel-plate Likenesses of Dr. Wayland. Price, $4.00.
               This is a most interesting memoir of one of those noble specimens of a man, who now and then appear and direct, and give tone to the thoughts of their generation. The volumes are enriched by Dr. Wayland's correspondence with most of the leading men of his day.
            
         
         
            DR. WAYLAND'S WORKS.
            
               Principles and Practices of Baptists.
               By FRANCIS WAYLAND, D.D. 1 vol., 12mo., cloth. Price, $1.50.
               "We hope the book will find its way into every family in every Baptist church in the land, and should be glad to know it was generally circulated in the families of other churches." Christian Chronicle.
               
            
            
               A Memoir of the Life and Labors of the Rev. Adoniram Judson, D. D.
               By FRANCIS WAYLAND, D.D. Illustrated with a fine Portrait of Dr. Judson. Two vols, in one, 12mo. Price, $2.50.
            
            
               The Elements of Intellectual Philosophy.
               By FRANCIS WAYLAND, D.D. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.75.
            
            
               Sermons to the Churches.
               By FRANCIS WAYLAND, D.D. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.00.
               "Dr. Wayland is a clear thinker, and a strong and elegant writer. His Sermons are models worthy of study."—Christian Intelligencer.
               
            
            
               
               Life of George Washington.
               By EDWARD EVERETT, LL.D. With a steel-plate Likeness of Mr. Everett, from the celebrated bust by Hiram Powers. One vol., 12mo., pp. 348. Price, cloth, $1.50.
               "The biography is a model of condensation, and, by its rapid narrative and attractive style, must commend itself to the mass of readers as the standard popular Life of Washington."—Correspondence of the Boston Post.
               
            
            
               The Science of Government, in connection with American Institutions.
               By JOSEPH ALDEN, D.D., LL.D., President of State Normal School, Albany. One vol., 12mo. Price $1.50. Adapted to the wants of High Schools and Colleges.
            
            
               Alden's Citizen's Manual.
               A Text-Book on Government in connection with American Institutions, adapted to the wants of Common Schools. It is in the form of questions and answers. By JOSEPH ALDEN, D.D., LL.D., President of State Normal School, Albany. In one vol., 16mo. Price, 50 cts.
               "There is no more important secular study than the study of the institutions of our own country; and there is no book on the subject so clear, comprehensive, and complete in itself as the volume before us."—New York Independent.
               
            
            
               Macaulay's Essays.
               The Critical, Historical, and Miscellaneous Essays of the Right Hon. THOMAS BABINGTON MACAULAY, with an Introduction and Biographical Sketch of the Author, by E. P. WHIPPLE, and containing a new steel-plate Likeness of Macaulay, and a complete index. Six vols., crown octavo. Price, on tinted paper, extra cloth, $13.50; on tinted paper, half calf or morocco, $27.00.
            
            
               Sherman's March through the South.
               With Sketches and Incidents of the Campaign. By Capt. DAVID P. CONYNGHAM. 12mo., cloth. Price, $1.75.
               "It is the only one that is entitled to credit for real ability, truth, and fairness."—J. W. Geary, Maj.-Gen. U. S. A.
               
            
            
               Biblical Commentary on the New Testament.
               By Dr. HERMANN OLSHAUSEN. Continued after his death by Ebrard and Wiesinger. Carefully revised, after the last German Edition, by A. C. KENDRICK, D.D., Greek Professor in the University of Rochester. Six vols., large octavo. Price, cloth, $18.00.
               "I regard the Commentary as the most valuable of those on the New Testament in the English language, happily combining the religious spirit of the English expositors with the critical learning of the German. The American editor has evidently performed his task well, as might be expected from his eminent qualifications."—President Sears, of Brown University.
               
            
            
               The Annotated Paragraph Bible.
               According to the authorized version, arranged in Paragraphs and Parallelisms, with Explanatory Notes, Prefaces to the several Books, and an entirely new Selection of References to Parallel and Illustrative Passages. An issue of the London Religious Tract Society,—republished. Complete in one royal octavo volume, with Maps, &c. Price, library sheep, $8.00.
            
            
               The Annotated Paragraph New Testament.
               In one octavo volume, uniform style. Price, muslin, $2.50.
               "I have carefully examined a considerable portion of the work, and consider it eminently adapted to increase and diffuse a knowledge of the Work of God. I heartily recommend it to Christians of every denomination, and especially to teachers of Bible Classes and Sabbath Schools, to whom it will prove an invaluable aid."—Rev. Dr. Wayland.
               
            
            
               Tholuck on the Gospel of John.
               Translated by CHARLES J. KRAUTH, D.D., One vol., octavo. Price, $3.00.
               "We hail with much pleasure the appearance of Krauth's translation of 'Tholuck on the Gospel of John.' We trust the work, in this its English dress, will find a wide circulation."—Bibliotheca Sacra.
               
            
            
               
               Baird's Classical Manual.
               By JAMES S. S. BAIRD, F.C.D. One vol., 16mo. Price, cloth, 90 cts.
               It is an epitome of Ancient Geography, Greek and Roman Mythology, Antiquities, and Chronology.
            
            
               Croquet as played by "The Newport Croquet Club."
               By ONE OF THE MEMBERS. 16mo. Price, paper, 25 cts.; cloth, 50 cts.
               "This manual is the only one which really grapples with a difficult case, and deals with it as if heaven and earth depended on the adjudication."—Atlantic Monthly.
               
            
            
               Helps to the Pulpit.
               Sketches and Skeletons of Sermons. One vol., large 12mo. Price, $2.00.
               "Here is a work that may be a help by its proper use, or a hindrance by its abuse."—Christian Messenger.
               
            
            
               Pulpit Themes and Preacher's Assistant.
               By the author of "Helps to the Pulpit." One vol., large 12mo. Price, $2.00.
               "We have no doubt but that it will be a welcome book to every candidate for the ministry, and also to pastors in almost every congregation."—Lutheran Herald.
               
            
            
               A Text-Book of the History of Christian Doctrines.
               By K. R. HAGENBACH, Professor of Theology in the University of Basle. The Edinburgh translation of C. W. Buch, revised, with large Additions from the fourth German Edition, and other sources, by HENRY B. SMITH, D.D., Professor in the Union Theological Seminary of the City of New York. Two vols., octavo. Price, cloth, $6.00.
               "It exceeds, in point of completeness, every other treatise, English as well as German, and we have, therefore, no hesitation in calling it the most perfect manual of the History of Christian Doctrines which Protestant literature has as yet produced."—Methodist, N. Y.
               
               
                  Fourth Series. Revised by the Author, and published with his sanction. Containing twenty-six Sermons. pp. 450. Price, $1.50.
                  Fifth Series. Revised by the Author, and published with his sanction. Illustrated with a fine steel plate representing the Rev. C. H. Spurgeon preaching in Surrey Music Hall. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
                  Sixth Series. Revised by the Author, and published with his sanction. Illustrated with a fine steel plate of Mr. Spurgeon's new Tabernacle. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
                  Seventh Series. Containing some of Mr. Spurgeon's later and more brilliant Sermons. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
                  Eighth Series. Containing Spurgeon's celebrated Doctrinal Discourses, which made a most profound impression throughout England. One vol., 12mo., cloth. Price, $1.50.
               
            
            
               Morning by Morning, or Daily Bible Readings.
               By Rev. C. H. SPURGEON. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.75.
               "Though no printed sermon can give a perfect representation of the same thing spoken by an eloquent and impassioned orator, yet the reader of these will not wonder at their author's popularity. Though he may not sympathize with Mr. Spurgeon's theological opinions, he can not fail to see that the preacher is really in earnest, that he heartily believes what he says, and knows how to say it in a way to arouse and keep alive the attention of his hearers."—Boston Advertiser.
               
            
            
               The Saint and His Saviour.
               By the Rev. C. H. SPURGEON. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
               This is the first extended religious work by this distinguished preacher, and one which in its fervid devotional spirit, the richness of its sentiments, and the beauty of its imagery, fully sustains his high reputation.
            
            
               Spurgeon's Gems.
               Being Brilliant Passages from the Sermons of the Rev. C. H. SPURGEON, of London. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50.
               "The Publishers present this book as a specimen of Mr. Spurgeon's happiest thoughts,—gems from his discourses,—which will glow in the mind of the reader, and quicken in him a desire to read and hear more of this remarkable youthful preacher.
            
            
               
               Neander's Planting and Training of the Christian Church by the Apostles.
               Translated from the German by J. E. RYLAND. Translation revised and corrected according to the fourth German edition. By E. G. ROBINSON, D.D., Professor in the Rochester Theological Seminary. One vol., octavo, cloth. Price, $4.00.
               "The patient scholarship, the critical sagacity, and the simple and unaffected piety of the author, are manifest throughout. Such a history should find a place in the library of every one who seeks a familiar knowledge of the early shaping of the Christian Churches. An excellent index adds to its value."—Evangelist.
               
            
            
               Bible Illustrations.
               Being a Store-house of Similies, Allegories, and Anecdotes—with an introduction by RICHARD NEWTON, D.D. One vol., 12mo. Price, $1.50. Every Sabbath School teacher should have this book.
               "It is impossible not to commend a book like this."—Editor of Encyc. of Religious Knowledge.
               
               "We think that Sabbath School teachers especially would be profited by reading it; and many of the anecdotes will help to point the arrow of the preacher."—Christian Herald.
               
            
         
         
            SPURGEON'S WORKS.
            
               Sermons of the Rev. C. H. Spurgeon,
               of London, in uniform styles of binding.
               
                  First Series. With an Introduction and Sketch of his Life, by the Rev. E. L. MAGOON, D.D. With a fine steel-plate Portrait. One vol., 12mo., pp. 400. Price, $1.50.
                  Second Series. Revised by the Author, and published with his sanction. Containing a new steel-plate Portrait, engraved expressly for the volume. Price, $1.50.
                  Third Series. Revised by the Author, and published with his sanction. Containing a steel-plate view of Surrey Music Hall, London, engraved expressly for the volume. Price, $1.50.
               
            
         
      
   
