
    ----CITATION----
        Haw, M. J.. The Rivals .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6658
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            The rivals : 
            
               7 'is:

_    TM
A ' ;
t a       1
_
l
A
d
a
"            '
.i
.'
t
5                     -
y
i      I
y  y5  '
;'               "
S
LL                       4
I'
1  ,a
f
M
\
d
A                                r
._-'.          " '
r
'
r
.
,"

-a
SHE

CiICiKU

g*
- * -0- W
1     *
EIOMIN S OR .

OF. VIRGINIA.

0

I L L U S T R A T

o

RIO~IIOND:
E d

,       r  j  r  ,
a
.'S
"
1                 ''     s
1'
4
.rY   s:
e '
i   4' ,
t
r
r
a
i
_.
I

1{

',"   !
'   .  ,
.
I"' t"
r
'            1 t   ...t                          ,
r''
"I

:' .
"I
'               '    "      '      "I
i          " .          .
.v  \ I
"       ""                '
y I   1j                " '  "   ,

H
r
' .

r

"
t
,,
r

..


- BOUND.

4

0

0
y
24'

"

-.

4*'ta

*1

f         4

*
S         T   il   E          R   L   V    A y  I8.
II
CHAPER I.
Fear the close of a bright June afternoon, two boys were  owly auntering along&amp;
narrow, grass-grown roa4 conducting throt gh a dense oa ~ wood to and from the 'lo
Washington Henry Academy, a very venera 1e,if not a very reto w"ed seat ofi learnin
in the county fi Fanover, Virginia. TIe   n of-each was hiori o er the neck ofthe
other, in the familiar and affectionate manner  o common to  s who ar e very particular
friends; and between them they held an open letter. a pass  e i i which on was poin
ing gut to the other. Th e ode to whrn the eter evideitly belonged. mas a-remarktaby
handsome yputh, with a delica.te, gracef al figure, regul r ani aistocratic fetnres, a pal
olive complexion,'and jetty hair uand Eyes. But although in tie for mation of his face
nature had strictly adheryl to the jaws of .beauty, yet fronm within, theso1it in its qut-
beaming, had imprinted upon this otherwise fair index, sorn thing' t fe grpe hje thai
the perfect lines and curves of the beautifully chiseled features. T e l ?  about th
large, dark eyo, and the lg~h, patle brow, an expression of resery id e unin almostt
sinister; th poise of the sma classic head, and the curve ' the thi pale nosti i, beT
tol Ced a iiauteur almost offensive it its excess, and the line i the thi, red  sthouh
graceful and artistic, bespoke armingled cyn cisn and egot tnh rather un l rant tha
otherwise to contemplate, Still, the shadowy, nytical pen~ilings of the 1so Iupo the
conntenance wjre as yet but faint-the youth was but 'sever teen-no strong enough to
margreatly the general harmony ot color and proportion indebtbly stamped tlwre;
the general, yea, the universal verdict was that Walter Ma nard was a veiy handso
youth.
The artist, upon coblly inspecting the more.athltic, bu 1lssperctly a metica
gre, and the lWss regular, though more in:nl features of his friend and ompatio ,
Charley Foster, would have pronounced them cess beautiful ti :n thQ e e Bave described;
this would, perhaps, alg be the verdict of-the superficial observer mho might nut be an
artist; but the physiognomist, who looked beyond the in erior material', qualitiesvo
form and color, to theernental graces, or deformities which d'e capable of shntidtidngsuch
a magically beautiful light, or such a repulsive cloud over the 'human  c E~divite.vouk
have prouuceddifferently. The pure light of.intellect-whidh illuminated the faces o
both wasibout equal in degree, and nearly so in kind: bit t uose mentti:q  ties which
go o Trrihdmnoral nature of tman, had been distributed be tween them.~ by Providlence
with~ a view to producing variety ratihet than unity. "The. ro nd.'brou , and. blea, dark
gray eye of Charley Foster shone and'beamewd with candor and sincerity ; a bout his rather
larg4, though well-shapen mopth.there wats atn expression of igglasg'iries and tenas
derr.ess quite oaptivating t~o behold; in his fe, easy cavrfage tMre wa jgst enorggh of
dignified self~espect to inspire raqtnct in othes ; and his fr&amp;k, or~i tgiain r courged
the friendship and confidence which the grgvit aqd reticeneof WaUlT seied' to repel
By their scool- mates, the one Was admited ; the other, both aarnire~ and beI 'd.

It         .
4

t.
.t
K


T~lE TLVALS:A CI1IC1 Ai1OMINY' STORiY,

4

When they had proceeded a short distance, they paused under a huge oak tree, which
stood imnediately on the roadside, and Charley threw himself on the grass at its foot,
and resting the elbow which supported his head on its mossy root, exclaimed-
'And so, \'alter, you are going to be a soldier ?'     ~
Yes,' replied Walter, seating himself beside him,' so it seems; my aunt E.meline
writes, you see, that my great uncle, Horace Maynard, who has chari tably urndertakehn
my edgcatiomn, that I mitht oit disgrace the family by my ignorance, has procured me
an appointment to t he  es PoLp ItMititary Aademy      -    ,          .
Well,' pursued Chl ey, itfou t Li~oti ing :t he sligh4y rdnici tone in which a part
of his friend's reply was delivered, 'I sh outd 'ot hae hotigbt oi your being : soldier,
You are brave and ambitious enough, to be sure, but I donot think Vou have the reck.
less daring and love of adventureon e naturally associates vith the remembers of the mili-
tary profession. In my mind, I had( decided upon the law for both of us, and I think,
W\Talter, that you have some qualities which peculiarly lit you for the legal calling ; I
thought, too, that the law was your choice.'S
# Beggars should not and certainly danot be choosers,' replied Walter, bitterly. ' You
forget, Charley, that I am-an orphan, and poor ; that my father and grandfatier spent
their lives in squandering the princely estate their ancestors had accumid'fated, leaving
ne an old dame and an empty purse ; that I am 'dependent Tp" n r'y aunts;who ha'e
erred me, and upon my great-uncle, who, purely from family pride, has charged him.
self with my education, anal. am compelled to'aubmit to their direction.' This military
scheme has enabled uncle Horace, with his usual address, '" to kill two birds with ou
stone,"  I will go to the *academy as'a kind of pensioner, to be snubbed and jered at
by the wealthy cadets, and therefore my expenses .will be to him inCnsher-able, while I
will be obtaining a good educati6t and an honorable profession ; arid if I;contrive to get
through with credit, I will doubtless get a 'ljeutenantry n the army. which will pay about
as well as a third-rate clerkship in some mercantile est blisht~ert and keep me cooped
up in a mariaefrtress, o'r banished to the wild frontier during the hole of my nratrl
life, like so 1d'Uniortunate state prisoner or politteidl exile.'
'You. paint a gloomy picture of it,' said Charley. 'If you cl eet .to the scherhe,
Walter, oppune it at once. If you 'are yotng, you have a' right to be bieattl in a matter.
of such mporatince toyourself. If you prefer'someiotleralling, my father will, I kaitw,
lend you any amount of money necessary to pursue it for my'sake.'
tOh, no,' replied Walter, quickly ; '1 codlduint think of such a thing. * It is too hu.
'iating to be in debt. I find it bitter enough to'be under- obligatior* to thoseian 0
*  Ihave a right to expect favors, ever to consent to accept tiem-.fron those udon
lin I have no claim. Besides,'th plan yot propose is rather to)' un drtsirit It
would take a large sum to.enable me to graduate in law or medicim. and then Itnigh't
not. succeed. Or if I should- ultimately succeed, either profession wo 'ridrnot eiti edi-
ately selt-supporting, while that which uncle Ioede'hiin choseu; for rh 'will be. Ad if
the military profession is not'lucrative. it is certainly\ er-hroira ide, and in my'cisae
very sure.\ ou krnowv the an'y is almost universal ly choelu fi tire younger sd 'of the
British nobility, and is patrized by the first'families in Yiiginia.'
'Very true,' ts the resjon'se, 'I dare say that with your'pride, the glory will }uite
outweigh the hardships of a soldier's life. 'You know that' all the binmenff i istory
wera soidieis. "Who knows, Walter, but thatt you ma  be another Cdar, 'or Wapod n,
leading powerful armies, and"dazzling the word' with  our skilltidlly pladned campaigns
and brilliant victories.''. --
'NTonsens'e' said Walter, laughing.. 'Protnotion i rather slow in our army .;,
even if' i possessed the talents of a Caisar, or a Napoleen, I would scarcely have in
rtreiiite displayy th'emn. Don't you know that Mr iReed. told us, oniy thit  rerdot
in ou  hi8tory class, that so far as human fOresight could yenertate, 'mciha sge O d
4       tiodyetrs, perhaps ceatui'isi of unbroiltb peace;'that thtion de doctrine, vhib'h
ba n icome the established policy of our govethmeat,dwould  ore ufo   r avgeainst'ezi-

fanglements with foreign nationsWhi'e the extent, the vea1 h and po cr of our country
would enable us to control our feebier tighbrs dn this con inen.t
.  Yes,' obser ved Chatrky ;   but have you forgotten what we were p ead4 tr ter n ih
idiosyncracy of Mr. Riteed's French friend, Monsieur Bossien::, who vistediin m  e4mrr
le declared, you know, that the Arerican e pgople'were tre ding on a, voban  ;  a
- vast extent of our territory, ard the uide rhversity of  opin on and interet ber'coti the
people at its differteUtscetlions, would inevitab ly lead to disruptiou a' d revoldti p; ahd
be :boldly predicteC timt the sectional imaifl1ities so app treut to ' fureiner, vutd
show :their bitter fruts in intestine war before the present gnertion  ouId' b&amp;  d
to ther fathers.'
'.Pshaw !', cxclajried young Maynard contemptuously, ' what does -Frenchmai.1 kiow#
about American politics ? 1-owever, w can partdon hiierror if iris oQiir i'f. of goveimnint
is founded on 1' enc; history, anm  his view, of humtnu nature a derived from' the
contemplation of the Frencb claracter. But we A mericns are made }f firnuifenriteriai.
It would be ridiculrous to compare the glorious republic est' blished h. our worthy rnvo-
lutionary forefathers to the monstrous abortion brought for h amid the fearful three oe f
the horrible and fruiutless revrtion of Fiuce, and ,it is nojessridi'lous to conipp.
their sons,*ho re charged with the maintenance and iono of our overrnetii to theo
ignorant and frenzied rabble who attemipted the samre experiment in M. Brssieux's cottF
try, and failed. T  anwith a Frenchiat's eye, and judged with a Frenchman's jugd
ment-yuperficsh;. The. Presidetrtiacleltion was going on, and lie was misd by the
violence of party excitement; the-election is now otr, aa  see ho  i pode rindly quiet
the country is,
'Yes,' said Chartiley andtveryr probably if hetis in Anerican  r he has already
changed his mnind. Whit is that'beautifuil figure, Waiter, of-the far woas1'iiid'd ;tcne
which is so perfectly pofised'that it may be rocked to its ye "y centre yp ~lthaioich of an
intent's finger, yet tihe combined s.tretngth of an army 6"f s rorg meni cannot  ed'throk
' its equilibrium-how appropriate-it is to our government !'4i
1hus discoursed these sage philosophers and profound  politicians of even ee  ; and
when.they had done disenssig tihe Affairs of the nation, the returned again to hreir own,
and took up the subjet of Walter's future prospects in is uewvly chosen i'rofeission.
Naturally enough, thcir favori to heroes among. the military character (of his ory were
brought up, their campaigns-and battles-gone over, and thiir relative merits diicusse '
until the two youths grew quite enthusiastic }n praise of a military   . career. Chafjef
declared that tbch martial spirit was fully aroused in him and that be felt quite as biel.
* ligevent as old Dick Jores, who said that after going to Pole reen to muter ant dritiin
a {art or so of ricanio whiskey, he was fighting the battle of Ytorktowv n ov er frour
In he ardor cf the moment ho determined to accompany his friend t\Vest Pdint, iftis
father would give his consent to it, and be a sldier too.  -
Jst at this juncture, their 'ttention was attraectoitiy the.tr rmping of hoofs behind tliem,
and looking in that irctiorn they saw a bedhrtifolI apparit hn emerging rain the d e
shade of thLe dak gren oliage. It was that of.:r dhiety, faitS like, uilish filgre sitting
gracefulliy vpon a small white pony., By her side, on a°luagetr ho:-se Mf dark c ulor,. rode'
a large, homelv and awkw.r'd boy, to whose linen rounditrfmt, a , ' r(etty, (irnl-loot tig
littlofellow, who vas riding behind him, cltng nervously as he grg d iehFrse toa briik
gallop to keepup  iith the rapid .pace of the little lady's wihito palf ea.C A.negogroom,
much -encurbred with'satchels 'nd-carpet-bags: brought : p the r at of th6 cavalcade.
'it is Nelhe and lcrnarsd Gardiner going home, and Bob 'ar'ris  is going *itlhthem,'
said Ularley.       a
Tlhe t wo boys hadlisen on the approach of thew party but asisied in ivatching
Nellie's-splendid horsemanship; and lookiing a1 her pretty f ce apd 1°fi tre theyhas for.
gotten to mtoe aside. and stood in a position te slightly ohs rriet he ond,
~'Get  ut- ofthe 'way, felows,' cried Robert larrison, rr 1 lf and i priously leading
down cupon them.""'                                                           a

THE RIVALS


6

THE RIVALS:

They stepped aside instantly, and politely touched their hats to the young lady, while
an angrty ltish mantled Walter's dark cheek, and a smile, half amused and half coritemp-
tuously, parted Charley's flexile lips.
Nellie gracefully returned their salutation, and said reproachfully as they swept by, '0O,
Consin. Robert, what makes you so rude?'
When they had passed, Charley, who stoed leoling after the girl with his whole heart
in bis eyes, observed to his friend, 'Nellie is a pretty little thing.'
*        'Yes,' replied Walter. regarding her retreating figure with a look half admiring, half
speculative, 'very pretty. But she will be still prettier when she gets older ; and she
will be quite a belle, I expect; for they say she is worth fifty thousand dollars indepen-
dently of her mother, who is wealthy.'
'HBow unlike she aid'Bob Harrison are for cousins,' remarked Charley.
'Very unlike,' wa the response. 'Bob Harrison is,.undoubtedly, the most conceited,
pompous and purse-proud fool that ever lived. I intend to let him see that I am not
tobe treated with contempt by himif he does happen to be rici while Iam poor. When
next he finds occasion to accost me it mpst be in terms more respectful than those he
used just now.'-
'Fiddlesticks!' said Chc.rley, ' who cafes .for what Bblarrison does? Hey beneath
the contempt of a sensilta body. His airs of superiority, taken in conjuction with his
teal and apparent inferiority, make him appear so ridicplous that Illm more inclined
to lau2h at than he angry with him.'                   -
-0, you can afford to be pbilksophical,' replied bi friend. 'you are bis equal in
wealth.'
' But rot in  irth.' said Charley, smiling, ' at least, according to his standard.. The
honorable Mr: Harrison thinks me as much, or more hij inferior than he esteemsi you to
be. h ave you forgotten the ineffable and unutterable contempt with which he ciled out,
on one occasion when I had received at the hands of our school-mates some petty honor
which he considered due to his super-eminent station atid abilities, ' Charles Foster, the
son of A Carpenter!' c'r
' Well.' remarked Waiter, '.if.your father is a carpet er he has made a large forune
honestly at the trade, and he has won an enviable positi n in the community by his en,
er'gy..strung sense and strict integrity. o man in the county possesses the respect and
confidence of his fellow-citizens to a higher degree. You have nothing to be ashamed
of in him.'
T  be isharded of.' repeated Charley, warmly ; ' I reeon not. It would take a great
deal to make me ashamed of my own father. I hope he may never have any more cause
tO0ashamed of me than I have to be ashamed of him.'
'-Halloa I there boys we're been locking for you for an hour,' cried Some of their schot
mates. approaching from the academy. 'You've missed l the faun. The girls got around
Mr. and Mrs. Reed after school, and teased them out of tb ir consent to have the 4th of
July ball we'd all been talking about. They've agreed to give up to us, after the exam.
ination. the schnol-rrons and parlor and dining-room, and let usurrange everything as we
wish. We're to have fire-works and dancing ; and Mr. l eed has promised to show usthe
MagieLantern. and all sorts of curious and pretty chemical experiments.'
* Quite a 4nedley.' said Walter, smiling sarcastically, at what he thought the childish
enthniasn of the speake '
'Indeed.' said Charley, manifesting a cordial interest i :the subject, ' tell me all about
it. I am' spry I was not there.'
'0. there is not much to tell, besides what I have already told,' replied the boy. - There
will he a meeting Monday morning before school, to arrange the programme of the en-
tertainment ;.and if you intend to take part in.it, Fostr, you lhad better get your cash
ready; for we will have to fork up to the young ladies then, and atter the collections are
ma a.they will-determine, witb Mrs. Reed's assistance, vhat part of the funds must go
for the fire-works and what part for refreshments.'

^ I

A CIIICKAIIOINY     TORY.
'Let me see what money 1I have,' said Charley.  I have been rather cxtavagant this
quarter, and fear I haven't much, and I would .not Ii ie to o to my father fo' more, as his
allowance is so liberal.' Then taking out his purse e counted the doin.oput upon his lef
palm in quite a business-like mauner.-
He con uted ten dollars and a few cents. 'Thatn!i do,'said,one f the boys; 'I heard
Bob Harrison say he meant to give ten dollars.'
Do, pray, Charley,' said a little boy of the party, ' if Bob [arron is going to-give
ten dollars, you try to give twenty just to fret him and  ake him ashanmed ; he thinks
himself so much rimier than any body else.'  ..
'If I hadas much, qpd it wa necessary, Jini, I would  illingly give it to contributed
to the amusement of the school s,' replied Charley, 'but not for the purpose of'fretting
Bob Harrison;. he finds enough to fret at without my assistance; rtn if I should attempt
any experimentupon his disposition it would be to make t more amiable.'
After this little dialogue, the boys separated, the new C(omers to g} in search of whore
tleb'erries, and Charley and Walter to return to the academy.
When they were alone, Charley remarked .to his frien 1, 'I am glad Mr. and Mrs.
Reed have consented that we may have the ball. I ti poet to enjoy it finely; don't
you?'
'I care very little for such things, and do not expect to remain to it. 'was the reply.
Fie!' said Charley, ' you should not be so unsociable.. I am .afraid that you will end
by becoming a misanthrope.'              ,
'It is n t that I anm unsociable,' replied Walter, 'hut between .e and every social
pleasure rhy cursed poverty is constantly coming in. Often when you wish me to make
a visit with you, I am compelled to decline because my ecry day- clothes are not good
enough to wear, and I dare not wear my singe Si nday su t so often, four fear of wearing
it out. And now when you and Robert Harrison and othe 's rgro givi g ten dollars apiece
to this ball, behold the munifidect donation I anm prepared' to make. 'So saying, he put
his hand deep (own in his pocket and drew out a solitary ten cent piece, which he laid
in bitter mockery on his open palm. 'When Mornday morning comes, I shall be absent
from the conference, and so shall witness none of Bob lIarr ison's impertinence when my
name is called, and see nothing of the pity or contempt rich tho various countenances
will express when it becomes apparent that I am not abl to contribute to the general
pleasure. Charley, do you wonder that I am unsociable ?'
 Walter,' said (Charley, deeply moved, 'you bear your uislortun e too hard; andyou
are too proud. Why will you not let-me help you? I hbrve a plenty fbr us both ; and
it would give nie more pleasure to share what I have witl you than to spend it entirely
on myself,'
Come, Charley Foster,' was the reply,.' you know tha you have already loadedame
with presents which were offered witr so much delicacy nd tact thnt I di( .not know
bow to refuse them { have quite.a  espedtable little library, bearing on the fly leaf of
each handsomely bound volume, "To Walter Maynardfrom his attached friend C. F ";,
also a valuable gun, and many little things of less value. You have never insulted, me
yet by offering me money, and I hope you never will ; but you have unningly contrived.
on many occasions to cover my apparent parsiarony and real pov3.rty over with your
generosity and liberal expenditure. If. you have forgotten these th ngsI havenot, nor
will I ever. If my voice should ever be raised to denounce you.I pray that' speech
may fail me forever ; and if my hand shodid ever be lifted against you, I trust that-it
may be stricken from my shoulder.'
Such warmth; and I might add generous emotion, was very unusual with yotn~g
Maynard, and.their exhibition surprised and moved Charley strongly. ' All this is ntoth'
ing, Walter,' he said, graspi'ng his friend's hand, ''I va4e your friendship far above
suchtiviaV thingsas money 'ahd property, anid would delight-in rendering more sub-
stantial service if -you would let me.'  '-


8                            TIlE RIVALS:
CHAPTER ii.
Monday morning found the whole school, compokedof about a dozen boarders
and twice as many day scholars, assembled in the girls' school-room to discuss
the subject of the contemplated fete, and arrange the programme of the evening.
Bob Harrison, whose native impudence stood llim in needif many a better
quality usually considered essential'to success anong mn, had contrived to
make himself chairman of the greeting; and seated in a large arm-chair upon
the esfrade, with an air of dignity and self..inportace very disproportionate to
the occasion, one pen thrust in the mass of whitisl-yellow hair behind ,his ear,
and another awkwardly suspended between his thumb and fore-finger, cuj; a
,most ridiculous figure. Chancy Foster, at no great distance, with a dry smile
of quiet amusement on his countenance, was slyly making' a sketch of him in
his Latin exercise book, for the benefit of Walter Maynard, who was the only
one of Mr. Reed's pupils absent on this interesting occasion.
After having brought the meeting to order, thelchhirman proposed that the
roll should be called, and that each one in answering to hi's name should men-
tion the'sum he or she desired to contribute to the proposed ball, said name and
sum to.be immediately recorded by the secretary. To this proposition no ob-
jection was made and he proceeded with the measure. When Charley's name
was called, he answered promptly, and named five dollars as the amount of his
contribution: At this announcement, the august chairman elevated his heavy
eye-brow, and glancing significantly around the room, with a supercilious smile;
said something in an audible whisper to the secretary about 'not expecting
blood out of a turnip.'
Charley's fine face flushed, and his merry eyes emitted an angry flash, but if'
was but momentary ; the scene struck him as.so ludicrous that'involintarily
he burst into a laugh of derision, in which the whole school; except Nellie Gart
diner, joined. She was too ashamed and indignant at her cousin's conduct to
feel like merriment; and fixing her beautiful eyes earnestly on his countenance,
said in her soft, sweet voice:
'Cousin Robert, how can you be so rude?'
Tally unabashed by this demonstration, and maintaining unmoved 'his hi-
posig dignity, the chairman called the meeting to order, and went on clling
the rolt Everything now went on quietly until Walter Maynard's name was
called, when some officious body called out. 'Absent.' '
' Aha!' exclaimed Mr. Harrison, with a knowing- look, '' we all understand'
the gentleman.'
Thoroughly aroused at this indignity offered to 'his friend, Charley sprang to
his feet, and said hastily: 'Walter is preparing his Greek for recitation; it was
iteon 'enient for him to be present; and he commissioned me to act for hiti.
Write fre dollars opposite his name; I will hand it in with nine, to the secr-
tary, at the close of the 'meeting.'
Alter this, nothing occurred to mar the general harmony, and Mrs. Reed.
coming in soon after to assist in their deliberations, everything was satisfacto-
rily adjusted.
.The-.fourth of July arrived in due season, though,,.to Mr. Reed's impatient
pai, old Time seemed to halt on this stage of his journey. The school exer-
cisrfor that term were completed, the trying examinations were over, and the
delightfoi bustle of preparation for. the fete,' hich had afforded so mania
charming episodes to the young ladies and gentlemen of the academy, was ended.

A CHICKAHOMINY STOI Y.
The grounds were brilliantly lighted by  olored lanterns, ingeniously con-
structed of wooden frames, covered with tissue paper, hun among the. boughs
of the trees. The school-room, newly white-washed and soured for the-occa-
ion, acid ornamented with, garlands of ioh rers nd evergreens, was set out
with long tables, bearing; in the most tastefu1 arrangement imaginable, a sump-
tiious repast. And the parlor and dining-ro m of the academy building, tiste-
fully adorned ,with yases and garlands of. flowers, and  appropriate' mottoes
formed of evergreens, were .prepared for  ncing, a couple of negro fddlers
occupying a litle platform in the hail letwee the floors opening into each roomi
The young gentlemen 9f the academy, and man of their friends who had ar-
rived early, in all the glory of their best broad- loth co ts, white pants and
vests,.and kid gloves, were standing about the dors, or.in he hail and parlors,
awaiting the descent of the charming nymphs, who, man animated buz of conk
versation and laughter, and - a deli htful r stle ang flut or of drapery,-were
arranging themselves for the 'ball in he dresing-rDams u stairs.
What charming things are youth a id beadty-.or even the youth without the
beauty! For what does one care for beauty when the rj h young blood, un-
parched by fever, and unchilled by age, is'dancing thro gli the veins to the
rapid measures of unheard, but not unfelt soul-msic, whose inspiriting strains
vibrate with .intoxicating rapture upon every j yous nev ; when the fresh
young brain, untaxed by thought or care, teems  ith quick i tuitions and joy.
ous fancies;, and when the buoyant young h art, h ch has ever felt the dull,
heavy aching of anxiety, or the paralyzing$ grasp of, fear pounds in a joyous
harmony with the thrilling pulses throug  du s of une o fled sunshine and
nights of, soft slumber and heavenly drean s !  oy jute is ly do the young
enjoy the pleasures suitable to their years.! yea, ow into isely do they enjoy
'everything which is in the least enjoyable.!- And ho* reir shng is the contem-
plation of their happiness to their elders, whose weary. heads and tried hearts;
robbed by time of..the capacityof originating joy, ark forced to receive it at ee-
'cond hind, by reflection, as it were, j
Some such remark as this Mr. Reed addre sed t Mr. F-o te seniors who waa.
standing beside him in one of the parlors; atching his son nd several other
youths arranging for a dance and urgmg the  usicians to stri up as the surest
method of hastening the advent of theyoun ladies. They *re indeed an an-
imated and merry party. ;Charley was radiant with happi esa,.and even Wab
ter, who had been prevailed on by his friend to be present howed in his'air
aid inanuer an unrestrained galyety and satisfaction as ne  to.himnas it was be-,
coming. He was indeed looking extremely handsome:and g ood-natufe4., For
happigessis a great beautifier, as well, as a garat moral power. Who.ever-thought*
.a happy countenance homely? or what happymai ever.coim itted a erne?.
Presently, to the grea.t.delight of the impatient young' enelne.in atterid-
anee, there was .a flutter. Of draper pn..the stairs, which anro~ui ed that the
gi lsf.were about to descend to the ilors; and ;i a..fe mornentsythey hove
ir.sight, preceded by ee taih benignlpoking mamiias and a nts who had come.
t4 the halt professedly t give characgrand proper ety to-the e.tertainment, but
who were really almost as much jnte sted inthe contend l ted amusement .as
ther yoyng relatives the .selves. And wha tte prcession ofblyhng, smiling
l(ebes at length entered thre beautifully decoratsdr. omisa at a lovely piottire
tbig made, with .treir. bright eyes and coral lips, ioun4~ wgpd sno~wy neeks.
119w beautiful was their shining hair, wreath d wit'~ .~ def'leayes andbuds.
-nd how captivating their supple, delicatel$'-rou ded -fia re4deledraped in"
Ilegey muslin, whose snowy whiteness wsly believed b girdles or sashes
of pim  or blue ribbon.          sa}

S
y'

'
'J 1 '
1
L


30Q

The foremost in this galaxy, of youth and beauty, undoubtedly, was Nellie'
Gardiner. So Charley decided at once,.and he wlhispered as much to Waltejs
arm--in-arm they started to join her on the other side of the room. Shea was
leaning- on the arm of her mother, a delicate, elbgant-lookingl woman, whose
bearing Was very aristocratic, and whose manne 's, otherwise affable and lady-
like, were tinged with haughtiness, and was pointing out'to her the decora-
tions..                                                .
. 'There is'the flag you made, ma  a,' she said, pointing to the-mantel, which,
was ornamented by the bust of Wa  ington driped in the American flag. The
august brow of the Father of his Countiry was crowned with laurel, and on the
wall behind,-at a little distance above, was writteti in living green, 'The Amer-
jean Union,' while a rich garland of English ivy, running cedar, and tissue-paper
roses, enclosed both the'motto and the bust -Aound the room were festoons
of flowers, and similarly formed mottoes. equally yatriotic and appropriate.
Mrs- Gardiner was admiringly inspecting and approving, when our young
friends approached. Charley,-who was a neighbor and a particular friend of
Bernard's, knew her well, but Waiter had to be i troduced.
She received her son's friend very graciously, and holding out her, hand to
Walter, said:
'I am happy to make your acquaintance, as I know many of your family.
Your Uncle Horace is a particular friend of mine; and I also  know your aunts,
though I have not met with them recently. Are they here'to-night ?
'My Aunt Emeline is present,' said Walter, glancing around the room, 'and
will be pleased to meet you. Tlere she is, now, entering the room with Mrs.
Reed ; shall I bring her to you?'                -
'We .will go to her,' said Mrs. Gardiner, with a smile, and leading the way.
Miss Emeline Maynard belonged to that interesting class of society denomi-
nated' old miaids,' and was, moreover, one of the most exaggerated specimens
vfher class. What was ~her age it is impossible Ito -say, since that interesting
fact:.if it was ever recorded, must have been registered among the Apocryphal
books of the family bible, it was so very 'uncertain.' The landmarks which
time had set upon her face and figure, were utterly ignored 'and stoutly contra-
dicted-by the .manners and costume of the lady herself. In her youth, allowing
that to have passed, she must have possessed a certain' kind of beauty, such as
is co, tituted b-y plumpness and fairness 'and vividpess of coloring; but'the
wear and tear of life had greatly impaired, if they hadnot wholly ,destroyed it.
The're was in her countenance none of that higher order 6f beauty begotter of a
cuitivated and elevated mind and a heart waim4d by the noblest and gentlest
affdctions of humanity; for Miss Emeline's thoughts and desires were all 'of
the earth, earthy.' To 'disguise from  others they poverty which was painfully
and constantly perceptible to herself, and to secure a husband, hid been, from
her- early years, the chef end and aim of her existence; 'and although so far un-
successful, yet, with a diligence and perseverance which, if exerted in a better
cause. would doubtless have immortalized her, she was still pursuing the same
ends. An occasion ofering such opportunities as the present, did not often
present itself to her, and she was making the mont of it  When Mrs. Gardiner
approached her, she was st ndingbetweer .Mr  omlin, a spry.widower, whose
to daughters were among   ie academy. pupi:s,ind Mr. Sloan, Mr. Reed's as-
sit;t twisting her vellow neck and shaking her ladowy,'lustreless rinalets with,
n as    yiyoqpettish airs and gracesas a girl of sixteen. 'Accnstormed though she was,
tot'st&amp;i'exhibitions, Waiter cOnuld not- fail to be dis ousted. and a sIgdow pissed over
his criten  ge as he approached her. She was flattered by the' notice'of a lady so
, wealthy and;'aristocratic as Mrs. Gardiner, and for a moment loosened her hold on the

THE I IV.ALS

"w
Y
Y d
f R
f I
is
}
J
hr.
s
=4
i
tx
F
.bj
-{s
4 Sf 1
"'f   91
1

patience act3 politeness of tie gertlenn, wh
escape to the vicinity ofsotne of the oldest and
TIhe fire-works were .to be exhibitCl eirly
later and its beams would  retly mar their
assembled, the signal was given, when they all
witness their exhibition When Walter had c
duct her to his aunt, Charley had very gallantl
and, therefore, fo had the p casure of conducti
remaining there yith her for an hour during th
entertained I particular fondness for the fair
something to object to in every one of his yc
was'a little chagrined. at this; but he hal m
his duty by escorting his Aunt Faieliue. wh
unpleasant necessity by offering his arm t-o Mis
Foster ps, who is pretty well klnown- to the
proved edition of Faster p'eivho is just be
resemblance between, them. in face, figure and
ners, except that the superior advantages of ci
enjoyed; toi i his favor. Bit though the
been passed in decent poverty and :modrato
ness or rrdeness to opfanl the most tastidious.
good mind   md a good heart. was sufficiently
language, simple and terse, was generally corne
forward frankness, and unpretending . natural
Miss Ereline's silliness and affectation.
Finding himself'-thus pleasantly relieve, of
seek Chirlie and Nellie, and soon joined thrn it
.Wben the pyrotechnic exhihition wis ended,
tinued several hours, after which supper was
the Magic Lantern, Druminonl f iht, &amp; . A
and destnea to be remembered as amng. the
personages in our story.
During the evenig, Charley had extracted a
tershould return home with him from the aced
And that lady, pleased with his manners and
without which she must lave made an awlkva
make Walter a visit during the holidays.
The farm on which Mer. Foster had resided e
Richmond, was situated about,five miles from
pike, in an angle formed by the Chickahominy
vicinity, and the Beaver Dam Creek, a tributar
estate was located several miles lower 'down in
Dam; and as Ciartey had no brother and fBrn
mates, were often together, and greatly attach
some four years younger than the.former. D
were almost.constantly at Mr. Gardiner's, wh
glorious time they had of it, hunting along the
Dam, or fishing in those streams or in the pond
and sever perch were caught. Of course the
time. She frequently made one of the fishing'
back almost daily. ft would be superfluous tc
their pleasure on such occasions; and useless
nade.upon their young hearts by such delight
the still, deep forest, beside the ripling wete

took
fairest
in thi
effect
repair
offered
r'ffr
ig her
a pyr
sex,
flog -1
Lde up
s M ty
read
ing int
carri i
iacti e
urly 
oil, yt
ibis c
finedd
t.   1
ess, af

f cCthe bppartuiity to
rI eeN'paipi1s. s
ing as the mnous would1 ripen
as soen as the ;guests; wer3
the pirchies anal geevi Isto
n3 o Nirs.GCfrdiner to ooa
*o N1ilie for a +pro  eo'$ e;
rnstic setiL inthe grove, SitIl
IC x~hibitiqfl. ;Water, Wh)
J}();  (astilIio i3 ta.4te 5ftin jl:
citi( ;. very heric IIy,tco
fa her relieved hliliA of 't

aL
~if
pie,
,a

the c.are o  his
the grove.
the '1.'itcing co
served ; andi lt
ltoget er, it w
happ est in th
promise fron'
ermy a Ispend
ringn, and wit
'd ap ea an c3,1
er sine his reti
that cty. near
River, or 'Swa
of th Chickahi
the ' b~~,
rrd w s an only
d     ach, other
ring. WVter's
n Be nad was
banks ofr the U
at Ell s rs Mil
saw   ,, eat de
party, and the
,say how much
o stat how.deo
il and. unrestr
s, and uider ti

ply a revisad aid inm.
There was a _triking
o in language and rma no
ety' w hich  C ar-ley.   ..ats
to elder gentle-nan .ha
itm there w is no coarse-
quette, suggested.bf m
in any society,ndl his-
innate dignity, straight-
oat striking. contrast to
aunt, Waiter seog to
nuencel , andv is 00r1,
en Mr. Reed1    hi big1I
s r charmingvegreing,
lives of several' of. thO
iss Eneline that Wal.
several weeks with-hirs
h his father's att rtions,.
had -also invited ttti t(.
renant from bushes hi
he Moghaniiseeilte tuvrm-
m p;' as it is call d in this
omnin y. 'M rs. 7 Cid's t'i
ud beyonthe i33ier'
son, the :bingschool-
thou ;  hejatite 'wat
sit'to his friend's. tliOy -
not with..them ; and .a-
ickapomniny and fleaver-
l, where many niee ochub.
ae of Nellie during this
rode together on, hdrse-
her presence eaince J
p were the i  e pressi'la ,
aned intercouirs ,'out ii)
o bright, wa-m singer

A CHICKAHOMITY S]ORY.


hies  t three of them, at least, never forgot those charming .rides along the smooth
comotry roads, edged with green turf and brilliant wild flowers, and bordered by st ps
s..ifioUth ftoresti or, by straggling rail fences covered over with the magnificent trumpet
vineatdth -luxuriant branches of wild grape and sloe viges; Nor condthey fail to
1iteete'those delightful rambles along the Chiickahominy, when they amused each
ttdbt b'tracing resemblances to Indian warriors aid wigwams, in the high, fantastic
tj'tIi4u, gnarled, knoty i*unks of the venerable trees around them,  which hid once
. adedthe Red Men of the forest, and exercised tiheir memories -by narrating such- le-
gends dddcal traditions as had heen handed down to them, or their4imaginations by
t ema $2igttlo fictions of their own ; while. Nellie twined garlands of ferns and wild
vltin4  dthe boys rippled the dark bosom of the murky, sluggish stream by casting
iate:it little muscle shells gathered among its banks. And in after years, above the rich-
es~t'tiainsof music, or the deafening roar of cannon and the ceaseless rattle of musketry,
each of them cold recall the drowsy hum of the mid-wheel, borne to their ears on the
theo. lutuinmer air as they sat on the shady bill- ide, with their corks floating idly on
t e dark waters edging the woodsy while the setting sun lit up the broad bosom of the
pondm4fith gorgeous rainbow tints, and the soft, sweet sounds of the closing summer
dky ri ing up from'the.water and. the woods, blended in one deep, rich vesper hymn
cof praise ta'the God of Nature..                        *
Whe,-after four weeks spent with, hi friend, Walter was returning home; Charley
detetaiihed to accept Miss Emeline's invitation and accompany hinh. His father; who
lad Happened once accidentally to dine at iplar Lodge, the residences of the Mtsses
Ml pard4id-not give a very favorable account of the commissariat of the establishment,
anud~aier had hinted that his aunts were very'economical housekeepers ; but this did'
ndt deter Charley, who laughingly replied to his father's warning by saying th:t after
festhe as he had done all vacation, he could afford to live one week, like a bear is
winter, by sucking his paws.
t WeN,-my son, you must not let the ladies see you at it,' said the old gentleman, 'for
Se iiesllncking in bread and meat is made up in etiquette and style. None but the
bgt gnners will be'tolerated there. Have you never noticed how very punctilious
yoItd~Myaard is ?'
Poplar 'Lodge was situated on the south side of the Chickahominty, in Henrico county,
near   yoint now known as Fair Oak Station, on the York Riv r railroad. -  was a
teatunag little place, but very unprofitable to the owners, owin to imperfect cultoa-
tipj.ftethe want of sufficient labor, for the Misses Mayniard owned no servant except
Rt-tdlI   anand. 1 wit, a bahf grown hey, and stone young r children ; and they
we're not able to hire. Still, with rigid economy, they were abl to make quite a gen-
teeappeance. Tht little square yard which surrounded the house was bordered, 'in-
sideof .the. white palings.enelosing it, by a formal row of.Lmbardy Poplars, and I aid
offtid natrt gravel- walk edged with flowers, which were Miss nieline's especial care;
whiei.agrasnplats theyenclosed were kept scrupulously clear of weeds and rubbish
byke old.an servant,.whohad been gardener for Walter's gran 1 father in the palm iest
damfat then-faiy,, and who delighted in keeping up, as far as their reduced circuit
taneeewuld:    it, all the style a1 formula vhich had ther  'been 'observed. This
sapto1tnegro-1Uncle.Tom he would. have been called- any whee .else in Virginia, but
the ktissea Maynard called .him 'Uncle Thomas--*as quite- a character, and reminded
Chade 'whom his idiosydtaeie's greatly aniused, of -the ingeniois aid attached butler
of:the Master of Ravenswood. 4n the:first day of his arrival Charley saW hiu lhatrd at
work ida little-corn patch-nearThe house all the morning; bit  when the dinner hour
arrt v.4d-d 'he ad. Walter-"tppaired to their chamber to prepa-e for the peal, Uncle
Thomas boughtrthem.water and 'towels, and insisted" on helping therpi to make their
He was proceeding to brush' the suit Charley ,had rbde in, preparatory to
aingitAin aUtdcle.Thomas;weI  latter objected, saying, 'Don't trnobln yourself
to' vditi nuUcl.hms           can.-wait on myself. I have - een doing'uothing all

THEl RIVALS:

0    '4

F S
Tr
d
F ?_ar

jgg

f
"        '   '         11l S 'J  ~    T ''      '          1

.,,
,
-;        _                      ,
i  ' .

f             .1
L;
f:r F 4   a'  k ti
J,+  , ,  %  'r  tL a* , -  :s ~.  ' ,j, , y   y t  '"  #
,j"  tr,, *i '._ ."  .  J ±   t r, "i ,6f y ,
,  3f S; i ~ "Ri-,ifI', i', f,..s   1 , ' . :*1J.
"   4'A  ffd i       +   e  Y  y r " '+l ° '  ".     (
"  '  :   ,' A t  " f' ,i t1  4J  fi+''  X Q , "''     "  't  $  e"  + -"
*  y ' , ,,    "1 {k ,.'  1 fo  . '  ,t.    ~ I,
''-J "eY: f'r  a""Th{'en~  v "..;

-;    A'LL'   r';,*          _ .
-               \"
\         k    1        .t
ni
t3                 i =
r

i             «
1   i
t   _              4

_      i      !
't                                    y1
^i

J            ,            t
_         _  ,       k A ,LArv i c '   ,
F'L-
[ °; . , ,
"    r{i
-i,         _
_
; .,  -     ,
"
i    '          i r, '  . r
w

tgtg(                                                                                      ,j i         it      _       _
4


"

"t" ow, Mare Wttr, t'icd T~omas, rcprov ngT3)

A 031I.KAWOMINY STORY.
day~ and am better able to brush th t coat than yon, who mu
ink the s5WLf                    .   " ":.,
zueed,' sadcThomnas,wi km dignity, str ugh r.inii
never, to.© tired to wait on ,n yo g ma per's visitors. y don't
I ain't obliged to work,, nokmoly .ever aeayw i ~k, to 11ho
as grd "a scale n  ,as   a r~1wysu tot, and. tere beiu tsn rm
than L w~a r iced :wvith, rkrkot eo, ich eoornp'any Lwmi1,'the."
gets sorter'.lnonne, and je work $.oir' .pav yIiie  nt
exa uple and te ch 'em n idustrioushabits.; pdnt kej arir
now, _tho igh. ;The anily yas uhifo u.t a~  eraca
esaeon the tiyer,,au  weain't ,goroom on this  Yittle place fo
'mout in rlichmdcnd.'
I twish yrou'vou'ld bring one or t s~o of them licn c it. Oluist
Walter nignificantlv.
,~N wba~ht foir, Mars Walter.? r plied ,Uncle TTo na exa$
you. "w~ll:&amp;aough7---wjiryuw nt-wth 'etnhere ?'
"'Wvel,the , lust, allow rm; the"ha fding at come of tl  mon
young.,mater; mi chie ously.   I t ink it. is very s :lfish "iu,'yo
self,. Uncle _ .honi.as?
'ow ,4 ars .'G water ' rep1 ed ~1o ads, eprnvjgly,   istis t
me and your aunts has bee trying o teach you evsine ot
care, to be niisdoubti g-:h-,word, of 'a colored 4ersohhere be f o
,ing the young gentlemen, to ring It  y wanted anything mor"
out of the room.,-
When tIe.boys descended to tihe.fining roefiithev round hnrn  ihshi lvson d a r uerbgll', b
hoad'-seat. of ;thme (ab~c. wich was4 s t out avithtreadbre
ues da ansk, n ti tqtmesof rio  nnaria,  ';varous;ae
bandsomioy plate, all \ot 'which .were 'heir.' looris" furthe, atea Wily
Tliendishe~s were. very; rnall and. t ergwerebutJ~w of th em=
form, such a~ flourishing of napkins umde ch n ing t  plat, .JU
posing, IVias, Judith so' dignified anr4 Miss: moiuene:"80affa~ble,
who had, feel very" hungry ,after his ' idefo r at*iy .loss hubaPt
A t,.dinnier he had an.tQpportunity  to; ctutinize Miss; udit
~etore ' She  as o derthan Misr J  u ehne. " nd ,uacl g   e _ Gp 1
and. spetacles. The Ilatter looked ulp tor   r and _as evudetntl
as quite , you g person. Fa ntly , ride .'wai.the ,Jrxig   ' tr
Mayrn4rd firuii1y her:. lh1 '"; Charley had nttbe n . weut-fir.
be hlad had aanminute. ,history ;fr ev'ry. orarich  af her f4n~ily
Walter, sho toad. been edncr ted to think with hier 6r;.th'b\8
iii the topicaand delightedI with haighs'crn       eie
paraded.be force. his friend rs an offstto the sup rtor 4wea: of
Ciharey., whoay ideas about 'sieh mattes wer~ derived5WT h
such pie ridiculous,Frrnnenl bead tn obse.v'I  of he4  &amp;ter tiI
all trace our fvnily back to Eves an  v . i ;er.,a, ;f,   "
analvetanly~in
#     lc      l ln ~oo hssi ~                  1 cr1 ,her sister. , She, still remembered wi ; regret n orptwo =d igit
reetda h   s   ,rsinstigation,;. bectus "teGa'. irY t fo h
r .e, we;earthathe decsion..thrie app rto           o t i ,MI3 ' s'  ol "ntca

i

a? offers whj+)h 1 e bad
handi were, tex rya
tal1y, raswly d'that. Chia
;acs. UrifQrtunately,
eu many private notes.

4         15
t' )e tirod.with  6rkiR
lhis bent figure 'VnI'
utart myselW Eith wvrk ;
unt 4h :r g here ain't .+en
we, hnrd, to p"  s b ;.  ©
all. our Yuen ,5  oehrb
cvely.  'Don' &amp;IL ,a1 ,on
y tey'.hire  f&amp;i':rjiht~
asi left aorphtot'r' 'r
a strang'ers,' '+hen oCtell
KThomas bower1iir el
arr'ay~d i  a iomit3 *h't
that; somehom  hfiy,
;whom.' he had  tt mot
Pregardcd 'by her '
i yher chr' t r   m Ih
for sevene r l :gnra  T

/

'


THE RIVALS:
on the ladies and Uncle Thomas. for the volume on human nature which he was men-
tally compiling. Charley returned home, The visit, by maki g him acquainted with
Water's home and relatives, had given him an insight int t-he harac er aUdcondatOf
his friend which he had never had before. He saw that tl e coh. haratmospher-of the
false life at the Lodge was not favorable to the growth of tho. e amiable socialtvi#ays
which, in spite of his partiality, he had mentally acknoaledge i young Maynard tor he
deficient in; and lhe pittied more than he blamed him for the wa t of them, and resolved,
b,,y redoubled affection and kindness, to atone, as far as lay in hi - power for the sternbess-
of Miss Judith and the indifference'of.Miss Emeline.
While the young gentlemen had been amusing themselves as we have described,
their families had been preparing fqr their departure to West Point; for Mr. Ioster-
-bad yielded to his son's entreaties ar consented that he niigh complete his education
there.  -
The time had nearly arrived for them to'leave, and after a ew farewell visits made
in company, including a very pathetic leave-takin: of their former teachers and their
. favorite haunts about the old academy,, they set off on their j' urney, and .were joined
in Riehmond by Bob Harrison. who was going to the s-me ins itution. Neither Char-
ey'n&amp; ,Valter was particularly pleased to have his company; but he was somewhat
subdued by the recent parting with his family, and a little cowed at the idea of going
among strangers, and  o was more endurable than they expect d him to be. Still the
boys contemplated, with much pleasure, the taking-down that awaited him at West
Point.
CHAPTER III.
Four yea's after the period treated of in the last chapter, nfl a wa:'ni ummer.after-
noon, a hack, or hired carriage, from Richmond, might, hatdo been seen procee.iing
leisurely along thQ Mechanicsville Turnpike, through a cloudiof dust which folloved
in its track. The two large traveling trunks strappel on' behind, a:.couple of. port-
. mapteaus upon the boot, and the same umber of veil tilled carpet bags on' the front
seat of the coach, indicated that the two hatlsome young gentleman, in cadet's ui-
form, occupying the back seat, had traveled some rdistance. And; indeed, they hail
come a good way. having left the highlands of the Hudson 'only a few days before;
for, in spite of their military dress, their broad chests, manly voices and' heavy mous-
taches, we recognize in the travelers our old frier.ds, Walter Maynrrd aid Chaney
Foster. 'heir military training had developed their boyish forms into models of
manly strength and vigor, and though Charley was still taller and stouter than Wal-
ter, yet there was in the lithe figure of the latter a supple grape very pleasing. His
face, too, wal strikingly. handsome, though still less .pleasii. than' Charley's-; bit his
countenance 'had greatly' improved in agreeableness of expression since we lnst saw
him. 'hoe four- year at West Point had been happy. ones for him, affording, as
they did, an opportunity for his ambition to feed upon the- applause and distinction
which his superior diligence and abilities won for him among hi fellow-studetts; and
be looked and felt in a better humoravith the workcthan he had ever done before..
The two had grauvatewith;honor, but as yet were indecisive'in the matter of retain-
ing their comrpissionsinraiys.  The friendship between them had greatly strength-
ened during tfesej yo years; nd they~ were dubbed by' their mutual friends at
West Point, "Jonathan and barid."   They were, indeed, more like brothers .ban
friends; and the well-filled purse'with, Which M. -Foster kept his son supplied, minis-
tered alike to the wants of botli; for although' Walter would not..accept money, yet
Charley never made a purchase for himself that hedid not make a similar one for his
friend ; and all their furloughs for little excursions to New York,-Albany, &amp;c., were
always gotten together, when Charley proposed all the amusements and quietly footed

Y
Ccrp
4
IL
jA
4       r
,h
fL
i .  3w
J
xYi
:rb

othr  e y t lawep vpQ lJ  hr        y'ii1  tip, :p  r    Ias  r
~~ e~r~j ~  ba4 c f . esPj CC of a ;f it~I .   a,ish vi psir b  st~  tt b  a
*'PfoQyot  Cew  lit, before  "n, in, a.dQM thni%:mj  dyeni '   ar  d siguIp  f' toti
i'7  just in   We.' i  1sMSWft w thp (  i -' Y  I '  a   ,1
M' "JZ ~o,  i e  ~~  a  bte  say'  epie  1tr   , ;; CF" .I. Tof   ,vJ  !a@ 5t b IrVof i~
o0ther willb  e  ha t the .yapre wd1l h . arpmed ofth u   ucirq  n  iVa aiq Oh~rj , out
to bepetywLl versed' in a lt-rv.' d ins; x *e'i  " ~bec~n  L sc4lpdes e  i   a  ;to
the last' h(;3r 1 yea-ew  anta bthwe  e atou  r  . ~tg ci  ry a bee ' t y t a  rs  torl
"bog$ here' averwe outgrown my kz.;niow :n~eor  e~ *Tl se iNe1i&amp;4y. ir a
-dut.otto ;n~g . -tunpesoir l  beeib y,' . ure c#, sh w~tr.  T1 ' ca t  her ofl.
ttw  ' he  s  we;u ither t ;i' isas  ;ty."  --
Chag I h~ a  nek e  uln  tor  B eaardlite gr  onw o txog,  rl J. at)!9tj  sea1
'Ho sto ra, ne aittlW e liy hapi,'hewen n1*  il;t' b  e a4 'n' Ild to  r.
to  boypretty wll sweraer toien rna rdoigev'be "  l °.o -j_  i.
bw the1 s wther ? . lba; prty~r.# I
4 I u  ;a~l eq  s1  aer  * }i~ c i been,'l, ;dre m  Fclon Vhet i   i
Cl lyw takn  Yrd    esltlrre,  oy  p4oi y-t  r,   l


THE RIVALS:
Nellie's side, as proud and happy as a. king'is generally supposed to be.Y Tho  ques
triaa party soon discovered that the dust from:the carriage was unendurable, and rode
ahead to avoid it. As Walter gazed down the road afte them; looking, o handsome
;nd so happy, the first bitter feeling that he:bad ever felt toward hi friend sprang up
in hisTbreast. He. felt jealQusand indignant, and thought that -Charly bad acted un,
':generously. Perhaps be had; but who was ever generoUs i' such a matter?
A beautiful woman never looks so enchanting, so ravishingly *beautiful, as on .horse,
back, especially if she ridestwell; and no woman ever rode more gracfullyr thn j1lie
ardiner. The lingering . tenderness for heb which hed been srnouiirring in Uharley's
beart ever since those old days at the academy, was, duringthatride, fanne hinto a
:ame oflove which was destined to burn on the holiest altar in the temple f his heart
while life should be granted hime in which to cherish hdman passion. And the glimpses
that Walter had that evening of  her face and figure, the few tones of her voice which
=met-his ear, and the few glances which fell on him from her melting eyes, kindled, from
the ashes of a certain boyish fancy, which had long lain dormant in his bosom, a passion
'which gave th'e c'ol' to his whole life.
After Mr. and Mrs. Foster had retired for the night, the two friends sat for hours in
silence on the porch at Beaver Dam, smoking 'their cigars, gazing out upon the moon;
lightj and thinking of Miss Gardiner.
Since they parted'with her at the gate, they had not spoken to.each other about her,.
except that Charley had asked-'
'Do yofi think Nellie is much changed, Walter?'
'Only for the better,' was the reply.
Yes, that is it,' replied Charley, 'only . for the better.. And what a lovely creature
she is-what heavenly eyes. and what bewitching manners ! I never saw such grace
ful ease blended with such charming modsety, or such a beautiful combination of gen '
leness, dignity, frankness and vivacity inthe 'manners of ny woman before; did youl.
'Remember,' replied Walter, curtly, 'that I have not"had the same opportunity o
observing and analyzing Miss Gardiner's manners that you have, and so am not pre
pared to pronotnce upon them.'
'What were their dreams that night, and'their wakin  thoughts the next day. up t
the time when- they set off to the party, to which they iad received the mdst pressin
invitations we will leave the ingenious reader to imagine .
Mrs. Gardiner's residence, as we have said, was but  few miles from  Beaver'Darn,
and situated on the Chickahominy.- It wras a large wo den' building, 'furnished inside
with richness anti elegance, and surrounded on the outsi e by extnsivo grounds laid off'
and ornamented with great taste. To-night, the whol hose and a large part of the"
grounds were ablaze :with light ; and the numerous carri ges and horsemen dashing dawt
the avenues'and sweeping around the circular carriage drive before the house, the groups
obf men on the porches, and the glimpses of ladies canht 'through the partly drawn
- enrtains of the brilliantly lighted dressimg-rooms, forme a rnot animated scene as oun
two embryo lieutena~s approached it.
Before'repairing to the dressing-room to-adjust their'ldcks and remove from  their
shining brad     ayclothr any, dust which might have accumulated there-during their ride, they
.t    d o the portico to salute some old. school friends. -After a short time.thus spend
biredly con el~se, they' entered' the parlors, which  the found-qui te full.,
dtre matronsaid maidens of the Old Dominion were obly represented by' te, fairer
-     %f M~rs Ga~rfdiner's guests. Every styleof femrsal beau w as to be ee r there,
fremn'tbe calwm, 'fully =matured woman, whose manners ud mid' had' been "Formed by
years of intercourse.with the world, to the blushing ma den jdst budding into woman4
hood-.from'the'dark brunette, with raven hair and.'eyet of nigLit, to. efaire  blonde
S  w   de     ges sa     aphire eyemi d brow  of  labaster, Amontg 't   shinin
niJil ball, that none cbuld 'compare with Nellie .Gardiner. Nor were they alon6.h

this opinion; for many of the' most' elegant men i 'the roo  were paying 'their hoa ge
at the sane shrine; and even the most envioat of her own 'ex could not fail to peroeiv
anid were compelled to acknowledge Eei charms.:    '''
She was indeed looking peerlessly beautiful to-n gh ,.ithi er fairv-like figure, drapEd
in a cloud-like robe of embroidered white rape, gberhie  fvaler cienneslacekeoope
'p on her bosom 'with a 'pearl bfeast-clusters of' bl sh roses in her dark brown hair 'anti
pearl bracelets and necklace melting into the whit'nets of h -r.beautiful neck and argis.
Her large dark eyes, of a deep violet color, and si ided by- lone curling lashes of'he
same hue and shade as her hair, were at once s 'soft, an  bright, that every glance
thrilled the observer with a strange pleasure, and o.night t "ey were fairly aglowwith
joyous excitement, while her small mouth and exqui si ly oulded ctin were wreathedi
and dimpled with happy smiles;_Young, wealthy beautiful '.miredl and beloved just
entering'-upon a life which proaiised so much joy, whyho Id she not belhap s?
Foremost aniong Nellie's'adinirers to-hight, was her eousic, and our former acquaint-
ance, Bob Harrison,. or Mr.'Robert Harrison, as he would d ubtless desire to be called.
Time, which effects-so inany:change  ad .not'.fail d to leav its impress on. Bob ;Harri-
son; though outwardly he was somtiat. improved, there  as no change for the better.
At West Point he had associated with the most i moral a d dissipated set of cadet
connected with the institution, and had commit( d many  tide and disgraceful acts,
which, if ventilated, would certainly have procure l his exp lsion fror the academy.-.
Indeed, he had barely escaped being expelled mor than on e. He got through a't the
examination, however,-taking.a very low.'figure, an escapin  disgrace by the very skirt
of his teeth-yet he passed, as did also, at -a previous date, P pe, Burnside, Hoolferand
several' others of similar mental calibre,,who have I tely occ pied conspicuous posifions
in the eyes of the world. Ho .expected'to ryke a ms his p ofession, and as his family
was wealthvhand influential, there was no doubt ab ut his ge ting ayconvenient position
in the service, though h e wasra most unprincipled nd' worth ess vagabond. .N eie bad
never admired him, but as  tle oldest son of her mother's o ly brother, toe pnl4 not
help feeling an interest in him and some regard for him. et 11, she vas ntot inclined tc-
submit to his monopolizing her society entirely, as ,he .seem d' inclined 'to do ariashe
contrived to dispense her favors quite equally amox  hr iu erous adiiers
Lieutenant Foster, who vent into any matter t at eigaed' his attention with.hia
whole soul, contrived to obtain quite a 'liberal shar of her s iles and Maynardwh
.ws equally energetic, though less enthusiastic, suc eeded in  eurjn. her band seea
times during the dance, and had quite al delightful t te-a-fete  rigteeeig,'Ty
were both perfectly satisflcd with the progress "the had. mia e. ;and, iutoticatd 'wit t
bliss, returned to Beaver Darn just before dawn to ream of  lysium .
The party at Mrs. Gardiner'swas followed, within the n $t fewTweeke 'by' half .
dozen others, including one at Mr. Harrison's residence, on the Pamunkey river, and one
at Mr. Foster's. Several of.Nellie's school-ades we evisitin  r and  rs. ard
house was constantly thronged with companyamog whom;     ht be found- almost
iy, W     er and Charley s Tr tphey. found time occasion 'llyi n atheinterv l be.
tween' dinners and tea-parties,. th~e':pic..jic excursion, and 'ri  n  wls~o  wi
t'ey 'ere constantly' attending Miss Gardine and  er friendar to ride ovr  opl
Lodge and   y their respects to the ladies; an 4tcltiate th' aaintance and  o  wif
of, Uncle Thomas.'"      '         ' '          ''      '-
_ Walter, whose 'per.etrating eye had long ben ace st med t read every , feeling ant
thought of'Charleyts transparent soul,-had see a' ri al in him from the beginning an1
in view of his fine pecuniary prospects, hante sme person,. id+ fascinating manners,
considered him . quite a 'formidable oe. ButChar ' blind  fbya he inte anity of li
own passion, 'failed to penetrate the cold;' Calnexte iorhof bi'wudenotat,.friend:
us       r years to    de to Walter ' evnray op mionan emotion ,Charley would
have confessed hio ve'fr'Nellieand isoughtbs sy.$thy; h .Ahe'  'consideed it a
matter too neacred'tofbeniscssed wit a thrd jartl "

IS

A

STORY.


s~

At t i sr ng&amp;'ne vt;n iiw itethe .ej
M " IVe 3 W ad4* d t~hr :tray r, and so . losety Wv
4iat it wits .t  by::th.uitn a assiduiity {thut rKer (4c1.
" !i1  d =f4 a datiee, or  :cam panv -far :a rya Iet  .
hoc i~udatsa4et! 'ht,' h~it~t party fuwtd; the =t ruep;i.
41~~ail of -     er aade a longer stay a~non ,
te ie 1 Uheir epar tmfox t.heir ?iorncs.
.  'n' t  w hhjabidm  egement tdthedieuhlc: lkf it ;iii
4u4tunt3  thad oYfe  &amp;W  3rvate Iov 'mtmxktn {fa r tip
svC iiom' ti'r ci'repair inieduat 4y.to W
r      a+
lr~if'i' b  mtb t' t meo sre  j e d
3   e   drest     f dread. zAn r  bu}of whis'ch
v ic erghehram  Pdrad    Ant  e hand which&amp;~. :
'' tf her dowuncast eyes e wept ther,#~~J

d it ,have .hs ~use .p t t1 by
eti t}r~1iA y ul ct-tea sp.I r }te
nt-n4 v nf  da ya :;'ffer their te;urz,
ri nIac4ion -{rc~Ot- te W r-~~
tatihrA tm t reCEiv E  his e{o     fisi
.d1t.I tt 1A  m  OtiC'n, fAtIIaiR
{4irti Sbhf.'ro :teti ug ot ion
f his uinfld Wit~h ft1i VEW,
x o u-iJn)l rhas horse, .tct' o  for
or, rEiel Ietb his ii nry wther
rhi t~ tinot I tii R~e  t ' se
jp   orr«t&amp;y~snek~c. arbr. ThI~ink.
1 , had i  °ew, Walterdeclined
lift toc4ttOf if tjl  { y,?ttkle
"w iii ;the 1a''es"" it hbt u   t 'vor.
"4g tr   j'. a  &amp;444   r.fhtub
tic ere
t0 w()t l  h 1i  v u'.t   tV al
* p  f9.k               for.
Sri;i n             yyi'  . Fa''t*
jcig  'p  ~j      ws thY
' )    4c) 1          hei

"Anti, on neariaqg the arbor, -Wa8e ernek with eurprz to at seeing

1

eomae one th er e.""

"


M
'a
.

CHAPTER Iv.
About two weeks after, his arrival in WYas hingt n, wh
preparing for service, Walter was surprised to receive the
'MT DEAR oLD CHUM:-I have concluded net to give
to request that you see Col. B. and gadeavor to secure for

li be.w s busily engaged in
lf lowin letter from-Charley:
my c  mission, and write
nme, throw gh his influence, aa

i
t

t
r
4
I
i         }

:Y4

s
a'
I,
4

-

1

A CHIOKAHOMINY      TORY.        .
tion, she raised her large eyes, melting with tender ess to he lover's face, and said in a
soft tone, scarcely and ible: 'It is the most precious boon th t earth could offer me; I
accept it with pride and pleasure,
An expression of ecstasy lighted up Charley's fate.
'My own I' he exclaimed, inthis deep, tender voice, pressing the hand'he held passion-
ately to his lips; 'my own!'                           -
' Yes, forever,' raurmured Nellie. beu                        t   a
Young, and fair, and graceful, as theyboth were,,hey made a beautiful tableau in tha
attitude, with the golden autumn light playing ove  them, atd -the flowering'branbhea
of the honey-suckle twining around them.
A scene so exquisite as the one we have attempted to desc ibe, would, if acted o thq
boards of any theatre in christendom, have elicited own iu ders of applause frorf thq
most intelligent and. discriminating audience ever assembled:; but tino sound escaped the,
single spectator, who stood transixed. With emotions, such as Satan is suppoaeto
have felt, when lost and undone he gazed upon the eatties an  the bliss of Eden, Walfte
looked upon the tableau before -him, then noiseless retracing ehis steps; left the garden,
itl   heart as heavy as the one Adam bore with Iim from Paradise.,
.Arrivin at the house, he entered the parlor,,and aking up a book', pretended to read,
while he awaited Charley's and Nellie's return.
In about Iealf an hour they came in, looking very blight andhappy, and quite pleased
and surprised *to see him there.
He met them with his usual calmness and self-po session, and seemed quite as cordial
as ever. The keenest eye could tiot have discovered:in his serene, exterior, any trac of
the volcanic fire of passions surging and flaming in h 8.,breist. Wildly as he loved Nellie
Gardiner, he felt towards hegthe keenest resentment, that she should have preferred
another to him;. and oh, how he hated 'Charley Foster. Yet, he disguised. it all,.and isat
with them nearly an hour, discussing the mostordit ary topics in the most commonplabe
manner. When. he arose to take his leave, he said o ellie:
'I have been summoned to report in Washington t .;'e a signed to duty; Miss Gar.
diner, and expecting to leave very shortly, I called this  trnwon to bid you  e.I'hall
probably not have an opportunity of visiting Virginia- a n very soon, andbo 'shall' not
have t-i pleasure of meeting you again in along time; but gIghlnit me to offer yen'iy
best wishes for your happiness is saying farewell='               ~=
'And you, too, Charley, will accept the same,' I e add d tirningto Charley, without
heeding the expressions of surprise and regret they were oth uttering.
'Oh, no, not yet,' said Charley ;' return home vi h meand spenI the night at Beaver,
Dam, and stay with me until you leave for Washin'ton.  -
'I shall leave to-morrow, before dawn,' replied  Valter, ' nd so cannot accet yout
invitation, though I thank you for it.'
Charley followed him out upon the porch, and cl nging todb hs hnd, said::
* I can not give you up,'. od fellow ; '1 really do not know how to get along without
you. But for one thing, I would pack up and be off wit you, -Write soon and often,
for I shall miss you sadly.'
Oh, you will forget me in a little while,' said Walter, aughing lightly, as he sprang.
down 'the steps.-

.
E                  w           i
ti
.s,... u     ....     .       . -.
'

.-                                              r      . ,

I        -

, -
;,,

*a

"
s"


"

4 "I A -tASi'

a aIt ji. iTin  n t1hediT.I     rt'fe tife etwica nditrdi tdt di~yi W1 IS h
a      lti M i Yespib  Iv F W id like alg tP1bin the sencoma'ny, ofartl eLstr iniheMt a
regiment with you. Do, please try an4 get it so arrantgeth I ":Mv tl4 ap reyou sil}ulhi
trouble by going to Washington mysellif in w ot ti4 tiactsI'prained uy ankle yesterdi;.
'And now, knowiu;that you must he surprised at this sudden decision, and cutiitE,
t knowthe cauw55of it, I will explain it all. You, front. whomIn never kept a.se ret
b}) /    eb a'tonishedto learn that e'Vt siue 6irr return fr m ;Wet Pohittyea as I
:h   't l ' dis o ered;eet since I,1havetdowihe-I-4 htv* k Iad-. e lluGrdineraA4
that on the very evening of your areweIl  visit to' Failifield, I told her of my love.  .
nae'dpi'      "eyfltt    g   e eved, r v ab en'ented-to yiedzme her-hand i{ mar-
rikeiff1 doiAllghhe ehaw   iotsetnt.to ourtnion. In; d esseagan I waited lnditt
aier' 'n tVpedtliy:-regqtied her consent' to my- futning an alliance with
her d4ghier. My ptition was cokly and haughtily-received, and perentorily refnsad:
Ir'espetfutlyregq sted to be made acquaited with -thegronuds of her oppositionwhen
elhercdeidly adined tliar to riyself, personally,-she had- noobjection, but that thi-di1s-
parity in our rank was too great tomake sich acon nection desitabler--she would: neewedt.-
seht, o-laive her du'ghter,.in' whose veins.niingled the blood of four-Governi! and dne
President, m.crry the son of. a carpenter..
' You;may minidr  Walter, if you can. what my feelings were. ,Htowser, I rajd-
tamed my composure; Idlid not tell her that 'her sex -protectedther,' but I thought it
Iimrely- reminded =her very politely, that the man who maintained toward oUr Saiiotir.
the region of an earthly father, was a carpenter. To this she vouchsafed no reply.
'At my'roquest, she consentedtbat Nellie and Pshou d have a parting interview but
she asusrud me very positively that it must be the test.-          -            -
1 Nellie was mneh =grieved at the reception her m'otherhadgivenmnit, andiindia
tant that I thould have been-insulted by being treated as an interior.  r U mothers id
aid, was by her father's will, her legal as ivelasnatural:g&amp;adian;iind that during her:.
minotity-she woud not ofl'ndher by marrying against her wish, but that in three veats
wduld   twenty-one years  - age, and mistress :both= of herselIf and fortune, whei
shewoudd     tows thn on    ntinworthy friend and humble .servant. Of cnrsa; I
thaed the deat girl wil1 ll my heart for. her unmerited generosity.  We agrdeLtthan
to wait unt*-she should have attained.;her nTijrity; and, having the utnost faith in
each other; we have no deti~bt of the final-consummation cf 'our wishes.  ..  -
t This being the condition of affairs, you know that it.would not- be very convenient-
rprojer-for me to remain in this vicinity ;' hence my sudden decision tOenter the amn'.
Of course all t!aat I hiv told you is in the strictest confidence, for the comipact between
Nellie ,d myself is a profound secret, though the affair'of my-add essing Miss Gariiter,.
and be g rejected by her mother, has been for a week under discudsion'by the Grurndys, -
through the agency of Bob Harrison, I believe. Nellie informed nie at-our last interViev
that he was a hsve~rof her's, and. that his suit was greatly favored by her mother and
his father.
'Be sure to attend promptly to my request, and let me know the result as soon -a -
possible.  -

Very truly, yours,   -

L. FOS'TER.. -

To this communication Charley received, at'an early day, the following reply

'DEAR CHARLEY:--Immediately on the'receipt of -your letter, 1
tleman you mentioned, and communicated your request to him.
eulty in' getting you an agreeable position, and in a few days you
yori' for dpty., You will not be able, however, as you seemed to
active service in the field, for it has been determined to place in
izing for the expedition to Utah only such offers, and, as far as
have seen service in the field; In or-der to do this; it is necessary

called upon the gen-
-,TUhere was no diffi...
w'illhe oi'bered'to're-
Ihsire, to enter upon
the corps now drgane-
practicable, mep  ho
to withdraw the gar--

A dlJO  1i 4Of*y

g 4

uder"him.. - 1e01 tliliiitutcdneis are t liie ( 'l  n
arrived iIn Washingt   si, disignedlapplj'hi for «the ao  Sec t Lete iit-
qtl B. had ;eIn-befodi hii anbNied it for y qsd B'o ha i l'to 1S c:tti'N-  -
the juuidrruak. 4i-,littie fswe lie hi  t seems't h a'           O  t     t
hiI again. Ihellv ,there senito be o)l testian'gt f4ahty ;t wii'k- in thet 'i
-' As for the seconiti part 1'your letter a not so 'tnich  -
expeot. I must Ii e heen blibd nit to have disover  the
nbuths sibee. Thut ,I ihut confess that- rs. Gardi'er' eon t .ditas h
little, i. iew of' her apa nt prtiality for you; aht- thm e  a e  he seakd tt
in yotir society. -I hive hetrd her refer Bernard to  u frc itely as a Morbat1()ytr
and so, I inm sure, has Miss. Oar diner. H wever, 1 sus"etshe ii'lhedst
ter:is she is said to he in n uy'others, by her bsothi', Mr: 1lbert IlderMr  i' "  ::.-
He doubtless tbinks that i a wou lu'be fine thing for t ,he  ;hop;  , tu s ae
a dowry as Miss Goiiine'wwith a reversionary right to one half bof hrmother';f"4''
d T fortune . But if he exp  s. to make a useful and worthy imbr of socle0 oti -
same iapes-s .eapt1riare, he will, irk my dy iaion; be varsrly i  n  itb l jsefT
ati persuaded; hiu ho ideat of such a thing; he seems, judging' from  is Wst P  I -
career and his secret exp1oi in Washinton., to be ber t only o  sa-
and inill predict that'r he ' setds a large crop ' cf.th bmntosp
parlance of O  d'Virginia. .' -teo                           ii the
'I hear that he is nOt mch pleased since you and I rink hini, and spoke 'ofrtiro
up his Comnissito  but is friends lmE t'ld hun frankly) that nothing m tt'ei   ie
obtained for him, in cst a'quence of his por tand' atret'p    t    'd   s
phm', if he wished to make atm'i  his profession, to rhinain -w iCr'e e N
know very well, that' in thi choice of hi 'profession, Bob- is iot9 at alt influenbcd'
bravery or a'love f glory, for ho. is quit iiincent it  tf. lie- wou
remaining at liore,' itlt nothing. to do N.4ept'spei nmv'- btis     w       -
a good'many children to provide for, and is said to be heavily in'debti  ete'.minet -
qtarter .him on.' Uncle S-nim        "M
To-morrow I expect to set off for Fort Alexand r. HIlopbgto be.j-
there sonI remain, is ever;  -              T-.Ou"friend, P  t e  m    by 6n
- A  few  w eeks  later  than  -the  date  of  this  correspon  leice  fu   nd a t s n l  h ; rle '
domniijed at Fort -Alexander. 'he garrison therei- - w  not large butt
composed of raw' recruits, and- the task of instruetir g these aitheir military  d
and enforcing their performance of them, was an irduous- one. . The contiandnt
beingtin delic te he~ilthi, and often inraable c.f per b'rig lt, i o  h
M~'bor devolved upon' his subordinate.Thb First c   C~IILe'na'    t    :,'-.q;im"e
de  p~~cii hc3r  e ea    1   t          n I i u 1 iaits tcq~e  d
themselves creditably  their respQusible situations 'but th  titter incepaoitv bf t1e
third, or ' revet,' as he was styled, vwas gau~.igl'y apparent. indeedj ob LrriStoff
far from being a help, was a decided hindrance, 1'i shirked I is dutin: in every posa
blo way, aril when ihe was forced to the performance of ther1 hwa so oerbearin
ty ranrical, ard insulig, tht he frfeuently provoked' insuhor ination.amou the n{eu
which it required all the athority and: address of his stper'or ofdlers to quell- Iac
these oiineers been any others than Lieutenants Maynard and Foster, who  nw  i
well;and had heen'tccustorhel to bearing with his follies, he - ould have been{ cburt-
martialed Within. the rfi-st. month. Eveni their patincp gre  ex edingly' tbeadb'ae
utider the ctstant usage to which it was subjected by their quandaiu school mate ani
fellow-countymnu.,                       -                                n

w

r


26                               THE RIVALS:
The Fort was situated in a wild and picturesque country, abour ing in game, and
aifbrding many charming prospects; 'and  hen their military  dut es would permit,,
Waiter and Charley amused 'theniselves hunting aoag .these vp t wilds, or sketch-
ing such viewsas' they :considered very fie. They s* butlittle of Lieutenant Harti-
sob, exept'on parade and at the:!ness-table, for.his leisure hours were mostly passed at
t  pubie houses of Luray, a thriving little village a few miles fronr Fort Alexander.
Being constantly with Walter, and having his mind and heat t always full of one
subject, Charley spoke frequently of Nellie and of the relation between them; but to
his surprise he soon saw, in spite of his friend's self-command, that it was a most un-
pleasant theme, that it always left him imnpatient, gloomy and mngrose. Slowly the
truth dawned upon him; but when at last his mind had, conceived ~a well-defrned sus-
picion, he was soon enabled, bylose observation and various experirpewts, to confirm it
beyon&amp;a doubt. The discovery, gave him intense pain - aid he 'cased to speak on a
theme, which being so unpleasant to his friend, was no longer a pleasant one to him, at
least in their intercourse..-
Walter was very glad when Charley eased to speak to him of his love and his hopes,
for reminding him, as it lid, of his own disappointment and mo tification, it nearly
maddened him. He did not for a moment suspect the cause of his silence o&amp; the sub-,
ject ; he only knew that he hadestrenuously avoided the to 'c, and he thought that his
friend had attributed his conduct to the indifference with  ich he professed 'to regard
such natters. Idtleed, he seemed to have become quite a- cynic-ce'iticised the follies
and frailties of the fair sex unmercifully, and ridiculed the idea'of ove as absurd and
preposterous; vhile at the moment, disappointed passion was. consuming his very
vitals; when crushed affections were bounding through his soul a wail of woe ever. audi-
ble to him above the call of duty or the voice of pleasure;-and whep jealousy1 with its
poisonous fangs, fastened deeply in his-heart, was fast eating out all that was noble and
good in his nature. Eis di, position. was not.iaturally a rgmod one, and his.early. train.-
ing had tended rather to'aggravate than improve it ;- but in his long and intimate in-
tercoutse with Charley Foster, he could not fail to imbibe sonic good from a character
so overflowing with all that was. ble and generous. lie could not be misanthropical-
with such a   ely specimen ofanhood always before him, continually exciting his
admiration. c.mandig'his respect:, and challenging his emulation. The natural bias
of his mind  intrigue and chicanery, was temporarily overcome by the influence of a
character so eminently honest and ingenuous as .young foster's; and his natural mo-
roseness was, in great measure, dispelled by the broad beams of love and good-nature
which were constantly being radiated from Chancy's warm heart and cheerful counte-
nance. 'At least, such was the influence which his friend had exercised over him ,while
'their friendship and mutual love was. unimpaired-but ala'z, upon i that friendship, so
warm a   'long, so sincere, jealousy, cruet as the grave, had now intruded. Only the
noblest natures can forgive and-continue to love a successful rival, andWalter's was far
from being a noble nature. Charley soon perceived a great change in him, and noted.
with painthat Maynard's mapner's, always so cordial and unconstrained to him, were
beginning now to wear for him the same restraint and reserve that ;marked them with
others; that the few fitful gleams of the olden kindness and confidence, were alter.
nately obscured by coldness, or by a"peevish impatience very hard to bear with. KnowL
ing and pitying tfie cause of the change, he endeavored to overcome Walter's ill-feeling
by increasing kindness and cordiality on his part; but when he found his efforts una=-
vailing, and saw that they only increased the evil they were designed to remedy, he
became offended in turn, nnd desisted from them. Thus without any~ formal disagree-
RnUfh,:.the two were beconting gradually more and more alienated from each other.-
Charley, whose affections were very ardent, felt and regret ted t he estrangement acutely.
the more so as at the fort they were almost entirely cut off from any' other society.
And lihat added to his chagrin greatly, was the circumstance that \Walter, while voluf.
tarily renouncing his friendship, was beginning to court that cf Bob Harrison. ..

A CHICKAHOMINY STORY.          I2
To explain Lieutenant..Maynard's conduct, itis only ;necessary to say, that fatr fon
subduing E1is love for Nillie Gardiner, as he had at first desi hed. attempting to do, he
had pei-mitted it to hold unbridled sway in hirbreast,andhad snifered it to .fend on the
wildest and most absurd'hopes. "t .ad secretly rejoicedyat Clharley's ill-unce s ith
Mirs. Gardiner, and regarded the delay which her oppositi n hyd occisioned to, tle
lovers as a respite granted to him--a reprieve, suetas the,4oudemned "rininal baiua
vith jy. With what satisfaction did h repeat t-.  old and l-omely, but forcible adage,
'There's many a. slip 'twixt the cup and the lip ;' and 'how ardently did lie long for
that 'slip.' which  would dash the cup of happiness from Charly's lip, that, as he
fondly hoped,. he might press it to his own. Often had. he atiked his brain tor some
scheme by which he might effect his desire ; but none offered of sufficient plausibility
to sanction an attempt. He weekly saw, with growing rage aig jealousy, a tender rmis-
sive, in the form, of a delicately scented and exquisitely directed letter, placed in Lieu-
tenaat Foster's hand; and he frequently speculated upon the expediency of tampering
with this charming correspondence; but he was not quite base enough for such vil-
lainy, and so the temptation was resisted. In the meantime, though despising Bob
Harrison heartily, lie ctmmenced cultivatinglhis good will, with a view to making him
useful in the future.

CHAPTER V.

The member of'the garri om:at Fort Alexander,-who, next to Bob Harrison, gave most
trouble to the officers, aurd criateti most disturbances among his comrrades, was. a private
young foreigner, in whose features, accent and character, the distinguishing traits of the
French and Italian werestrangely mingled. ' lie was very young, exceedingly active and
handsome, with a fine ninsial ear and a superb voice, vhich was Often called into requi-
sition to enliven the garrison. In his-character were blended'.the sparkling vivacity of
the French and the deep passionate nature of the -Italian, anel 'while the former quality
made him rather a favorite wi'h both 'men and offi ersethe latter'often led him into
:scrapes with the former, -whjch sometimes brought down  upon him the e. astisement it
was the duty, of the latter to i fdict. The offensive and tyrangcal man era of Lieut.
Harrison often provoked Lhim tQ insubordination, and he was frequently in trouble, frpni
which.Lieut. FOster, whose,4ood nature often got the better of his strict notions of mili-
tary duty, had frequently beenable, by intercession with his supe iors, toextricate him.
Toward his second lieutenant, therefore, Le Brun, foi' that was the man's name, entertained
the war inest feelings of gratitude and effection, while the third lieutenant was hated with all
the intensity of his r asure, though he dare not indulge in an  pen expression of his
sentiments. Lieut. Maynard, too, for no particular reason except the haughtiness of
b'is manners .and . the strictness of his discipline, was regarded by him with strong
aversion:
At length, about six months after his arrival at Fort Alexander;1L Brin, whose. ffeices'
had been .comparatively slight, was guilty of a glaring breach ofmilitary luty, which
subjected him to the severest chastisement, except capital punish ens, which it was in
the power of the court-martial to inflict. The patience of hisoffi ers had been so tried,
by his frequent derelictions of duty, that even 'Charley uuhesitat ugly coincided in the..
decision of his superior ofliqevs against the cul rit.  He was, t erefore, awarded his
sentence of punishment,. and the day set for its;public execution.
A.few'hiirs after the decision of the case was made known  o the garrido i,. Laut.
Foster's servant entered the room where he was sitting alone,and'informpad him thattthere
were two ladies without. desiring to see:him. Expressing'his surprise atesuch an un
wonted circumstance, and hastily mttiuri such changes in his toilet as hethought he
occasion required, he bade the man usher them in,

&amp;r

'


A~~  ~ HWAQI'STORY.

TIE  RIVALS :

eve; wtbu_.r ,. lanetthe Pe4 res ,5aclokly on aed bytenviu    t
qhe had seen his v1"i~tors eatd, tChariev' ddre~som   otnnbde'mr
th Uf it 'thiat offered it~elr, a1 out the weather or the seasoni, to the [eltdr 1%:
h' ~ pcaks tit) }n lihh,' said the vnuiic lady, in a peculii'ly. ri h;" butt ;  =ce,ai
wi  strongbut iuktestin 'tore go tt cent, at the sine timie liftungher' Tail anihd (id
cl 1nR a str4it.gly be tntilul face. blighted up by a pair of the mnost ziiag i cent huec
eyesptyoUu ng tfriend h ad ever seen.
"Btyou do, T am plta+:d t ohoserve, Maid moiselle, said Lie L. F~ste?.  h" t h
and ati i le.'
,Yes,' she replied?, 'I speak1you iauaewtItoebica        ndorctP:bt.it
as.1uently as I spewd the IfenchAi nd Italian tong u,;acid if Monsieur pr~c#'6rs, I %\U1
stae mny petition iii either of those tan uages--for we are cortie as peiitiouor'.
COhar~ey hastened to ai~hsure her that, from the specimen he had hea!rd of it. hr E  -
lish would much better bey+: experimenting with than his French, a td thAt kl'3 was io
unfortunate as to have no kiiowvlcdgi of the Itaian. He calsexpre~sed an interest ini
learning what had procured him the honor of raxu intcr :iow whhL Madea~oisehle, and
assured her that it would give hinm great pleasure to serve her.,
We arc relatives of Victor Le Brim, the private. in your company, who bva :i~ist boen
sentenced to suffer a cruel and ignominious punishment,' said the girl,   and having
ofgeu beard him speak of your clemency and kindiiess, we Ihave come, MTonsiu.~i', to be~
that,you wvillexert your influence in procuring az comiuu~ation of hisfsentenca .'
This was Siiid in a vi ice op'rtc adath "antiesefdhrtnecaIOl
his face with a.' look ~so laritivane sowitlthe atime hrey  thisertfineyeson
gieatly exrdit ed .
After a little wui .,7 ;'it :. Fs'tor to-idher, i the  etiet termsr, arid wt ticoldest
manner heccould,. that.toe, ared hii iuerceSsiori i wold he of no auai1l,'as bee iruin had
so oftenx abused the dleuad cv " shown h imi, that the officers were nc w Ipersutaded that
nothing but the kt rietest p aaur~s would meet his' case. -    I
I know that In is wav; iii' and intractable, she replied,.' hbu ho has some gsod left
in thin still, iil h  if Prol i"y +cultivated, may vet makte hix a 0l5(1101i. iman. I knOW
him well enough to feel assured that hnrshness so lhir from subduing, vyill only exarSp'eratu
him. anSi tnale 'him dcspey~ate. If lie suffL'rs his sentence; Monsieiurt Krill be the rui
of ,him.. He will desert, and Ieadiuig a' warxdzing. vagabond life, wilt he" forever lot to
me, 'Listen,' sine sorid;  ruwirig eci ted :and .enfertig her laxnguage with" a tumberR of
graceful ud imIpas Tonedl tstures,   ands I will tell a liit isl storyi  hbj must, extiI you '
compassion :
'My father was a Frenchman and ad artistt, and. early 'in life left his native city of'
£'aris tofistudy art among the i' )rks of the great masters in Rome. Tle "t, he rfarried
m~y motfier, and there they lived very happily during the  first ten ye rs of my life. :T
f4Thers paitntin s began to be miuch admired, and his 'studio' wasm frequently visited, by
strangers 8ojutrvning in Rome. Ati eigth, ani4American gentleman  merchant of l ci-
Xprk, persuaded hirm' to remove tt that city, promising' hin a Inorat vk patron ag~ there.
We. removed to A meriea, amil by the kind  efforts 'of' our patroni, my' !father attion ce re-
celved 'a Iargb~ numberr of orders for paintings, which beiffg satisfactorily of xuted, ledl
to ias being established among the artists of New York, Stillhis gains were small ~
th4gh larger than in Italy ; for'irt is not very lucrative, Monsieut, either in Italy' or
mt~ica; in the former country thie people have nothing tox"ay, and~ in til latter they
h~r " but li  tl  apreeiatiou' for rt 4 b'at ies;" so wt'lie 'die, tw'o' years ag"o, he left us
"a trist penniless. My mother had die shortly y  er our arjval in1 Ameri a, and 'our
kind behefactor was also dead ; but his daughters aided mec by proci k~ng te a'zxoutber

'rhbve'r 'd y 'Mte hi s  a rivil 'in 'Nei York m eb~h  ith ' ocr citing   ', ; .h i en
iI'i 'to U t t4  ta  . ar 'As noel'asswe learited lii  destinAtion, tip ri tr n  c ld u:t eeet  f e  ok '+o rmvd  O~  t;b et  t  ti  e
li ve  1i. 'r'as r  has poshsile "under"our i Aue ice: rHe ir  badI of: trniifary I~f
he tids t j ,,?sciplinratlier '4tri~t, and . ere he seems hap j me 'arid; betei'Abnu
knew hir IR 'ha a'p msionaite ' dmitato tfoi Ou  'onsteur, rind if y u will
imfrc'r x "r:cruel degradatioin,. you .wiltbe, able';o eomriiar T him 'aer ~ttei
;tut if he e p "tis'punr1lirrezt .h 'Will l a lost' fovev r.O' seve= hini,' .she rieid
in t " ordy   tliter alli-that 'is left nmein -t isworld to Love  , . 'arfor'.   bi
1 l)V4 of s' ' HolV i Vrgin--.pi'don me,  olmienr; I forgot thal you a, re' a .n  e
but pa~rd x'in f o, for te s'ik  f t ttlim zuh ty  od '"iyou Whnsi'hahie : wall . cell
frota Wee mrercy' we:'alIl ope:for =pardon."
'At t   c~~tu   '  4G; 'e -older Woman, pbei dvingfrom the nnrier and accent off';hi
tihat th  ceas in extreme one, fell to iveeping, ard faling on her knee 1&amp;efpre. l
lF'ostcr, asou s' hrT hi ntdolefu l' tecen i to pa daner and 'aacver , v  xuzvre 'n VtClt l  -  ,  ietpopelx, i  ' vnt; :'';".
' Charley r sctlher up ahiie b.  g  ier to .lbeseted, proms.; '~d. ; ) fohis:c ri?
obtains 4aytop for aLe:Bruh rn  it 'es   ona~to'l~           ie
By "e ertit : 31m lt~f ,:ttc4e'ntmo t, and. with great Ihffiutty our   oun~ fniep
-a i1  #etOrake goodslhis prnr tieLBrnn's rebtiavs aapd relieve the ai 1ty:'   d d,
of  i reeti'stir. At h~is request she had giv~ren.im hc ' a44tgaG ~i .1 o -,
be iible ercroft to leerfrom  daiy -tv day  Je:p~rog iss he , 's  inlrg . i a. cei tie:ef~~~tcn~u  tt.oi:t  e  n.n{i+ae ot r
:end her pt ,w ere, occtpyiag two,,rxomn'in a  al'xtt ge, iii tbe s br 3'4a :1
Ilage ,.and-thoc h -therlodgiggs :were hint .pory; ftu 'ri is   yetc.be gem ts awpI . ,j
;,   anxaeIi e  rbe.' Rrrinsbadt been 4hli to 1tnpart to tem ,ami .jr:   f' ;  e   t ate
*g  ,Z?4uix   i  IShe 't.at k+afoid empty " .mnn4 i7 pi ifiue nfeedJ " r~t  :fti. tIhe +'4
rill~ra,aa~  id ' nbsele as  gi: ing Zkui i ;eA3.QpxaittuiY' ttg ~~)l~r95; f
liliond, iQh rkv.  ;:d s,ed tltt r~she wnld:p it :t "wnurlature t off:birptx df, nA71c
iother   : th:e ;other -for ,ti el le, : hjnkuntg, by "pa  g .,her lfii ,  .to etsiet. f J,

"

t8

U


30

THE RIVALS:

In the original, and saw.her at 'will,lay down the'pencil to take up he-lyre, Lieutenant
Foster thought that he'had never seen a wonan so brilliant and ac omplished ; and he
marvelled at, the strange. Providence wbich had made this noble gifted crieatpre the
sister of Victor Le Bru, andjlaced her, poor and friendless, among the comparatively
half civilized population of Luray, out in the backwoods.
Cut off from all other finale society, he found that.of Mad moiselle Le .Brun
doubly charming; and had his nature been less'stable and fai hful, and his love
for Nellie Gardiner less firmly interwoven with his childhoo' s happy memo-
ries, we fear that the little Virginia maiden, though beautiful 4nd noble-hearted,.
with her slight knowledge of the world, and her-slender stock f 'boarding-school
accomplishments, would have been supplanted by tie intere ting Italian. As
it was, his heart remained faithful, though he admired Mad moiselle greatly.
And by the time tile miniatures were completed and dispatched to their desti-
nation, with a glowing description of the fair artist, he had, prevailed on her to
give him regular drawing lessons, and to permit himto exercise his rusty French
by almost daily readings or conversations with her. Although in her gratitude
she wished these favors to berendered gratuitously, yet young -Foster insisted
-on paying most liberally for her -essons, and besides, sent many. presents of
'books and-magazines to Mademoiselle's study-table, and of' game to the cuisine
of her aunt.-.  .          .
At length his frequent visits to the-cottage of Luray begin'to be noticed, and
were made the subject. of remark at the.mess table. Some of the officers, among
others, Lieutenant Maynard, who had passed Miss Le Brun on the streets of
Luray occasionally, but had not been able to judge of her beauty,'as she always
wore a veil abroad, professed to feel quite a curiosity to see a lady so charming
as the fair Italian seemed t be, and requested Lieutenant Foster to- introduce
them at'the cottage.-'t
Now, often when he had felt the spell of her fascinations strongest upon him,
Charley had wished that Walter could see Mademoiselle, and had speculated,
whether if he could meet With her, her brilliant beauty and charming conversa-
tion might not be able to make him forget his unfortunate love for Nellie --ar-
diner. jie felt confident that such would be the result of an.acquaintance, and
be had been' several times 'on the point of inviting Lieutenant Maynard to accom-
panry himto the cottage, but the growing coldness between them had hitherto
prevented his doing so. Now, however, that Walter had himself proposed it,
e eagerly accepted the proposal, and named an early day for the visit.  '.
"n the other. hand, Walter's quick eye had, already observed 'and had watched
with delight Charley's growing intimacy .with the Itaalin girl. Falsely pre-
suming his gayety and good nature to betokena shallow and fickle disposition,
he had no doubt that Miss Le Brun, if but the half he had heard of her were
true, would supplant Miss Gardiner in his rivals affections. Anxious to see how
far he had been correctly informed as to that young lady's charms, and how
far Lieutenant Foster had been influenced by them, he resolved on'a visit with
him'to the'cottage.{
~.Desiring to have Mademoiselle impress Walter favorably, C1karley, as soon as
he''had introduced him, led her to talk' on those' subjects about which he had
observed her to be most enthusiastic, called for tbose songs which she sung best.,
and prevailed on her to exhibit her drawings te his friend. ilee° with the
atjentions-anid conversations of two gentlemen so'polite and 'in1 elligent, the lady
was even more affable, and. ipteresting'than -usual, and'astonished Lieutenant
Ma nard , by :the, grace 'of her manners and  ebrilliancy of t'her  conversation..
Delighted tp find her so fascinating, he imme ately judged Toein the firiession
1er charms had made o'n him ' during one short interview+-cold and  calculating

A CHIIKAHOMIN'Y S    R.
as he kne  his nature to be-that they must, during a  ain
months, ha e completely captivated the imagination  nd ei
of his arden and 'susceptible friend. This convicion s plea
moiselle's conversation and music were so enlivening, hat h
matet and cheerful, inore like the W lter Mayna _d of est
had seen hin for a long time. Attributing this happy chan
tirely to pleasure in.Misd Le Brun' society; Lieutenaut o
gratulated himself on the success of us scheme, aind thirght
animated play of their handsome fea .ures, and listened to ti
their cheerful voices, what a fine couple they would in ke.
Thus mutually deceived, after a vi it of several hour , th4
cottage, pleased with each other, Ma emoiselle, and all the'
'But Walter's complacency'was a ittle disturbed wh"n o
tage a few days after, partly with th desire-of hearing Mad
and partly with the expectation of finding-Ckharley the e, h a
artist standing before her easel and giving the finishing tou c
painting representing the honey-suck~le arbor at Fairfielt
Nellie seated in it, almost in the same position they had, occ.
of his last visit there.
At the sight f it he started and turned pale ; bit Made
. with her back to him, and who, in tl e intense interest of]
mistaken him for Lieutenant Fosper, did not observe this.
while she lightly and skiHlfully reto 4ched some of the vi
around the figures, she asked, in a low, soft'voice :
'Does it 'pease you, Lieitenan ? I did not intend that
again until it shouid be quite finished but you have taiien
did not expect you until to-morrow. However, you ca te
is right, at last. I have deepened the blush on the cheek,;
eye-lashes; as you suggested, but these daguerreotypes aref
copy. from, that I doubt whether I h ve succeeded. T'he
fair, and easily copied. from your sk teh, and you* po'tr
is excellent--but is the lady right ? ' she repeated, trniig
;'It could not be better,' repli 1 Walter, bowing gracefull
him. 'Permit me to congratulte you Mademoiselle; o  y
-and to say that I have seldom seen a more beautiful pict tre
Mademoiselle started slightly af his address, and it was
of his appearance was not-altogether a very pleasant one.
greeting very politely; and replied to h s observation by say'
credit for-the 'picture, except for-such manual skill as had
copying from the more perfect works. f naturewhich had
ant Foster and his companion very fair .
'This is a-little secret between you friend and myself,' s
the picture. 'He'entreated me to let no one butny aumt
painting it, andbT had obeyed his request until yousurprised
'Do:not lei that touble-you,' said Walter.qt will make
with*Lieutenant Poster. =Iam well kn wn to the lady, and:
and have long %een acquainted with the rel bihriaedistinmg b
' They aru betrothed ? b se said, inte rog timely, filing 'h
on his .countenaaee.  *     ;
lie repheRJ inlthe airm tiveb
'And she is very beautifully, he riepepted, in the sanie mai
'As beautiful as you have represented her, Mademoise le-

tercourse of seral
ntliralled the  art
ised him, and Mde-
ie became.m 9re ani.
Point, than harley
ge in his friend en-
)ster mentally con-
t, as he watched the
he pleasant tonies of
two f ends 14 the
world:
calling at the eot-
enois ile converse,
discovered the fair-
ches t an exquisite
with Charley and
,pied on the evening
moisel e, who stood
her occupation had
Without turning,
ne tendrils straying
tyou 'should see it'
me b$y surprise; I
1 whether the lady
and. lengthened the
s'uch poor things to
arborwas a simple
it; my aunt.thinks,.
ow~rds him."
, as her eye fell on
ur p rfect success,
evident the surprise
But the returneil his
ing she deserve no
been displayed'in
made both Lieuten,-
"ie said, pointing to
see it while I was
:me.'
no difeence at all
an old friend 'Qf his,.
tw~eri therb~
er eyes enq iiringly
riner.
even more so, Since


2
t

8

*

- WII~ ~'JYALS:

l  "1fk 41fe-and ti p~c iig i.posiou of'the origip t1, u iot: b  psfrd
Qtcad  &amp; ;bye .cr4e~e of 4t.' -
_                                               4p  -

v/

GIUAPTIER DI.

Water's r-cport of Miss Le Brun, after his first visit, had so influeieed'the
curiosity of Bob Harrison, that he had resolyedjto make h r acamifaitanee, if
and so he bed requested Lieutenant Foster to introduce him. -This
ey refused to do, because he kniew that his acoaintana -was not desired
1 tie Igdy, and because lie judged from the knowlelge h id. of ligut. Harri-
sqgp c ayter and habits, that he was quite ep b. e-of insltgigg u pprotegted
vtfue, e pecially if it wore a form  . entigipg as thpt of thef pr Itap.
-his refus al 1 td greatly'exasperated Lieut. JIrison, ndfhe hae triedsrd
to ike it the orccasii o a quarrel be ween ,bynseff and ,ut.Fpsty  pt
4  rey had restlutely persisted in preseryig his iaoa good hurnor,until ne
day, several weeks after, he received a letter from Nellie in. which she sp ke :of
his intimacy with Mgdemoiselle Le Bryn. '1 Do not tlink .me  re qably
ealos she wrote, 'but -I hear so r'yh of her beauty nidccomplihsints,
:tnd of your devotion to her, that I cannot hep ffeelixg uneg y. I can reatily
Tua gie That in your Isolated condition, any fentle societ.y iust -be agreeable,
bt, e    6ri earcely thikik that mere adniiration and priendship could sgestall
_ the attentions you are said to besto v upon this petty foreigri e,. I;hive not a
ver y ihanIcnion oe my own .  s     c      ndI -cpneaddy believe that
he   far eceed them; and though my heart is 1tithful to ih first love, and I
can but =hope that yours i also' yet'if it 4ioild -be otherwise--if you should
.ov&amp;rytink ur boyhood'so   a delnmion, endshould'ever find one whose mitd
-    t n moi-e nfull  nest the wants of your manhood's n Mture than she to
. '   gedr'earliet rows Wei-eiplighted, remeniber, tat. mmnanctyou are free.'
tu    n . v ry thhniht, word and deed to Nelie,,and hasngno memory
the .past,:nohope'dfiThe future, unconnected with her, it wounded  Oh riey
sl I y to htveoheftetertain the slightestad1tbt of hs_:idelitft.  d al the in-
. 4iganionhe.was capable of feeli ig was ezeited against the .eddi;rgm e.ic f-
maker, whose slanderous nisrapr sentations were ihshiouslt1nder rintagial-
hss-i     iis and his own. , i knewibthis per dh: to be no .theth auBob
i        and h.iih long-su r&amp;ing patience withthat. iaworth : intli  algave
yme*leteylun1er this nes -wtong.- -Jle resohvedst  call ilnp to aeountfor
ifts     mkehi:understand;plainly thatrheiefrth -there.xiiatz k:eaan alter-
. ain l  iRa.cdndadt.. In this frame &amp;of-uiA4tie wasiawmon  s tier
There were dining with the mess th td y: sedre visitors amilitsBy friend
t.-Wiiade,e d     lei I.d,"peo  "al gg        frou p  ygay, 4r a they
rri    a o-   - -+     e f :WM4YA e4ievJ43~ ,QI1JI

A CHIOKA     IN   STORY.
With the eyes of the company u4on him, nd the steil ant o"'the i;ithd
him,   rison refused to retro it. .
Ten liar, poltroon, "sh.nderer, and reddl r, take that,' said Ohar ey di  in"
Mm in the f"ce.pm
Lient. Harrison was furious, lie wo ild .ake an insult from n.o living  man
roster should answer for it with hislif . If herecogni ed the 'cod of bnor,-
he. would not deny him the satisfy 'tio" lde g gentleman.
Lient. Foster tepliedl. that he was redy nd filing :o aceommo- ate him i
an'.,:manner. He could be found at his.qiar ers at all t mes-
1he challenge was sent, and accepted by  ester, and ime, place a d  i
greed upon.       --
Bob Harrison chose the Doctor from Lura , a boon companion of his, for his
:s cand 4 and Charley selected Walter Mayna d. The seconds were o meet the
text morning for the arrangetrient of some p eliinaries.
At a'nearly hour the next day, business f r the garri on called L eut. oster
away from the fort, and he did not return until the riiddle of the afte noon,
On his return, he did not go .fo his own fluarters, but en ered Lieut. 1ynand's,
with 1a view to learning the result of the intoview betw en him and D. Sitj.
ut finding Walter asleep, or apparently asleep, he did iot disturb him;::nd
Aistending to call in again in a few hours, he laid off'his sword and  istol.on a
table under the open window, and set-off for uray to setle 'ome lit levbills he
owed there, in preparation for the approaching duel.
ggtitWalter was not asleep, though he was trying to q iet his onrdiefrde -
the teiiporaiy oblivion of sleep. He knew that Bob Har 'ison 's wrath h'  ib.
sidedaid that the simplest'in erference on hi part would induce the Idor.ow.
ardly fellow to apologize to Li cut. Foster, an a on the other hand; th  Ghrlhe
Who had never remained angry twenty-fonur h9us in his ,life, would heM  ife
with aita 9logy from gari'ison, and with the'fighthe had livenihim .' i
of honor foibade that a proposition for an am cable adjustment shoe #- af
innmediately from the principals, but such a si ggestion might be. made withpro'.
priety by the seconds; and D . Smith had d licatily  t     r        er-
view of the morning, that such an adjusted t was possible; but  alter ha
pfrtefnded not to understand his drift, and ha gone on with the arr nge di
for the mening.' This duel was thovery-th ng he most desired -I'ra ey
ioholfd be killd, he thought thei-e rould be o obstacle to his suit ith Mi
Gardiner; and if,-on the, other hand, Lieut.. H rrison shone d fall by th hiil 61
zi cousin's betf-othed, he thought that Nelli would never mary o e wbto
hie must regard as the, murderer of her relate e ; while, i neither sh tildaall
the circumsVance of their ha ming-et in niortal omat wo d o in~ens 3%l1e'6
fashily against her lover, that he believed th opposition toheir ufi a Woiil
ek greater than she would dare incur.,
-n the meantime, the -affair of the contemplate4 4uel ha 'ptead tli
garrison, and: had excited a greatdeal ofd interest a mtg 'h men. Le  ,  r,
m sin was universally detested by them while Lieut. Foster was ahiw
nd there was but one wish expressed as to the issue. '1Byj, d one
men gathered i front of 'the luarracks discussing the aaid nai _
Lteut. MJayngrd was trying to forget it in. his sleep, 'styp ose piegit.
should ill Libut. Foster, niiata ashku iiid hat a pty i~ pld'b:
dyeda1 that for anott'a -oll~e min toefM1 lif tied hads o  e  sdown
11OwEe sai  n    hee mie,;91% edhinl ; il e r
striking with his sword'tho ifratar Wir ednes in his wt#  U&amp;-aMsV  .

.4


14

THE .IIVALS:

It would be a fine thing if he should fall in the river on his way back, and get
drowned before he has a chance at the life of Lieut. Foster...
Victor Le Brun,.who, in spite off his many faults and follies, still entertained
- an ardent affection and a profound respect for his noble sister, and who, there-
fore must have been strongly interested in the duel between his officers, was ,
standingg near during this conversation, but lie spoke not a word on -the:subject-
lndeed, it had been observed, that since he had. been informed of the difficulty
between Lieutenants Foster and Harrison,-and its occasion, het had been silent
and- moody. But there with a fierce look in his cold black eyes, and at thia
remark of his comrade, a dangerous fire flashed from them in a keen look, of
gen intelligence, exultation and determination. However, he said nothing,
except to mutter an oath, as he fell into line with a squad of men which the
-corporal was forming to go and relieve guard. In addition to the line of senti-
nelS maintained around the outside of the fort, there was also an inner line kept
up around the officers' quartrs for the purpose of keeping order among the
men; and Le Brun's post for the next hour was near Lieut. Maynard's window,
through which he could see all over the apartment.
For some time after Charley had leftvthe room, Walter had tossed about rest-
Jessly upon his hard, narrow camp bed, vainly courting 'nature's sweet restorer,.'
which is romantically supposed to comereadily only at -the wooing of the in-no-
tent. At.length he fell into a dreamy, dozying state, half sleeping, half waking,
which was disturbed by many unpleasant dreams of falling over a precipice, &amp;c.,
and of having a gun aimed at his head; and starting up, he could have almost
-sworn that on'opening his eyes he had seen a hand grasping a pistol -vanish
through the window. Shaking off the lethargy which oppressed him, and ap-
roaching the window, he looked out; but there' was no one near except;private
e Brun, who was leisurely walking his post, and who, of course, would -not
have permitted any one to approach the window. Finding his wakin; thoughts
bgI lttle more pleasant than his dreams, he took up a book and trie to read;
unbecoming interested in its contents, he read until sunset, his uial hour for
a walk.
Conducting from Fort Alexander to Luray, agd performing in its curvings a
semi-circle about five miles in extent, was a fine military road.; and branhming
. off from this road, at a distance 'of a quarter of a mile from the fort, was a. nar-
rs foot-path, leading through ravines and over precipices impassable except to
pedestrians, by a much nearer route to the village.. Passing out of the fort,
alter proceeded alorg this road for a mile or more; then retracing his steps
to where the foot-path came into the road, he seated himself on a fragment of
rock inthe shadow of a large boulder on the side of the path next to the fort,.
and awaited the return of Lieut. Foster, who, he had learned, from a message
left with his servant, was gone to Luray. It was almost dark when he saw a
an approaching from the direction of the village, and presuming it to be Char-
1y,h-e arose, and was about to accost him, when perceiving him, the man sprang
into the bushes and ran off in the direction of the road leading to Luray. Sup-
posing him to be one of the men from the garrison who had eluded the sentinels
-         and gone-down to the village without leave of absence, and who, of course, was
anaiou to avoid detection, the circumstance did pnot, at the time, impress him
&amp; at'*l singular or suspicious.                                    -
Wh lie-had waited twenty or thirty minutes longer, he was joined by Char-
."  eIy,'wko. Asked him how- long it had been since Lieut. Harrison passed, and
wb   they had had any conversation about the meeting of the next morning'
W. .replied:that he had seen nothing of Lieut. Iarrison since dinner, and
tb   hd suppeaad him to be in.his quarters at the fort.

A CHICKAHOMiNY STOfY.
. That is strange,' replied Charley; '1I met Dr. S ith a out half a  ile outside
of the village, just upw, and he told ne he had just part d with him n the at
leading to the fort. And not wishing to have the pleaiiure of his c mp
the way back, I detained the Doctor in conversation sometime, purposely that
he might have a long start of me. He could not have-been very far a ead fori
heard the report of his pistol while' I wastalking with Smith, who wondered
what Harrison could find inthe.woods to shoot a that hour of the evenn..
certainly he has not shot himself.'                              ing
'Not very probable,' said Lie-ut. Maynard. ' He has  oubtless re ched the
fort by another route, that which leads along the river  nk, for insta ce.'
'Dr. Smith tells me,' observed Charley, after a hort ilence, 'that yoiand
he have fixed upon to-morrow afternoon, at suns t, foi £he nieetin between
Lieut. Harrison and myself, and that pistols have b en se ected as the weapons.
This suits me very well; I have a new pair which  have never used, nd I wilt
give them to you in the morning that you may test them.'
*.                              *     *     *      -
That night Lieut. Foster occupied himself in writi g lettears to hisp an
Nellie, to be delivered to them by Walter in the ev nt of his falling i  t and
preaching duel. His anger against his adversary h d nea ly cooled, t ough he
stil felt that he had. been sorely wronged by him; and he thought thai a regar4
for the honor and fair fame of a lady so worthy, so unfor unate, and o unpro-
tected as Mademoiselle Le Brun, was a sufficient ex use or his course toward
Bob Harrison; still, he did not feel very comfortable in the thought of being
slain by such a contemptible antagonist. Nor did h like he thought of 'ibrue
ing his hands in the blood of a fellow-man; and be re a ekin  h  ih  r
the last tim  perhaps, he magnanimouslyeresolved tk disc arge hi isto nh, for
air. In his 1tter to Nellie, he gate her a detailed acc unt f his whol  mte
ance with Mss Le Bru, and, as hethought entirel . exe lgated himself fro
the charge of inconstancy. He also explained, as f11y a was practice rot
origin and pr gress between him and her cousin, amd acquainted her with hi
determinatio not to take his life in the coming enco enter.
Up to a lat hour the next day, Lieut. Harrison ha  not ade his appearance
at the fort, b. t Charley and Walter thought that' he  ust ave  apper.c
mer in the w ods on the evening before, and gone bck to Lura to  ed the
night with hi friend Dr.-Smith, until that gentleman arrived in search of him.
The circumst nec orhis non-appearance was certainly a ye  ' sear       .
very ernbarra sing to his second, on whom the task o prod cin him-in time for
the meeting of the afternoon devolved.-g                     -      for
In the mea time, Lieut. Foster, his second, and th  surge on of thegarrison,
at the appoin ed hour, repaired to the duelling ground a la good  arso
miles from Vh fort, in an opposite direction from'Lur y.
When they had been there nearly an hour, Dr. Smi h arr ved without Lient:
Harrison, and warm, weary.-and perplexed with his                   m.
He had sent o t scouts in' all directions, he said, and ad hi sef search all of
Harrison's haunts in Luray, but without being able to di cover an    of
hi. Nobody' at the fort or in the village had sen anyth over any rac o
paX'ed with h m on his way to Fort. Alexander on thg prec -n evening ad
he was menend- to think this a most mysterious and alarming Ccirmtance.
Walter and Charley,-who thought they ought to know bob H prison pretty *eHl
thought it not impossible-that he had chosen this method to void the dan $ro.
-encounter wit~ lieut. Foster,.anid the latter felt some hat-a used~ at h  Dp-
torn's uneasime s, but of course they did niot- express t eir op mon.

.


- - 'fl*H -~VA~8~:

a

,an their return toAhe :frMrt t -datk, they found that Canptain Williams fully,
age4 the axietyahd ~  apprehensions of -Dr. Smith,-and seemed disposes$ G
S tac te sderPble importance to the circumstance of the latter's having beard
8#   erQ t of-"a pistol sorafter parting with hig friend, 'We thought it quite  ossit .e
g       t  gartison'migt havebeen killed by the accidental discharge of his oWn pi
d not ajtogenher improbable. At all events. he had determined to organie.a part.
n*Ih;ot day to search the woods and 'ravines between Luray and The fort, and ascer-
tain to his satisfaction if there had been. foul play.-
'Meodingly, at antearly hour the'next morning, Capt. Williams' party set-out from
the frt i search of trees of ieat. -Harrison,-while at the same time another party,
bdesl  by Dr. Smith, started from Luray upon the same errand. Neither -party had
*     ny discovery of anything the least suspicious until the latter rea-ched the small
eer-e v&amp;r which the path to Luray led, at a distance of less than a-mile frunthe vil-
y  ~about one and a half from the fort. Cover this river, w'hieli was at that peint
abo~t twenty yards wide, was a narrow foot-bridge, spanning it :from cliff to cliff, at :
considerable height above the bosom of the stream; ,and near the end of this bridge; on
the ode next to Fort Alexander, some small dark-spots, very onch resembling blood,
S  ere observed. The removal of some loose earth, which appeared to have been recently
lieed in that vicinity, disclosed another similar spot larger than ai man's hand and
fbf the ithd-railing on one side of the bridge had hen recently broke, 'as if by
c&amp; of a heavy body against it. A horrible suspicion seized upon tihe niids.
'Milif    .".' H s.' friends - that-he' hadbenwylid.and fou !y mur ered h  ere,  And bma.-atleee r;la
Mrown into the streard  Indeed, the spot was most favorable o suen. a puffpose,
Yremote, wild and gloomy; and the concurrence of circumgstauce Ieadin t&amp;. tobi  -
u' on wa truly very strange.                    -
' P   were not however, left long in conjcelure; for, on dragging the- river,just below.
A b 'dg@ on the-side next the broken railing, the body of the missidg nan was't ccov-
frohi-the'water. An examination-"discovered the fact' that he h.4i been' shot
the heart, and the circumstance of hyp pistol being found, loaded in every
fMitekied up it the cases or sheeaths attached to the belt- arcur.d his wait, proved,
{ %the nature of the.wound itself, that he could not have,shot himself, either by
d itror design.- Bat who was the murderer of Lieut. Harrison?
While the men who discovered the body were drawing it to the shore, another party,
iW-halda small boat just above tbem, discovered, lodged in a tuft of ferns and lichens
on a stallr point of rock which projected from. the bed of the rirer, a pistol,
i i'eel of which bad been discharged, and the ball of which exactly corresponded'
teriice of the wound.          -           -
'A -A'uther e-aination of this weapon discovered the initials of Liebt, Foster engraved
ieemi-German ebaraeteirs upon the silver plate on the -handle, an there was no iffi'
culty in proving it to be the weapon of Charley Foster.
til4-bo'yd of Lieut. Harrison was carried to Luray, and a jury summoned to'hold 'an
iee over it. - 'Aftn careful eamination-of all the facts presented, the jury-reudered
a/verdict 'that Lieut. Hartson-had come to- his death by the'hand of sonie prsoi nf'
d at proven, but eutposed, from strong circumstantial evtdencc, to be Lient.'Foster.'
Iu      t r wa     I ae ily'-arrester.and-cornmitted to prison-to await his Tial,-{hich,
be Me arm 'or the sitng fi he eourtLin Luray was very near, would come o i a few"
t 4%eatrpeise univer.sily-oreated by this circumstance was only equalled by the reget
Issecund. . ' Ir osai  1 'vas- the urvanimous verdict--" impossible that iht:Fos -
efnank so brave, rgeertonrwd humane-should- -have comittedan atet'8-itne
and cowaa    Yetithe tact-of his havitig had a quairel withstlie ideaessed
ha'ag reea sea ein takeahe sameenite, only a hort dist-ahee hbehinid -Nt a-
t  vepavieof theur      d rg-onitred  with the diseovery an44nih       f 4b6
a pistol, fotined a terikcai        dstnl      de again thel a tt d ,

'                          -
A HOHO1ABOINY STOR .
SAs to.the itet of_ his having pursied the sane path nthat L ent i ,rieo4 Wa  iew
4eredo ow, ntl a short distance habdinu himLieat. 1rj r  - prare   t p e ,
-1r  Srith, th lintieiate  friend-of  the  nm rderecdiman  that: he  re Aajued' wi t i. hits  iif
; nversatio Jong enough fog Lient. Hatrrison to have -te.ched: he for'and  hat wi
they. were ccnversing, they heard- the report of a pistol  b'his direction, an.-spae
the = uren t* xce at the timn. Moreover, I)r Smith 'u d-test fy that if his friyi hn
beensheiot on the bridge between the time who Lieut. Foster had left .hi and th
at which. he jo ined Lieut Maynard, he must have heard the rep rt-of- the pis olk o  hie
way to Luray' where, he heard nothing of the kind. -F om thia-evidence, thterefored_
would appear that the fatal shot was fired while. Foster v'as tal ing with the doctor fat
the distance of a quarter of a milo from the.bridge.  -       ..
:But the affair of thepistol was not so easily cleared up, md n one was moreaGrpise4
than Lint; F ester at the-circumstance. He had left hi awor l and pistols in liei%
Maynard's ro m- before setting off for Luray, and had not see them aitiee, havit  org
derd liis serr anit the next morning to -get aud tput them tyay ; and he beli ved 'bot4'tv
.be in :his tabby drawer when the one found in the river was shown him. The eerat
on being ques ioied -said that he had only fuund one of tl e pistoIs on Lieut. Maynard'
table; ad had opposed that his master had the other.  ientt. Foster could not prai
that he had le both there, for Maynard, though not asleep, as his, friend had supp seds
did not really know that the pistols had been left on his tale, although: he renemooee4
seeing the sword: there. And the half-waking dream of s eing- hand grasping a piit
retreating through the window was so'unreal, that'he could- not, foi the life of hiitd
whether ithad been a dream or-reality, therefore, he said  thin, about'it. t,Breie'
membered ver distinctly having seen a  aun proceeding f om th direction w*'e Liet t
Harrison'e body was found on the evping of the murder ; and  eing a i1igid iscipi "t
jian.ho had, o i returning to tlhe fort, instituted inquiries, Jnd -fe nd all .the men pr
except Le Bin, who was absent without leave. lie did not speak to anyone obi
circumstances, b ut watched- the Italianr narrowyIV.  ---                ,
In the mean oime, Captain \Viiliarns had telegraphed to -Lieut Harrison's fTher .
news of is    t 's death, and ie had come on to, the fort and r moved higdhaint e
Virgiuia or mn ernment.
Charley had also telegraphd to his father, who proceed)I   to L aray immediately  -
plyed  the  best counsel to  be had, an  by  giving  heavy  ba  , procred  his  On'  -
frorai prison.ygys
When the day for 'Go trial arr;ved, the Qirt House a$ Lurar was crowded% lh t
utmost capacity ; and among le sea of a nxius keep which re the gaze the  reT
.a, undoubtedly, that. of the ac.cused. Assured by huis cou seh th t the evideneegiIsr-
him.would be mer cob-web in his h hands, -and above -all,-at staizied by the conshionese
Af his'perfect is noceuce; he entertained no fear's for the odsult-of the trial; -t~hhugoe
dWeply regrette the death of Lieutenant Harrison.anrd the unfartunate chain ofictri
stanee- wich h ad implicated him in that sad affair.  -            --
White the c mtenance of the accused awasthe most serewe in'all that vast  r l   Y
two faces whiel discovered the least serenity and betraye the t rdegevt interrgab
flict, were those of iet.Maynnrd anddprivate Le taln ; the lateryof whomba
ethereal' author: of the m yuder, which he co matted party frotn metis oflpriYatlre
venge,and partly to prevent the po sii'ity -af injury to Jietut. o1ster in the ofproje
do. The former was deliberately withhodin r-testirtny wb.h.ehould ertinly t e
W the best friend he had ever had fro the dasrk charges hroight against iznd
Want of  w    -hich might lead to his covictin  It is ho wvet,A  justice to  y
ayard -did nt inted to permit Foster toybe' hg, if bis testimogy waald p yg t
S    wehought    Sioth' testimony -wetid be su:r icientattoLelet;he it e ;- atdx if' -
notehe aatehde toaccuse LeiBru,.stati g conciselytali ,e'fact Qinhi$had
tr ttandx lb an hutppoi'the         dow-wheT! itfoh          sofp
e-,tihe mpre son ie hade during tpat itne of hvingoey  .ud. gre in g


withdrawn quicklyjfrom the window ; the circumstance of his see ng a man approach"
ing from the direction of the bridge w'ho avoided ,i'em ; and the 'further circumstance of
I.e Brun's having been' at that particular time *bsent from the. fort without leave; 'tW
gether with the suspiciopIs manner in which the Italian had deported himself since 'the'
order. He howevever thought, as we have remarked, that Dr. Smith's'evidence would'
sufficient to clear LieutenantFobter before a legal tribunal; but he preferred that
enough suspicion should attach itself to the character of the accused to prejudicehin in
the eyes of Miss Gardiner, her family, and the vorld. He therefore remained silent,
meanwhile closely watching Le Brun.
On the other hand, Le Brun was in an agony of anxiety between regard for his own
safety and that of his esteemed officer, whom he loved with all thelardor of his passion
ate nature. The report of Lieut. Harrison's insult to his sister, and of the manner in
which Lieut. Foster had resented it, had filled his soul with gratitude towards the lat-.
ter and revenge towards. the former ; and the conversation between his co ra(des, which"
we have reheated, had suggested to him the means of gratifying leis reve ge and at'the'
same time showing his gratitude. Finding himself, a few moments 1 ter, opposite
Lieut. Maynard's window, where a pair of pistols, which he supposed to' -elong to that'
gentleman, were lying, and seeing that Walter was asleep, he hd. as h thought, u'n
observed, stolen one of them, and secreted it non his person. He kn'e ' that Lieut.
Harison was absent in Luray, and he thought that lieut Foster had f returned from.
his expedition of the morning; so. as soon as he was relie ed from hia port he stole out -
from the fort, eludirng the. sentinels'as he:frequently did, and took the..pab in the direc-
sien of Luiay. Secreting himself in the hushes on the liver- bank. he sht Lieut. 'Har-
risen as  was coming over the bridge. ie then rolle.l the 1hudy oft t.he bridge, and
threw thepistol, as he thought, into the water. Then hurriedly si)k n  some 'loose'
earth over the fewv spots of blood on the bridge. he hastily retraced his steps towards'
the fort.     -.
The unlocked for turn Which affairs had taken had greatly sur'pried ad perplexed
him. He bad resolved, rather than see Lieut. Foster suffer for his crime, to confess 'his
guilt,     e it was that he hung with such breathless anxiety upon the a'vy' words
as they awed the case.
The counsel for the defence dwelt strongly upon the excellent characterof the accused,
his hongr, frankness, generosity and humanity, the mildness of his tamper, and the
kindness of his disposition, which had made him pibverbial throuahQut the garrisor andt
the village, and quoted the numerous instaces, well known to many, in ,which he had
patiently and good-naturedly,overjooke'd the rudeness of the dEce sed. He also endeh'.
ored.toshow the absence of sufficient motive for tie commission of such agreed. Having
proven Lieut. Foster to be brave and honorable, was it not muich more probable that h
would have availed himself of the opportunity presented bin in the coneinpiated duel
of honorably and bravely obtaining satisfaction from Lieut. Harrisong than to have
basely waylaid and murdered him?  If the latter had refused to gramt him satisfaction,
the circumstance of his assaulting him privately would not seem yso stralige ; but 's' all
of the arrangements for their meeting had been conpleted.~he regarded such a thing in
the highest degree improbable. But the strongest point in the defeuue w s the evidencee
fDr. Smith. When the weapon whicl killed Lieut. Harrison ves dis harged. Lieut.
Interwas talking with that gentleman, and had remained with him adme time after-
wards. When they had parted, Dr. Smith had consulted his wa teh to see whether he
would be in time for an appointment he had in the village that evening ; and when
lient. Foster had joined Lieut. Maynard at the other end of the wood, the latter, grow-
gimVatient, was just consulting his watch, holding it tip in the moonlight; ad ithe
otg period between the time reported 'by these gentlemen1 on the witiess-stands
wdi ely sufficient for a rapid walk oves the space bet eert themi.aIf, therefore,
"     bieWt. Foster, during that walk, tfad shot Lietit. Harrison on the bridge; r. Smith,
-_    !bie.lose proximity, muLst have heard the report of the pistol, whereas 'he emphat-

i. uE RWA S

's

A CHIKIO  HOMINY STORY.
iaally decared Itiat, he had h ard nothing of the kind. ,As  *'the cirdn Btettce of
LienttFter's istufsiaving been used, he thought thft m  tbe  si pi  ed d..
cording to the testimony oftLieut. Mynard and of Mike M ahon "servant  tiet:.
Foster, the arm  of the latter had remained for some hou-s under an n window, be-
sore which the men.were frequently passing.; and as, by sieutre anit  aynard's tegta
many, he had been asleep during this time, nothing was nOre'p obable than that this:-
pistol had been tolen. Lieut..Harrison,. it was well know, was extremely unpopular
*ith his men, and it was very natural' to suppose that so he of them- had 'taken' this
method, the onl one open no them, of settling an "old gr dge.'
At this point Lieut. Maynard looked towards Le Brun and aw th at his facd was
havid- with terror and -gttlt.
'Orysaid the counsel, 'why not suppose that Lient May1urd ha shot Liet.  ir on
.ii  ihter  n                                                   t ups   yn ' a ho  ot irrlo
with his friend's pistol? He had the opportunity of' doin so ; f r when the fatal'sht7.
was fired he was in the wood, as he himself admitted, and aeoni. On ,the contrayx
Lieut. Foster was at that time with Dr. Smith.        . *-
At this sugge. tion Walter-winced slightly, in spite of himself, and glancing up ter.
vou.sly, caught t e eye of Le Brun fixed upon him in malignant joy.. He returned the.
look with one which caused the Italian, coed and subdued to tuon his face ip another
dire-ction.
Having addressed himself in a clear, strong argument t the  inds of thejury, the
'counsel; next ap ealed most eloqutently. to their hearts.. -ae spoke in a most toutching
manner of his cucent's youth, talents, fine character and fair promise ; of the 'hopes gf
his aged parents centered ;hi this only son, an4of his country's 'chims upon his stt'ong
arm and clear hCad to uphold her rghts asddefend her hdor wh n-occasion required,
asnd    ed if thi bright :promise, all ,these fond" hopes a  'reasonable expectations
should be sacrifi ed to a mere suspio  ' Many dyes ',tuus. d to veej !;grew moist u'
der the pathetic ppeal of the elognen s eaker. Afterliite ing at entirely to'tbecounna
set on the other side, the jwiry retired, and, after a short absence returned pith th iT
'erdict_ A bre thless silence 'pervaded the assembly. L  Brur, in breath s Sger.
wess, hung forward, and 'Walter felt his heart stand stillwithia him.
Prisoner;' said the, clerk,'stand. up i look upon the foreman . Gentli 'i' 'f the
,jnry--nhat say you. is he guilty of the offence with which  e stands charg, or odt?'
No'P GUHt iL' said, the foremarn, in a lord, emphatic toe. T'e words habarely
escaped his lip when a deafsong shout of joy arose from the large number of spectators
present.                                                                  -
Le.Brun desert d the fort that night, and this circnmstanc at otce caused him'to b$
suspected of Lieut. Harrison's murdery-though he was nev r arrested and brought to
Before his trial, Charley had written at great length to Nellie ; but he received no
Teply uitil.afterdis acquittal. She was near hert broken that Iae should be char ed
with murder. Bheving him to be innocent,.sle hadresQltvedif he hold be condemned
to death, that sh would, go to him and give her hand  o hitr in m triage, regardless df
Tbe objections of her mother, that she  night thus h tg tie privilege of sq thing 'his
hast hors. But  though  he and Bernard refsedto'lige him guilty of the crime
.har eil to hind, her mother. and unle could not' be deruaded o his innocunee,}'and
wereaccordingly violentlyeincensed tAgainst- im.. Mrs lardiner's almost fiantio a
he idea of her' daughter's maintaining a muatrimenial iaage ye t with her cousin
murderer, and co nranded her, on the penaty of indnrring her ee lasting dis leisure,
.o break .fthe engagginent at once.. She represented that not cnly  gh~Ie, but hr rwhql.
family tild'be ofeverf disgraced by her maeriago With 'a irsoti  hoise'chak ter'~ws
titidler such-an imputation, and she taunted fir with 'breaktilihe~'h aftverf it *hf
bWad been 'willing to risk 'hisrlife for another worns. Sah ,iifihed a uh
nat i'ethat this lt argniaent did not faif to' tell upon her'r s li iti  csI ~aid
Mmr condemned t~ suffer innocently' an ignomninious3 death,'rand to 'be eut off W


0I
v: life tfralJ1its ho es and joys, shae.wo~tdha .e lintksd her (ate with his,:in..pi of
4!1Y f~y w~ih might have opposed, so strong -Was ber wat arily" 1 "e 'aupty  ,4
e ; mired hqr~     re  anl" . nd      e t prtevaiI. Tew 1e  eriitwhich shi at                       11.li
s.f.ws knthuhey     i ~d ra lt' cool. '}Le ,a     e                        I 11111
4u~~ eep                                                                                             111f 11 f recent'oceurrepce  had. s increased  ermrotj h opppo Situ t totheir on4  E dard nt
I-.,"                 .               "_;, ,,",lp. nl/h~lh                                           r   I ess mil success in life, and hint 1 at U.s{ .  tu's alpi'ty to heaiL ati y.Wottuudnh
it1I lThis better greatly shocked nrd grievedi Charles Fester.  F'r some mom pts aftehestlk  n  1u~d  hnllii  t i Icfne fti.h~~em  h  '
r Wwas q'ite consunme4, he skid to altere1  "~  was with him: 'It is 'ir              t
tw9pieliie and myself now; the coast is clear or you Walter, or Lipr) noe s,.,         J",
Tppose.'            as."\1.                                                                              !fI
.,b; ariouncemenit,  whiCh Waiter l~adj so longed' to htarfilled ,tir with a  Ikdf
0J w4h n weeks we it by and he observed the cruel change which it bad wiou111 J
tj     e and once joyous and bright-hearted fi'iend, Jet' could not haelp ftee1itgspurn  Il
ties the keenest pangs of ternorse.                                         .'
g reat 'relict to hbim, therefoi e, when Ieut, Foster, fitpdingev.1 ort A1a icr  =  P~JJ
da4associations, a most unpleasant abyxlc, obtained a transteir to a fort;tto the ___
g  frontier.d                        - ,               r7'11'
,ef re~eaving, (harley called on Iadeuroiselle LeBrttp, fi~r the first ,t~rmsides Liertt
fl rr s deat)a, to bid her food -by'e.. He toutwdher much. d irtress~ed at bet brotbe$  II                                       _
t 4 ppanc,,and learning thit lshe dsli'ed.to St t i ia"4Iituatioiiin f11 4JUf'8Q 1
~I  heru city,.advised'ber qt so RIchmuoadk an    redl to esc'rt hot a id h~r inutto.
Ut.p c. f  offer wsU     ptd   n;the      ee set ont inin4at4y fbir' 1gmi4l
S           te   osfahoaescolintetyAbout ai months after, the depaiture of ysun  Foster f rom Ahtl fort, iqi~t I.ya
ri  lAoigh for the pUI ~QsC of vi~itingViiginj.While, in vh it raie flltll ror
hs t   ,  spent at Mr s. Gardiner's, i~i Nellie's' socoty, gand. one ever ingt i' vti'1
b    J~ (     o pportunity am n mde that young lady. an offer of inari  which, was '   .
4ie d. vets! polisey,but su positively as to leaye him no r  of h9pe.
:                   -     Th ryfr~ests f Ail}etnim                 f    r;,'t
Tbieryear .o14men ,shlIroinp;  Ij-
Tb1 es oiin .bap syB mix
-..1 t1 lge le strugg:....she-.p,
" .      1'  t "   Shb ~var the nnst shrill foam                                         '..
S  Ranid the *hite feet of laugtiig gi 1,                                      M
aWhose sires ba~ve miarched to Rome.
tJwo years, fruitful, as. are even the sun sl~e t  cycles of timne, inj chan  s, both to 3na.                            ii    eflm  Q

j!t l
t
tti                      1  "I
I:I
j   Ii,         {
- r-i

K


- .~   ,,
-     .a  ,  ^ .

-

',

*

I    -  ,-

r

"  -  - -  -  _- ' - --

I s                  tf
s
°Yl i
i
_ f
_-  "  r

A CHI
subterranean firesad given frequent
zurnbige and quakings,:so$he gre
quently been rocked.to its centre by
the smothered fire of sectional ani
forth in all their ftry, blasting and
Upon the ears, of  any the-mutterin
.'antil the lightning-fashes from the
there announced that'the tempest o
mounded throughout the South, calli
the hordes of ruthitss and barbaric
with one vast lav  tide of desolati
The very earth see ed to shake ben
"The horse

DKAHOMIN     STRTY43
t warnings o the great catastro he'by premohitor
at structure f the American governm nthad fre
the antagonistic forces  rmhine with ut it, before
enosity,,party bitterness and fa atical hate, burst
blighting a land which nature had made so fair.:
" of the ccm n g storm had fallen almo t unheeded;
ort-holes of urnter, and tho thunder of the cannon
war had-bu st full upoa us.  ut n1 w the tocsin
g upon the patriots of '61 to a ise and drive back
hirelings, w o threatened to ov rflow the country
n and destruction ;. and nobly did they respond.
ath the tramp of gathering host
men and the f otmen

Are pouring in ainain
From man a stately market place,
From ma y a fruitful Il in:
From many a lonely ha let,
Which, h d by beech n pine,
Like an ea led's nest, hang on a crest
.Of purple Appenine."
And while al ov r the Sout!;'the husband r  wass leaving his fields, the mQchanic
his shop, the merch nt his cotuting oom, the t4w _er his office, and often even the cler-
gyman the sacred   esk, to buckle on the warrior  armor, where were the two young
disciples of Mars, wioae-a~tppttires  e have recorded in the precedi  chapters?
sImthediately aun tohe lectioti of Abraham--Litcpiun -to the Preside cy of the United
Mates, Lient. Foster had resigned hi comrnissibi; and as soon as the Confederate Gov,
ernment had' been frirly organ zd a Montgomry he had tendered his services tO that
government. 'hey were accepted, nd he had been early appointed' to active dut,
with- the' rank of Major.
As long as the United States Go erument had been administered by statespen, ac-
cOrding to the Cons itution framed b our Revou ionary Fathers, wit an equal regard
nor the rights aind  uterests of' all s etions of the country, Lieut. Fos r, like the whole
people of his native  tate, had rendered to it the m st thorough and u equivocal loyalty
of his soul. But when he beheld the sceptre, in co sequence of a long [course of political
chicanery and corru Lion, grasped b  a set of ff tical demagogues, ho declared that
noble Constitution - covenant with 1eath and an agreement with hel1,' and who wep
pledged to use the  hole power and sources of tle country to rob azd oppress a large
and important part f it, he imnedidtely renonp cd his aHegianee to so base and de-
generated a power, and grasped hi, sword with    determination,to lay it down only
when death should r lax his grasp, o when he sli Id see the rights e the South fully
vindicated, her wrongs avenged, aod her independ nce. forever secures from North4n
tyrsnny and usurpation.
Cold, calculating and egotistical, Lient. Maynafd was incapable of .ct erishing-a senti-
ment so generous andt unselfish as pa iotisn. An  possessing no property )I Virginia,
and entertaining g but little regard for hris relations tIere, he had,since giving tpeall hops
of marrylag Nellie  ardioer,,ceased .-o feel ary p rticnla- interest in he "affafrasof his
mother State. He was, as he had sa d to his broth r officers, a soldier of fortune, with
nothing to lose and everything to gai , and woulf -ollow any.flag whi h might lead to
wealth and fame.    e was, also, as  matter of c tirse, unable to -re lize what heavy'
eacrifces noble and generous natures  ere capabl$.o making in the cau e of patriotism,
and equally unable t conjecture wha  powerful re ults suolh  criuces were capable of
effecting; consequently he saw for thIcomparatively feeble Sotith, obly failure-and ruin
in the fearful contest  pon which she was entering..  while for the Nor h, gloryingin its
I

'

'k
4   Fs                 .   '
..         "r.
}a  -     "         _
.     r         '   +  ,

^
r, i
''                            ,+        I
1
_ ;
'               '.
-          - -                -                             t'
_                          _                        !
,i
,
'             ',
.
^   fR     ,. M41a            "^
"                                    ,    .                  ,
..       v
-,         1
.   -                                '
h       , _  .            .
-                     -                      _        i
T                                 ,                -
-             -                                     -

,
_
.{    £     + a "
s
"_ .
1 ~ '-
,.

" ..
.

'.:
'',
..              Y'   _

s
,  "  ""r
'fJ
y         s  -    t.
r                      ,

_     ..      °  :
'   " "              ~ + ..
_        _{
''-      r
r k.
-.   Y              '. -

t
. .

.     -                a
sr    '
1

-'

-;_-
I
'                     s
f
Vii.
_          ' *.


apetior: rusgAultiioed resurees tard .itsegular     ny -arnd rd y,he.p'edid e.
mest rape):dod a   iian suece ; etd; in inmgination, pictured his 1frising ra pS44
ap, in the vi tri ieaI my ,to a high, peritji the chief cp mnr ..
th-ee isions were rithe r    shake   by the. collision f the' Grand Army' wi&amp;t
the ' Rebeh'. onatihe fttal plains-of Manasesa,;July 21st 1-L&amp; " Ahe tried i gi  t Z
r*hy, the shatevd remains f his regipnent, which had lost beth its gl-oeland i"ieitp *
auteCo)onel in the bloody conflict, and und: himnself borne aleng rigesistibly bith
sttuggling, -tevrified mass ff . c sians:and spt ief' who fed for theirives frptnth=  id
cif gpected triumph and real, disaster, Maj , Matynard grew frange with nwtiBMe
and; r ge. Sanding erectrin his stirrrps, he c irped the flying host, and: ede nore.
feeliahly to.arresttheir course by ciitting among them with his swor;. but   teamt'
who had thrown out his load of ' notiorns' designed for the trip to Richreond; to take baim
a load of defeated and disconfited Zouaves to Washington, rushed unceremoniously
past, striking the haunches of. the- major's horse so violently as to cause him to throw
his rider-directly into the struggling mass of men and animals. Before he could recover
himself, several of the fugitives had, run) oier lin, and he eune near being caught in the
wheel of a caisson. His saddle had scarcely been emptied when a;Dutchman and ai
Irishman seized his horse, and mounting. it, ue behind the other, were proceeding
through the crowd with a speed which did great credit to. their horsem~nanship, tnd
effectually crushed Major Maynard's hopes of a rescue. LAmed and bruised by his
fall.; hatless, hungry and weary, he limped back through all that fearful rout to Wash=
ington, 'a wiper, i-f not a better man.'.
Major Foster's regiment wa als on the feld at Mana-sas; but being on the extreme
right'of the Confederate army, was not engaged during the day.
On his-way to Manassas, he paid a hurried visit to 'his parents, and haA foundhiri
father in very feeble health.- The shock of arms at Manassas had .scarcely died away,.
when Major Foster was summoned to his father's death-bed.
During this last visit homer he had twice seen Nellie Gardiuer at church, butfinet a
med had passed'betwcen them. Though the bright, rosy hue had, in a'measure,faded
from-her cheeks, yet Nellie Gardiner was still beautiful and queenly. Ooce only,;whil
in church, their eyes had met, and in that second each read in the donntenance of the
other that the past was not forgotten-the fire had not burned out-the slightest breath
would fan the smouldering embers into a flame.
*       *      *      *      *  .*         *.     *     *      *       *4
,BernardGardine? was a gallant officer in Stuart's Cavalry, and had been in the dash,
ing charge made by Radford on the retreating Yankees at Manassas. IIe had escdjed
unhurt then, and tirough several skirmishes subsequent to-the.battle; but-withmua eW
weeks after, was seized with the typhoid fever, which was then so prgva'ent .and fatalin
our army. He appeared to be very ill at first. 'and being unable to perform duty;a fnr .
lough had been granted 'him to go home and remain uitil he should recover.. Oh h i
s'ay to Richmond he grew suddenly worse, and when he arrived was perfectly delirion.
AMong a number of sick soldiers, and with no friend or acquaintance, lio was sent.off toi
aifospital, and had beer:there more than a week before his family knew of his'illuess
Thep, ha iug learned :through a letter from his captain- that he hadi gone to Ri4hmand
siek, they made ingniew and found that he had been sent to the Hospitl of St. F tanat
de-Sales. And most-fortunate it was for him that he had been sent there; -foe, baitafr
the;inaud-skiilftil i singhe received at the hnds of the Sistes-of Charitybh : dtd
hav,.died-beforebiw fwieuda could have reached him,. .When ,Mrs. Gardinnr n od rildi'
ed if whoboutsartved-at the hospital, they found him o.eteme11yi  i
4 #iddas srnovedty d  k u4it - For week his mother and sister w tched be ih ,
baisnd4'tb    adsi4etebho:they had - found at. bis bed-side.'.Ja nder tiheit est
a.rs    :.ee invt'i began 'rowly 16 rally, and finaly.gave.Tomis:Of "ethTning#Mt1L

A  OCH  i t" i       TORY.
'    rt.h'lwe ier, egeral- weeks=bere h coitdd b ieineve frbW'e n t' bt.
#Ftittne Nellie   as with hin ;   w   a ften   ' to adnre  L'}nd'
W  thfe ndblea w mea rdti4d herengaied nir= tlpu,1 ableatfd no s *Woe.
t                            tfadlttO-f hare varm 'ittb  gti'tude andabi diiona'ohto thena led o i6;teeeh B.
z  &amp;awuein htis fibess. ThWi'  iifedda lfa           eifbd         ggk.
wSAI, ided, a moust lovely  hi ady-b Noioim bei~ah.  shpie of aos ca  u~~be1o0
,nI                                                   oot e, and atho ugh her form wai  uil 'ud thiri frrm her aquous  t rt as sa
, and her eye d in and hIer cheek pate with her constant vigil }et he Wes11 eaut 1;
%#bge!tleess of-he tough end;the soft ss of-her voice, united to hir   eait andgtace;
.marile-er'a great favorite with the invalids, and h r miniet-ratidns were eagerly sngh't .
after. Nellie frequently remonstrated with her for' taistking her st ngth, an bet d'
her to -be note car ful of her hedith. ' To such remonstirances she  would inth bi1g
r~esponc-.-"
A hi lady, it matters not ho\v oon I'may be spent in my Master's service. All whom
oved, or-, at leas, il who'loved me have passed  wav from this earth; andl Itoo, am
.lotte with the pleas res as well as the cares of life only its cities ate'left to the. 'Ad
It le' to minister t the watts and relieve'the distress of these' suffering patriots. My'
breh r was 'a soldier ,'acd the1 best'friend I 'ever ha is'anoflcest in the oththern army;
isa  i may yet'b perinitted to save the lives o one or both of then.
yonAt the yotig man became strong enough to be carried home, nd bidding fare
*4%~tfrgood' siistfr, lost sight of her for while.
"iS'Aaweeks aft  Bernard had been taken to Fa'irfield, Nelfie visiteI Richmond; tak
i' 'WiTtahet -sme ne  i niilk,'&amp;c., for the patie is at the :iospitajlof bt. Fancivrtd
d' sonie  tni'aand flwers for Sister Theres. On her artival at thd hospiLa l
sat thfoimed' aby th attendant sisters, thit Sister 'eresa had not been therd ft rnr
tttaoeekibut #a lying very ill at the Asylum. 'Fee!ing, a we hi'e'sid a strong
imrtas~u Bernard's gentlenurse, she'resotvd' to- ell on her there. throughh the influ
e ito   1 ter Agnes'whom 'she had frequently seertat the hosp'ti Ntlli s admitted
t IV  apertn nt of sisterr Theresa-, hotuhshe fonnd alai'miiigly il. Si 0 was lying o g
stmall, narrow be, it a lethargiesnlumber, her cheeN s and lips scarlet w th fever, and  r'
h! tntfui feature'pirched"and haggard from the ravages ot 'disa e. Learning 'that no
hpsere entertain d df her recovery, that shehal expressed ad desire to see 'hr bafg&amp;e
leimag 'eensciodsness and had freqnently spoken of hert in her delirit rn, A~ellie bege
to ;be allowed ,o remainn at the Asylum an d assist in nursing ,er. Bet uregqtest 'Wa
g#tted,and having dismissed the carriage, she turned to sister i eress' room and'
toe 'h'er post by t le b'd side of the sufferer, thus reheving the weai' sister w' o b d
n watching over er.           ','                                               -
"Being left ;Hone  ith-the sleeping sufferer, her attention  rs t ally attracted t  .
the pictures suspend d atninst the wall. She had  uderstool tiat Sistr Thereia was an
adept i 'the art of painting, and isn.pposed those which ado ey rdhe - 'artthent were
f~iiber 'own penc. The one o Which her eye'fell first, w    idroe of tkte  ast
S    er;' with the Disciples gathered around their Mster Jud e 'iribo dipping ths pY
and John leaning on Jesyis' bosom. It was re'MU -a fineuritut ~be hg an ineresti"g
subject and well executed; but what most attracted and intetitbd hnru n it' *ts th f ct
tl fnhefeof the beloved Disciple was an exact hopy ofOhreyl Foter. s  tie; t u a,
ewre idtrsas rather fbre soft and seraphi,'ibut the feitnres 'ere-idettreally the sa  .
Tiedi byess was  o+~s,triking to bancidentadatidtie affair uded  greatly. B t
thera mystery grew deeper when   on appfdadhiing ttoict.re. iltc  bfinel'i  e th
*~L~'sihi   diteovered sit to'bea M'adona wich, he the:ace bee co Ed  i'   a
naed 't 'have resembled' her mnoire str'ongi.' u 'm'ed and nysiM~&amp;   1 6-knew tin Ii
t6'd'  eWhe' 'tunge; ooi'oeiddiece.. 'On 'a 11Lte t ble by the Wntf'de   ~ hsaudd e
pmt4ik of alketidhe aiid ertiruavngs' ud wfittei on the miggde o? ti1  iorfftdijd
bew6  iting wnich she hrnidiadt'el  'gided' as jod.'tr    ig       id'


48.

T   ",W f iALS i,

.-The dying worp;nSister Theresa, was then no other thanthe beautiful and accomplished'
Wile Le Brun, those rivalry of herself had been represented as so formidable a  'scosupi
cesafui. Frorm what she had seen of her charms, even in the plain, hornfly dress of her
order, she knew that they had been very powerful; but reason told leer that they badi
never succeeded in winning Charley' Foster's heart one moment from its allegiance..elae
why had be failed to use the opportunity her rejection had offered for his espousing the
Italian girl? and why had the latter entered upon, a con ventical life, if there was any
hope for.her of a destiny in the world so happy as to .be the wife of Major roster? That
abe kved him, there could be no doubt, Nellie thought: else why should she;who hAd
professed to renounce every earthly hope and affection, have given his features:to the
Apostle that she might bate'them always before her. Sister Theresa's conversation and:
manner too, so melancholy and sad, had impressed her on their firstacquaintance with
the belief that she had been disappointed in love. Out of, this suspicion her imxagina
Lion had woven quite a little romance before her visit to the Asylum ; and now the whole
story wad revealed to her. But how had the sister become acquainted with her face as
pictured in the Madonna?  She knew that this elaborate painting could not have been
executed since they met at Bernard's bed-side, for since that period, up to her illness,
Sister Theresa had been constantly engaged in her noble work of nursing- the sick and
wounded Confederate soldiers. She was driven then to the conclushn that Charley had
employed the fair artist to copy her daguerreotype; and her mental soliloquy was, '0, .
how I have wronged him in doubting his fidlity! At the very time when I was taught.
to believe that he was forgetting me in the society of this accomplished wo'ran, be was
employing her talents to perpetuate my unworthy image. I deserve to suffer for ever
having suspected one so noble and so true ; and suffer I must while I ~ive. When this
poor girl found her love to be hopeless, she could retire within the sanctuary of:her
church, and hide her'wounded heart under the robe of a recluse ; but my. church offers
no such asylum ; and I am condemned to mingle with the gay, thoughtless daughters of
mirth, and adopt their manners and simulate their joys, when my heart-is breaking.'
Overcome by her emotion, she sat down by the bed-side of Sister Theresa and wept
bigprly.
That night Nellie was watching alone with the suffering sister, hav ng prevailed-in
Sister Agnes, whose turn it was to watch, to bring her bed and lie down on the floor,
when Sister-Theresa roused from her deep slumber and asked for water: Nellie gave her
water, and when she had taken that, she presented a cup of wine whey to her lips, and
observed, with pleasure, that she drank it eagerly. After drinking this she seemed much
revived, and shortly thereafter was quite conscious, and inquired the hour. Nellie con-
suilted her watch, area replied that it was midnight. The sick woman recognized her
' voice, and, grasping her hand, thanked her for visiting her, and inquired how long she
had been with her.
. *I am glad you-have come,' she said in a feeble tone, fixing her languid eyes on Nel-
lie's face. 'I have but a short time to live, and in my dying hour 1 have a confession
to make to you.' Pointing to the picture of the 'Last Supper,' she inquired in a feeble
voice: 'Have yo.u examined that picture?'                               .
Nellie responded in the affirmative.
'You have recognized Major Foster's features,' she said, glancing through the dim light
towards the picture at the side of her bed, 'and doubtless you have wondered to see
. them there. And it was wrong in me, who have given up the world, 4o retain .any -
trace of- the wicked idolatry which, in spite of, fasts land penandes, long divided my
heart with the holy things which should have possessed it exclusively. But 0, lady, you,
who know him and who loved him once, can pardon my weakness. le was so kind, so
generoun, and so noble, that I could not help loving him, although I knew from the first
that he loved another. For he made no effort to conceal his love for you, and employed
me to paint, your portrait from a daguerreotype which he -always wore in a locket next
to his heart. I thought, as he delighted to think;that you loved him also; and I made"

A CHI#AH      lN
sio fort to winghis love from you, partly because
- partly because I thought it would. be wrongY'
did, if you were capable of-believing himt u lty ol
or even, if believing him guilty;,you eould re oqn
he has never been himself since. When i found I
won him if I could ; but I could not. And seing
On my aunt's neath, to enter this asyl um, that in i
of my religious duties, I fight forget a love whi
loves you-still, and oh I promise' me, that when th
you will believe ln guiltless, as he is, and make
*I am the Mademoiselle Le Brun;of whoni Lieu
from F~ort Alexazider ; and I had a brother, Victi
garrison at that place while Lieutegwant Foster, wa
trial of Lieutenatit Roster, for the murder of :Lieu
fort, and I never heard from him afterwards,"until
be was brought to the St. Francis de Sales Hobpi1
ill with the fever. Notwithstanding his misera
I-recognized him immediately, and devoted my w
hoping to be able to save his life ; but God had do
after reaching the hospital. During his illness, he l
one of these he confessed to rne that he murdered
been a wild and wicked life; bathe died repentai
the atoning blood of onedSaviour. And although
nion nor the penalty of the law can reach hits, I
. I think it is due to Major Foster to do so.'
During the latter part of this communication,
difficulty, and at its close she began to sink so suc
Sister Agnes. The priest was summoned to adm
sisters gathered around the couch of their' dying
ber last moments. In a few minutes, the beauti
Was no more. She sank to sleep as sweetly as a

STORY.
I thought it would be inpssibteiand -
t you could never' have love hima
the cime wgh.vhich he w s charged,
* inr. Your rejection cost im 4arly;
at you had Cast hbim off,'Iaoul bahey
hat this was im ossible, I determined
ts seclusion and he rightp rformanoe
h had rendered me so-unha ppy.;. He
confession I have to iake i receiv4ed
im happy with 'ur love.
enan t.Foster spoke to you in his letters
r. Le Brun, who was a priv te in tfie
there: But o the very da after'the.
tenant Harrison, he desert from the
bout- ten days before my ill ess; when
al, from the ---Letiisiana regiment,
le condition and chaegwed , pearance,
ole time and attention to lim, vainly
creed other wise-,he died in a few days
ad frequent lucid intervals, and during
lieutenant Harrion.. His had, indeed,
t and hopeful of fqrgivenes through
he has gone where neitheir public opi..
quid not expose his crime, onl that
ister Theresa had spoken with' great
ddenly that"Nellie, alarmed, roused .up
i ister the rites of the church, and the
e rupanion to watch with' tearful"eye.
f 1 and unfortunate Theresa Le Brui
b be.

CIAPTER VI .
For many months after the battle of Manas as, bile the 'Grand 'ankee Army of the
Potomac,' under the'Little Napoleon,' was being re-organized,'greatly augmented, drills
and equipped for one short and brilliant campaign in which Itichmondwas t' be takea
. -aid the 'rebellion rushed,' Walter Maynard remained in'glorious inactivity in his camy
near Washington. The disastrous result of his 11st encounter with his. wronged and
. outraged countrymen had greatly disappointed hia xprectatious, aid suggested the pro:
ability of hishaving staked his all on the Iosing side;; however, he thought: it was 'ow
too late to rectify' his error, if error he had commi ted.' After exhibitingsthe courage
and dash which he was acknowledged to have chow at Manassas, while so many around
him were giving evidence of cowardice end incapac y, he thought thathe night expect
rapid promotion in the Federal army, especially  it was being so largely increased,
rut, greatly to his disappointment and disgust, he held blatant demagogues, erftirely
ignorant of military affairs, appointed to high positions in the army, while many map,
whp: bad made- military science their study for years, Were "doom  to occupy inferior
'oices.. While political generals were springing' up around hbinifli* mush I'wiih ,as
slowly tidvanced to the gank of colonel. Disati fied with tli   sei gtvongly
.pposed to- the- political tenets of thoso arou d; hmb iand heartily dsted ihtte .

.


OCti   . h e olie d hirdio recdrgize as. the pleasant t, py hon estead 6E forrier
ti   .    er warderilij imlessly through the room  in which he iasbut s ma
happy hours, he went out into the garded and stood once more before the honeywuckie
arbai', as he had stood there four years before; but how differ entthe scene tht now.
met' his view! The vines, laden with elasters 'of blossoms which perfumed the sur-
rouiding Mrnesphere, clambered' over the arbor in the same rich Itixuriance, and with
the same cheerful beauty id this fresh May-air that they had wo n in the golden atitumn
light of that memorable afternoon  itu instead of the two fair graceful young figures
th  h      en   ded, he .bleld half "a dozen dirty Dutchrnenb the relief-guard' seated
l i~e t~bY  the arorp, playing e  w ith pipes! in their ,oathsrand. jbottle
Sear     emthe sftly-breathd wordsof ly                 he had er  over-
volley of cosirse'daheu "red ii Etkghskd
ob e,menacing gestures, T disgust, he turned aw ,
e hs       vbt i e   i   sfi.enHenry.eadm,

A'      H   i___  STOR.                         A A4
was so strong as to ecall scenes and faces, many of which he had long since forgotten
anpd some.of. which  e had vainly tried; to for t. He seemed to see Charley Foster'
bright, frank, boyisl face beside him, as it h. been in the happy olden time. When
he thought that the were soon to met in deadly conflict, a shudder ran through hii
frame. In the soft ighing-.of the breeze thro gh .the forest, he seene4 tqhear the rustle
of Nellie Gardiner's dress as she walked down the aisle, and the flutter of her bonne
ribbons in the sweet, spriwig air, as'he had ofte; heard themw in happier 4ays-with what
a thrilf of 'delight. 11he hymns they nsed to ing th3re, ho and Charley. looking. over
the same book, and he very words he had of en heard front the pulpit, came back.o
him from the shado; y past. One sermon wbich hat deeply-impressed him at the time     "
and the text of which was-' Be sure your sin will hnd you out,' recurred to his memory
with such force that, to divert the painful traiofthought it excite, he ardse and left
tb church.r                                o
- Arriving ht the ac demy, he also had many changes there to note; for although the
Federal camnps had not been sufficiently conve ient for the Northern vandals to injureri
much, yet time, the reat destroyer,'bad left his impress there.' For several years before.
the war the school ha been broken up, and sirce its close the academy buildings ha
been let by the truste s to a succession of tenants, each of whom pad contributed muc.
to despoil and nothin to improve the plge. It was now occupied b a soldier's family;
and when he asked th sad, troubled woman w o met him, to furnish him with a snack
and-permit him to re .in her house while it wts preparing, she replied that she coule
only supply him with a very indifferent one, as she. was very poor, her husband being i
tlie Confederatearmy and their five chirdren be'ng'dependent on her labor. for subsie.-
tence. The Yankee s .diers, too, had stolen all ff her fowls, destroyed her.garden, and
driven off her only milch cow to their camps.
Maynard replied th t, under these circumstan es, hoshould be sorry to trouble het
farther, except to beg he loac of'-a cup or glass that he might :get some water from
the spring. She offer d to have the water brou ht for him, but he declined the offer,
and walked off in the irection of the spring, without even inquiringthe way, much to
the wonan's surprise, ho was sure she had not seen him there before,
The spring had been a favorite haunt of. his nd' Charley's, and was really a very
beautiful and romanti spot. Just above the, lace where the cool, cry tal stream
gushed out of the ban ,'stood a large beech-tree the smooth bark of which  had been'
sadly excoriated by th  mischievous penknives of various ambitious ones among the
academy pupils, who hid taken this method of- anding down their'names t posterity.
When he and Charlejr, _efore going to West Poi t, had paid their fare ei 4'isit to the
academy, they' had visited the spring, and the' la ter had laughingly proposed that they
should each carve his ovn and'his sweetheart's name on- they opposite ides qf the tree.
This had been agreed t4 , and when the work was finished, each 'had read 'under 'the
name of the other the i itials ' N. G.' There wa no rivalry between !the' then ; the
boyish love of that period had not been strong eough for jealonsy, an4 they had' only
joked etch'other a little, good-humoredly, on th  coincidence. To-day Wal'ter slowly
and tediously cut away with-his congress knife, l1 of the tough bark over which'his
boyish work had spread in the expansion of the .rec, thinking, as he did so, that if it  ,
were left, future generations might scornfully poi t it t.ut as the nanie of a traitor. and
renegade. Ho wished n recordor remembrance 'of himself left here ; for he felt' that
his life had been a failu e, and be knew that he  ust now, be despised by" those whose
goadopinion he had ode desired to gai ' He had tried earnestly, but vainly to forget
everything but the -pres nt, and, indeed; be desite ; at -ti _O, to forget even 'that..
At the end of an hon spent at the spring he return ' to the house,; and the goodi
Woman observed that  w en he returned the glass, with many thanks for the ube of it,
his eyes'looked red as if he had been weeping. H  remnaied ip conversation wither
some time, making man  inquiries about the families. around .the academy.  H  also
asked for a description o~ her cow, which he set d wn on his tablets, and promised, iL

A CHICkAHOb INY STORY.

:


THlE RIVALS

-5t

pisible, to restore it to her. On leaving; 1aynard slipped a gold dollar into the 'hanad
. deachiof the fve. white-headed children who had stood clinging to their mother,with
t  thumbs in their mouths during the w.h le conversatiou.                   -
-    euraenough, greatly-to the joy and surprise of the poor ,tomancher cow refk;ned;in
a&amp;da or two; and.th Colonel's Irish servant who drove it; brought also a large ba  of
lis stores, as a present,=from his master. As may be supposed, Walter's singular
cano ton this ocoasioD, made a strong impression, an'd tha stldier's wife ha. not yet
cedt astoish and entertain her friends with a description-of the kini aid polite
Y*niaofficerwho restored her cow--the only ynte'an, slie solemnlyavers, that she
sn.inthe whole Federatarmy..
-    several days after his visit to the academy, Cl. Maynard remained insi,,tent,
ddand ilent; then, remembering that by a ice'ct inovemeiit of a part of(cClel-
Ian's forces, Poplar Lodge.was now in the Yankee lines, he-concluded to visit hie aunts,
i"i into their condition, and assist them as far n might be iiossible. *But on his
arissi there, he found the place deserted. The Yankee camp covered a part of the
, and the soldiers, as usual, had destroyed everything destructable about the pre-
.  tis. An artillery company had encamped in the ard, which had been stripped of its
.esute, acid trampled to powder by the-horses which had been tethered to the trees.
id.ers and weathershoarding had been striped froth the house, and bits of; charred
aabogany scattered around, showed what had been the fate of the old-fashioned furcri-
ti;whih Miss Judith .and Miss Erneine -haX been wont to. keep so brightly polished.
Te*ktoien and Uncle Thomas' house were as naked and empty as the dwelling, and
. Wid  had just-conclnded that the family must all have -moved away .befor, the ad-
ie.-otha Federabh, when, on passing a cedar hedge, which skirted the hill Qne dis-
tance below the house, he heard a deep groan which seemed to issue from. the very
Uts1 sidf the earth, and to; wind through a subterranean labyrinth on its passage to the
ip* aitr  Pausing;to listen, he heard a voice, which he recognized as Uncle Thomas',
l ~gthe folloi$ng~prayer.:
.'&amp; Irrd, deliver~ust Good Ford, save us. 0, Lord. arise in our def'er.e. Drive
back these Philistines that have:come up against us-these worse than Jgyptins, that'
r b and despoil us. Let loose upon them the thurder-bolts of Thy wrath. Urind them
nritkhe chariot.wheels of Thy justice.  Scatter them  as chaff betone the wind.-
Si    them as Thou didst the hosts of Sennecharib. Overthrow* them both horse and
rd   itethe Red Sea of thy destruction.            .
- 'AndlThon, O Lord, who seest the little sparrows when they fall upon tb ground.
mnd heartnthle young ravens when they cry to Thee, take knowledge of Thy itworthy
Atenthbonms.; ''ur him not to perish, bt give .im this day his daily bread., Thou
g:diit wend-the ravens to feed Elijah. in the wilderness, succor.poor. Thonai. (
-hy pliuti're, sing song. tone in whi-ch this rerhaikalde petition was.uttered dater.-
siedwtlitndescribable groans, woult have been truly ludierous if it had not l ee so
_gguilypatet1e. Moreover; Walter knew that Uncle Thomas, unlike   oset d roe,
ges thgh possisIg many:staunch virtues, made but little pretensidn topiet.; and
liiilsethat omlf in: the greatest disties's 'would he be driven to his knees with fi:
f   i tV ff'ot vertyto hdor, invocation of the 'Almighty. His unique pra e.vwpible
014bi&amp; la cons deratNd knowledge of Bible history, betrag~ed such an: ignorance orf ;t'h
{ easpit, as bsbeer of late glaringly displayjed by: many, who. mahil mtch
greteuinsi-andhaV eejoyed't any rare; opporturiitiewthan-Uno&amp;Thrdae,
. 'thoughP0ek M y #id'who ea. uiatter.of curiosity, had sometintesr 'lisenet ito ie
S '      tiitume   oliticaPhaangues which disgrace so many Norhen pelpite.,t
did rtdt lateimeni oalize ,aiiichi fhr ansious: to learn the condition audwheres
alaiof higahut, heOrept th  gh an opening'in the'hedge, and accosted the old agro
- il eaeodefbisvoioe,Uncle Thomas rolled up his eyes, threwsuphisband; and.
utter &amp;d adtbee long; deep grpaa.

A CHICKtAc SINY STORY.
eyou, &amp;Icle Thomas?' repeated                           t
t  sera emrniserable. ruinedI' groabl t e ldra '.VTha;s.,ds    'ep
#           agdwebhvn'E ygt a&amp;cent, T im asassohard that .v c"ald hak     ive
R                  -we atebonndtostarve. Thousids'woedn't replace'1hat, wge'
te  1ii Ug eaten u; every green thing d     u                        erd by thesebiileged oetis;-
g      ,     p to pes; the: feuees-il burnt the horse stolen ;'theryfaa
t3at used to stand in your grandfather's dra igroom taken forfliwood.G od g
r     #               buettig;  they cnse d reCalled .me a £Rebel iggdr '. dhdg,
beht ve iand ther h gon                  e in  o, I asked s Wn a that the way for gemtOre to
-              ey cussed me again, aid asked ne what did4 know 'bout gerhmei  I
m$k     a benraisad twh  emmenan-d by ,gemmen that wouldn't  k ad:aYar
.     k   ha br'boota; and a&amp;tthat, dne tia they called thecoiporal, kriodked me
y   Here jsthe .lae he struck, you can se it row,' said Jncle Thomas, pointing to
hi~~reead, where a large contusion was vitib e.
Wdii, wliat ese could you expect, f ycu were igupettineut to them?' ask
orsWalter, vou can't arae the   e epie -theyaitnobetter'i      t
s       iniop im ydon: All that will turn ' i bttapiar "u nete  g wh  t
lie      «1 tis'l for th m itdsowhal fellow well rt 'ti armer g o  ti tama
wih tieiri'nraisteti and muitresses that has aised  ra.are 4,n bW
the ery-time they w  seating and destr tve'de °yt nc' here that h td Smith a
S       erge a nd iarin the county of IT nar    ",e wth'em        arIk '
fan    tn' arid  ssin' with him; aidheie ag
th' ehbels' 'hoit biee and fed thu  ct'  g       scm "f-.zLlin'them ha I'gu  '
hPm  steatin Miss Judith a t'i-keys tas  gihhe'owetn eud tbr
istratn eh jgot ttirt' ninekshes t. eti,iand  it hic1 ,.bin thut3 U a hnu d ' .
W 1,'.said\ aLter 'how much of John's nfrmation was  e
y you see said Uncle Thomas, scratching g his head, when t ese
,orwrd     ereand our people.adanir bick before em    IMIr    d     -
e  'somemof hi nen stood picket, near tL I1ledge gxte a day and  ig,;dit
c "  I  e but mighty little to eati ookcd ip some egg and cheke s    d'ed
t: Md it to tem. And oioday, when Mar Uharley oster end so ta iyc           y
he    gonnoer, I j     Jd 'em whar te   atikees aas standingspi et, and hey
uir*d$ }erm and.cato}ed em  But Johnlk ian't kiow nothing 'bout his; 'twas a
meen me an thga and he just told a.hit be di l for- a lie'
'But my aunts,' said Whlter' where 'ire th ' and hae they satd notdba
Went to Xrahmaod, thArlt the Ikd at1 crr!rt1 are  C th


THE IUVALS:

52

d my division when we have our next review I will engage to show you a much finer
spectacle than the Southern army can afford ;' for otir men are splendidlyj 'eqiipcd,
'iethetedfedatesI hear; are both dirty and ragged.' .
sWell,that may be,' said Uncle Thomas, shaking his head, _'but fine featheredti't.
nake fine birds. I know one' thing, our men was =a lar-onnd 'optat Lodgefr  ore
th   eekand notso-much as a chicken was stolen, while these Yankeer bdttabt bea
h~ehmdyeibre they had everything=-even down to my axe and flying pa and
little bg of ?ntealias Iwas telling you.                       :
'Never mind,4 epied Colonel Maynard, 'I will 'repair. your losses, as far as I aat
But how-were my aunts When jbutraw"them last?  And what have they been interest
ing themselves in since I was'in. Virginia. Do they ever speak of me?'
' Ah  that they do,'- said Thomas sadly ; 'a'd I can assure you ;sir, that your course,
in taking sides with the Yankees, and turning your sword against Old Virglnny;as Miss
Judith says, has grieved then mightily. Your conduct has caused them to be mistrust-
ed and doubted, and brought disgrace upon them. Miss Erneline says that when it was
first known about here, that you had gone with the Yankees,: the A's, and B's. an. C's;
all old friends of the family, would scarcely speak to her at church. But since it is know
how distressed and angry they are at your course, people begin to pity them.an&amp;notice
them s great deal." "Misi Judith says it nearly breaks her heart that a Maynard should
be a taiot to his country. And when Mrs. Harrison, and Mrs. Gardiher, 'and Miss
Nellie were, dining here last summer, they were talking about you, and called you a
Benediet Arfold, a Judas Iscariot, a renegade, and all sorts of- names.'r
'Well, you need not repeat any more of their compliments.' said' Valter.'I 'could
thankthem to-con.fine their 'attention to their own afairs, and let mine alone. But pray,
isiss Nellie Gardiner still unmarried? and'where i she at this time?'-
'6Sh  is at her uncle. Harrisda's' replied Uncle Thomas, 'and is not -arrieh and I
heard her tell-Miss Fhnel'ine last su ntger, when she was joking her about aGeneral
somebody from the South, that she never meant to be.'  -"-
Arriving-gain at camp, a passportt was obtained, and Uncle Thomas sent be3oud the
Yankee lines'           **s"'k
A. oa=ssWalter had heard that Miss Gardner 'was in their lines, and theref1treas
be tbehght; accessible to him, a fierce end unconquerable desire to see her took 4eyges-
sion of his soul. And having occasion to visit the White House a few days afterwards,'
be detet'miedto nake a detour by Mr. Harrison'; pay hisr s to-the ladies there,
and offer-to assist-them as-far as he could, while the Federal a .might be round them.
When heas approaching the- house he saw about a dozen tragglers-from the Yan-
kee army in the yard and garden, shooting the chickens, gathering the strawberries,'and
committing all sorts-of depredations.. A' servant bad just' been tethem with a message;
which wasreceived with shouts of coarse laughter; and op her return,:a head, which he
recognlzd'as Ne'lies, was put out cf an upper window, and in . voice of gentle en-
treaty. she' 'e lIba they would leave a few of the sti-awbetries for  a sickady:who
-coal eat nothhi5 ' e;,adding .that there.were very few ripe, and that the$ hadsot"yet
had a dlh foibe family.-
'dial ha I la ''laughed the Yankees, cramming in the strawerrigs with both bands;
r we  p ia 'none yit.' Then one of the w'-str looking of the set cried out that she bad
beterid bow be showed her d-d pretty face, or they' would leave the stiawberrs,
and coui"t&amp;  'her.          o.   yadr      hsslnt         t     l
Gallelin  tp to the garden, Ool. Maynard drew his pistol on the stragglers,a d ordered'
them, to. di pltse. They hastened to obey, andscampered in all directions. When,
hema seeif te 'last one Mlywe the premises, he entered the house aid4sent °up a his board to
Miss Grdise.' In a few 'minutes it; was returned, witigthe followingwords written in
penddsrth® easr--
*1Miss ardinet-akno ledges ad desires no acquaintance with' the enemies of her
country.'.                                        - ' *'
(   .-,.,

*

A CHICEAiO'    IY STORES.
Mortified beynqnd expxesion, and wounded t the  i k, Col.  ynardrenounte  is
, Wk t ~, gaU~pe1. aC cam~rp .  .°.   #' .                              ' r  um~  i
day GoJ.   yarda.regiment    asagain odered to the fro t ; ant d  g
gth grand seies of btescfilled up themes few                  es , begug
with the battle of Hanover Court House, aid culminating in the  seven days'. fighting
around Richmond, he was kept so actively eng gedas to have but little time foi the ter.
i ble thoughts. which haunted hin whenever hi mind and body 'ere at Test.
CHIAPT1      X
Itwas the27th June, SI2; and before the V ufeCerate capital two portdaries -
ufe werev idrtwapoerf-                                        amie
were drawn up, repared for the fearful contli t, which was:tO decide tie fate. of that
much{coveted cit . During several hours of t e preceding afternoon portionn of"the
two a;ar  es bad b enhptly .engaged' on McCleil extreme right. nearMecbanieviile ;
an the:Yederals ha&amp;bein :driven from h heir  position there., Stonewall Jackebn,tbe
hero of many vic ors, waa leading his invinfib e little army, flts $d  ite t the gioiyof
the  alley .campaign, byrapid marches to .tl eassistanceof then, overanatehed Corn-
rat ssieore ieh ond.lnadeed, on the mor pthe 2thithey     h
th eauee lines, _u d in;the vicinity of Pole Gr en; Cht o, ere. )epartiki, by a shiOrt
rest, to be hurled like an avalanche upon the n oy.  ut the Feras a  gin r pl
suppiqnpbers,'armed with the Jmossitn proe  geaapns, eu    naini gpidiith
a thoyoighness and elaborateness rarely excel  and opeupymg libee A pottions of
grcat. pMural strength,spposed a mos on  b e front to the  eer   eos.
In this condition of eflairsnothing could b~ ore d ubtful than the isuo of the ap-
proaapg battle; and. only the All-seeing. Go:c uld tell hat werb the etwotionu of the
mibignts of Richmond and the urroundin   oun try, as, they awaited inhreatbiese
c pense,.th end of an:engagement which *a to result in their delivery diefran'an
im r4eigrtyrannical, an4  unprineipl d4foe,. or to onde u them, fo4 n indeflbiteoperiod,
to the presence and rule of audesotic, maraudin , and - tfedy des ised enetnyge
Only He who-is.lose, and who has fashione  he hu ah bart ith its  art  deep
affections ,andpassiqnsto whose omniscient eye 1 things,.from tle least to thegreat.
est, aremplaingknows with what throbs of'agony the m tbhrs, sister 4and Wives ofthe
.bra a utherne's listepid to the reverberationsto the ca ,non and a llsarms which were
ur gssilefdesiiction at the breasts of.t.se wrto were ne4.  and jear to them.
Wejk,pale arembling'in;the seclusion of them  oes pd the privacy of their closets,
they ound only weep. andspray  yet through t o e fear .i hours thbywr stIed with the
. ,e  of(the Universe in such an agony of feryvn supplication as4cdntbfail of good
res tlts;; ap4 the God of ,batt esfonght that da ; ithh th fConfedera eary4.r
,sip.ealy hour of thenorging,twhen the Mtr ggle  as but us e pmoa cing, Co!.
S  ter reyinaent, which wasin the van of thea  ki: aruy, Was 'dere4 tosnupport
a batterypfogrtillery. which was planted on t  crest-f a hill j idt".n th rer ofn his
mothera house, at Beaver Daup 1The Chickaho  y, as is well kn m', lsa  several
wedl4-%fored the line:at his ppint between  t  twQ ignris ;  :i  aera  had,
therefore, been in the Yankee lines, nd had be$n visi.te with-the            .. t jtiin  p-
lation hat tha eJegant, civilizedrtkahumabe e ple r  fon!r pfJiet g        el
Foster ha4 observed the desolation of his home a 1tiegestruwtion I_ k fs p.nge ty ith
n.a*d somponembajt when shk'eenceA&amp; the ~r      avd, erni fat1htstbtpred
situated on ahe hilt whore the foiedgrate arti le y as bsing piae ~lin petegn
sawt with, what sacrilege iis parent's grare had b n gi0!tede by the ~akeetbatrbage,
his .beart swelled with strong emotion. The wo d a railhng around he grave had been


w

0
po surmed fvr :fire wtod aid the narble scfabs on wlwth 'wre iuscr b d tie aiq n 1
OP e  , .to the qther by heat.,'rhe (.ontemnplation ofthis-  age t 4i   }iii.' l
m~ f         f~t      wltb a kludhncfe _ and a look fkhi b resohI ve i eattd- ' I
'           8 e t tl th. lst; ruiqd foe expires,
.£ 1ko ! f~or tie green graves of' your sires ;
(hod and yoiur uatiwoland.""
;And in bias Heart lie demoted himself with r oubled" ardor and devotion to the ta~sk'
"of delivering his native land from the "presence 6$f the lawless vandals.
When the battery he was 'ordered, to sipppir Y pened upon the enemy, he observed
that the piece were not very accuirately airried ; and after making some suggestions to
the artiUery officer in coum mud, he took out his, eye glass' and carefully scanned. th e
to 'da     hem    'd iuce heii nd Walter  had Fpkwed iitidhunted along th4Bes
I =~4tb&amp;   4s iiad llti' cleared f twtha fides of' the iii 4(jkrtijg the cek  iii
pbi1t and =tie illeda n  a bnedtalb ; Elyjson' fmil b~i 1 i nw worked b"bthW r-
ht4   he~d~a.A~r -samoidoti', or mu ass, thigh wkx4Aith  earerDtn  "&amp;Oi~
£bwed     a orange lofty hilts, = eYnkees were   osted behi  1 4 to on g earth kri'ks,
=        atawtht he tsk of dI 1 dgjng them manst '°a:bh ody one.      ,
'ekg      fi  sith i' : a  ld; he Wysablt  tlc ateoeactly the dict ie of thE'
4o y,     iatiudeoft!tha-ptit , tid ie devotedlhis ittetion to the.  pof
t~aifoir nore tli~aai asn hoar stood =beskl ide Mth r s
t #ay trd s      t +     ae psted in the rifle =pits above the'wtill,,
I   l      lio;     iIl     wibOa      ywssarne       adudr edtlire of ~a4M  tillerv co rnaded i6tti ft yaimied-by Cot. lI'oster. A"  r  ij-
qr      £uad a nc rrecikless nman than Valtti May4iitrd, onemow indifieretto t  tsUE
4fkibale and 4f his .ow   personal;*sfty1, did.iint exist nonr the two vatio
dt~ngtshe iii=deadiy iontt. ' hu mgk1 ill .hbdIthat bright sm  er   g
.U   Wmwi ?eeand awoke : aociations  vbioh' hung' his heart t ii'  t ="S   3
-t       =lothed in thes Yarnkee n niform s ifd oc %ing -Ma life in the: eel
be wou ~'hae 'l~dly saeiitied kortnue..and { 'fs  j o stand by 'harley I4ofitdr ,- i
l ong h tt   ebe and bf =s e l  s a c r i hi n g Sittl e r  patriots, ~whose valoat 4 b  sup
.       bi~IWturopect and excirt dhis-highest ad~liatii. :-Thus, s hile th ed lyr~S
te wrtey ng .around°hint, he scarcely (heeded =themn; -forc c eice,  tel . dsc
wu 4wing it h. la whip of scor does for his treachery ¢to his-f'dend andn b e i ~uri-
try  1'i   rk a tilpa past he had ben opprvessed ; wj K a{fearflMqp esnti  o  p.
trci ~death, "i  bd ile he felt life toha a  ltfr en, hiee'sou reoile~d iUXWioci ,
fi  n   notoe    rl or    yconscious of what be was  in  he exposed bi as l o!
ishly and n     es   *'t1 e. Qofederate  re', and A fo . he c or fi thad&amp; lw  wir
biibae W  ttell 4riixtded by the "fra  tnerd dof a= sWhel1;°aid lborne   t t i ea   &amp;
lWN~f4    ~   ' A'$4 n a th ie urgeon bhad exiitted hi }wond a4$bflduietl
ISt      4th was~ptscedinia n ambulauice and seiit "t  the bospital at  .   b*~e
bo..Uag~hayoftaby ftuI'of thefwotuded fromtnthe fight at$~Mxhan
f i  ' _       e&amp;g b  ihe  placod'b '-his' sriaht'eaiU Vhe'anrbul ae di v ik
t ied'fiercely at "Ell.Vson * ailL    $e &amp;veract' Alre the.Con-
A"   It    it      A':- f~teb+i±  'h;fs' d ireot 'as. lt j r :Y!i  'bt..i 's)Y*ti. .tr'  £ -L~ecet

A It KM1OtINY S O1.
jri van fnitM.bau csv i i.e nd; 1 :y son'mill, tUie -dear~l togps ftIL
or  eight  -nmlIn to  .i  ro ug p position  tsear {, [ Iines'- iil,   v  ore  -w ith  c 3" r    r t  a et1 r u db~ ~  s a c  t  i e "o  eot7i '
OCh- oat r's regimntt'ad sufeir d_ 3n itlerably at-E  snsiIb ,
escapedu nhu.~
The old e~nty- roads.-had  beetnatlie imip sabT *hb the Yankee 'artiII! r
traina during the -wet, weatiw; which ir iviled $t r iuo weeks afterth r
ticin of the country ;" and ini following Yup" the, ret e ting enmy, :tlie U 1
loblige4 to pto# eedlong a Pne n  v  wbt'ir :road 1} teo v co~tructed  .
iroad leditinmediately al~n sthe.vara ;at, :lprfield,  M .rg .t wn1r th '
house in which, CxdI a oiad3was lying , wound d.      d ,.wben the
pass :d, many an _eye. was dire a4 t . wh"e. the- uiii jedlbe r ,of t ay4 ;,m
Seeing;so many eyes turut 3 in that direction. oQo.:;ote~r rode up to the
looker in. To lis si3 cpr ie; e c wI d  . i te i aJ l  ce and bloo
him, hi., for merifriend *n4 lnaie euemy.Xzlter Ma in rd  -Oh~~ug to th
i e gim en t to follow: him hr tdislomited at t'cntere" tVne on   -  1
Approaching' the cot, ho t~gL bold of :the itold,hiuo lye aand of hta~'
days;'and gently uttered hiis-name.      -
But there v as no1sign of reo guitio  01 or c tni  els"in
sui'ceer. :\hen iithe -surgoon hid*, aniniiidhis wot m s, Ihe assiirp alt'-O
w(cre'jborf.il:;° he votild scarcely snr;vive ,twenty fO(rt oi r i. , - ,
i 'poor-:Walter,' said Charley, i iug o f a tear  h eh bad gathered i ud:ietha  imclmyn ead lsprrbnpieti+.' .
(dyswhet! i e "Were boys. Do y ou think th$t he tilt re tirn ttlc  seni si
tore.hedic i?'-                                 .       -
T h&amp;:surge6n r. fled that it na:'hi 'i v probable, as the br' I Was not '
wiuid,-'excipt'fron tithS shook  T li ;the whuk  sytot i had r eeved l t t
dohs force of the misile.  I-                             .
1F  "    jtCot. Maysat'' _sianf had ,x'riken lhnt, Ccl. P h  lst  le
with 'him, with. directions to m~ake hint as co tfi rt b1  s po+ibW 'mad bu
his regiment, *hi~h a few hos t". \iis in 'the h1 t ot' the action I
Here, aftor- a de. perate stru le, the ConfEderate ar ns wnre again gucsc
- It was -night,; and theta bat-tyiews ove  'Ile can-9 on which bftd been
fiercely ,:all day} now rested, grim anud silent, ltpoh h field' of '-deat
whose ceaseless rat'tle -had fir i o many hours' filled the air with. their 1
now, l "y3 sctt red, as 'powerless as- the hbnuds that h u1 wielded 'them, °;
ground, of we-re st' cketl- wblere the wean  rytoops h i li'vounckedlafter h '-
ot -einag  r -As the ' mel moon, pale andclcalm flo 'ked'down  iupon - .
the:bloody forms, and tho glazed' eyes wh4 h _ad lo 'kcd thir laStscatto
for ist along the hill-sidefi, and,.over- the- plains otf hix ;hotly contested,-
distu bd the stillness To'~ night,;-save the groans a i d erie tt f the wohbi
W here so lately thousndb had rushed along in the impetnoir chargetli
sign of hife, sage the few iray,'dusky, hguios that hded abnut in the to
i g'for °ussin; -comradles. ori bearing thecn -when foiud alive, rto :an
wagon; that thoy might, he taken to the-mld' hoa p;i. s; --
. Ix  bat1 "L e -had bee+.n.uH  .Nt -ndwj ytihteCo.} ed  !n  s;1who - bil~ 'a .

bar :so e tix
ry and~0
first 0opa..
ptheij
itlg q$$
dtw    tbe
Vb°the   te
w f * tI'utz

fS


fought unscathed through the whole battle, until its close, when in pursuit of tIhtflying
.emy be had his le fturm fractured by a minie ball. TJ'he fracture, though not, au i-
cien to-require amp tatiopwas severe, and the surgeon, on bindlg a 'thewgiud,
charged him to keep very quiet for several weeks, and repeated the charge when he bad
'hn heated in the anibulance whichowas. t- take him to Richmpnd. On reaching
airftefd, and finding Walter still alive, he determined, although he knew it would be
laqlifdent tb do so, to stop there -nd wrein with him while he lived.
Ou entering the room he fouid Maynard asleep, but the servant who was with
hir inforned his master that he had ab1en awake and entirely sensible during
theswhole'afternoon; that he knew where lie 1was, had spoken othis-wound,
aidhad listened with great interest to the progress of then battle; ani that that
renin; when the firing had ceased, he bade-him isk a courier who was passing,
4:hia side-had whipped. Being told that the Confederates were victorious, he
raised his eyes to heaven and said 'Thank (od.'-.-
The whispering around the couch of the wounded man, who was only Oozing
uneasily aroused hiim, and he asked for water.. .
Colone Foster lhad a little flaskof;brandy with him, and pouring some into a
cup, held it to Walter's'lips,-who drank it eagerly without.seeming to notice-by'
whom'it was proffered; but when'he had swallowed it he looked up, and,recog-
-nizingCol. Foster, grasped his hand and said ti-emulously, while tears sprang to
hisz aye, ' Charley, is it you ?'                -Y    l    t
'Yes;W'alter,'said Charley, warmly returning th4 pressure, 'it is I, can I do
anythig four yoau'S-
a't 4on't .deservp your kindness,' said Walter; '1Inever did, for I always re-
paid it with ingratitude'and- treachery; but I will not -have another chance to
wrong you; I am dying fast. Dying,' he repeated, - in the land which gaye me
'      birth and nurtured me to manhood, that I might in my manhood's strength-come
against her with a fnarauding ho.t, to devastate and destroy, to, subject her
daughters to insult and her sons to hondage-*dying,? he groaned, 'alone with
the man whose happiness I have treacherously wrecked in reprn for unniurn-
b     kindnesses. Charley, don't you despise ie ?'                     ~
'o,   ter,'responded Charley, '1' do not; hIut I do, -indeed, pity you.'
'nt'goldo not know the worst,' he replied, 'I know you were always gene:.
rous an4 forgiving ' butare you a ChrAstian ? Can you forgive-one who has de-
hbiritely' and foully wronged you one who has blighted the, dearest hope of
'.f believe I anm a Chnistian,' solemnly replied- Charley, 'and tait,by the race
of Go4, I could forgive such an one, especially if he were. repentant.'. -
Well,' said Walter feebly, 'do you remember Bob Harrison's murder ?'"
'I have very good-reas ns toxdo so,' was the reply.  -
Oat you pardon me then, when I tell'you that when you wereaeeing tried for
that ergne,.I had almost positive evidence that it was committed by1LeBiun, and
yet wit   eld it for the sake of prejudicing Miss Gardiner and her family against
you? .' d you think .me as bese?'    -.                       -    ,
'I d._ot,' respondedCoL Foster frankly.; ' but I forgive you,-as I hope to be
forgivesby my Creator for my}manifold transgressions.'
'I sideerge hank you my dear old friend; but do you think there is a chance
-      of my forgiv .ess with God ? '
'He has.said,' repeated Col. Foster devoutly, that ,'he that cometh=nto .ne I
wil:in. no-wise-cast out,' and 'though. your sins be as scarlet, they shall be.
white{snanow.'
' ThEapray for me,' said, the dying man, ' for I have never yet learned to pray
for myself.'-

'FHB RIYALS :

A CHIOKAHOMINY STORY.

this accursed war
whatever yo wih shall be done,' said Charley,1pressing the col h itihe
held n  i sia  , "' ' , ;"5  . , -        t               j'  ',° r}rt
Iut Cole )Maynarddi dfit 4d that night, though he "grew  o attch oarse and
safe rdI o3ntensey, tat QoCol-Fosters did not expect him to yiv utlmor ni.
His woiud5 becameVso rirni that his whole framewas atetunesoanvsed a h
spasms of agoyrwhile is eyes seemed to startfrom their soestean
eaguded rm himusthhrghthefinly set teeh.            aig ais t naandered
and hig derius ra ng #iay4to Charley what had been hisathb find o
late.     e±rabou   -n '     tw4ay he grew easyandco o    ,; awas
perfectly, conscious, though his feeble pulse and:difficut. eating tld thathis
hours were numbered. Charley'swound had, from fatiguerexcitement and want
of sleep, become very painful ;-ardfoseveral hea hehad, been suffeinhgin-
tensely with it, bit he resolved t9 remain wtnh Maynard to the 'last.;
WhenStuart's cavalry, on the evening of the thk 27th had ;made their dash on,
the White House, a member of Bernard Gardiner 'scormpaiiy had gone br- Mr.
IHarrison'r and informed his mother and sister that he had been severalJ: wounded
in a  ' irish some weeks before, and was then lying in a critical condition at w
frien.' house in Richmond. As soon as they heard this they resolv dto g to ;
him assoon as theway, r ight be open, and learning the ne7t morning gthatthe .
Yankees had been drive across the Chickahominy. they set off for  icptfnd.
The journey was'attended *i h. mangy;difficulties, forithe-road in many lac  was
so cutup bythe Yankee ;gon trains,tas to be almost'impassale;     ey .
reached the sect * of o try which had been occupied by the exien  s caps,
they found $gs g tso changed by the general desolation which pre a  piedsAto
be scarcely .reogniable, and . it was with difficulty they, could -findz teir way
among the   ereus toadsb ranching offin all direcipns. In then eilo gdp;+
of the bat   field, too, they frequently found the road completely. b  {p
by the nfderate wagons -and ambulapces, and hy the crowds os         y
woun4 /1     were flocking iothe-direction of Richmnrd. About  ooi  y
reached Fairfield, and tpte brought to a stand by a wagon train.whni b  lted
just ahead eothem. :Thedriver had stopped their carriage, beside a pmj  he
end of the small house occupied by Charley and Walter, and-was wa  h$ is
horses, which were much'jaded. Around this pump a nrmberiof wu';   of
diers; were AestgdinggMrsr.Gardiner approaching,4enquired .if aihospi ad,
been established here;,one of the-soldiers replied in the affirmative ...
thereuppnupreposedlthat they.should send their servant ins'to:see .Wh their y-
of their friends were among the wounded in the house. - ,   -'  '' . "r=-
.Walterwas lying with his eyes 'eloSed, and seemed sinking fast ; b fatthe-
sound of FNellie'sivoice the raised himself up in a half-sitting posture, and ex.
claimed,.'I am, sure I know that voice  Isn't it Nel"li" ardier'?'-
Oharley nodded afirmatively.t'
' ''Well, then, beg her, for Heaven's sake,'to come here instantly; I ha &amp; some-


thi.ng. of hipottLauce to say to her.; brig her quickly7, fori, lhaw4er yitiy
Oh1a4"y hurried out to the carria cand fterfjal tifr  ,th e,Mjde  sid anr/jj' tI" ~e  ;""f i  i".t  ^yi *[ 'ilS",a"  yg
j°ohe tiaitournd iref        d,'   c     dkrAdmtojjin         atlh
thepii  l,;athe     .;nmatime  {j~' cri   roe of i;9 og, gan~thins 'eques
ellhe _e tate Ynol onger, i _S" .    twiuc, for the   4'p ofpiopri4ty, .I;&amp;-
lowed" her.
When h~iss Cardinier appioache~1 col. Iaynard'ssi~o and. 'his iVout'her ril
to him,' he seized it e age l - enud' s rid; " Think you for ' fihibg t  e" tk:i.
that you must despise me; but I am willing to bear trour :scorn th to a io  ,
as 4' as possible, for tho wrong I have done.  h tey FostertUs asi iocnt
ait=an ~nornababo of yor Cousin Robert's "murder.=\ ic t t  :run { was':.ht
lnurderer 4and h knew i t, hit would not sayfsio;4ort'Vished ryou  to., b lie _
;I e was all this time holding Nellie' =hand, and at"'this pointn he %called Charle~
to hies.'and taking his hand-placed Nrellie's.' mt.  a invg'Mnestly at them f  h
r  i  meats; he said, 'L se ateci yu oic o             it~eheh~ooslto
now - f re-~uniting you. 'Renew your troth to""im'°,B elie ; he has always hii
true to you.'F
NIlie blushed and, was silent for some mments, then raising'her, eyes she fdi-
rected a- modest glance of inquiry at tool. Poster; who was Yga ig't = t~-
eag~rl".
':oodeiei1'seskd" ith all my -heart,' was the eqer response.:}.
'jhan, sir, I again, give you iy band, axed with it the same warm--af' tion :1
ha-v.- Eway's cherished for you.'-
7i reported beyond measure, Go!l. Fo teE -kneltat her feetend.:co 'er d th
tire -4~  with kisses.
-bank     od,' ejaculated May ardin :a :hoarse whisper.-
The' wards had scarcely escaped his lips when he wvas seized  ithnother "'
rgxysmn-; iigbod~y was contorted with agciiiy- the piur le'niiilfdugihto the hite
halms o4 his oee4hed hands, and his teeth wro'b fid nhiial" h i.k  p
Bait suddenJy the contracted muscles =rela'ed; a= fo -gp t -painted' the lups 'of thi
dyiu'zga, and then all was ovep=. He fell. backek 4o~the ia-orpser lHe
had'it~d and suffered -hi~ asti on -earth.:      -     - '' ":- }
-ben Mrs:-Gardiner returned t'o her'ctuiage, sheinited G. F  t~ac
pan =-then to Richmond, as -there- was 'no longer anything o  t n  m tF
tield. -After' he liad givenn a few directions tolis'sei*=ai4t "nega Vto threkbu Ia
of eGel.                  her -ard, lie accepted herii vitatfon aud'atWcy:- cee4d='onm *h'ir  Wad 'to
Rxic  oxd.                                     "   '
eb~ce mdsfe by Nellie's side, he forgot for the oreit-tbe scenes+ of' he~fr an
dance through which lhe had lately prised:; he scM'ceI9 flt thy;y i -of 'his   t uj4.
w k4 a.short Zipesinc was so severe; bit'hen he had' arrived -at .M 'bbtel, b'w
no ingttlt ior charmed -pi esence, he beca necon ioug of a 'i =exd uiiiati I4in -ii
his fractured member. His wound indeed- -proved' ver severe, and fd  wr.'  t
the sauna Ieared that amputation- would tbe inevitable:."l-ie received every TIL'ioa
thattnWnls -could bestow, aitd through their tender ;nursing, ina ;loew.weeks, rse dd
witoutAth lsof his Qr'bn fDit}r. g ii,:nee,. Ms ao 'n. rda,, wko. was,  i 'nowA cli

9

I     11
"i,4*ft18i PO?1 )e cec? Cha:"le, to it, or  tk ug   dpacc        E b it,," .fe.

w                "
t
(
j

r#
i


9

"

4,&amp;

., _ , .    .. t
'   r 'rf ""    c 4
A  j .1  i
p i  .         n i r        '
r
'  7 .  .   air
#k   '     JL
t'fttd "
i1 i         Z
v
f"         r

.jaa r~

9

~  ~ .
..  -         "    F
it                 7
iT               {
-  '
W+
'a       S,         p, _
. 4'.$'          --- -.   . ' .
k tz,+
' "
Y         .'",
.._.-
,.  . ,_

. ,.
"  .
".                ,«,.:;
a-'

r

A C IVKAHOMINY STORY.
him; a d she and Nellie and Bern rd, as soon as the latter was  to to ride o t, called
frequen ly to see him. In the soci ty of his old friends, Charley was so happ that be
scarcely remetubered that a cruel a d desolating war was 'raging in the land; and the
battles f Cedar Run and second  anassas seemed to him, from t e published accoub ts
he read of thein, as unreal as dream ,s. But-at- the battle of Shar sburg he was again in
the sad le, and at the head of his allant brigade battled manful y for the la d. of his
birth. And again in Decenber he participated in another batt e, that of Fr dericks-
burg, w ere he received a very slig it flesh wound, just severe e ough, he th ught, to
justify im in getting a thirty-days leave of absence. Indeed, h  he not received any
wound e would have asked for aid obtained a furlough, for  ellie bad conseated to
make hi the happiest of men, and December 25th bad teen s9l cited as the wedding
day.
On t at Christmas evenring there vas a quiet wedding at Fairfield; indeed, t woul4
have    en almost a solemn wed ing if the bride, li her simple robe of mslin and
wreaths of orange flowers, and the room, in his handsome grey uniform, had not looked
so super atively happy. There wee but few persons present, and beaux were particu-
larly so rce; for many who would otherwise have graced the scene with their resence,
were sle ping their last sleep on t le battlefields of Gaines' Mills Malvern Hill Manas-
sas and haipsburg ; while many  ore were on this Chrigtmas evening sitting  around
the cam fire, talking of the happ past, and regaling themselves with the coa e fare of
the sold er. So the ladies had to fird such amusement as they co4d in each ot er's so-
ciety;  r the brave southern oys .ere paying their homage a  another sh ine; tho
same at which Marion of the first r volution paid his-like him they were in 1 ve, and
their 's eetheart was Ziberty.'
Many a sigh was given, in the m dat of this mirthful scene, for she absent ; a d as the
sweet n tea of nberiy music arose t rough the rooms, many among the guests remem-
bered  uw recently the thunder of battle had rent the air aroun  them, and bough ;,
with a hudde that under the bright carpets over which they trod so lightly t e floors
were y tp urple with human blood.
Aito ether,it was nOt a very gar we'ding-; but Charlef and  ellie thought t at, not-
withat ndinthere were-so many f the attending circumstances/that might ha e been
n ipro ed,.t was the very bappiet they had ever known.
/ "/                    ki  END.          f

'a      1
'        'a
k     . .
T  t
"                        {
s"  «   . t
. r ;
T                  y
"                  !
,SZf ..
{ ,         I        a
n      .-1.
i
3           f
1
r/4

a1

-
{

r

a


  
             
         
       
   
