
    ----CITATION----
        Corbin, Caroline Fairfield, (1835-1918). Our Bible-class, and the Good That Came of It .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6165 wright2-0634
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               OUR BIBLE-CLASS, AND THE GOOD THAT CAME OF IT.
            
            BY MISS CAROLINE E. FAIRFEILD.
            
            
               
                  "THE KINGDOM OF HEAVEN IS LIKENED UNTO A GRAIN OF MUSTARD SEED."
               
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               DERBY & JACKSON, 119 NASSAU STREET.
            
            1860.
         
         
         
            
               ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1860, by DERBY & JACKSON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New York.
               W. H. TINSON, Stereotyper.
               GEO. RUSSELL & Co., Printers.
            
         
         
            TO THE PUPILS OF The Packer Collegiate Institute, —MY OWN BELOVED ALMA MATER— WITH AN EARNEST PRAYER THAT IT MAY BE TO THEM A WORD IN DUE SEASON, THIS LITTLE VOLUME IS AFFECTIONATELY INSCRIBED.
         
         
            
            PREFACE.
            THE following pages have been written to meet what was believed to be a specific want. It is a fact deeply to be lamented that so many children of pious parents yearly leave the Sabbath-school and Bible-class at just that period of life when their forming characters most need the wholesome and restraining influences of religious culture. To such, the history of OUR BIBLE-CLASS offers a word of counsel and invitation. If it shall be heeded, and if the book itself shall prove to be the pioneer of a class of religious literature designed especially for such minds, the purpose of the writer towards the youth of her country will have been fulfilled.
            The book has still another aim, directed to more mature minds: the adult members of the Church should hold themselves responsible, in a great degree, for the welfare of the youth. To such, whether of high or low estate—whether blessed of God with talents or not—it is hoped that the example of Uncle Timothy may be beneficial.
            Beyond this, the author can only invoke the blessing of the Great Teacher himself upon her labor, and prayerfully and reverently resign its issues into His hands.
            
               C. E. F.
               Packer Collegiate Institute, BROOKLYN HEIGHTS, Feb., 1860.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               I.—SAMSON VS. DELILAH, 9
               
               II.—UNCLE TIMOTHY, 22
               
               III.—THE WORKING OF THE LEAVEN, 30
               
               IV.—THE CLOUD, 41
               
               V.—SOMETHING NEW, 53
               
               VI.—MEADOW BROOK, 60
               
               VII.—THE SILVER LINING, 66
               
               VIII.—CHARLES MAXWELL, 74
               
               IX.—THE "CALL," 87
               
               X.—THE YOUNG INQUIRER, 92
               
               XI.—THE STAPLETONS, 100
               
               XII.—JOSEPH, 115
               
               XIII.—THE EXPERIMENT TRIED, 132
               
               XIV.—THE FEAST, 145
               
               XV.—A DONATION, 156
               
               
               XVI.—REACTION, 170
               
               XVII.—THE FOLD, 182
               
               XVIII.—THE LOST SHEEP, 189
               
               XIX.—KATE'S MISSION, 207
               
               XX.—A TETE-A-TETE, 221
               
               XXI.—A BAR-TENDER'S NOTIONS OF RIGHT AND WRONG, 228
               
               XXII.—THE DISCLOSURE, 237
               
               XXIII.—A WEDDING IN HIGH LIFE, 249
               
               XXIV.—A PLEASURE RIDE, 259
               
               XXV.—MY AUNT, 271
               
               XXVI.—MY NEPHEW PROPOSES, 282
               
               XXVII.—THREE YEARS AFTER, 291
               
               XXVIII.—KATE, 298
               
               XXIX.—BLUE VIOLETS, 306
               
               XXX.—THE FESTIVAL, 323
               
               XXXI.—THE TRIUMPH OF FAITH, 337
               
               XXXII.—CONCLUSION, 345
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Our Bible-class, and the good that came of it
            OUR BIBLE-CLASS.
            
               
                  "The Kingdom of Heaven is likened unto a grain of mustard seed."
               
            
            
               I. SAMSON VS. DELILAH.
               A PLEASANT fire burned in the little open stove which dispensed warmth to Mrs. Temple's back parlor. Before it stood a handsome centre-table, upon which were spread various editions of the Holy Scriptures, several commentaries and books of reference, and a fine map of Judea. The shaded lamp around which these articles were arrayed, burned with a clear but subdued and pleasant light, revealing the modest, taste furniture of the room.
               Between the table and the fire stood a roomy and comfortable arm-chair, which was at present occupied by Uncle Timothy Vail. An expression of deep and anxious thought settled itself upon the countenance of the good old man, as, resting his elbow upon the arm of the chair, he leaned his forehead, shaded by a few iron-grey locks, upon his thin and wasted hand. The crutch which lay by his side, and the shrivelled, shapeless limb which dangled from the chair, showed him at once to be a cripple; but when you looked into a large, expressive face for the weakness and melancholy which often accompany similar afflictions, you failed to perceive them. The forehead was broad and ample; the eyes of that deep blue which indicate warm but well-controlled affections; and the prominent and rather rugged features betokening strength and positiveness of character, were pleasantly relieved by the mild expression of the countenance; veiled and softened so to speak, by the outshinings of love.
               The rain beat drearily against the windows, and Uncle Timothy, rousing himself from his revery, listened intently to the rising wind and driving storm. Very soon the bell rang, and a moment later—dripping wrappers having been deposited in the hall—the door of the parlor opened, and a tall, heavily-built, rather uncouth specimen of humanity, entered.
               "Good evening, Samson," said Uncle Timothy; "I am glad to see you so early. The storm seems to be increasing, and I feared we should have no class to-night."
               "'Tis rather a hard night," returned Mr. Thorn; "but a feller ain't much, to my way o' thinkin', if he can't stand a little wind and rain. 'Tain't so with the women folks, you know. They'd get blown away, sure, in such a night as this. I rather reckon," he added, with a half smile—Samson never laughed—"that the fellers that wanted to bring their girls with them, will get sick of their notion to-night."
               "I don't know," said Uncle Timothy, mildly; "some of our young ladies would hardly mind a storm if they were engaged to attend a ball. Perhaps if they became equally interested in a Bible-class, they might become as resolute in attending its meetings. I am sure it is desirable."
               Samson fidgeted in his chair, applied his red and yellow silk handkerchief to his damp forehead, and with an uneasy, but determined look, made a sudden—almost desperate—plunge into the very midst of the difficulty which caused him so much evident disquietude.
               "You see, Uncle timothy," he commenced, "I've been thinkin' all the week about this ere thing of lettin' the women folks join our class; and it does seem to me it is so onaccountably foolish and wrong, that I thought I would just drop around here a half an hour or so before the time, and talk it over with you."
               "I am very glad you did so Samson," said Uncle Timothy; "I am always happy to hear any thing which you may have to communicate; and perhaps a quiet conversation between ourselves may suggest some practical solution of this vexed question."
               "Well, yes sir, it is plain to be seen, if something ain't done pretty soon the whole class will go to smash, which is what we don't any of us want. There was a good deal of temper showed at the last meeting."
               "I am sorry to confess that there was, but I hope a week's thought has allayed some of it; and I am very certain that nothing but a calm, rational discussion of the matter is needed to enable us to distinguish the proper course to be pursued; and I hope that no one of us will refuse to yield his own individual will or prejudices to a consideration of the true interest of the class. I think none of you can cherish a deeper or more unselfish desire for the prosperity of our undertaking than myself; and yet I am sure I would readily abandon any prejudices which I may have, if I found them likely in any way to disturb the spirit of harmony which has hitherto prevailed at out meetings. I think we should judge of this matter as affecting the interest of the whole class, rather than by the preference of any individual member."
               Samson could oppose nothing to the weight of this reasoning, yet he grew more uneasy; his brows knitted ominously, and stroking his long fingers through his stiff red hair, he replied,
               "Certainly, Uncle Timothy, I hope I ain't agoin' to be onreasonable, and stick out against the views of all the rest; but it does seem to me to be such a pesky piece o' nonsense, a lettin' in a parcel of giggling girls to break up our class just as we've got it nicely started, that I'm sure, as you say, it only needs to be talked over calm and rational like to bring us all to a sensible conclusion."
               "I am sorry," said Uncle Timothy, pleasantly, "that you entertain so unfavorable an opinion of our young ladies. Some of them, I am sure, merit a different appellation from that of 'giggling girls.' There are Miss Olmstead and Miss White; they are certainly grave and sensible enough."
               "Crusty old maids, both of 'em," muttered Samson, irreverently.
               "And there are Mary and Phœbe Harris, and Susan Belknap, very sober, industrious young ladies"—
               "Prosy as the moral law," parenthesized Samson. Spite of his contempt for feminality, he had evidently bestowed some notice upon the article.
               "And if May and Emma Burroughs are a little gay, they are also very good-hearted; and I am sure Sophie Berryman is a girl whom no man can object to."
               Samson could raise no further objections to these young ladies than that the first two were "real high-flyers," and as for the latter, "it was well that she was a deacon's daughter, for with them cat's eyes of hern, he was sure she needed watching." He therefore, shifted his opposition to another ground.
               "But I suppose I hadn't ought to say anything against 'em," he continued, "especially as some on 'em is sisters in the church. May be they would enjoy a Bible-class, at least as much as it is in a woman's nature to enjoy anything of a serious cast; but as sure as they come into this 'ere meetin', they'll set the mischief inter half the fellers, and they'll think a great deal more o' brushing their hair slick, and wearin' fancy vests, than they will o' studyin' the word o' God; and that, accordin' to my notion, is just no better than sheer idolatry."
               The bell had rung during the course of Samson's argument, and now the door opened and two or three neatly dressed and very well-looking young men entered, and greeting Uncle Timothy with real warmth the heartiness of manner, seated themselves around the fire. Uncle Timothy, willing to postpone the subject in hand until the proper time for its discussion, purposely turned the conversation into another channel, and a sprightly chat upon various indifferent topics ensued.
               The usual hour of meeting was half past seven, but the storm this evening caused a little delay in the arrivals; at eight o'clock, however, a goodly number had assembled, and the lesson commenced. The history of the Jews under the rule of the Judges, was just at that time under consideration, and the ready and satisfactory answers of the young men, their intelligent reference to such books as were calculated to throw light upon their researches, and the pertinency of the questions which they put to their instructor in regard to such points as they had been unable satisfactorily to explain, sufficiently evinced the lively interest which they felt in the subject. Not one sign of weariness was noticeable when the clock upon the mantel pointed to nine, and the books were closed. A momentary silence ensued, broken by Uncle Timothy's full, pleasant tones, as he thus addressed his friends:
               "Within a few weeks, as you are all well aware, a subject has been introduced at our meetings which was attended by a division of opinion, and gave rise, particularly at our last meeting, to some rather sharp discussion. This evening has been appointed for its final adjustment: but before proceeding to the debate, I wish to offer a few remarks which may assist in placing the matter before you in a proper light."
               "It was not without much doubt and hesitation that I first decided to take the lead of your weekly meetings. Conscious of the great benefits which could not fail to arise from such am exercise, if steadily persevered in, I was still painfully uncertain of my own abilities to conduct it in such a manner as to render it pleasing and attractive. Every page of the Holy Scriptures abounds in interest, but the gift of skillfully developing it, is a rare one.
               "Thus far, by the blessing of God, our progress has been very satisfactory, and until the difficulty arose of which I speak, I have especially rejoiced in the spirit of harmony and conciliation which has prevailed. The proposition of some of our number, however, made in accordance with the wishes of their sisters and a number of female friends, that the young ladies of the congregation be also invited to participate in our exercises, seems, very unexpectedly to me, I must confess, to have drawn out a spirit of opposition. For myself, I wish to take no part in the discussion, further than to remind you how greatly to be deprecated would be any violet division of opinion, operating as it undoubtedly would to diminish very sensibly the interest at present felt in the class, and resulting perhaps in a discontinuance of our meetings. I am sure your own good sense will teach you, each and all, the folly of such a course; especially as a little consideration and magnanimity may not only avert such an evil, but may even make this occasion instrumental in strengthening the bonds of good fellowship which already exist among us. Let us lay aside all personal and party prejudices and talk the matter over in a friendly and becoming spirit, and I cannot doubt but all difficulties will vanish and a satisfactory conclusion be reached."
               Notwithstanding the conciliatory tone of these remarks, and the high respect in which their author was held by his auditors, Uncle Timothy notices as, at their conclusion, he glanced around the circle of faces, that there were still strong marks of conviction and determination expressed thereupon, and he inwardly looked forward to an interesting debate.
               James Hollis, one of the seniors of the class, and a young man of great worth and ability, was the first to speak.
               "I, for one," he said, "agree heartily with Uncle Timothy, that anything which should tend to disturb the good feeling which has hitherto prevailed among us, would be severely detrimental to the interests of the class; but it seems to me unnecessary that the proposed measures should produce any such results. These young ladies heartily desire to participate in the advantages which we enjoy, and I was very much surprised that nay of our number could so far forget their magnanimity, to say nothing of gallantry, as to refuse them; and more than all I was astonished to learn that the chief of the opposition was one whom I have been accustomed to regard as the most generous of mankind; our good friend Samson Thron."
               This allusion of course brought out Samson.
               "As for what you fellers call gallantry, you all know 'taint in my natur; though I'd help a woman, if she needed it, as soon as the best of you; and as for generosity, why I don't lay no special claim to that rather, though I can't say as I ra'ly like to look at a feller-creeter in distress without relievin' on 'em; but this ere seems to me to be a matter of pure self-defence. I've been to singin' schools and places, and I've watched this thing a good deal, and I say that I never see the place where boys and gals was mixed up together, but I thought the boys would 'a done a good deal better alone. And I do solemnly believe if we let the girls come inter this ere class it won't be two months afore there'll be such gigglings and flirtings and light-mindedness as will entirely destroy the usefulness of the meetin's. That's my candid idee, and if I'm wrong I can't help it."
               During this harangue considerable amusement was visible upon the faces of the opposite party; even Uncle Timothy's mild blue eyes twinkled with a half-suppressed smile. As soon as he ceased speaking, Walter Converse replied pertinently as follows:
               "The Author of Nature seems to hold a different opinion from Samson's in regard to 'mixing up boys and girls,' for although, unhappily, as I believe for the female sex, Samson has the misfortune to be sisterless, in most families there is due proportion of both the male and the female clement; and this, I believe, is generally considered the order of nature, and any deviation from it greatly to be deprecated. As for the imputation of frivolity and light-mindedness, I am sure we ought all to be thankful to Samson for his kind care over our morals, however we may feel inclined to regard his want of faith in our stability of character. At any rate, we may congratulate ourselves that one member of our class" (bowing deferentially to Samson) "is above temptation in these matters."
               "Samson hasn't met with his Delilah yet," whispered Ed Cunningham. "Or if he has, and been shorn, I don't know as that is any reason why we should cut ourselves off from all communication with females. I never heard that they of olden time eschewed the sex on account of the misfortune of the son of Manoah."
               "Boys, boys," said Uncle Timothy, mildly, "never indulge in personalities."
               Most of Samson's party were, as may be imagined, naturally too bashful to take a very animated part in the discussion. Levins Horton was, however, an exception. The only child of Squire Horton, a man of fast increasing wealth, and naturally headstrong, self-willed, and obstinate, these evil characteristics had been fostered by all sorts of foolish indulgences. That his motive for joining the class had been curiosity and the love of excitement, or a desire to put himself forward by attaching himself to any new and popular enterprise, rather than any sincere desire for self-improvement, Uncle Timothy had seldom doubted; still, beyond a few ignorant or conceited remarks, and an occasional swaggering air, which betrayed a lamentable lack of good breeding, his conduct thus far had attracted no censure. Now, however, his natural combativeness arrayed itself against the new measure.
               "For my part," he argued, "I don't see any need of all this fuss. We've got up a class, and got it nicely a-going, and it's ours. If the girls want to get up another, and get some of the ladies to teach them, I am sure I don't care. But this is our affair, and we want it to ourselves."
               "I have thought of such a plan," said James Hollis, "but it seems to me that the formation of two separate classes might engender a spirit of rivalry and competition, which would detract seriously from the usefulness of either. The ladies, too, have considered it, and many of them are anxious to adopt it, but, upon inquiry, they found that it would be extremely difficult to procure a suitable teacher. There are few married ladies in the congregation who could command one evening in the week, secure from interruption, to devote to such a purpose."
               "There are spinsters enough in Meadow Brook, I am sure, who ought to be able to teach a Bible class," replied Levins.
               "The ladies of that class make various excuses. Some have no time; others do not feel assured of their capacity; and all would much prefer to be pupils rather than teachers; and for my own part, knowing the great benefits which I have derived from Uncle Timothy's pleasant instructions, I do not feel it right to use my influence in depriving other of them; particularly as he kindly consents to this addition to his labors."
               Much more was said upon both sides, but as it was mostly a reiteration of the arguments already advanced, we omit it. The opposition, who bad always been decidedly in the minority, were obliged to yield their point, which they did very gracefully at last, with the exception of Samson, to whose actions that epithet was never applicable, but who, nevertheless, did not suffer his defeat to impair his Zeal in the cause, and Levins Horton, who was manifestly and avowedly much displeased with the proceeding. The affront which his self-love received that night he never forgot.
               The question finally settled in the affirmative, the young men bade their instructor a very hearty good-night, and dispersed to circulate the news of the triumph, leaving Uncle Timothy to meditate with mingled amusement, thankfulness, and anxiety upon the events of the evening.
            
            
               
               II. UNCLE TIMOTHY.
               TIMOTHY VAIL had been from childhood a cripple. Of humble parentage, the ill health consequent upon his misfortune, and his father's limited resources had prevented his receiving the education for which he thirsted. He had been apprenticed to a shoe-maker, and late and early, through a lifetime of hardship and poverty he had wrought at his humble bench. Still, in his leisure hours, he found time for reading and study, and often when his hands were busy with their accustomed labor, his brain was occupied with thoughts which, could they have been laid open to the curious gaze of the wise of this world, would have awakened surprise by their depth and originality. Early in life he had married a sprightly, affectionate woman, who, though intelligent, well educated, and of a higher station in life than his, had yet been able to appreciate the excellent characteristics of the poor lame shoe-maker, and had cheerfully consented to share his fortunes. They were both devoted Christians; and when their first child, Lizzie, was born, they had hoped to be enabled together to rear her in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, that she might be their pride and comfort in their old age, and the brightest star in their crown of rejoicing in that country where, in the youthfulness of immortality, they should forever sing the praises of him who had redeemed them. When, however, in Lizzie' twelfth year, Mrs. Vail had been suddenly removed by death, her husband, though sorely bereaved, bore his sorrow with Christian resignation, and thereafter devoted all his energies to the faithful execution of those cherished plans which their united wisdom, aided, as they hoped, by the influence of God's Holy Spirit, had conceived.
               Lizzie grew up an amiable and affectionate child. the pride of the village, and especially beloved by the group of young people who were always delighted to gather around Uncle Timothy's bench or fireside, to listen to his pleasant anecdotes or wise instructions. Still Lizzie, though all in person and disposition that the fondest father could desire, was not yet renewed in heart. The one pearl of great price was not yet hers. But though the old man mourned sorely her indifference to the cause which was first in his affection, he never faltered in earnest and persevering prayer to Him who alone could move that young heart to penitence and faith.
               At last Lizzie had married William Temple, a well-to-do tradesman in Meadow Brook, and everybody rejoiced at her good fortune, called Mr. Temple a happy, men, and wished the young couple much joy. Only one painful reflection mingled with Uncle Timothy's happiness: William was not a professing Christian, and much he feared that his daughter would find renewed temptations in the circumstances of her new life, to shut her heart against the gracious influences of that Spirit which alone could enlighten her mind with a true sense of her lost condition.
               William Temple was a man of kind heart and good principles, and one of the first acts of his married life was to urge Uncle Timothy, whose failing health was evident to all, to share the pleasant home which he had provided for his bride. He bad much trouble to gain the old man's consent; and it was not until Lizzie had repeatedly assured her father that she could never be happy while he was left homeless by he desertion, that the matter was finally settled.
               Even after he had removed to his new abode, he continued to work at his trade; but his labors were much lightened by the kindness of his children, and he had far more time for those intellectual pursuits, which were his chief recreation, than formerly. As his opportunities increased, so also did his desires to do good. He had long been engaged in the Sabbath-school, and had noticed, with deep and ever increasing regret, the growing tendency of young people to relax their interest in the Sunday-school and Bible-class, just at a period when their forming characters most needed the wholesome and judicious restraints of religious instruction.
               About this time, the removal from the village of a teacher who had for a long time been at the head of the young men's Bible-class, opened the way for a favorite plan of Uncle Timothy's, which was to induce the young men of the congregation to form themselves into an organization for the purpose of studying Bible history.
               The scheme met the active encouragement of Mr. Hastings, the pastor, and of most of the members of the church; and the originator of it was, much to his surprise, unanimously chosen teacher.
               Only a half dozen youths had at first enrolled themselves as pupils, but gradually, as the interest in the class had increased, the number had been augmented, until at the time our story opens, twelve or fourteen young men were in the habit of gathering, every Thursday evening, around Uncle Timothy's arm-chair for purposes of instruction.
               Toward the middle of the winter, a new evidence of the increasing influence of Uncle Timothy's Bible-class was found in the frequently expressed desire of several of the most worthy young ladies of the congregation, to form a similar organization among themselves. The difficulties which they had encountered, however, in the outset, indeed James Hollis, whose sister Mary was one of the prime movers of the enterprise, to suggest that with Uncle Timothy's permission they might very properly be admitted into the existing class. Permission was accordingly applied for, and the applicants plicants, girls who had grown up from infancy under Uncle Timothy's eye, and were only second in his affections to Lizzie, were very cordially received, and a promise given of immediate admission, subject only to the vote of the class, when suddenly unlooked-for opposition arose in the earnest protest of Samson Thorn and his coadjutors.
               Samson was a carpenter by trade, a member of the church, and a very worthy young man. Since he was eighteen, his mother, a widow, whose only child he was, had been dependent entirely upon his exertions for support. He was an affectionate son, and his tenderness toward his parent, and the sturdy and correct principles which were known to govern his life, had won for him the respect and esteem of the villagers.
               Uncle Timothy disliked exceedingly to make Samson's prejudices the means of alienating him from the class, and knowing the resolute and unwavering, as well as conscientious character with which he had to deal, judged it more prudent to leave the matter open for discussion awhile, than by any violent and immediate decision to inflame the prejudices of either party. The result of the final debate had pleased him well; but a feeling of anxiety lest some of the fears of Samson and his confederates might be realized, still occasionally troubled him. It was with rather unusual interest, therefore, that he watched the arrivals on the succeeding Thursday evening. James Hollis came with his sister Mary; Ed Cunningham attended Mary and Ella Burroughs; and several of the less prominent of the malcontents accompanied their female friends. Levins Horton absented himself entirely, but Samson arrived at the usual time, and appeared, like all the rest, in excellent spirits, although at first a little shy of the new-comers. They were seated indiscriminately around the table and upon the sofa, and the lesson had commenced, when Sophie Berryman arrived, in company with Miss White, who was her maternal aunt. She was quiet, self-possessed, hazel-eyed little body, always the most cheerful, amiable and discreet of her sex, and an especial favorite with Uncle Timothy.
               Stopping only to divest herself of a very becoming hood and a tasteful blanket shawl, and exchanging a quiet "good evening" with Uncle Timothy and young vacant chair which remained at the table, and which Samson had purposely allowed to intervene between himself and lively little May Burroughs, of whose flashing eyes and sparkling wit he always entertained an especial dread. Samson shrank back from contact with the sweeping folds of merino, and nervously gathered up his books and pencil, so as to leave plenty of room for Miss Sophie, very much to the amusement of Uncle Timothy, whose right hand neighbor he was. She quietly begged him not to give himself so much trouble, and in a minute more was as comfortably arranged in her place as if she bad been sitting there an hour.
               The evening passed quite as pleasantly as usual; the order was as perfect, the interest as well sustained, the answers as prompt and intelligent. The ladies, it is needless to say, behaved themselves with perfect propriety, and did very much, in a quiet way, toward allaying the unjust prejudices which had been excited against them. Even Samson, when he found that Miss Sophie made no unusual demonstrations toward him, but treated him with all the gravity and consideration which she bestowed upon Uncle Timothy, seemed to grow more reconciled to his lot. Toward the close of the evening, when reference was had to a map, of which Miss Sophie had no copy Samson actually offered her the use of his, relinquishing all hold upon it, however, from the instant it went into her hands, until she voluntarily restored it to his possession.
               At the close of the lesson, while the ladies were donning cloaks and shawls, Samson stood at the head of the room, talking with Uncle Timothy, when Miss White approached to bid the old gentleman good night. With ready tact he detained Samson for a moment, and engaged him in conversation with the spinster, and then turning politely away, left them. Samson grew very red and nervous; and when Miss White remarked that Sophie was going home with James and Mary Hollis, and she saw they were waiting for her, he actually stammered out:
               "May I—may I see you home, Miss White?"
               The lady assented with a blush and a smile, and Samson actually went home with a lady that night.
               "Bravo!" exclaimed Ned Cunningham, as the door closed behind them, "Samson's got among the Philistines."
            
            
               
               III. THE WORKING OF THE LEAVEN.
               THE circumstances already narrated, occurred toward the close of the winter. For two months the meetings of the class continued with unabated interest; and at the end of that time, with a single exception, not one of the gentlemen regretted the change in their organization, or would willingly have returned to the old exclusive system. We mentioned one exception, but it is much to be doubted, if the dissatisfaction of Levis Horton could be truthfully attributable to his cause. He had joined the class from selfish motives, and when he found how little of importance or notoriety was likely to attach to himself, from his connection with it, and above all when his groundless and arbitrary opposition was successfully resisted, his indifference had deepened into positive malignity. If he had withdrawn immediately from the class, even though it had been for the sake of more freely venting his spleen in the coarse ridicule and vulgar abuse for which he was noted, no one would have objected; but this was not the revenge at which he aimed. Aware that he could make his presence an infliction, and determined if possible ble to bring the class into disrepute, he continued his attendance, often behaving with rudeness and insolence at the meetings, and omitting no opportunity, when abroad, of commenting unfavorably upon the conduct of the members. All this of course was a severe trial to Uncle Timothy, but he bore it patiently, and by his mildness and gentleness frequently succeeded in making the annoyance much less keenly felt. A strong feeling of indignation was nevertheless aroused in the class, which seemed likely to result at last in the expulsion of the offending member.
               As the spring advanced, it was deemed advisable to discontinue the meeting during the warm season, and it was hoped that when the class was re-organized, Levins might voluntarily withdraw.
               At the first meeting in the autumn, however, he presented himself; there was some private discussion in regard to the propriety of receiving him again as member, but peaceable counsels at last prevailed and he was allowed to remain.
               All through the summer vacation, the Bible-class had lain very near to Uncle Timothy's heart. He had read and prayed and studied much, and a deeper feeling of the importance of the work in which he was engaged, and of the responsibility which rested upon him, imparted additional solemnity and earnestness to his manner. Often when he spoke to his pupils of the dealings of God with his people in olden times, of the hardness of their hearts, and of the tender mercy which crowned their lives with blessings, sending chastisements upon them, only when it was absolutely necessary to bring them cheerfully back to his own paternal rule;—when he compared the conduct of ancient Israel with the conduct of the sinner in all ages; when he showed them how, at all times, the unrenewed heart is totally averse to the Divine authority, and rejects wit his scorn the loving counsels and admonitions of its Parent and Friend, the very depths of his own warn heart seemed broken up, and he poured forth tender, earnest appeals to their own consciences; and strong persuasions, to heed, early in life, the warnings and invitations of the word of God, and to return like lost sheep, wandering and starving upon the mountains, to the fold of the good Shepherd.
               Such endeavors could not be without effect.
               A growing seriousness among the members of the class attested that the good seed so wisely sown, was taking root. At the same time the older members of the congregation seemed to be similarly affected, the weekly prayer-meetings grew larger and more interesting, and before Christmas it was evident that a special outpouring of the Spirit had visited the church in Meadow Brook.
               In this state of things, the Bible-class was of course a favorite institution. There were frequent and interesting additions to its numbers; Mrs. Temple's parlor soon proved insufficient to accommodate the class, and its sessions were removed to the Vestry room.
               For some weeks previous to this change, Mr. and Mrs. Temple had occasionally dropped into the parlor during the recitations of the class—indeed Mrs. Temple had always been in the habit of coming in to speak to the young ladies, a few minutes before they left, but for the last few evenings they had attended the meetings regularly and taken part in the exercises. All this had been done without comment, and as a thing of course; but upon the evening of the first meeting at the vestry room, Lizzie said to Uncle Timothy's at tea,
               "Are William and I to go with you to class to-night, father?"
               "Certainly, my child, if you desire it. Why do you ask such a question?"
               "I did not know whether the class would like to admit married people regularly. We have thought some time of asking if we might become members."
               "For myself personally, you know it would be a peculiar pleasure to see you interested in the study of the Bible; and I am sure there will be no opposition in the class. Indeed, as your old schoolmates and friends, I think they will rejoice to have you with them again."
               After tea, William was obliged to go to the store, and Lizzie was left alone with her father. They were in the little parlor; Uncle Timothy sitting in his arm-chair, and Lizzie standing at the window, looking out upon the pleasant landscape, which the light of a clear full moon revealed distinctly. At a little distance stood the village church, its tall white spire ascending amid century-old oaks and buttonwoods, while around it, in the deep shadow, a score of white tombstones marked the last resting-places of some who had in life been living pillars in that holy edifice. Upon one of these was Lizzie's eye fixed. Long and silently she gazed upon that lowly mound, and a tear trickled down her cheek as she thought of the gentle mother whose beloved form lay moldering there. Away back into the past her thoughts wandered, to the humble home of which the now sainted one was then the guardian spirit; an "earth-treading star," whose soft glow lighted the heart with a more than earthly radiance; an angel of peace, before whose gentle smile unhallowed cared and troubles fled like mists before the dawn. Lizzie's heart swelled convulsively as she thought of the tenderness which had shielded her young life from the knowledge of sorrow; of the earnest prayers which had gone up like incense from that loving heart, prayers for her; prayers whose answering blessing she had so often refused, even since the loved voice of the pleader had been hushed in death. The thought of her own ingratitude and sinfulness deepened within her, till she could bear it no longer, and, stealing softly to her father's side, she knelt, and laying her head upon his shoulder, sobbed:
               "Father, forgive me; in my mother's name, forgive me."
               "Forgive you for what, dear child?" said Uncle Timothy, gentle, drawing her tenderly to him.
               "You were always a loving child to your mother Lizzie."
               "But I refused to listen to her counsels, to heed her prayers. She would have had me a Christian; you would have me a Christian, father; and all my life long I have ungratefully hardened my heart against your instructions and warnings."
               "Lizzie," said Uncle Timothy, tenderly but solemnly, "not of me, dear one, must you ask forgiveness for so long neglecting the interests of your immortal soul. Three is Another, one whose love far transcends that of any earthly parent, whom you have scorned and outraged by your indifference. Of Him must you first seek forgiveness."
               Lizzie only answered by sobs."
               "Are you willing to ask his pardon, my child? Can you pour this confession into his ear, and ask humbly for absolution?"
               "How can I approach one whom I have all my life-time neglected and scorned? Pray for me, father."
               "I will, my child, but that will avail you little unless you can bring yourself, also, to bow humbly before the Mercy Seat. It is you, Lizzie, who must sent up the cry for mercy."
               "I know it, dear father; but how can I? If I were a pagan, and had but just heard of this Saviour, it would be different; but all my life I have scorned his love—all my life I have been importuned to heed his loving invitations, and still have refused. With all my neglected advantages tages to appear against me, can I still hope for mercy?"
               "'Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.' There is mercy for all who will claim it, Lizzie."
               She made no answer.
               "God grant, my dear child," said her father "that His spirit may not strive with you in vain. Cherish these convictions; give yourself no rest day or night until you have found that peace which you seek."
               The entrance of William put an end to the conversation. Lizzie arose, and, bringing to her father his overcoat and crutch, carefully assisted him in his preparations for the walk. When they were ready, William gave one arm to the support of Uncle Timothy, while Lizzie walked at the other side of him. The distance was very short, and they soon reached the vestry room.
               The class was nearly assembled when they entered. A group of the latest comers was gathered around the fire, while others were already in their seats. Among the former was our old friend Samson. An observant eye would have noticed several changes in him since we last met. The stiff, red hair no longer stood defiantly out in all directions from his head, but was allowed to grow to a more becoming length, and carefully brushed away from the broad, intelligent forehead. The coarse homespun clothes and cowhide boots were replaced by habiliments of more tasteful, though scarcely more expensive material; and instead of the red and yellow bandana, he flourished a neat, white linen handkerchief. His manners, too, though not yet those of a French dancing-master, were manifestly amended; and as Uncle Timothy entered he was actually leaning over May Burrough's shoulder, pointing out some particular reference in a book which he had loaned her; this accomplished, he turned to Sophie Berryman, and resumed his conversation with her, with as much ease as if she had been Uncle Timothy, or even Mr. Hastings himself.
               Upon the other side of the stove matters were not going on so smoothly. James Hollis and Walter Converse were talking quietly together in a low tone, when Levins Horton, who, since the late increasing interest in religion, had grown more than ever annoying, interposed with a rude exclamation.
               "I say, boys, what are you talking about?"
               At first the young men paid no attention to the interrogatory. When, however, it was repeated in a louder and more imperious tone than before James quietly replied:
               "Nothing which concerns you, Levins."
               "Yes, you are—you are talking about me."
               "We haven't mentioned your name," said Walter, "and if we had, I don't know that there is any law against it."
               "You shan't talk about me without my knowing the reason why," was the rude answer. "I wan't to know what you was saying."
               "We have not said one word in regard to you since we came into the room: as for what we were saying, we don't feel called upon to tell you."
               "You lie!" shouted Levins, angrily. "You know you was slandering me! and it ain't the first time, either." And he hit James a blow upon his check.
               A cry of "shame," arose from all the spectators, and Walter instantly sprang forward to protect his friend from further assault. At this moment, Uncle Timothy's voice was heard.
               "Walter," he said, "release him. Levins Horton, tell me why you behave so disgracefully. For what cause have you raised this shameful tumult?"
               Levins, whose breath gave evidence to all near him that he had been drinking, bow turned furiously around his interrogator, and replied impudently:
               "It is none of your business, and man. I'll do as I please for all you."
               His glaring eye and trembling form sufficiently attested his condition, and Uncle Timothy knowing that to parley with him was only to encourage his insubordination, commanded him, in the same firm tones, to leave the room.
               "Not for you, I won't," he replied, with au oath.
               "Samson," said Uncle Timothy, "put him out. He is disgracing himself and us."
               Samson, who for the last minute had scarcely restrained his anger, stepped quickly forward, and grasping the arm of the young man, spite of his struggles and cries, and imprecations against the "old cobbler," as he denominated Uncle Timothy, led him forcibly from the room.
               After closing the door and slipping the bolt, he returned to his place. The young ladies were trembling with agitation, and most of the gentlemen were very pale. All were deeply pained at the occurrence, but each felt that it was unavoidable, and that it had been settled in the only judicious manner; yet it was with many forebodings of evil that obeyed the quiet summons to take their places for recitation.
               As for Uncle Timothy, he was sorely troubled. He well knew Squire Horton's resentful disposition, and he felt sure that he would leave no means untried to avenge the indignities offered to his son. For the injury which might be inflicted upon himself, he cared little; but in such a quarrel, he felt that the interests of the church, of which Squire Horton was unfortunately a member, could but suffer; and that the interesting work of grace which seemed progressing in their midst, and in which his own heart was so fully engaged, should be interrupted, and its precious influences perhaps entirely dissipated seemed to the good old man the sorest evil which could befall himself, the church and the community.
               "Oh, God!" he cried, in his petition that night "forbid that this affliction should come upon thy people. In whatever way thou shalt see fit to use thy poor old servant for thy glory, vouchsafe in thy mercy to make him not the instrument of evil to thy beloved; but grant that thy church may prosper in all her ways." 
                     
                        "God moves in a mysterious way,
                        His wonders to perform;"
                     
                   and it was long before Uncle Timothy saw how the mercy of God was made manifest in the answer to that prayer.
            
            
               IV. THE CLOUD.
               MORTON HASTINGS, the young pastor of the church at Meadow Brook, sat alone in his study. His head rested upon his hand, and his brow was clouded with anxious thought. An earnest, loving spirit looked out at his deep blue eyes, and the curls of his chestnut hair shaded a broad, white forehead, indicative of more than usual intelligence. The features were regular, and the whole organization was of that fine and delicate structure which betokens exquisite and refined sensibilities.
               From the expression of pain which sat upon his features, he was evidently undergoing a severe trial. He was grieved, perplexed, almost in despair, for the strength of the old and tried warrior was not his, and he had not learned to bear without fainting the heavy burdens which almost inevitably fall upon the faithful minister of the Word.
               There came a knock at the door, and his sweet, patient wife entered. For days she had noted that same troubled look upon his face, and unable longer to pursue her accustomed labor, with the thought of him, sitting alone in his sorrow, resting upon her mind, she had come to offer comfort. Laying one arm across the back of his chair, and with the other hand stroking away the heavy locks which fell over his forehead, she asked:
               "Is it this affair of the Bible-class which troubles you so much, Morton?"
               "Yes, dearest."
               "Is Mr. Horton then so very angry?"
               "He declares that he will no longer remain in the church, unless Mr. Vail apologizes to him, and invites Levins to return, or the authorities take the matter in hand."
               "And what do you propose to do?"
               "Uncle Timothy has talked with him as kindly and reasonably as possible; has shown him the evil consequences of a concession upon Levins, and has pointed out the utter impossibility of such a course."
               "And he still remains obstinate?"
               "Yes."
               "Surely such a man could be no loss to the church."
               "No; he is far better out of it than in it; but he has his friends, and that his defection and their coldness should occur just at this time, when the utmost unanimity is desirable, is, we all feel, most unfortunate. Satan has aimed a deadly shaft at us."
               "But the Lord can turn it aside."
               "True, but under present circumstances faith itself seems almost staggered. Mr. Horton lays great stress upon the fact that his son was locked out; has spread rumors that since it has met in the vestry the class has been in the habit of sitting under lock and key, and of course puts the worst face upon matters that he can. Then the fact that both Uncle Timothy and Samson are mechanics, below him in station, as he claims, wounds his pride, and aggravates the whole matter."
               "Of course you will not arraign Uncle Timothy."
               "I do not know but it may be advisable, particularly as he himself desires an official investigation of his conduct. He is very patient under the trial, and the spirit of the class is admirable. I am amazed at their forbearance; they all, with one voice, uphold their teacher and all of their number concerned; they feel deeply the disgrace of the thing—but there is a humility and spirit of charity chastening their indignation, which I am delighted to behold. It, more than anything else, to my mind, marks the institution as favored of God."
               "Then, my dear husband, rest assured that he will not suffer it to be overthrown. The circumstances of its organization were evidently arranged by Providence. It has thus far been especially blest to those for whose benefit it was designed. This untoward event has been brought on by no fault of any at present connected with it; and I have faith to believe that it too is commissioned of God to work out his will in the wise upbuilding of his church. Let us remember that his ways are not as our ways, and trust him still."
               "There is force in what you say, Mary, and it gives me much comfort. Pray, dearest, that my faith may be strengthened, that wisdom may be given me, lest, by some ill-considered act of mine, the trouble may be increased. That is it, Mary, if I were only sure that I could discharge this responsibility faithfully. If I should err, and so, by my misdoing, bring further shame upon the church, how could I ever be happy again? Oh, the terrible responsibility of a pastor's position! who can fathom it?"
               "God our father can, Morton; and he can apportion supplies from the Infinite treasury. Only trust him."
               "It is very disgraceful affair, this is Horton's son," said Lawyer Wentworth that day, as he seated himself at his elegantly furnished dinner-table. "Horton has been over to the office all the morning, talking about it."
               "Does he intend to do anything?" asked his wife, a dark, stylish-looking woman.
               "Yes; he wants to bring an action of assault and battery; but he can't do anything—the boy struck the first blow. He declares he will have satisfaction somehow, nevertheless, or leave the church."
               Neither Mr. or Mrs. Wentworth were professors of religion, but they were extremely proud, and looking at the matter from a purely secular point of view, they could but see that it was anything but creditable to Squire Horton and his son. Still, Squire Horton was wealthy and influential, and his opponents were poor and below them in station, so their sympathies leaned after all, in the wrong direction.
               "Well," said Mrs. Wentworth, "I suppose we should have charity for him. Levins is a very high-spirited young man, and I don't doubt he had some provocation; and then, to be put out by that big burly carpenter—it was very aggravating."
               "For my part," said Cora, the youngest daughter, "I always thought that Bible-class would come to no good. It is altogether too leveling in its principle. I was quite astonished that Levins ever attended it at all. It seems to me that no well-bred person could fancy sitting all the evening to hear a poor old cobbler talk, and looking over in the same books, perhaps, with that red-headed carpenter. I have no fancy for such things; but tastes differ."
               This was said with a sneering glance at her sister Eleanor, who sat with downcast eyes, and crimson cheeks, apparently intent upon her food. Eleanor was a girl of far more heart and sense than her sister; and during the past few weeks she had cherished many serious reflections in regard to her soul's welfare. When the Bible-class was first formed, she had been too indifferent upon religious subjects to care to join it; but recently, not without opposition on the part of her mother and sister, who were extremely worldly people, she had attended its meetings regularly. She had been present at the time of the difficulty, and knew how utterly unexceptionable had been Uncle Timothy's conduct; and anywhere else but in the presence of her parents, she would not have hesitated to vindicated him from every shadow of blame. But the expression of any sympathy for a mechanic would, she was sure, be highly reprobated by them, and very probably provoke them to forbid entirely her attendance upon the class. She, therefore, took no further notice of her sister's sneer, than to remark that "she had always found the meetings very interesting, and never more so than since Levins had absented himself."
               "I must confess with Cora," said Mrs. Wentworth, "that I wonder greatly at your taste; and you know very well that if you were to take my advice, you would never go there again. However, I suppose you must do as you please."
               "Eleanor is, as you intimate, old enough to choose for herself in this matter," said Mr. Wentworth; "but I may agree with you so far as to say that nothing would please me better than for her to give up this idle whim. I should think the scenes connected with it already enough to disgust any refined mind; and no one can tell what may yet happen. There promises to be quite a disturbance."
               "Eleanor's face flushed a deeper crimson as she answered:
               "But, father, no one has made any disturbance but Mr. Horton and Levins. The class was never more united and harmonious than at present; and I am sure Uncle Timothy bears this affliction with the resignation of a martyr."
               "Uncle Timothy!" sneered Cora. "Pray how how long is it since you have claimed kinship with the lame shoemaker?"
               "Cora," said Mr. Wentworth, sternly, "reserve your sneers for some one besides your sister, though I own I scarcely know of any one more deserving of them. I will never have it said, Eleanor, that a child of mine was prevented from doing as she chose in matters of religion; it would not be creditable. I scorn tyranny and absolutism; but you know my mind in this matter, and I hope you will have sufficient self respect to refrain from lowering yourself to the level of those people. They are doubtless well enough in their way, but you must by this time be aware, no fit associates for you."
               As Mr. Wentworth concluded, he rose from the table and left the room, and Eleanor, following him, passed up the stairs into her own apartment.
               A half hour later, Cora entered, and found her lying on the bed, weeping violently.
               "Why, what is the matter Nell?" she exclaimed, the scorn of her tone slightly abated. "Are you growing romantic, and fancying yourself a persecuted damsel because papa chooses you should not go to that ridiculous Bible-class any longer? For my part, I only wonder that he ever allowed it at all."
               Eleanor made no reply.
               
               "Come, Nell, I am ashamed of you. I'll tell mother at once, and bring down all the weight of her royal displeasure upon you, if you don't get up and begin to be rational. One would fancy you were in love with the red-headed carpenter, by the way you go on. I believe it was quite providential that papa broke up the affair as he did, or there is no knowing where it might have ended. I wonder where you could have got your democratic notions, Nell; not from either of their royal hignesses, our parents, I am sure, for they are both as proud as Lucifer."
               "Stop," said Eleanor, with dignity, in spite of her tears. "I will not hear you talk so, Cora; you owe your parents more respect."
               "Well-a-day, Miss Pattern of Propriety, you talk as if you were not at this very moment rebelling, in your secret heart, against the tyrannical decree of your most respected paternal parent. A fine preacher you are."
               Eleanor blushed with self-condemnation. "Papa had made no decrees, Cora: he only gave his advice."
               "Exactly; but when did ever child of Alfred Wentworth dare disregard advice so given. Why, I'd as soon disinherit myself at once."
               Eleanor had risen, and was rearranging her toilet. She stood before the mirror, and turning around with a dignified but determined air, she fixed her full eye upon Cora, and replied solemnly:
               "Disinherited or not, I shall continue to attend the Bible-class. God has shown it to me to be my duty, and I shall not falter. I would fain please my parents, but when their wishes conflict with what I believe to be a higher duty, I must disregard them."
               "Cora, whom the sight of another's distress gifted with a sort of malignant mirth, grew bitter and sarcastic when determinedly opposed.
               "You are getting religious, I see, Miss Wentworth. This is the first time I ever knew that disobedience to parents was part of the church creed. You learned that article of the redoubtable cobbler, doubtless."
               "Cora, I am not 'religious,' in the sense in which you use the word; but I feel the need of something more than I have found in life hitherto. That 'something' I am satisfied the much-despised cobbler possesses, and if by humble and prayerful attendance upon his instructions, I can learn the way of obtaining it, I shall certainly give that attendance. This is a matter entirely between me and my God, and in which I own no one's right to interfere, not even my parents'."
               All the fire was gone from her eye now, and there shone there only the light of an earnest spirit—a solemn determination.
               "I despise such cant," sneered Cora. "I know your stubborn spirit well, and I will not gratify you by arguing the subject with you; but rest assured I shall not fail to acquaint your father with your amiable and respectful intentions." And rising, she swept haughtily out of the room.
               
               When her sister was gone, Eleanor sat down by her window, and looked out upon the dreary landscape. Heavy, leaden clouds shrouded the sky form pole to pole; a damp, easterly wind wailed through the leafless tree-tops; and the hills, far and near, were covered with wet, half-melting snow.
               There was little in the prospect that was calculated to win bright fancies to an already saddened heart; and for a half hour Eleanor sat brooding over her gloomy burden of thought. She was not yet twenty; beautiful, accomplished and the child of wealthy and aristocratic parents. She had travelled; one winter she had spent at Washington, where her father had represented his district in Congress; and the last summer she had been a brilliant and admired guest at Saratoga. And yet, youthful reader, who perhaps at this moment art sighing for envy of her advantages, she was not happy. Deep down in her heart there was a void which all the mocking gaieties of such a life as hers could not fill. Thus, early in life, she had learned that those pleasures which gratify only sense and self—which feast the eyes and the palate, and pander to the evil passions of pride, jealousy and love of display—can never satisfy the yearnings of an immortal spirit. And that while the higher powers of the soul are being dragged through the mire and filth of a life over which self only reigns, they will utter fearful cries, solemn, earnest protests against the suicidal wrong. Oh that men would sooner learn that the highest happiness is wrought only through the exercise of the noblest faculties. Simple as the lesson seems, it is the one which the soul is slowest to comprehend.
               But the truth had dawned upon Eleanor's mind. Sitting by her window that cloudy afternoon, she saw plainly that only as the soul makes progress upward does it get nearer to that sphere of heavenly light and love in which all true happiness has its source; that the things of this earth are earthy—the heritage of the body only; while the eternal inheritance to which every soul is born, lies in the bright and shinning fields of heavenly wisdom, love and truth. Woe be to him, now as of old, who sells the priceless birth-right of his soul for the mess of pottage upon which his body feeds.
               All this Eleanor saw, but she saw herself, too, bound down to earth by the strong cords of fleshly appetites and desires. There were the dark mountains of sin, which rose up in the past; present helplessness and inability to struggle against the iron-forged chains of habit and evil nature, and whence should come the power successfully to struggle against them. "Oh, wretched man that I am! Who shall deliver me from the body of this death? was her earnest, despairing cry.
               It is good for the soul to go through such depths. It is well that help comes not always with the first cry for it. There is a strength born out of the darkness of such a night, which they who dwell in sunshine know not of.
               The day had not broken yet upon Eleanor, when she heard her mother's voice, and knew that she was rising form her after-dinner nap. She knew, too, that Cora would lose no time in communicating to Mrs. Wentworth the conversation in regard to the Bible-class, and she felt in no humor to pass through the scene which must ensue. So, with sudden resolve, she put on her bonnet and shawl, and passing quietly downstairs, and out of doors, took the road which led to Mr. Burroughs' cottage.
            
            
               V. SOMETHING NEW.
               AS Eleanor stepped out of doors, she found that a fine rain had begun to fall; but this was no hindrance to a spirit like hers. In her present mood it suited her far better to breast this hurrying wind which was driving the dampness gust after gust into her pale face, than to dally away time among sunshine and flowers. With quick, strong step, she hastened on, over the yellow, thawing snow—choosing to wade the deep places rather than to follow the wet, discolored track of the road—descending the hill toward the little grey cottage which stood among a group of trees in the valley below.
               Nature is a cherishing mother, even in her gloomiest moods; and there is in a sobbing wind, a drenched earth, a pale, livid sky, such deep sympathy and consolation for a bruised and mourning spirit, as brighter scenes cannot impart. The soul grows strong to think that Nature doth sometimes suffer; that though the Infinite Father reigns serene, in regions of eternal gladness, the dear All Mother weeps as well as we. The drooping rain-fringed cloud becomes the folding wing which shelters us in her bosom; the wailing wind whispers us in tender flute-like accents to look upward, ever upward; strength thrills once more along the veins, and the waters of faith swell and overflow in their fountains—the soul is caught up on the Mount of Vision, and beholds how, when nature is released from the bonds which do now bind her great soul to the penalties of broken law, then shall she sit triumphant upon her throne, mistress of the universe, and we, her children, renewed in soul and body, shall reign with her in the eternal kingdom-of the Father.
               "But the battle must come before the victory," said Eleanor to herself, as she knocked at the door of the cottage. "Oh, for help to overcome this mighty legion of indwelling sins!"
               She found May and Ella at home, and with them Susan Belknap and Mary Harris.
               "Mother had gone over to Deacon Berryman's," May said, "to spend the afternoon, and meet a half dozen of the ladies of the congregation, and the girls had run in to keep them from being lonesome!"
               "I am so glad you came too, Eleanor," said Ella, "for we were just talking about the Bible-class. Susan had been telling us that Squire Horton thinks of bringing a suit against Samson. Do you know anything about it?"
               "I believe he has spoken of it; but father thinks he will not be able to do anything."
               "I am very glad," said Mary Harris, a thought ful-looking girl of twenty or more; "such a suit would scandalize us all."
               "What does your father think of it, Eleanor?" asked May; "we have been afraid he might be so much displeased as to forbid you attending the class."
               "He has not forbidden it," replied Eleanor, blushing, "nor do I think he well; he regards it as very unfortunate, however."
               Eleanor was a girl of too good sense, and of too much depth of character, to make her own trials the subject of comment, even among her friends. Having once decided upon the course she would pursue, she did not feel called upon to state the opposition she was likely to encounter.
               "Of course," said Ella, "we all regard it as extremely unfortunate; and May and I have been thinking of something for a few days past, which I don't know but we ought to speak about."
               "What is it?" asked two or three voices at once.
               "You know there is a great deal of scandal and hard feeling rife at present, and it really is very difficult for us, who know how utterly unfounded is all prejudice against Uncle Timothy, to restrain our impatience and anger. Besides," she added, dropping her voice, "there are some of us who are in just such a state of mind as to be most liable to serious and lasting injury from these causes. Now, what we have been thinking of is this: whether it would not be well for us to have, in addition to the little prayer-meeting which we sometimes hold after the Bible-class, a meeting once a week, for prayer against the special temptations which now surround us. How does the plan strike you all?"
               "As an excellent one," said Susan.
               "It is certainly the best preventive I have thought of, against the party spirit, and the disposition to make zeal for Uncle Timothy's cause, an excuse for indifference in regard to personal religion, which even now seems to be creeping in amongst us," said Mary.
               Eleanor did not feel inclined to offer her opinion, as all present besides herself were already professors of religion—May and Ella being very recent converts; but when hesitatingly inquired of by the others, she replied, almost with tears:
               "I should enjoy such a meeting very much, and I do not doubt that to others it would be quite as pleasant as to myself. I, for one, find great need of forbearance and love just at present."
               It was something quite new to hear Eleanor Wentworth talk in this way, and the girls were somewhat surprised, especially as they had not before suspected her of any deep feeling upon religious subjects. For piety to take root in the Wentworth family, was like good springing up in Nazareth. No further inquiry into the state of her mind was, however, made; for though all present were deeply interested in the work of grace which was commenced among them, they were restrained, by the fear of being considered obtrusive, from venturing any further queries.
               Eleanor, who was beginning to long for Christian counsel and sympathy, felt that this was the case; and she knew too that her own pride had in former days built up the barrier between herself and the simple-hearted, affectionate girls. She was laboring under so deep a consciousness of sin, and so humble a penitence therefor, that this reflection caused her the most poignant grief; and could she have felt perfectly certain of meeting a cordial response, she would have burst into tears, and told them all her trouble. But she doubted, causelessly, as she felt all the time; and while she hesitated, a remark from one of the young ladies led to another topic, and the opportunity was lost.
               It was class night, and all the girls went home before tea except Eleanor. Ella Burroughs kindly invited her to remain and accompany them to class; and as she had no desire to face the sneers and cold looks which she knew would be her portion at home, she gladly accepted the invitation.
               Soon after tea Walter Converse entered, and as it was nearly time for the class to commence, they immediately set out for the vestry room, Walter and May walking together, and Ella and Eleanor following them.
               Ella Burroughs was a sweet, warm-hearted girl of seventeen, free and joyous in spirit, full of health and glow and emotion, yet hiding beneath this glittering surface a fountain of deep, serious, earnest feeling, which only those who knew her well, suspected.
               
               That night, as she drew her arm within that of Eleanor, she said, kindly:
               "Don't you enjoy our meetings very much?"
               There was a magical sympathy in her tones, a penetrating and diffusive warmth in her manner, which to one in Eleanor's condition was utterly irresistible.
               "I do, indeed," she answered, brokenly; "they have done me much good."
               "It is quite a change for you, who last winter were mingling in the gay circles of town life, to be now quietly attending a village Bible-class. I hope you do not find the contrast disagreeable."
               "Very far from it."
               There was a momentary silence, broken at last by Ella, who asked, in a low, timid voice:
               "Am I mistaken, my dear Eleanor, in thinking that you are at length awakened to a sense of the importance of personal holiness? Are you not seeking the way to a Saviour?"
               There was no answer, but a quick, convulsed clasping of Ell's hand.
               "It is so little time since I have passed through a similar experience," said Ella, "that I can readily imagine your feelings. But do you not think you would find relief in telling them to some one from whom you could receive counsel and sympathy?"
               "Ella, I don't know that I could tell any one all I feel; and the selfish, unsocial way in which I have hitherto lived while among you, seems to have raised a barrier between me and all whom I now would fain call my friends. When I joined the Bible-class, it was at some sacrifice of pride; but could I now find one who would listen to my trouble, and point me to a way of escape from it, though he were the humblest menial, I should only be too happy to pour all my sorrows into his ear."
               "Why do you not go to Uncle Timothy? He would listen to you kindly, I know."
               "I dare not; and besides he has trouble enough just now of his own."
               "I think he would be very sorry to have you remain away upon that ground. It would comfort him inexpressibly, I am sure, to feel that, notwithstanding the efforts of the enemy to destroy his usefulness, God was still blessing his efforts in the conviction and conversion of sinners. Promise me that you will remain and talk with him a little while this evening."
               "I will be glad to, if you think I may. Oh, Ella! you, who have so many pious friends, do not know what it is to be utterly without an adviser in the time when your need is greatest."
               They had reached the door of the vestry room, and Ella only replied by a gentle pressure of the hand. Eleanor retained the hand in her grasp until long after they were seated in class. It seemed to be tangible evidence that she had found a friend.
            
            
               
               VI. MEADOW BROOK.
               HAVING shown the effects of the difficulty with Levins Horton, in other quarters, we must advert to its consequences upon Uncle Timothy. But in order that the reader may become fully acquainted with these, it is necessary that he should know something further of the circumstances and history of the church at Meadow Brook.
               Twenty years ago, the village consisted of a church, a school-house, a store and post-office, a blacksmith's shop, and a score of houses, occupied by farmers, whose well-conditioned acres lay about the village, and just a sufficient number of mechanics and day-laborers to supply the needs of the little community. In the woods, a half mile above the village, was a saw and grist mill, but with this exception, the fine water-power afforded by the brook was entirely unemployed.
               But when a railroad was cut through within a miles of village, attention was turned in that direction, and capitalists suddenly discovered that beneath the water of the brawling streamlet lay a mine of gold; in short that the mill-power of Meadow Brook was a fortune of itself; and then, as if by magic, great stone palaces of labor sprang up along the banks, wakening echoes such as the dim old wood hushed its loud whisperings to catch. Of course new houses went up, new stores were opened, new families came into town, and when the quiet old villagers opened their eyes with amazement they were obliged to open them still wider to take in all the changes which were going on in their midst; changes not produced by their willing, but by the incoming of strangers, of whom they knew nothing. There was some jealousy, but after a while it seemed to be for the general interest to regard these interlopers as public benefactors, and all open opposition to them ceased.
               Of course somebody got rich by these speculations, and among these was Levis Horton, sen.
               He had begun as a mason, employed to furnish his mite of labor toward the erection of the great factories. He was shrewd, ambitious and unscrupulous, and after a time he succeeded in obtaining a contract for the building of a mill. He was fortunate enough to make the discovery of a valuable quarry in the hills near the village, bought the land for a trifle, made a fortune out of the contract by furnishing his own stone; and still continued to work his quarries with great profit to himself. Meanwhile Farmer Stapleton, from whom he had purchased them, while the owner was ignorant of their value, had been thrown from his horse, and disabled; had lived long enough in illness and distress tress to consume his little fortune, and had finally died, leaving a wife and six small children with no means of support. But what was that to Levins Horton, Esq., now Justice of the Peace, and member of the State Legislature, and the richest man in the county besides.
               Increase of riches and honors had brought to Mr. Horton increased consideration in social circles; but he felt that something was still needed to establish his position, in the eyes of those enlightened and virtuous persons with whom it was his ambition to associate; and by whom he had been hitherto regarded as a grasping, unscrupulous, worldly-minded man; exercising the reverse of a pure and wholesome influence in society. He therefore bought a pew in the church at Meadow Brook, commenced a scrupulous observance of the external duties of religion, and in the due time applied for the received admission to the church.
               There were many of the older members, zealous and faithful followers of Christ, and persons of deep spiritual experience, who were inclined to look with jealous eyes upon the professions of the rich man, but the spirit of the church in general had undergone a great change in those days of excitement and sudden prosperity. Additions had been made to it from the restless band of new comers; and the congregation was still more palpably altered. Besides, some of the more enterprising of the society were already talking about building a new edifice, the one already in use having grown too antiquated, too old fashioned for the tastes of theses thriving, ambitious men, and of course those who were permanently attached to the church would be most interested in the scheme, and contribute most liberally of their means. And so Squire Horton became a member of the church at meadow Brook.
               Meanwhile the new church was built, a neat little parsonage was erected near it, the old minister was dismissed, and Morton Hastings was called to fill the vacancy. He proved to be a pure-minded and zealous man; his labors gave very general satisfaction, and the church seemed altogether in a prosperous condition.
               To be sure one might at any time have mistaken the congregation which assembled upon the Sabbath, for the audience of a theatre; to be sure the weekly lectures and prayer-meetings were very scantily attended; and there had not been an addition to the church upon profession of faith, for several years. But then Meadow Brook people were prosperous now-a-days, and could afford to dress well; men who transacted as much business in the course of a day as the gentlemen of meadow Brook, could not be expected to give their evenings to prayer-meetings and lectures; and for the last charge, why it must be confessed that the young people—would be young people; by and by, as they grew older, they would see the need of religion more plainly. So argued Meadow Brook people when you talked to them of the condition of the church.
               Such was the state of affairs, when Uncle Timothy first suggested the idea of a Bible-class. His heart, and the hearts of various of the old and faithful disciples, had been gladdened by the success which had crowned his efforts. Others were indifferent to it, as they were to all the real interests of the church, while still another party, judging the simple-minded honest old man by their own selfish and ambitious notions, grew heartily jealous of what they considered his attempts to gain influence and importance. As may be imagined, these were not the people by whom a revival of religion was especially desired, and when the first symptoms of such a thing were noticed, they had grown manifestly uneasy, and redoubled their efforts to raise a persecution against Uncle Timothy. By all these, of course, the affair of Levins Horton, jr., was viewed in the light of a godsend, and they had done their best to stir up a controversy about it.
               Uncle Timothy was a shrewd observer, and had carefully weighed all the caused which were operating against him. He saw himself not so much the cause as the occasion of the contention. The real conflicting elements he knew to be, the vital godliness of the church upon one hand, and the worldly-mindedness and ambition which had become mixed with it, upon the other; and perhaps he alone, of all the congregation, saw that if the separation of the pure gold from the dross could be effected by these means, the trial would prove a blessing in disguise.
               When therefore Mr. Horton made grievous complaints of the Bible-class in general; that it was a mere pretext for getting together the young people of the congregation, male and female, and carrying on under the name of religion, a system of intrigues and flirtations—and called loudly upon all good friends of morality and religion to assist in redeeming the church in general, and himself and his son in particular, from the scandal and disgrace which had been inflicted upon them, Uncle Timothy not only acquiesced in his desire for a thorough investigation of the matter, but himself requested that the church might take cognizance of it.
               Party spirit grew at last so bitter and decided that it was deemed best to grant the petition, and a day was accordingly appointed for a settlement of the controversy.
            
            
               
               VII. THE SILVER LINING.
               ELLA BURROUGHS' suggestion, in regard to holding a weekly prayer-meeting, had been favorable received among the young ladies, and immediately put in execution. It so happened that the day appointed for the committee of investigation to present their report was the very one upon which the prayer-meeting was to be held at Sophie Berry man's.
               There was a full attendance of young ladies, and the meeting was one of more than usual interest. Lizzie Temple and Eleanor Wentworth were both announced as being hopeful converts, and joined their earnest prayers with those of other members of the meetings for the speedy deliverance of their beloved instructor from his afflictions. At the close of the meeting, they sung one of those fine old hymns which have for centuries given expression to the faith of the church in her Almighty Head, and her confidence of speedy deliverance in every time of need; and then, their young faces shining with the same heavenly radiance which illuminated the countenance of Moses when he came out from the presence of the Lord, and their souls kindled anew with the pure love and hold joy which are the portion of the new-born into the family of the redeemed, they joined Mrs. Berryman in the sitting-room.
               "Isn't it nearly time for father to come home from the meeting?" said Sophie. "We are all very anxious to hear the report."
               "I should think it was," replied her mother; "he thought they would get through early; and he promised to bring Mr. Hastings and Uncle Timothy home with him to tea."
               "Then, girls, you will all remain, will you not?" said Sophie. "I know you are anxious about the result, and I am sure Uncle Timothy will be glad to meet you."
               Mrs. Berryman seconded the invitation, and, although it was contrary to their usual custom, the young ladies at last consented to remain.
               Five o'clock came, and it was quite dark, but still there were no arrivals, and deep anxiety began to be felt around the little circle.
               "Half-past five," said May Burroughs, "and no signs of them yet; what can it mean?"
               Tear came into Lizzie Temple's eyes, as she murmured, "My poor father!"
               "Have faith in God, my dear child," said Mrs. Berryman, kindly, "and all will yet be well. He doth not willingly afflict the sons of men."
               "Here they come!" exclaimed May, gladly, as she stood pressing her face close against the window-pane, and peering out into the darkness.
               
               The next instant footsteps were heard upon the piazza, the hall door opened, and Deacon Berryman and his promised guests entered. For the first minute the girls were too much agitated to speak, but Mrs. Berryman responded to their cordial salutations and remarked:
               "You are late home, father; we have been expecting you a long time."
               "We are later then I hoped we should be," was the reply. "Have we kept your tea waiting?"
               The deacon was not in his most cheerful mood, and there were traces of weariness and anxiety in the faces of both the minister and Uncle Timothy.
               They were all seated quietly at the table, and once or twice during the rather lengthy blessing invoked by Mr. Hastings, his voice trembled and came near breaking. It seemed as if he only needed an opportunity to pour out his whole soul in earnest prayers for strength, and comfort, and divine guidance; and when he closed, his two parishioners echoed the fervent petition in a deep, hearty "Amen!"
               Uncle Timothy was the first to speak, after the blessing was pronounced. Lizzie glanced appealingly up to him, as she raised her eyes, and with a smile half cheerful half sorrowful, he replied to her unspoken question.
               "My little girl is waiting impatiently, I see, to hear how her father has been judged today; and perhaps there are others who are equally interested in the fate of the Bible-class. Mr. Hastings, will you tell them what has been done?"
               "My dear girls," said the minister kindly, "your Bible-class has been sustained, and your beloved teacher vindicated from all blame in the unfortunate transaction which most of you witnessed. Thus far, I congratulate you."
               Exclamtions of joy and felicitation passed around the table. Lizzie only was mute, and her tearful eyes were more eloquent then words could have been.
               "But, my dear young friends," resumed Mr. Hastings, "while we have, indeed, many causes for rejoicing, there are also circumstances which warrant the deepest anxiety. This triumph has not been achieved without cost, and we had reason to chasten our thanksgivings with fervent prayers for the divine guidance and blessing. Our dangers are not all past yet; indeed I fear that unless the utmost prayerfulness and watchfulness are ex-exercised they are only commenced. And, while it is to the adult members of the church that we must look for wise counsels and safe measures, we may expect of you, by fervent and persevering prayers, and earnest, loving exhortations, to keep bright the fire already kindled among us by grace divine."
               "There is labor enough for us all," said Deacon Berryman. "I have never been able to convince myself until to-day that such deep-rooted animosity could exist among us. Nothing but the most fervent vent prayerfulness and the exercise of that wisdom which cometh down from above, can, I fear, overcome the spirit of uncharitableness which Satan himself has sown in our midst."
               "Is there, then, danger of secession from the church?" asked Mrs. Berryman.
               "Yes, great danger, I should say," returned Mr. Hastings; "yet we hope it may be averted. The fact that the evil which has been aroused does not seem to drive away the gracious Spirit which is striving amongst us, is my chief encouragement."
               "It seems to me," said Uncle Timothy, "that I can see the hand of the Lord as plainly in this most painful dispensation of his providence, as in others that are more pleasant to bear."
               "Certainly," said the deacon; "there never was a time, to my remembrance, when the tried and faithful ones, those whom the Lord has marked through a whole generation as peculiarly his own, have seemed so thoroughly awakened to a sense of their deep need of divine assistance, or have been more perfectly united in desiring that the glory of God may be made manifest, even through the very means which the Enemy seems to have chosen to overthrow us. Of all the harsh things said to-day, not one came from lips which have earnestly, and fervently, and habitually joined in the exercises of the prayer-meeting or the Bible-class."
               "I, too, made the same observation," remarked Mr. Hastings, "and argued from it that there was a sifting process to be gone through with before the gracious work which seems to have been begun in the class shall be extended through the whole church, and made efficacious to the saving of souls through the entire community. God shows us that he has mercies in store for us, but he shows us also that we must first place ourselves in a proper condition to receive them."
               This conversation made a deep impression upon the minds of the young girls who listened to it, and as they arose from the table it was with a deepened conviction of the necessity of thorough watchfulness, and self-examination, and whole-souled devotedness to the cause for whose success they so earnestly prayed.
               In the course of the evening, several of the young men, having heard of the result of the meeting, dropped in to congratulate Uncle Timothy, and to hold some conversation with the pastor and Deacon Berryman in regard to the adoption of further measures to secure union and hearty coöperation among those interested in the cause of revival.
               After an hour of animated discussion, Deacon Berryman produced the family Bible, and, laying it upon the table before Mr. Hastings, desired him to conduct the evening worship before they separated. As it was already nine o'clock, he immediately opened to the eighteenth Psalm, and read in clear and eloquent tones. David's song of deliverance from the hands of his enemies and of Saul. An appropriate hymn was then sung, and at its close Mr. Hastings remarked:
               
               "It would please me very much, and I am sure it would be equally agreeable to those of the class assembled, if Uncle Timothy would lead us in prayer."
               The old man kindly complied with the request, and kneeling with Lizzie's assistance, he poured out his soul in earnest thanksgiving for the mercies of the day, and fervent supplications that the hearts of his enemies, and the enemies of Zion, might so be changed, that they, too, might rejoice in her victories. Earnestly he besought the Lord that the good work which had been begun in the church might not be suffered to cease until every heart should be brought to sincere repentance and godly faith, and every tongue should sing the praises of the "Lord our Righteousness."
               Mr. Hastings followed him in a brief but eloquent prayer; then rising they all sung the doxology in Old Hundred, and after a kindly goodnight separated.
               "Ah!" said Deacon Berryman, after they had gone, "days like these ripen the heart with deep experiences. Our pastor is better fitted to be the counsellor of erring and distressed souls then he was a months ago."
               "I noticed a change in him to-night," replied his wife. "I thought I had never seen such strength of faith and power of endurance in him. I thought he was almost perfect before, but I do believe these experiences will deepen and strengthen his spiritual capacities wonderfully."
               "I think so; it would be strange if this affair should turn out a blessing to us all."
               "Not strange at all, my dear husband; I see daily more and more evidence to believe literally 'all things work together for good to those who love God.' The only strange thing is that we are so slow to believe in God's promises."
               "Yes, it is hard to see in such dispensations the work of a father's hand. These divisions amongst brethren seem to me most painful of anything to bear. They bring such scandal upon the church."
               "Do you really think Horton will leave?"
               "I fear he will."
               "Will any others follow him?"
               "It is doubtful. I think further defections can be avoided by moderate counsels.
               "I have always doubted the depth of his piety; perhaps he was, after all, the Achan in our camp."
               "I fear it is too true; yet it is hard so to judge a brother."
               "Yes, but God seems to have brought it all about in a way of his own devising; Uncle Timothy certainly has been blameless in the affair."
               "I fear there has been partisan zeal, however, even upon the right side; but there seems at present a strong disposition among his friends to forget all causes of difference, and make the salvation of souls the one great end of labor."
               "May their efforts be crowned with success."
            
            
               
               VIII. CHARLES MAXWELL.
               SQUIRE HORTON left the church as he had threatened; but somehow all the disastrous consequences which had been predicted did not follow. The affair once ended and the excitement over, the people began to see the follies into which they had been led by inconsiderate party zeal; and when, a week or two later, a series of protracted-meetings was commenced, several, who had declaimed most loudly against the Bible-class, and professed the greatest skepticism in regard to the benefits of revivals, came forward and gave their sanction to the measure by cordially coöperating in the meetings. A few there were, mostly personal friends of the irate squire, who still remained at a distance, or openly joined with those who scoffed at a special work of grace.
               Painful as this was to the true friends of the church, they were now daily encouraged by new evidences of the presence of the Holy Spirit. New zeal and love seemed to burn in the heart of the pastor, and eloquence like that of the apostles of old marked his daily ministrations in the temple—the meetings were filled to overflowing ing—Pentecostal times seemed revived—converts multiplied on every hand—and it was generally remarked that never before had there been known such deep and thorough conviction of sin—such strong faith and abiding love—such beautiful harmony and consistency of conduct, as among the converts of that revival. Persecution had done its work, in bringing home to the consciences of God's people a deep sense of the malignant evils which have their seat in the human heart, and the necessity of constant and humble watchfulness and prayer. The awakened, too, pursued by the jeers and scoffs of those who watched with evil eyes the progress of the good work, had oftentimes severe struggles before they were able to take a bold and decided stand in the face of so much opposition, and the effect of these trials was plainly to be traced in the unwonted strength and maturity of their christian characters.
               Of the new converts, strange as it may seem, none had passed through deeper waters then James Hollis, a young man of excellent character and abilities, and long an active member of the Bible-class. For more than a week he had struggled night and day, with prayer and fasting, against the enemies of his soul. With the pride of conscious strength, he dared single-handed to give battle to all the hosts of Satan, and for a time seemed to be left to the unhappy doom which his own temerity had invoked. Even when humbled, it would seem to the very dust, he had cried out earnestly for help, mercy seemed long in coming to him. Not until he was thoroughly convinced, by repeated demonstrations, of his own utter inability to work out his salvation, was the promised succor sent. Then, indeed, a ray of light pierced the heavy gloom which enveloped his soul, and the Angel of Healing descended, bound up his wounds, poured balm upon his bruises, and arming him with new strength for the conflict, led him at last triumphant over all his foes, out into the broad sunlight of the Divine favor, and crowned him with the grace and glory of immortal love. The pride of human ability was conquered, and "he sent from above; he took me; he drew me out of many waters," was the grateful acknowledgment of the redeemed soul.
               But the strength which had thought itself equal to the legions of its foes, though chastened and purified, still remained, and directed by heavenly wisdom, become the means of saving many souls. Everywhere, in the prayer-meeting, in the counting-room, by the fireside, and upon the street, there was no more zealous or judicious laborer in the vineyard of his Master than James Hollis.
               It was a pleasant Saturday evening in February; a heavy covering of snow lay upon the ground; the trees and fences were everywhere incased in a glittering armor of ice, which the rays of the setting sun lighted up with a brilliancy far outvying that of costly gems. The clear, soft sky of the west, golden like the gates of the New Jerusalem, melted into the purest sapphire at the zenith, while afar upon the eastern hills, there rested a rosy light, skirted by purple shadows. The valley, the village, and the broad flowing stream, lay in the placid light below; and as the great bells of the factories rung out their evening chime, the sound vibrated from hill-top to hill-top, and the dying echoes thrilled along the clear frosty air like the faintly heard vespers of attending angels.
               James Hollis stood at the window of the counting-house in which he was a clerk, gazing reverently upon the scene.
               "How many eyes, I wonder," he murmured to himself, "are raised from poring over dim and dusty ledger? How many hearts are throwing aside the busy, anxious cares of the material life, to feed the hungering soul with the fresh inspiration of this hallowed hour? Why does God daily spread abroad over all created things, his glory and his beauty, if it is not that man may gaze there upon, and learn from the glowing page of nature—;more eloquent of Deity than any printed scroll—something of the infinite power and majesty and beauty which have their fountain in him, and are as truly his divine attributes as his justice, mercy and love? How many, too, crowded into yonder busy, humming labor-prisons, are robbed both of time and inclination to study those lessons which God himself spreads in most attractive guise before us? How many little children, mewed up within stone walls all the bright hours of daylight, and often until long after the stars are keeping silent watch in the heavens, are ever taught that He who made the beautiful clouds, the pure, mild stars, and spread this richly-tinted arch above us, loves to trace all these forms of loveliness, mirrored in the hearts and lives of his children, watches ever to see the lines of beauty which he himself has instituted, reproduced in the harmonious growths of their souls in wisdom, purity and love? When shall come the time when Nature and Revelation shall walk hand in hand through the world, teaching the children of earth, with voices attuned to the sweetest concert, the lessons of God's boundless and universal love?"
               So pondered the young heart, itself invested with newly-born sensibilities to all those means by which nature seeks to call out from the heart of man harmonious responses to her ever-ascending song of praise and thanksgiving.
               As the daylight paled away in the west, and twilight shadows settled slowly over the valley, he turned from the window, and reaching down his heavy overcoat and close fur cap, protected himself carefully against the keen wintry air, and left the store. With quick, firm tread he kept along the road which led toward the house of Farmer Maxwell, his uncle, and since the death of his parents, the guardian of himself and his sister Mary. He had walked a good mile before he come in sight of the great brown house, standing among tell elms and maples, through whose drooping boughs the evening lights flashed out the earnest of a hearty welcome come to the youthful pedestrian. As he drew nearer, and opened the little wicket, he could distinguish the ruddy blaze of the wood fire which burned upon the broad stone hearth, and old Growler came bounding around the corner of the house, with a deep, glad voice, baying forth his greeting, throwing his round, fat body and short tail into as many grotesque attitudes as dog anatomy is capable of, all expressive of joy for the return of his master—for Growler had been James's dog ever since he could remember. A minute later the door opened, and Harry and Annie Maxwell exclaimed, eagerly:
               "Here comes James! Jamie had come!"
               "Good evening, children," was his cheerful reply, as he caught Annie, a little four year old, in his arms, and gave her a hearty kiss, and led Harry by the hand into the long, low kitchen, where the family were assembled, awaiting the evening meal.
               "Good evening, Mary," he said, as his sister rose to give him her own warm place by the fire. "Keep your seat, I am scarcely at all cold; the air is a little keen, but fast walking and these nice warm mittens of your knitting are quite a match for it. I am really quite in a glow."
               "I am glad you have felt no more uncomfortable. Let me help you off which you coat. Hughey here will hang it up in the entry, and then you must tell us the news.
               "There is very little news to be told," said James, as he seated himself comfortably by the fire, "except that the Stapletons have come back to town.
               
               You know they moved away some years; they are in great distress, I hear, and have applied to the town for assistance."
               "I am sorry for poor Mrs. Stapleton," said Mary. "I remember her as a meek, patient woman; and I used to think the children remarkably good-tempered, considering all they had to bear at home after their father's misfortune. You know they were all younger than I, except Joseph."
               "What is that?" asked Aunt Maxwell, a pleasant, portly-looking woman of forty-five, who was passing busily in and out of the room, setting the table; "did I hear you say the Stapletons had come back?"
               "Yes; they arrived yesterday."
               "Poor enough, I suppose."
               "Yes; and Mrs. Stapleton is in miserable health. I do not think she can live long."
               "God help her, for she has need of help. I wonder if Squire Horton will do anything for her?"
               "No; some one spoke to him about it this afternoon, or rather intimated to him that it would be very well for him to offer her some assistance, but he replied, ungraciously, that it was none of his business, the town must look after her!
               "What is Joseph doing now?" asked Uncle Maxwell, who, just returned from doing the chores, sat warming his hands by the fire. "He used to be a smart, capable lad enough."
               "That is the worst of the story," replied James, sadly. "They have been living in the city, you know, and it seems that he has taken to drinking, and become very dissipated. It is thus last affliction which has nearly broken Mrs. Stapleton's heart."
               "Well it may—well it may," said the good man, sorrowfully. "Amongst all the rest of my blessings, I am thankful to number that my boys have grown up—you and Charlie (he always counted James and Mary among his own)—good, sober, steady children; and that is more that many parents, worthier than I, can say."
               "Come, now," said Aunt Maxwell, just at this juncture, "supper is ready, and the pudding is getting cold. Sit up to table, children."
               "Where is Charlie this evening?" asked James. "I thought he was always at home Saturday evenings."
               "I rather think he is staying for tea at his boarding-place," replied Mrs. Maxwell. "That is the worst of keeping school, this boarding round."
               "Yes," said Uncle Hugh, "but the people have been very kind to Charlie; he has had very little trouble."
               Just at this moment a tread upon the creaking snow announced an arrival, and the same instant the door swung open, and a brown-haired, rosy-cheeked youth of twenty-two entered.
               "Good evening Charlie. How d'ye do Charlie?" exclaimed the little ones, jumping down from their seats to meet the elder brother. "We were afraid you wouldn't get home till we were gone to bed," said Annie, lifting up her face for the accustomed kiss.
               "Well, here I am," he exclaimed, gaily, as Mary came forward to assist him in taking off his heavy overcoat, and brought out his slippers, "almost frozen to death. It is growing cold very fast. I do think Jack Frost has nipped my ears a little."
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed Harry, "you are a great schoolmaster, if you can't stand such a night as this without getting frozen. Why, I've been out ever since I came home from school, getting in wood, and talking care of my calf, and helping Annie make snow houses, and I wa'n't a bit cold."
               "What a hero!" said Charlie, laughing. "But I can guess what the reason was. I'll bet you had a big piece of mother's gingerbread when you came home from school, and I haven't had any for a week. There's nothing like plenty of good gingerbread for keeping out the cold."
               "You're a baby," said Annie, mockingly, "to be talking about gingerbread, when you are a grown man, and a schoolmaster."
               "Good," said Uncle Hugh, "laugh at him well, children. He is pretty well tied to mother yet, if he is of age."
               "You are welcome to laugh," said Charlie, good humoredly. "You won't any or all of you make me ashamed of loving mother, or mother comforts, not this long time. Just wait till you get grown up, my young man," drawing the arm that was around Harry still closer to him, "and go away from home to live, and see if you forget the taste of mother's gingerbread."
               "you were right, Charlie, about Harry's having the gingerbread this afternoon," said Hughey, a quiet boy a fifteen, who still sat at the table eating his pudding and milk, "for he ate all his piece, and then came and wanted to get mine."
               "I didn't beg it," said Harry, stoutly. "I only wanted to buy it."
               "Well done," shouted Uncle Hugh; "and what were you going to give him for it."
               "He offered me his partridge trap, and all the game that was in it," said Hughey, "and I would not take him up, because the trap was an old one, and I didn't know certain as there would be anything in it when I got down to the woods; so he promised to let me ride and hour, next Monday morning, on his new sled that James gave him Christmas."
               "And you mad it a bargain?" asked Charlie.
               "Yes."
               "Well, I ain't so old as you be," said Harry, apologetically for his appetite for gingerbread.
               "Ah! Harry, but that is one of the things that grows with one's growth, and strengthens with one's strength."
               "Have you had any supper, Charlie?" asked his mother, as the merriment at Harry's expense subsided.
               "Yes, mother, but this keen air is excellent for digestion, and I think I'll take a piece of that pumpkin pie. Your pumpkin pies are as unravel as your gingerbread."
               An hour later, the supper was over, the table cleared, and the children had nearly finished their game of romps with Charlie. Eight o'clock was coming, and Mr. Maxwell, who would have all his children gathered, morning and evening, around the family altar, brought out the great Bible, and read a chapter therein. Then a hymn was sweetly sung, even Annie's childish voice joining in the melody, and fervent prayer was offered, to which all the family devoutly responded "Amen."
               "Now, mother," said Uncle Hugh, as he rose from his knees, "the little eyes a getting sleepy. Come children, kiss us all good night, and then to bed."
               All around the circle the two happy little faces passed, for the good-night salutation, and the caress was a sweet drop in everybody's cup; for who but is made happier and better by the pure kiss of innocent childhood; and then, each taking a hand of mother, ran cheerily upstairs.
               When they were gone, Hugh brought out his books, and sat down by the table to prepare his Sabbath-school lesson, and the elders gathered about the fire, conversing upon the topics of the week.
               "So the Stapletons are back again," said Charlie, compassionately. "I'm sorry for them. Where are they staying?"
               "At Deacon Berryman's for the present, I believe. The deacon said he could not have them carried to the poor-house until he had tried what could be done for them among the neighbors,"
               "The church-members should certainly do something," said Mr. Maxwell. "Mr. and Mrs. Stapleton were both communicants, and very humble, pious Christians."
               "Are they not able to do anything toward earning their own living."
               "Very little, I suppose," replied James. "Mrs. Stapleton is in delicate health, the tow youngest children are girls ten and twelve years old, Theodore, a boy like Hughey, is lame from spinal disease, and Joseph, the only real dependence of the family, is living at N——, a drunken, dissipated fellow."
               "It is a very deplorable case," said Mr. Maxwell, "but we will see about it next week. There are many of us who are about to do something; and if we can all work cheerfully and cordially together, they will not be left to want.
               Mary took little part in the conversation, but she was thinking none the less deeply of the brown-haired little boy who had so often drawn her to school upon his sled in her younger days, and for whom she had entertained an almost sisterly affection, and wondering if it could be true that he was now, so early in life, a hopeless drunkard.
               "I wish Joseph had come with them," she said, at the close of the conversation. "Perhaps, if he were here now, he might be reformed. I do not think he could resist such influences as might be brought around him here in his old home, and at such a time as this."
               "I, too, think it is a pity," said James, "that he is not here. Perhaps he will come yet."
               It was nine o'clock, and Mrs. Maxwell rolled up her knitting-work, and Mary laid the purse she was netting for her brother into her work-box, and very soon, with a cordial good-night, the little company withdrew, each to their own apartments.
            
            
               IX. THE "CALL"
               AUNT RACHEL, with her usual thoughtfulness, had built a nice fire in James's room, and the big pile of wood in the wood-box was part of Hughey's welcome to the weekly returning absentee.
               "He gets so little, time to be by himself through the week, poor boy," said the good lady, "that I know he prizes an hour or two Saturday night for reading and meditation; young men can well afford a little time from sleep for such purposes."
               James did prize very highly, the quiet hour or two of preparation for the Sabbath, which this arrangement afforded him. To-night he was especially grateful for it, for his mind was full of restless anxious thoughts, and sleep was the last thing of which he felt in need.
               The train of thought suggested by the sunset scene which he had witnessed, had not yet ceased its vibrations through his mind. His great strong heart, his active benevolence, were still all aglow; and with a lively imagination picturing to him the wrong, the oppression, the selfishness which are dominant all over the world, he could not be content tent with a position in life which gave him so little opportunity, effectually to combat with them. All the evening long, the under-current of his thoughts had been, "how can I best employ the talents God has committed to my charge, for the practical diffusion of the Gospel of Love? The world lieth in wickedness; the only power which can raise it from its fallen condition is that of practical Christianity. In order to make that efficacious to the salvation of souls, labor is required; and none who profess personally to have experienced the benefits of its pure teachings, can be exempt from furnishing their quota. In what sphere can I employ my powers to the best advantage?" And now once more alone with increased force, demanding immediate consideration.
               James had been from infancy a lover of nature; between him, and the soul of God manifest in creation, there had been ever a tender and delicate sympathy. Especially had the night been ever fraught to him with pure and holy inspirations; and often as he gazed up into the star-gemmed vault of heaven, and watched hour after hour the solemn and majestic march of the worlds through infinite space, the harmony of the spheres was no cold abstraction to him, but a sweet and ravishing melody rolling ever onward and upward, toward the throne of the Infinite, but echoed faintly earthward, in such tones as only those whose hearts are kept pure by free and constant intercourse course with the love and truth and harmony of nature can hear on interpret.
               To-night he felt the need of those sweet influences upon his soul; and drawing aside the heavy curtain, he sat down by the window, to calm his spirit into prayerful mood.
               The night was clear; a waning moon was just crowning the eastern hills with a faint glory, and above, from the deep sapphire of the heavens, the golden stars looked down: patient hopeful watchers, the never-paling radiance of whose eyes has beamed new light into many a weary and all but broken heart; has kindled afresh the fire of love, on many an altar where cruelty and wrong and error had put out the sacred flame. Gazing on such a scene, the waters soon began to swell and murmur within him.
               "Oh thou Spirit of Love, and Truth, and Beauty," he cried, "thou in whom all these most glorious works have their origin and source, flow thou into my soul, and fashion there from the chaotic elements, dark as those from which creation sprang, such purity, such harmony, such holy subserviency to thy most righteous will, as here I see made manifest in thine inferior works.
               "Since the throbbing pulsating life which warms my bosom emanates from thee, do thou grant that it may be no less true to the purpose for which thou didst form it. Since this restless soul is also the offspring of thine, grant that to it also power may be given to fulfill the great mission of labor and love for which I was sent into this world, and abounding in that Charity which was the essence of the Perfect Life, may it be found meet and ready to every good work."
               As he ceased a voice spake in his inmost soul, "Canst thou really follow in the steps of the Redeemer? Canst thou leave all, to preach the Word of Life?"
               "By the help and the Spirit of God, I can."
               "Go then, and God shall prosper thee."
               For a moment he was painfully perplexed. Was this the effect of his imagination? Had his strong desire to devote his whole life to the active service of his Master, thus shaped itself into words of encouragement to enter the sacred calling? He could nor reconcile it with his own consciousness, for at that moment the work of ministry had not been especially before his mind; besides, the question came not as a continuation of his thoughts, but as an interruption to them. Filled with conflicting emotions, he knew of no relief from them but prayer; and falling humbly upon his knees, he uttered a brief but fervent petition for Devine wisdom and guidance.
               Suddenly, as before, the answer came to him, "Feed my lands."
               Full of sweet and tranquil, but unspeakable joy, he rose. The path of duty was no longer clouded. It opened clear before him, and though looking adown it, he saw trials and temptations and crosses upon every side, yet he could say confidently—
               "'I will go in the strength of the Lord God;'—he is my helper, and I shall fear no evil."
               It grew late, and opening his Bible, he commenced his regular evening devotions. By chance he opened to the eighty-fourth Psalm, and as he read, a new and deeper significance was added to every verse.
               "Blessed is the man whose strength, is in Thee:" he read, "who passing through the valley of Baca, maketh it a well," and there opened before him new and clearer views of the duties of God's faithful ministers.
               As he sat leaning his head upon his hand, earnestly following out the train of thought suggested by the passage he had just read, he was startled by a light knock.
               "Come in," he said, wondering who might be the intruder; when the door opened, and his cousin, Charles Maxwell, entered.
            
            
               
               X. THE YOUNG INQUIRER.
               IT was with unfeigned pleasure that James rose to welcome his friend, for he readily guessed his errand. Anxiety and distress were depicted upon his countenance, and an open Bible in his hand revealed the cause.
               "I am in trouble, James," he said, as he sat down by the little table, "and I have come to you for help."
               "I shall be very happy to give you any assistance in my power, Charlie. What is it, that perplexes you?"
               "James, I want you to tell me what religion is."
               "That is a strange question from one who has been educated as you have been."
               "Yes, I know it seems strange to you, but if you knew all the thoughts which have passed through my mind within the past few weeks, you would not wonder that I ask it. Do not the doctrines of Christ constitute the true religion, and is not his life a perfect pattern of true holiness?"
               James, who had feared more things than he could well express from the former part of his cousin's remarks, was somewhat reassured by this query.
               "You have answered your own question so wisely, Charlie," he replied, "that I am quite astonished that you ever asked it."
               "If that is true, then, why do people who call themselves Christians live lives so different from that of their Master?"
               "How different? You cannot expect every one to go about doing good in precisely the same way that he did."
               "No; the circumstances of our lives forbid such a course; but surely the same spirit of benevolence and self-sacrifice which makes his life so glorious ought to regulate the lives of his true followers."
               "And is it not so?"
               "James is it so? Can you point me out a church any considerable proportion of whose members give the half of their time, and talents, and labor to real, practical benevolence, such as marked every act of their Master's life?"
               "Perhaps not; but I can show you scores and hundreds of individual Christians who do very much in that direction."
               "But, comparing them with the whole number of profession Christians, are not those who in any sense go about doing good, rather exceptional cases, than those coming under the rule?"
               "I believe they are in the minority. Still the amount of actual benevolence in the churches is very great, and it is yearly increasing."
               
               "So far as mere alms-giving goes, I do not dispute it; but that was not the kind of benevolence which Christ exhibited."
               "It is prompted by the same spirit."
               "It may be, or it may not be; there are a thousand other motives than true charity which may prompt to alms-giving. Besides, that is not what is entirely, or chiefly, needed to compensate for the wrongs which society inflicts."
               "How many institutions are springing up all over the land, direct outgrowths from Christian churches, whose express aim is to offer the poor just that aid, material and spiritual, which they need?"
               "Yes; and all honor be to the noble hearts who planned and now sustain such enterprises; and would to God that the church from her abundance would contribute still more largely to their support. But we are speaking of individual Christians. In how many hearts is love to God and man plainly predominant over self-love?" There are hundreds of those who will give liberally of that which they can well afford to spare; but how many do you find into whose daily lives and labors enter the care for souls—the active and practical love of the erring, the sinful, the destitute? They are as rare as those who are so thoroughly leavened with the pure leaven of love as to be ever ready to cast the mantle of charity over the faults and failings of others. Look at the bickerings, and backbitings, and dissensions which exist in all our churches, and are their curse."
               "To what conclusion does all this lead you?"
               "I have arrived at no conclusion yet."
               "But you are tending toward infidelity."
               "Not infidelity toward the Gospel of Christ, but infidelity toward the church which professes to promulgate it."
               "Charlie, a very warm and impulsive heart, and very active sympathies, are carrying you beyond the bounds of truth and reason."
               "That is why I came to you, James. My mind is clouded, and sometimes my brain whirls with thoughts that I cannon master. You are strong and clear-headed; you can help me."
               "You are young yet, Charlie, and you have not had the discipline of such sad experiences as have come to me; but you are coming out into the right path, I think, only you must not allow theses difficulties which spring up in your way to overcome your faith. You believe that God has a church in this world, do you not? Does not the Bible plainly teach it?"
               "Undoubtedly."
               "Well, then, have you any doubt about which of all the various religions is that which God acknowledges as His?"
               "I have thought of that before; and of course I know that Christianity is truth. But why are those who profess to be guided by the teachings of Christ so unlike their Teacher?"
               "Christianity is the same, my dear Charles, from age to age, but the hearts and consciences of men are constantly changing; and changing, too, just in proportion as the truths of God's Word are brought effectually to bear upon them in the mass. The Bible teaches no different truths to-day from those it taught in the days when persecution and martyrdom existed in the church; yet to-day the church is far in advance of such barbarisms; since the Lord rebuked Cain for the murder of his brother, the commandment of love has been promulgated—for the last eighteen hundred years it has been enforced by the example of the perfect Sacrifice of Love; yet every year and every day deepens and strengthens the force of the lesson upon human hearts. The church to-day is more liberal than it was fifty years ago; individual Christians are practically more benevolent than they were fifty years ago; and because there is still room for expansion and progression, are we to grow faithless in the power of Christianity to subdue and conquer the selfishness of the human heart?"
               "You make it plainer to me; but now in this case of the Stapletons; they have peculiar claims upon our sympathy and regard; and yet coming here at an ordinary time, when there was no especial interest in the subject of religion felt among us, how many church members do you suppose would receive them with open arms—would give them as cordial a greeting as though they had returned wealthy and honorable among men?"
               "Very few probably."
               "Yet would Christ have loved them less, think you, for their poverty?"
               "Certainly not."
               "Then the church does not follow in the steps of her Divine Master."
               "Yes, she does; though sometimes it is afar off. The human heart is not to be perfectly subdued by the power of holiness while here on earth, at least not until the Millennium arrives, and the age is tending fast in that blessed direction. All the great leaders—they who, gaining favored heights upon the Mount of Vision, call downward to the multitudes who linger in the valley below: 'Hitherward lies the pathway, ascend ye, and meet the sunrise;" all these are humanitarians. Wherever you find such a mind, no matter what column of the great advancing army he heads, let him only pierce the mists which hang around the mountain sides, and ascend into the clear sunshine of Truth which bathes its summit, and you hear him cry, 'Love, love is the great mystery of the Universe.'
               "To poets, sages, divines, to all earnest truth-seekers, comes the same lesson in one form or another; and the world is beginning to heed the cry; and as the fountains are refreshed from the sea, and the rivers run back into her bosom, so the church having been the first to unseal the secret springs of love, and send the sacred waters coursing through the world, receives daily in return rich tribute from those whom she has thus doubly benefited. But we have discussed principles long enough. I wish to descend to persons. How is it with your own soul in these days, Charles?"
               "I think I can answer that it is well. Yet I have been for a week past under a heavy could. I did not wish to connect myself with the church while it seemed to me so far from the standard of truth. There are members in our own church, for instance, with the spirit of whose lives I could have little fellowship. But I see things more plainly now, thanks to your kind explanations."
               "Charles, have you settled what you will be in future? I mean what profession you will adopt?"
               "Scarcely. I have been thinking much recently of my mother's often-expressed wish—that I should study for the ministry."
               "I am glad you have thought of it; your warm, earnest heart, your strong, practical sense, and you energy of character would do good service in the church."
               "If I had your talents I should not hesitate a moment."
               "If you feel that God calls you to his service you ought not to hesitate, as it is."
               "I see you have decided for yourself. It is what I expected. James, you will be one to go far in advance of the mass, and speak to a whole age words of deep knowledge—of comfort, of warning, of assurance; while I, If serve at all, must linger among the people, hiding the seed of truth deep in the hearts of the few with whom, in my humble sphere, I may be brought in contact."
               "I do not know," answered James, meditatively. "I can but speak the best word that is within me; you must do the same. God, who orders all things, will care for the rest."
               "Amen!" responded Charles, heartily; adding, after a pause: "No one of our Bible-class with the example of Uncle Timothy before him, need ever despair. Think of the good he has been instrumental in producing."
               "His labors have been truly blessed. Who can measure the effect, upon countless generations to come, of that good man's pious counsels?"
               The fire burned low upon the hearth, and the tall old clock in the kitchen struck twelve; the Sabbath was dawning, and with the warm and hearty affection of souls now born in Christ, the two young men bade each other good-night.
            
            
               
               XI. THE STAPLETONS.
               THE affairs of the Stapletons were, during the next week, the prominent theme of discussion and gossip, among the Meadow Brook people.
               As Charles had predicted, there were very few found even among professing Christians, who felt called upon to give their active sympathies to the widow and orphan in their affliction. The simple but comprehensive definition of religion given by the apostle James, the injunctions and example of Christ, seemed alike disregarded. Mrs. Stapleton had been unfortunate, they said, and they were sorry for her; it was a pity she had not brought up her son better, for he was able now to assist her materially if he were so disposed; but if people would have dissipated sons, they must take the consequences. If certainly was not their duty to support her; she must look to the town for help.
               Yet there were they who daily read, "Inasmuch as ye have done it unto the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me." These were they in whose hearts the love of God and of their fellows professed to triumph over the principle of self-love. Alas! how few hearts are there, so far subdued by divine grace, as to view the sufferings of others with the same degree of commiseration and active sympathy which they would wish bestowed upon their own. Yet surely nothing less than this will answer the perfect law.
               James Hollis and his cousin Charles were particularly sensible of this want of benevolence among their fellow-Christians, and set earnestly about the work of amending the matter.
               MR. Maxwell, always open-hearted and generous, was easily induced to offer Mrs. Stapleton a home at his house, where she could assist his wife occasionally in the lighter household duties, particularly the family sewing, and thus raise herself above the condition of absolute dependence; Theodore, the little lame boy, must of course accompany her; the children were much pleased with the idea of a new play-fellow, and readily promised to do all they could to amuse him, and even to forego some accustomed pleasures if need be, in order that his wants might be supplied from the common fund. Anna, the eldest of the two girls, was to remain at Deacon Berryman's, to assist in the kitchen, so that only Martha was unprovided for.
               All this was accomplished before the meeting of the Bible-class on Thursday evening. The members of the class usually assembled rather earlier than the time appointed for the commencement of the lesson in order to discuss among themselves such topics as were suggested by the occurrences of the week, or to converse with those who were inquiring the way of salvation. Upon this occasion James and Charles gathered around them a few or their most intimate friends, Walter Converse, Ed Cunningham, and Samson Thorn among the rest, and after relating the success of the efforts which had been made in behalf of the Stapletons, disclosed a project of their own, in which they invited coöperation.
               Joseph Stapleton was about their own age, had been, in former times, a schoolmate of nearly all of them, and much beloved for his sweetness and amiability of disposition, and for the never-failing fund of good humor and vivacity, which made him at all times a delightful companion. It seemed to them a great pity that he should be allowed to throw himself away, without one effort being made to rescue him from ruin temporal and eternal.
               Charles had originated a plan therefore, which had received the cordial sanction of his cousin, of sending some one of their number to N—— to invite their erring friend to his old home; to urge upon him the necessity of a reformation in his habits, and to assure him of their sympathy for him, and their earnest desire to aid him if it lay in their power to do so.
               This proposition he now laid before his friends, and to his great satisfaction it received their hearty approval.
               "I tell you what," said Samson, whose practical cal suggestions were often weighty and seldom to be wholly despised, "it is a right good idea to send for him to come up here amongst us, for I am sure he'll reform here if anywhere, right amongst his old friends; but wouldn't it be better it we had something for him to do when he gets here? There's nothing like a steady business, and wages coming in every Saturday or so, to keep a man out of bad company."
               "That is very well said, Samson," said Walter Converse; "I think if we could arrange with some of our friends here to give him a good situation, where he could take care of himself, and do something for his mother, it would probably be one of the strongest inducements we could offer him, to break off from his present evil habits and associates."
               "It is a great pity," said Ned Cunningham, "that he ever fell into such courses; he was such a fine fellow! If he was steady and sober now, I think Mr. Buckingham would take him into his counting-room. I know he is in want of a clerk just now, and would give good wages to a competent person. But you know he is very strict about the morals of the men in his employ."
               "But," said Charlie, "he surely would stretch a point in favor of poor Joseph. He used to think much of him, years ago, and he is well qualified for such a situation."
               "Mr. Buckingham is peculiar," said James; "I doubt if we could persuade him."
               
               "Who is talking about me?" exclaimed a pretty, arch-looking brunette, who entered the room, just at this moment. "Somebody said something about Miss Buckingham, I am sure."
               "Just in time Kate," said Walter; "we have something for you to do."
               "Of course you have, or you would never think of welcoming me to such a grave assembly. What is going on? Who is being churched?" she asked as she divested herself of an elegant set of furs, and laying a rich velvet hat upon the seat which she intended to occupy, and shaking out her long dark curls—advanced to join the little group.
               "Nobody at present," answered Ned, gaily, "but we are going to arraign you, if you don't do as we want you to."
               "I estimate your threats at their proper value, Ned Cunningham," she replied, snapping her fingers derisively; "you should have put your petition differently, if you hoped to gain it."
               "I have not put it at all yet, thank you," was the teasing answer.
               "Do some of you speak besides this senseless rattle-pate, if you wish me to be gracious;" said the saucy beauty; "don't you see that he is provoking me into opposition to your plans, before I have the first glimmering of what they may be? Charlie Maxwell, what were yon saying about me as I entered?"
               "Nothing, Kate. I was not speaking at all."
               "Well, then it was your grave cousin, which is much the same, for everybody knows, what one says, the other thinks."
               "I beg your pardon Kate," said James, smiling. "I lay claim to a separate individuality, very distinct from Charlie's."
               "Is it possible! I really thought you considered yourselves by the law of dualisms, indissolubly one; and that it was you mission to do all sighing, and his to do all the smiling for the joint concern. But what has all this to do with the matter in hand?"
               "Commend, me to a woman's curiosity," said Ned; "it can nor more be turned off the scent than the mad prince in the play?"
               Kate drew herself up haughtily. "Thank you, Mr. Cunningham," she said; "your hint is very broad, but also very timely. I had forgotten that I was interfering with what was probably none of my business. I beg your pardon for the offence, gentlemen, and will promise hereafter to seek no part in your discussions," and bowing with a dignified grace, she turned away. Her haughtiness, which was well understood to be only a part of her tactics, provoked a smile.
               "Come Kate," said Charlie, "don't give yourself airs; we really do want your assistance, we were only teasing you, because we knew you liked it."
               "Commend me to a man's discrimination," was her only answer, as she moved away with a merry glance in her eye, and a scornful curl upon her lip, which instantly vanished as she turned to greet Uncle Timothy, who at this moment entered the room. Skipping gaily up to his crutch, and substituting her arm for its support, led him forward to his chair, and then sitting down by him, commenced asking him eager questions after his own and Lizzie's health; why Lizzie had not come with him, and twenty other things of a like nature.
               "Kate," said Uncle Timothy, laying his thin hand upon her clustering curls, "you who are so good to everybody else, why will you so neglect your own interests?"
               She blushed and hung her head, and then lifting her soft eyes to his face replied half-gaily.
               "It is so pleasant to have you and Lizzie and all whom I love so well, caring so kindly for me, that I am afraid I abuse the blessing; but I do love you all very much, Uncle Timothy."
               "I know you do, my child; and with that warm heart of yours how can you help loving your Saviour also? Kate, promise me that you will attend to these things."
               "I never make promises, you know, Uncle Timothy; but you know, too, that I never disregard your wishes," and rising with a gay, indifferent air, she left him.
               Twenty times she had evaded his earnest admonition in this way. Yet the good man could not feel altogether discouraged. A heart like hers, so full of warm true impulses, could not, he hoped, be forever given over to the hardness and blindness of unbelief. He could only labor and pray, and hope but he had faith to believe that his endeavors would sometime be crowned with success.
               It was time for the lesson to commence, and the young men had come to no further conclusion than that Kate should be invited and urged, if need be, to present their petition to her father, for the refusal of the vacant situation, until Joseph could be visited; and as she was the only and idolized child of her widowed father, they had some hope of success. No one entertained a doubt of her willingness to aid them, when her sympathies were once enlisted in the matter, for Kate's generous impulses were as well known as her willfulness, and her saucy, coquettish ways. They argued from her very airs and caprices that she meant to grant the favor when her whims were sufficiently indulged.
               One more circumstance of some importance had been set forth in a remark of Samson's, toward the close of the conversation. Some one had asked if Joseph's whereabouts in the city could be easily ascertained, when Samson replied—
               "I am going down to Deacon Berryman's this evening, to see Mrs. Stapleton, and I'll find out what she knows about it. It is likely she can tell us where he cab be found.
               Ned Cunningham, whose propensities for quizzing never slept, and who could not forget Samson's son's determined opposition to the admission of females into the class, replied—
               "They do say, Samson, that you are in the habit of going to Deacon Berryman's, Thursday evenings; and I have heard it remarked that direction also."
               Samson blushed slightly, very replied with perfect composure, such as a year ago would have been perfectly impossible to him under the circumstances.
               "I am going down there this evening to see Mrs. Stapleton in regard to taking Martha to live with us. Mother is getting old and feeble, and if Martha is as smart as she looks, she will be able to do something toward helping her along with the housework, She'll be well fed and clothed, and have a chance to go to school, and that will be better than to go upon the town."
               There was a general rejoicing at this announcement, which way interrupted by Uncle Timothy's mild call to order.
               After class, Charlie Maxwell offered to escort Miss Kate Buckingham home, and was poutingly accepted. As they were leaving the room however, Kate's assumed displeasure vanished at the sight of Eleanor Wentworth, who was her cousin, standing alone by the door, waiting for the servant who was usually sent to accompany her home; for Mr. Wentworth, his offended dignity still unappeased—had peremptorily forbidden his daughter accepting the escort of any of the young men who attended the class.
               "Come Eleanor," exclaimed Kate with her accustomed vivacity, "don't stand there moping; Jerry won't be here this hour, so come along with us."
               "Thank you Kate," was the quiet answer, "I should enjoy your company very much, but I think I had better wait for Jerry."
               "Indeed you'll do no such thing, will she Charlie? I'm bent upon your coming with us, so you needn't think to refuse me."
               Charlie could do no less than to say, "We are going your way, Miss Wentworth, and should enjoy your company very much," although he full understood her position.
               "Come now," said Kate, "no scruples, I'll be fully answerable to Uncle Wentworth; you know that I am one of the powers that be, with him." And she drew Eleanor's arm within her own, and continued pleading more earnestly than ever.
               Eleanor was disposed to yield; she loved Kate, she was pleased with Charles, and isolated as she was from her own family, by her religious sentiments, she felt every day more and more in need of sympathy and companionship. She knew too that Kate's example, and her influence with Mr. Wentworth would go far toward reconciling him to this, her first breach of privilege, if indeed he should ever become acquainted with it; for Jerry. She was sure, was too faithful to the only member of the family who ever treated him as if he had a soul to be saved, to betray her; so at last she yielded to Kate's entreaties, and joined them in their walk.
               It was a clear, moonlight evening, and their way lay through one of the pleasantest streets of the village. The young people did not hasten, but loitered along in pleasant, social chat, and when they paused at Mr. Wentworth's gate, and Eleanor gave her hand to her companions in parting, it was with unaffected regret that so pleasant an interview could not be prolonged.
               "Make your father give up that terrible stiff notion of sending a servant for you every night, and walk home with us, Eleanor," said Kate, as they were about separating. "It would be twice as sensible."
               "Twice as pleasant, I allow," said Eleanor, "but"—
               "There are no 'buts' about it. I am going to see your honored papa myself, and if I don't make him give Jerry the mitten before another Thursday night, then my name is not Kate."
               "Which it undoubtedly is," said Charlie, "or you wouldn't be the merry, saucy, good-hearted girl you are. But success to you in this undertaking, at any rate."
               "I will be successful, so make up your mind to that, my pretty coz,; and good-night and pleasant dreams to you."
               "Charlie," said Kate, as they turned from the gate, after leaving Eleanor, "I know you have a word to say to me, but first I am going to ask you a question: Why do you, and James, and everybody; turn me off with a joke when I speak to you? I can never get a word in serious earnest out of any of you."
               "I suppose because people generally choose to give you tit for tat. If you address them in a saucy; joking manner, it is very natural that they should respond in a similar spirit."
               "But my manner isn't intended to be joking; it is natural to me as speech."
               "Natural enough, no doubt, and very pretty and piquant beside, and wonderfully provocative of a saucy return."
               "But, Charles, people never speak to me in earnest; they joke, and tease, and laugh at me, in a way which seems to imply that sensible conversation would be lost upon me."
               "Doesn't Uncle Timothy ever speak earnestly to you?" asked Charles, seriously.
               "Yes, upon the only subject upon which I can not respond in a similar strain. But I am not going to be lectured to-night," she added, nervously. "I want to know why my presence among you this evening was sufficient to break up your discourse, which had evidently been a serious one, and set you all talking nonsense? Even you grave cousin did not escape the infection."
               "I think Ned Cunningham's fun-making propensities were quite as answerable for that as your own. But, Kate, I want to talk seriously to you upon a matter which we were just then discussing, and in which you can aid us materially. I am only afraid you will consider it too grave and business-like for your interference."
               "There it is again! Charlie, such speeches do wound me. They make me seem such a silly child."
               "Instead of which we all know you to be a good, generous-hearted girl"—
               "Stop!" commanded Kate. "I will not be flattered into anything."
               "My dear Kate," said Charlie, with the liberty of an old acquaintance, "I did not intend anything of the sort. I was as honest as I ever can be in all that I said; and, to prove it, I am going to appeal to your generosity, in a way which many young ladies would consider highly presumptuous. You remember Joseph Stapleton, do you not?"
               "Perfectly," answered Kate, promptly.
               "And you have heard the unpleasant reports about him?"
               "Yes."
               "Well, some of us have been thinking if we could persuade him to come back among his old friends, and procure for him a situation where he could support himself, it might be the means of effecting a permanent reformation in his character. James is going to N—— to see him next week, and will, if possible, bring him back with him. In case he is successful, we wish to obtain for him a place soon to be vacant in your father's counting-room; there will probably be some difficulty on account of his present character, but if he promises to do well, and seems sincere, will you not intercede for him, Kate?"
               "Why am I asked?—because I am supposed to be a spoiled child, able to coax and flatter my father into anything I choose?"
               "Because you are known to be a good-hearted, generous girl; always willing to give assistance to those who need it."
               "If you had added 'sensible' to the 'good-hearted,' I would willingly have dispensed with the 'generous;' but after all," she added with a laugh, "I will not quarrel with you this time, for it is a case wherein no arguments will succeed; so I must fain try coaxing."
               "Then you will aid us?"
               "I will do what I can in so noble a cause, Charlie. Your cousin James is a very estimable young man; you see I can appreciate even his strong, and weighty, and sensible character."
               Charlie did not answer for a moment.
               "You are a strange girl, Kate," he said at length. But whatever you may be, you certainly have my thanks and those of us all for your promised assistance. I hope it will avail us much."
               They had reached the gate, and Kate had entered and now stood leaning over it. The clear, full moon shone directly down into her flushed, but still beautiful face, and Charlie, as he took her proffered hand, saw a tear glisten in her eye. She did not strive to hide it, but quietly wiped it away with her pockethandkerchief.
               "Good-night," she said in her old gay tone, "and go tell those wiseacres, with whom you consort, that you have seen Kate Buckingham in tears. They will ask you if her lap-dog is dead."
               Charles answered her only with a searching, significant glance, and, bowing respectfully, bade her good-night.
               Keeping on his walk through the moon-light, which the drooping spray of the elm-boughs sifted curiously down upon him, he said to himself:
               "A woman's heart—who shall know it?"
               And again he mused:
               "To some men is given more than they can enjoy; to others, less; which class is happiest?"
               At Mr. Burroughs' gate, he met James, who was just taking leave of Ella; and, silently slipping his arm within that of his cousin, they walked homeward together.
            
            
               XII. JOSEPH.
               THE next Monday morning found James Hollis on board of the cars for N——. Kate's intercession with her father had been so far successful, that he had promised not to engage a new clerk until he had seen Joseph, and this from Mr. Buckingham was equal to a promise to give him a trial provided he found him at all a reliable person.
               Arrived at N—— James's first endeavor was to find the drinking-house to which Mr. Stapleton had informed him Joseph was accustomed to resort during his idle hours. With some difficulty, he reached the location designated; it was in a dark, unpleasant quarter of the town, and as James entered the room and passed behind the dirty green baize screen which stood before the door, a shudder of ill-concealed disgust passed over him, and for an instant he felt almost inclined to regret his mission.
               At his right was the long counter, with a stand of glasses at one end, and behind it a row of barrels, and above shelves of glittering decanters, from which was retailed the liquid poison. The opposite wall, upon which hung a half dozen disgusting gusting pictures, was lined with a row of chairs, broken by a table upon which lay a few dirty newspapers, thrust to one side just now, to make room for the operations of two greasy-looking men who were playing cards. Around a large table at the far end of the room lounged a half-dozen men engaged in a similar operation upon a larger scale as the piles of silver coin and bills attested. In the chairs by the wall, three or four topers were still sleeping off the effects of their last night's debauch; with exception of these, not a man in the room, from the red-headed barkeeper who was luxuriating in a 'long nine,' to the little Irish tapster who puffed away at a dirty 'butt,' which he had picked up from under the stove, but exhaled from some smoking apparatus, the poisonous fumes of tobacco; while the red-hot stove which kept the air of the room at fever heat, was reeking, with the odor of the sickening ejections with which it was plentifully bespattered. So dead and loath some was the atmosphere, with the mingled effluvia of rum and tobacco, that James, totally unaccustomed to such miasma, felt his brain grow dizzy with the first few respiration of it.
               Walking directly up to the bar, however, he inquired for Joseph Stapleton."
               "Stapleton? Yes sir; he is yonder, sir, I think asleep."
               James looked in the direction in which the lank finger pointed; his color rose unconsciously with shame at beholding in a tall, ill-dressed, red-faced young man, the semblance of one whom he had once called his friend. Hearing his name called, Joseph rose, and casting an anxious glance around him, espied at last his old acquaintance. Evidently he did not readily recognize him, and James, advancing, extended his hand, saying pleasantly:
               "How do you do, Joseph? you have not forgotten your old friend, I hope?"
               "Ah! James Hollis, I believe," with a foolish laugh, "I can't say as I did know you at first; you are altered some, James, in—in—let's see, how many years is it since we've met? I don't just remember now?"
               "Seven or eight, I believe; but I think I should have known you."
               "Should ye, indeed?" he asked, looking down apologetically upon his dirty, shabby garments "you see times ain't very good with me just now; and I don't look so smart as I do sometimes; but never mind, there's luck ahead. Come, step up, and take something to drink."
               "No I thank you," said James, firmly but pleasantly. "I never drink."
               "You'd better; don't meet an old friend every day."
               "Excuse me; as I said before, I make it a rule never to taste intoxicating liquors."
               "Tee-total eh?" replied Joseph with a half-scornful smile; "that'll do for you country chaps; but it ain't the ticket down here, my boy;" and he took the glass of brandy which he had ordered for himself, and tossed it off with an air of bravado, which was evidently assumed.
               But come, old fellow, maybe ye smoke. Have a segar?"
               "No!" said James, kindly still, for he had no intention of offending Joseph. "I never learned to smoke.
               "Never'll begin younger, then; suppose you try one?" at the same time offering him the bunch from which he was himself selecting a couple.
               Again James refused, and Joseph having "taken a light," winked to the bar-tender to place the amount to the old score, and invited James to walk out, and "see the lions."
               "Sold this time," muttered the man as they left the room. "If I hadn't thought the other fellow was going to pay, he shouldn't a' had a penny's worth. I told him he shouldn't last night. But he's regular leech. Howsever he'll manage to borrer of this black-coated swell what's run afoul of him, and then I reckon I'll get it. He's a soft hearted chap, and spends his money free enough when he's got it. That ain't often though, lately."
               "Come to the city to stay?" asked Joseph, as they reached the sidewalk.
               "No, I am only down on a little business."
               "Oh! didn't know but you'd got sick of livin' in that hum-drum way they do down to Meadow Brook. 'Pon my soul, I couldn't stand it. Terrible slow."
               "Where are you staying now?" asked James, willing to turn the conversation.
               "Boarding! oh! round here in D—— street. 'Tain't a very nice place to ask you to; for, as I said, times ain't very good just now, and folks has to live as they can. That's the good o' livin' in the city; if ye're poor ye've a mind to, and 'tain't nobody's business. Hain't had your dinner yet I suppose?"
               "No," replied James, "and if you'll show me the way to a dining saloon, we'll get something to eat; and then I'd like to go to your room, and have a little visit with you, and talk over old times."
               "Oh! certainly, certainly; right down here on the next block is as good a dining-saloon as there is in town."
               They entered a very respectable restaurant and James ordered a wholesome and bountiful dinner for the two. Joseph ate very much as if he had had no breakfast, and James was obliged to linger over the meal and take up much time in conversation in order to give his friend an opportunity to do his appetite justice. When, at last, they finished, Joseph looked very wishfully at a row of decanters which were ranged along the bar, and asked if James never took a glass of wine after his dinner; but James was quite impervious to hints, and as his friend had no credit here, his appetite was obliged to go unsatisfied.
               James paid for the dinners, and then determined not to lose sight of his errand, in humoring the whims of his companion; declined several suggestions in regard to visiting places of curiosity or amusement, and expressed a preference for a quiet afternoon in Joseph's room. The young toper at last acquiesced, and they set out for D—street.
               A small attic room in an old frame house, was Joseph Stapleton's lodging-place. A single bed-stead upon which was piled a straw mattress and a few dirty coverlets; a chair with a broken back, and an old trunk, composed the sole furniture of the room. A little shelf in one corner held a dusty torn Bible, a yellow-covered novel of the lowest order, and an old song-book; attesting that although Joseph's early fondness for reading was sadly perverted, it was not yet wholly destroyed.
               "'Tain't a very nice-looking place," said Joseph, apologetically; "but when a fellow hain't got any mother or sister to look out for him, nobody but these boarding-house women, he has to get along the best way he can. It's little they care whether he is comfortable or not, so they get his money."
               This was the first allusion which he had made to his family, and James accordingly took advantage of it to give the conversation the turn which he desired.
               "You haven't inquired after your mother, Joe," he remarked, "but I presume you will be glad to learn that she reached Meadow Brook safely, and is provided with a comfortable home at my Uncle Maxwell's."
               "Is she thought?" said Joe, with a look of mingled pleasure and shame. "I am really glad the old lady is so well off; you see I couldn't do much for her here; she was sick all the time, and the children couldn't work, and times was hard, so I thought she might better go amongst her old friends. I knowed they wouldn't let her starve to death."
               "No," said James, "your mother had too many friends in Meadow Brook to fear that. She had lived among them too long, and evinced too many amiable traits of character, to be readily forgotten or neglected."
               "She is a good woman, that's a fact," said Joe, in a tone of real feeling. "I only wish I was worthier of her; but where's the children, they ain't all at Mr. Maxwell's are they?"
               "Only Theodore; he, you know, could hardly be separated from his mother; Martha lives with Samson Throne and his mother, and Anna is at Deacon Berryman's."
               "Well, now, I am glad to hear that they are all so well provided for. Then Samson is keeping house with his mother, is he?"
               "Yes, and a very fine man he is, too."
               "Don't get married yet, I suppose. He never used to be much of a fellow for the girls?"
               "Samson is very well received in society now, though. He waits upon Sophie Berryman a great deal."
               "You don't say! Why, Sophy used to be a very pretty girl, and the deacon is worth a plum I suppose."
               "Yes; but Samson is an excellent business-man, and must be laying up something."
               "Well, I am glad to hear that he prospers. How's Walt Converse and Ed Cunningham, and the rest? doing well?"
               "Walter is at home yet, but he talks of going to New York in the spring, to enter his uncle's store as bookkeeper. He is well educated, you know, thanks to his own industry and perseverance, and can command a handsome salary. Ed is the same good-natured fun-loving creature that he always was, and is clerking it for Squire retires from business, as he will in a few years, I suppose, Ed will probably take the store himself."
               A frown had settled on Joe's countenance at the mention of Squire Horton's name.
               "Retire from business, will he? Made a fortune, I suppose, out of that bargain which my poor father gave him. The villain, I'd like to cut his heart out."
               "It is true that Squire Horton has not behaved in a manly way toward your family; still I am sorry to hear you express such strong resentment toward him. It was a pretty sharp transaction to be sure, but only such a one as is daily happening among business-men."
               "Yes, and among men who call themselves Christians, too. I am a sinner, and a hard case at that; but my old mother brought me up to read the Bible, and I remember enough of it yet, to know that Jesus Christ would never have been caught in any such mean underhanded transaction as that. You talk like as if you called yourself a Christian; but if you uphold any such piece of business as that was, I say you are a hypocrite, and I mean it, too," and Joe brought his hand down upon the bed, upon which he was sitting, with a more energetic emphasis than James had thought him capable of. "I don't say that all who call themselves Christians," he continued, "are liars and hypocrites, because my mother is a church member; but I do say that I know of men who are members of churches who are greater villains than I ever was; and what is worse, men who pretend to an honest character, will gloss over their sins, and uphold them in their wickedness, just because they are professors, and it won't do to speak evil of a brother; I say speak the truth of a man, if you say anything, let it hit where it will."
               "I did not mean," said James, "to palliate the injustice of Squire Horton's conduct."—
               "But you did try to do it though," interrupted Joe. "I don't exactly think you did it deliberately; but you Christians have got into such a habit of sticking by each other through thick and thin, that if the devil himself should join the church, you would try to make it out that he wasn't as bad as he had been represented, lest, forsooth, disgrace should be brought upon Zion. I tell you, Jim Hollis, no man makes anything by trying to bolster up sin in high places. It is strong enough if you fight it down as hard as you can, and in every place where you find it."
               "I know very well," replied James, "that there is no such thing as compromising with evil. It is true that wrong and injustice ought never to be palliated; but another thing is equally true, that while we ought to have with an uncompromising hatred, any and every from of evil which we may encounter, the truest love and purest charity should burn in our hearts toward the evil doer. This surely is the doctrine of Christ, and one which, if rightly practised, would soon put an end to much of the strife and variance which exist in the world."
               "Yes, but how do Christians themselves practise it? Just take me, for an example. I know as well as you do, though I've never heard it, how they go on about me at Meadow Brook; call me a drunken, dissipated fellow, a good-for-nothing sot; roll up their pious eyes and wonder how young men who have been religiously brought up can go so far astray, and thank God their sons have been more carefully watched over; and if I was to go the to-day, they would shun me as a viper, and I should no more get an invitation to their houses, than if I wore horns and hoofs. Yet there is just as much goodness in my heart as in theirs, and half of them, yes, seven eighths, with my temptations, would have done just as I have done. They would tell me— some of the most sanctimonious—that they had nothing against me; oh, no! it was only my bad habits, that they condemn. Why don't they treat me kindly then, and try to help me out of my bad habits, which I know, which every drunkard knows, are his worst enemies. If I haven't got strength enough of myself, why don't they lend me a little of their extra pity?—you know well enough what I mean—why don't they give me kind words, and active sympathy? They will say, no doubt, 'break off your bad habits, cleanse yourself of all impurity, be white and clean like us, and then if you come humbly among us, with a due sense of all your own past misdoings, and a proper feeling of you own disgrace and our condescension, why we will give you our most gracious patronage; then we will begin to do something for you.' If my old Bible, which I have not looked at these five years, is a true version, it wasn't the Scribes and Pharisees which Christ consorted most with, but the publicans and the sinners. But where is the one amongst them that will follow in his steps? Where is the real Good Samaritan who will go to a fellow, when he has fallen among worse than thieves, and is wounded by them, and subject to them, and have patience to assist him through one failure, or two or three, in his efforts to free himself? I tell you that charity you talk about, is all the true religion there is in the world, but where do you find it—tell me that?"
               James had allowed him fully and freely to vent his emotion, conscious that the simple but convicting answer which he was prepared to give, would strike home to his heart with all the more force when the strength of his passion was expended.
               "You have chosen your own case as an illustration, Joseph," was his mild answer. "How would you have this divine principle of charity applied to yourself?"
               "I will not speak of myself, James, for perhaps I am too far gone for reformation; I know, at least, that I must be pretty well hardened, or I could not have treated you as I did when I met you; and, besides, I want none of their charity. But I do know men, worse than myself in many respects, who might be made honest and useful members of society, if society would but exercise the needful influence over them."
               "And what should that influence be?"
               "The omnipotent one of kindness. Let a man once fall into temptation, and all the doors of the synagogues are shut in his face. Men caution their sons about being seen in the streets with him; they banish him entirely from the society of their wives and daughters; they turn him over exclusively to the company of those who have endured this treatment a little longer than he, and are consequently thrust a little further on into vileness. All this if he is poor; if he is rich, I grant you, the case is different. Then, though he were seven times the son of Belial that he is, he is sought after, coaxed, flattered and caressed, and offered his choice among all the fair and virtuous of the land for a wife. The one course is just as fatal as the other. So far as ultimate reform is concerned, I wouldn't give a straw to choose between them; there is a chance either way, and only a chance."
               "Suppose I grant all this; what, then, is the true duty of society in the case?"
               "The duty of Christians is to follow in the foot-steps of their Lord and Master. To rebuke the sin, but to treat the sinner with kindness and affection. When Christ found a poor fellow possessed of devils, he did not tell him to keep among those his own sort, and not contaminate Christian society with his presence; but even at the expense of prayer and fasting, and some little personal inconvenience, he loosed him of his bonds. Not to one poor conscious sinner did he ever administer aught but love and consolation; it was the self-righteous Scribes and Pharisees who received the lashings of his righteous scorn and indignation."
               "Very true, Joseph; I told you this morning that I came to town on business. Did it occur to you that my business might be with you?"
               "Me? no; what business can you have with me?"
               "I have come on a pleasing errand, Joseph. The arrival of your mother and her family in Meadow Brook has been an event of interest to us all. Active endeavors have been made to render her as happy as was possible under the circumstances, and I am glad to say that, notwithstanding the opposition or indifference of some from whom we might have hoped better things, much has been effected; but while one member of the family was left in distress worse than poverty, we felt that our work was not complete. Accordingly, I was commissioned by a number of your old school-mates and friends to bear to you their love and best wishes, and an invitation to visit your old home as their guest; and your old friend, Mr. Buckingham, is willing, if you will accept the terms which one gentleman may always offer to another, of industry and fidelity, to accept your services as clerk in his counting-room, at a handsome salary."
               A look of almost stupid amazement rested upon Joseph's face.
               "Are you in earnest, James?" he inquired at length. "It would be cruel to joke me in this way."
               "I was never more in earnest," said James, grasping his friend's hand; "I never spoke more truthfully. All that is lacking to perfect our plan is your consent to it. Will you go home with me, Joseph?"
               "Go home with you to Meadow Brook, see my poor mother, and all the old friends again? Oh! James!"
               "You will be right welcome among them, I promise you."
               "Who sent this invitation, James?"
               "Charlie Maxwell proposed it, and Walter, and Ed, and Samson, and the rest readily agreed to it."
               "But how came they to think of it? This is not a usual, scarcely a natural proceeding."
               "You remember Uncle Timothy Vail?"
               "Yes, perfectly. I used to love him very much."
               "And he has not forgotten you. He is the same good man he used to be; only his light shines daily brighter and brighter toward the perfect day. Well, more than a year ago he organized a Bible-class among the young people of the congregation. Nearly all your old friends and acquaintances joined it, and during the winter a very interesting revival of religion has been in progress, growing directly out of his efforts with the class. Many of our members are hopeful converts; and our class-meetings grow weekly more and more interesting. It would give us a great deal of pleasure if you would join us; though that of course is left to your won option."
               "Can I accept all this kindness without humiliation to myself?"
               James smiled as he answered:
               "The man who fell among thieves was doubtless grateful to the good Samaritan, but do you think he was humiliated? Were they not both made passed between them?"
               Joseph leaned his head thoughtfully upon his hand.
               "We are all mutually dependent, Joseph," continued James, "and there is often more true manhood displayed in accepting a favor than there could be in declining, or even in offering it. Besides, in this case, the favor is at least mutual. It will give us all pleasure if you accept our offer, and deep regret if you do not. Christ has said, 'we are members one of another,' and it is true of all who love each other that when one is miserable the happiness of the rest cannot be complete. You the happiness of the rest cannot be complete. You cannot continue in your present life without exerting a bad influence over us; therefore, for our own sakes, we entreat you to accept our perfectly frank, though not unselfish offer."
               Joseph looked up with a face streaming with tears.
               "James," he said, "you have conquered. Had you come to me with reproof or accusations I should not have listened to you I have been in the power of my evil passions and they would have repelled you. But this kind forbearance—these gentle persuasions—all that is good within me goes out to meet them. Forgive me that I have railed at churches and church-members; but this is the first time in my life that religion has been presented to me in this form. It has accused me, reviled me, shut the doors of all respectable society in my face, but never before has it offered the helping hand, the sustaining arm. I will go with you, James; I cannot promise to be always all that you could desire, for my moral powers are weak, and I may fall; but surrounded by the atmosphere of love, into which you have introduced me, I feel that I shall one day be triumphant over all my foes."
               Tears came in James's eyes, as he listened, and he clasped the hand of his friend with mingled humiliation and joy.
               "How I wish," said he, "that I could assure you that all men among the professed followers of Christ, would welcome you in a spirit corresponding to your own. But you will not, I trust, be discouraged, even though you meet with some cold looks and uncordial tones; there are some who do love you, Joseph, and who never will under any circumstances cease to befriend you."
               It grew late, and as James desired to leave N—by the evening train, he accompanied his friend to a neighboring clothing store, where he was speedily provided, from the little purse which had been sent for the purpose, with a suit of good and comfortable clothing; and in another hour, Joseph Stapleton was on his way, with a beating heart, to his native town.
            
            
               
               XIII. THE EXPERIMENT TRIED.
               JAMES HOLLIS wan not insensible to the difficulties of the work which had been undertaken, in bringing Joseph to Meadow Brook, or the possibilities of failure. The strong habits which fixed themselves upon the young man, could not, he knew, be instantaneously overcome, and there was much need of kind counsel and encouragement on the part of all his friends; especially as there were at Meadow Brook, as in all similar communities, many who were envious of the good fortune which had fallen to him, and who would gladly have conspired to bring it about. Still with the influence of his mother's love, the memory of earlier, pleasanter days, and above all with the blessing of God upon their labors, the little clique of Good Samaritans did not despair.
               It was a happy evening for this Bible-class, that on which Joseph first took his seat among them. Uncle Timothy welcomed his young friend heartily to the meeting, and among them all there was not one who participated in the exercises more earnestly or attentively than the young prodigal.
               A week of regular and temperate living, and the society of intelligent and Christian friends, had so changed his appearance that one would scarcely have recognized in the handsome intellectual youth who stood at the close of the lesson, the centre of an interested group of conversationists, the haggard debauchee whom James had found in the drinking saloon at N—. He had already entered the counting-room of Mr. Buckingham, and was not offering his thanks to Kate for her intercession.
               "Oh! it was nothing, Joseph; papa always liked you, you know, and a few words spoken at the right time were all that was required. I am sure it gave me a great deal of pleasure to serve you."
               "God willing, Miss Kate, you shall never have cause to regret it. I should be worse than a brute indeed, if I proved myself unworthy of such kindness as I have received."
               "I am sure you will not," was Kate's earnest reply, as she offered him her hand and bade him good-night.
               "Come, Eleanor," she said gaily, turning to her cousin; "it is time we were going. Where is our gallant?"
               "Here, and quite at your service, ladies," said Charlie Maxwell, stepping forward. "Are we to have the pleasure of Miss Wentworth's company this evening?"
               "Yes, I knew Uncle Wentworth could never withstand my testing. I made him bend from his dignity for once, and dismiss Jerry point-blank. But it was only upon condition that I should take the precious damsel under my most gracious protection; so hereafter, when pairing-off time comes, we are inseparable."
               Charlie smiled at the idea of the tall, stately Eleanor being under the patronage and protection of little saucy, piquant Kate, as he answered pleasantly—
               "Then whoever gains your favor will be doubly blest. Thank you for giving me timely notice."
               "Do tell me, Charles," said Eleanor, willing to turn the conversation, "whether you really have any hopes of the permanent reformation of poor Joseph. One cannot look at him and think of all his misfortunes without feeling an interest in him."
               "That is the language of a benevolent heart, Miss Wentworth," was the reply. "If all his old friends would express themselves in a similar way, there would be little doubt of his final triumph over his evil propensities. But many of those who should be foremost in the good work of assisting and encouraging him, are those who will present the greatest obstacles to his progress. Still I have strong hopes for him."
               "I do not understand you, Charles," said Kate; "surely there is no one in our community who does not wish the young man well?"
               "We have already had too much reason to believe, Kate, that the spirit of envy and all uncharitableness is still rife; Joseph has a sensitive spirit, and I am sorry to say it has received some severe wounds even in the short time he has been with us. One who once professed to be one of his father's best friends, now refuses the son even admittance within his doors."
               "And that man calls himself a Christian?"
               "Yes, he is an officer in the church; but one whose conscientiousness is of that stern, uncompromising character, which will admit no palliation for error, nor any forgiveness short of full restitution."
               "How does Joseph receive such treatment?" asked Eleanor.
               "If not with Christian resignation and meekness, at least with a dignity which is very becoming to him. He says very truly that such conduct affords him scope for the exercise of precisely the same sort of charity which has been extended to him; and I think he freely accords it. But keener shafts than that, reach him from the envenomed tongues of envy and malice. I do sincerely think it is he, and not we, who have need to exercise Christian love and forbearance. I am sure I never felt the full scope of Paul's exposition of charity to the Corinthians, as I have within the past week."
               "Was not Joseph formerly a professing Christian?" asked Eleanor.
               "Yes, he united with the church here, when he was quite young; his name is still upon the record, and I think he will renew his connection with us, at the coming communion season."
               "There was a pause for a few moments; solemn thoughts filled the hearts of both Charles and Eleanor, for they too, hoped at the approaching sacrament to take upon themselves the vows which should unite them outwardly to the visible church; even as they hoped they were already joined to the spiritual body of Christ.
               When they reached Mr. Wentworth's gate the 'good night' was spoken in a solemn and subdued voice; but the pressure of hands between the two young converts was warm and earnest, and Eleanor, whose heart yearned for sympathy, thanked God again, for the sweet 
                     
                        "Tie that binds
                        Our hearts in Christian love,"
                     
                   and sighed to think that her isolated position debarred her from so much pure and elevating enjoyment."
               "Kate," said Charlie, a few minutes after they had parted with Eleanor, "I wish you were going to join us around the table of the Lord, next Sabbath. I sometimes can but think that your heart is with us; why will you not accept and acknowledge the mercy of Christ?"
               For a moment Kate was silent. At last she answered in a trembling voice: "Charles, there are many things in my heart which I can reveal to no one. I have neither mother nor sister to whom to confide them; and to no one else can I impart all the griefs which sometimes weigh me down almost to the dust. But this much I may say to you, because I have known you from infancy, and have grown to regard you much as I fancy I might have regarded a brother, had it pleased God to give me one—I am not, I trust, altogether without the consolations of a Saviour's love. Yet at present all my hopes and joys of this nature, must remain a secret. They must be nourished in my own bosom, and bloom or fade for me alone. Only the All-seeing Friend, must be my counsellor and guide."
               To this singular confession, Charles scarcely knew how to reply. At last he answered:
               "I cannot of course judge, Kate, of the expediency of your conduct, since I am not acquainted with all your motives; but I do think that generally, the course you are pursuing is one fraught with dangers. In my opinion you not only risk your own soul by it, but you deprive others of your good example. Have you ever measured the importance of your influence?"
               "I have thought of it much, and it is the only thing which gives me any doubts of the wisdom of my course. Still, at present, I cannot reverse my decision. You will keep my secret, will you not, Charlie?"
               "Certainly, if you desire it; though I can but feel that you would be happier to disclose it yourself."
               "Doubtless I should, in many ways; it is a relief to have told it even to you; to feel that there is one heart which will sometimes bestow upon me a sympathizing tone or glance; you know perhaps, as well as I, that one of the first emotions of the new-born soul is, the desire of congenial companionship, and it is no light trial to me, to deprive myself of the affection and sympathy, of those who, like myself, have found the more excellent way."
               "Kate," said Charlie, with a penetrating glance, "Why do you not make a confidant of Eleanor?"
               "Charlie, I would not say the words to Eleanor Wentworth which I have said to you to-night, for my life. I only said to you in obedience to impulse, not deliberately; but between women there can be no half-way confidences—most of all between friends as dear as Eleanor Wentworth and I—no, it cannot be, I am alone in the world; my heart must be the sole repository of its own secrets."
               "Kate, pardon me for saying that you are a very singular girl. You need the kind and judicious advice of some female friend. Is there no one of whom you can claim such service?"
               "There is no one. So you see I must bear my own burdens just as I have done; only you will sometimes pray for me, will you not, Charlie?"
               "Yes, Kate, I will," was his hearty answer. "Good night, and may God bless you."
               "Kate is an enigma," said Charlie to himself, as he turned slowly homeward. "I thought I had seen all phases of her character, but a new leaf has been opened to me to-night. Are my suspicions correct, I wonder? It is a pity"—and he lapsed into silent musings.
               That same evening a pleasant circle was gathered around the hospitable hearth of Farmer Maxwell. In the broad arm-chair in the corner sat Uncle Hugh, his daily labor ended, and his great muscular frame stretched out in an attitude of comfortable repose. Upon his knee nestled little Annie, the youngling of the flock; while one arm rested upon the head of Harry, who sat in a low chair close by his side. Good motherly Aunt Rachel sat by the stand, occupied with her basket of mending, while Hughey, ever studious, was opposite poring over his over his books. Next in the circle sat the widow Stapleton; her slightly sliver hair put softly back beneath her widow's cap, and her arms folded about little Teddy, who, dwarfed and crippled by disease, still clung to his place in his mother's lap. The widow's head was bowed in anxious thought over this, the only relic left to her of her once happy and unbroken family circle; her foot tapped restlessly upon the floor, token of uneasy thoughts, as her fancy ran silently back through the shadowy years which intervened between her and the sunny past, when, blest with the joys and cares of a wife and mother, she had been the presiding genius of just such a happy home as the one whose hospitality she was now enjoying.
               Mary Hollis, whose busy fingers were employed in knitting a handsome worsted comforter, noted with benevolent eye the care-worn expression of the window's face, and strove to engage her in cheerful conversation.
               "It must be nearly time for the boys to come," she remarked, animatedly. "Charlie promised to bring James and Joseph home with him to-night."
               "Did he?" said the widow, rousing; "I didn't know that—poor Joseph!" she added with a sigh.
               "Happy Joseph, I think, rather," returned Mary. "He seems very well contented with his lot at present, and I am sure the future is full of promise for him."
               "So it seems to you; but, Mary, you don't know half the trial and temptations which lie along his course. It is so easy falling into evil habits, and so very, very hard getting out of them!"
               "I know that; though, perhaps, I do not realize it as I might; yet Joseph has so much to encourage him, and there are so many hoping and praying for his welfare, that I can but feel that he must succeed. But here they come; that is Joseph speaking now; listen to his cheerful tone."
               The widow did listen, and the blood in her veins took a quicker start as the frank, animated voice of her first-born fell her ear. A moment more and he stood in her presence, his cheek glowing, his eye radiant, his whole air marked with the enthusiasm of youth. Never before had his mother's eye dwelt so delightedly upon him.
               "Have you had a pleasant evening, boys?" asked Mary, as she rose to assist them in taking off their overcoats.
               "Yes indeed," replied Joseph, "I never spent a pleasanter. I met so many old friends, and received so very kind a welcome from them all. There are no friends, after all, like the friends of one's childhood."
               It might have been that Mary's cheek caught a glow from the firelight, or it might have been that the eloquent glance of Joseph's eye had something to do with its heightened color. She made no reply to the remark, and James, to fill the pause observed:
               "We had indeed an unusually interesting meeting; I am very sorry that your cold prevented your attendance. I hope it is no worse to-night."
               "It is much better, thank you," was the quiet reply; "but Aunt Rachel thought it hardly safe for me to venture out."
               All this time the widow had been gazing, with proud and happy eyes, upon her son. stopping only for a momentary observation upon Mary's work, which he saucily pretended to believe was intended as a present for him, he drew a low seat to his mother's side, and, sitting down upon it, crossed his arms upon her lap, and, looking up fondly into her face, asked:
               "What word of welcome has my good mother for her wayward son?"
               A happy smile and an earnest pressure of his hand were her only answer; and the light-hearted, volatile youth commenced a game of romps with his little brother.
               "Joseph is such a sweet-tempered, amiable boy," said Aunt Rachel, when she was alone with her husband that night; "so full of warm and generous impulses, it does seem as if he must do right here-after. I could doubt my own faith as soon as his goodness, almost."
               "I, too, can but hope for him," was Uncle Hugh's reply; "but, wifey, it is just such noble, generous, trusting natures which are oftenest wrecked upon the shoals of intemperance. They are too amiable to say 'no.'"
               "God grant that in this case at least, such fears may prove unfounded."
               Poor Joseph! snares were already set for his feet, as the following conversation will show.
               That same evening there sat in the little back-office of Squire Horton's store, Levins Horton and his confidential friend and partner in vice, George Hartwell. Meadow Brook had recently become a telegraph station, and the latter young man was the operator. Of gentlemanly manners and address, but with morals not uncontaminated by the wandering, unsettled life which he had led, and very exceptionable company which he had kept, his influence over Levins had been of the most dangerous kind, and the latter, from being only a wild, ungovernable youth, was fast becoming tainted with many vices.
               "I say," said George, "who is this new clerk in at Buckingham's? Stapleton, I think they call him. I reckon he ain't much of a buck, for I saw him around with pious Jim to-day."
               Levins' brow darkened at the mention of Joseph's name.
               "Well," he answered, "they may say what they please about him, but he is a hard case, or has been. He has been living at N——, and he knows more of the ropes than you or I, I'll be bound; but you see times got hard with him, and when some of these ere benevolent chaps, that go to the cobbler's class, went down after him and offered him a good situation if he'd come back, why, as a natural consequence, he thought he'd try the pious dodge. So he came along, and now he's going to join the church. Ho! ho! ain't that rich?" And the youngster slapped his companion upon the shoulder, and, laying back in his arm-chair, indulged in a hearty guffaw.
               "Well, it is, rather," was Hartwell's reply. "He'll give 'em the dodge by and by, won't he?"
               "I suppose that depends on how good a salary he gets. Shouldn't be surprised if he kept it up a year or two."
               "I say, Lev, that won't do; can't have him deserting the army of his Satanic Majesty that fashion, even if he does go over as a spy; we must have him brought back."
               "That's so, George. Let's go about it right away. Treat him kind o' fair, you know, and get him in here and make him pledge us in a good stiff glass of fourth proof, and then get him drunk. Rather reckon the cobbler would give him his walking-papers after that, eh?"
               "You've hit the nail on the head, my boy, just as you always do. Only we mustn't be too fast about it. Let them fairly nab him; get them so they feel perfectly sure of the game, you know, and our victory will be all the greater."
               "That's it. George, you're a trump, and always was. I've got a private spite against that fellow, as well as the cobbler, and I'll pay 'em both off yet at one lick. Pass along the bottle, George; there's nothing like a good segar to give a fellow a taste for good liquor."
            
            
               XIV. THE FEAST.
               BRIGHT and beautiful dawned the Sabbath of the Communion upon Meadow Brook. The golden sunshine, streaming into silent chambers, woke in many a young heart thoughts solemn and tender; and the incense which rose that morning from many a secret altar, was of peculiar and unwonted fervency. Not over young converts alone brooded the Celestial Spirit—not only new-born souls rejoiced in the reverent and tender love, the firm and steadfast hope, which make the inspired Christian the happiest of men, but old professors, heads hoary with age and experience, hearts weary and worn with the strife and warfare of this earthly pilgrimage, were visited with new revelations of the peace of God, of the purity and loveliness of the doctrines of the Gospel of Christ.
               Slowly and majestically the sun rose in the clear heavens, lighting up the earth with the gladsome brightness of the spring-time; stirring sweet memories in the tuneful hearts of home-returning birds, till they gushed forth in joyous songs of love and praise; and thrilling, in sere meadows, and all along the forest boughs, the slumbering tide of life, and causing it to burst forth responsively in tiny sprays of leaves and tender blades of grass—just as the Christian's heart, under the influence of the glorious sun of Righteousness, bursts out spontaneously, yet ever under the operation of Divine Law, into beautiful deeds of tenderness and charity.
               The hour of morning service arrived, and the bells rang out their solemn peal; up and down the quiet valley, and over the Sabbath-hushed village, the full notes vibrated, and forth from low-roofed cottage and stately hall, issued groups of worshipper, bending with one accord their willing steps toward the sanctuary.
               It was with a palpitating heart, that the young pastor of the Meadow Brook church left his study that morning. For an hour had he knelt in earnest supplication for strength equal to the labors of the day; for the presence of God's holy spirit in the midst of the congregation, to seal home to the hearts and consciences of the people, the solemn truths which should be spoken and acted that day. Still the weight of responsibility rested heavily upon him; and it was not until he stepped out under the clear open sky, and laid bare his heart to all the cheering and vivifying influences of the hour, that, from the book wherein God ever writes anew his love, he gained comfortable assurance of Divine aid. "Behold," said the Spirit to him, "how you Father provides for the grass of the field and the fowls of the air; how he condescends to all, even their lowest wants; and through them works out miracles of love and praise, before the too often careless eyes of his children. "Are ye not of more value then many sparrows? Trust then his love, as the sparrows trust it; and know that not for his love's sake only, but also for the sake of his truth shall thy feeble hands be always supported." With the echo of that comforting voice still ringing through his soul, the pastor rose to give out the opening hymn. Not until he commenced to read did he notice that instead of the hymn which he had previously selected for the occasion, he had opened to the hundred and twenty-fifth Psalm. A rapid glance at the first verse made him accept it as of providential appointment, and with a face radiant with love and trust he read: 
                     
                        "Unshaken as the sacred hill,
                        And firm as mountains be;—
                        Firm as a rock the soul shall rest
                        That leans, O Lord, on thee.
                     
                     
                        Not walls, nor hills, could guard so well,
                        Old Salem's happy ground,
                        As those eternal arms of love,
                        That every saint surround.
                     
                     
                        While tyrants are a smarting scourge,
                        To drive them near to God;
                        Divine compassion does allay
                        The fury of the rod.
                     
                     
                        Deal gently, Lard with souls sincere
                        And lead them safely on;
                        
                        To the bright gates of Paradise,
                        Where Christ their Lord had gone.
                     
                  
               
               Meadow Brook church boasted both an organ and a choir; yet nevertheless the good old fashion of congregational singing had not been altogether superseded thereby. To-day every earnest heart and tuneful voice joined in the fine old choral which had been selected, and subdued voices and twinkling eyes, attested the sincerity with which the petition contained in the last verse was offered.
               Every one, both friends and foes of the pastor—and what minister has not both in his congregation?—waited with especial interest for the sermon. It was the first which Mr. Hastings had ever preached upon a similar occasion, and all who had known the active zeal and fervent love, the daily and nightly labors and prayers, and the judgment and discretion, as gratifying as they were surprising in a man of his years, which he had manifested during the winter, looked for nothing less than his best and crowning effort; nor were they disappointed.
               Rising with the air of one who felt the dignity and solemnity of the labors before him, he pronounced in a clear, full, voice his text.
               "Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee;
               "Who passing through the valley of Baca, maketh it a well."
               The fallibility of human nature, and the need which through all time has been felt, of some governing and sustaining force superior to itself, formed the theme of the pastor's opening remarks. The universality of this conviction in the human mind was dwelt upon and proved by the face that in all tribes some ideas of superior spiritual intelligences, gods or demons, has been found to exist.
               But as human nature, spite of its thousand divergent qualities and phases, is essentially one, so must the Fountain of all its inspired strength, be one and indivisible; the same through all space, and for all eternity, and that Fountain is the omniscient, omnipresent Divinity.
               But near as God thus brings himself to the wants of all his creatures, the numbers of those who recognize his presence, and place their trust in his ever-ministering love, is lamentably small. A chosen few there are indeed, selected from all nations and tribes, representing all kindred and colors, to whom he has graciously revealed himself, and through whom he ever speaks the living wonders of his love. These know in their inmost souls, and are comforted by the sweet assurance, that their strength is of the Lord, and relying, with never-failing confidence upon the sureness of their trust in all time of need, well may they be called "blessed."
               But the effect of this in-flowing of Divinity, in the transformation of character, was the chief topic of the discourse.
               "Who passing through the valley of Baca, maketh it a well."
               
               The character of Deity is essentially one of activity. His is the eye that never slumbers or sleeps; His is the hand which never tires in its ministrations of creating and preserving mercy; His is the heart that watches ceaseless and omniscient love the operations of eternal law, tracing with unbounded satisfaction the progressive developments of order and wisdom, springing from the germs which his own hand hath planted. And in all this activity, there is but one motive—the good of his creatures.
               Such being the unchanging character of the Divine Essence, it follows that when by the operation of the Holy Spirit, this same efflux of Divinity is wrought into the Christian's soul, it will necessarily manifest its presence there through active deeds of charity and love; and from this consideration may be developed the true sphere and mission of the Christian in this world.
               The world lieth in wickedness. Error, the off-spring of unbridled lusts, is dominant in all the earth, and only through the sanctifying influences of pure and holy love, can the evil principle of lust, or self-gratification, be vanquished, and this divine and renovating influence must flow forth from the lives of those who are divinely and spiritually controlled.
               To the young Christian, the soul within whose inmost centre, the germ of truth has but recently taken root, it is most interesting as well as beneficial to watch the outgrowths thereof, and in this way can he infallibly judge of the nature of every impulse of his heart. If its motive be love to God or man, if it will plainly eventuate in good, either to his own heart in a clearer apprehension of truth, or more enlarged views of the nature and offices of religion, or to others in the development of some new application of the law of love; and if above all it tend toward the ennobling or purifying of one heart or of many hearts, then may he be certain of its divine origin and character, whatever be the sphere of its development. For God is the Fountain and Source of all goodness and purity and truth, and whatever may be classed under either of these heads may be called also Divine.
               And this is God's chosen way of working out his purposes in the hearts of his creatures, and of finally bringing all the world into subjection to his mild and peaceful sway. He would have each of his childlike his agent in works of love; he would have them vigilant as he is, ever on the watch for an occasion to do good; tireless as he, never wearying because of ill-success; willing as he is, working with an earnest heart and purpose; knowing that God worketh in them and through them his own good will and pleasure.
               Would each who bears the name of Christ, live thus a life consecrated to the work of his Master, how would this dreary wilderness blossom as the rose; how would the dry and parched deserts of the earth gush forth with fountains of living water; and then not from mountain and from valley only, nor from the hill-top and the blooming field, should ascend the song of thankfulness and peace; but hearts of men also should become temples of praise; and all the earth, and the dwellers thereof should unite in the ceaseless anthem, of which angels struck the key-note on one blessed morn. "Glory to God in the Highest and on Earth, peace, good-will toward men."
               Such is a brief synopsis of one of the most powerful and eloquent appeals which had ever fallen from the lips of the young pastor; and it descended upon the hearts of his congregation like evening dews upon the thirsty plants, full of needed comfort and refreshing. In the hearts of the old it stirred up long-forgotten fountains of love and gentleness and good-will, and prepared them for all good works of gospel charity and forbearance. To the young it gave new and deeper significance to the commonest acts of life, and brightened their future pathway with the downshinings of heavenly love.
               At the conclusion of the sermon, the choir sang, as a voluntary, the beautiful anthem to which allusion had been made; and, at its close, the candidates for admission were called forward. Quietly and reverently from all parts of the house they came, and ranged themselves, some twenty in number, around the chancel.
               It was a beautiful and a touching sight, and Uncle Timothy's were not the only eyes that filled as they beheld it. In the centre of this group stood James Hollis, with Charlie and Walter upon either side of him, and the attraction which drew their kindred souls together, expressed itself insensibly in the attitudes in which they stood. Next were William Temple and Lizzie, and then Eleanor, and May and Ella Burroughs. Sophie was there and Ned Cunningham, and various other of the Bible-class, besides several of more mature years.
               The exhortation was earnest and appropriate, and the duty of each to become to the world a living exemplar of the virtue and loveliness of the doctrines of Christ, was distinctly and forcibly impressed.
               At its close, baptism was administered, and whole circle then took their seats to await the Sacrament.
               Alone in the gallery, from which, save herself, the choir had all descended, sat a silent but not uninterested spectator of the scene. With glistening eyes and having bosom she listened to the solemn exhortation; but her eye rested not on the minister. Never for an instant was the lustrous dilated orb withdrawn from the tall central form of the group of converts; and its fixed yet absent and lost expression, was that of one who, amid the intense emotion of the present, reads also some faint foreshadowing of the future. A life of labor in an exalted sphere, of active and extended usefulness, attended by the praise of men, and the surer reward which deeds of love never fail to bring to the doers,—these she saw for James; for herself, a lonely life, unblest by that love which the human heart is formed to crave, and the companionship of a secret which would necessarily debar her from much sympathy which she might otherwise enjoy.
               But suddenly all these considerations were ingulfed in a wave of deeper, purer, and more intense emotion. Thanks be to God, for the heart which is weakest and most sorely oppressed, there is still a mountain of refuge, which the billows of earthly affliction can never overtop; but which amidst their fiercest rage, rise calm and serene into the eternal heavens, and bathes its golden summit in the light of everlasting love.
               And Kate had found the way to that refuge appointed of God through all ages as a hiding-place for his saints; and with eyes that before were tearless, but which now overflowed, she listened to the sweet words of assurance which the pastor dispensed, and gradually life to her, too, took new hues of brightness; and peace, like a dove with his wings bathed in glory, descended from the rifted clouds, and brooded over her heart.
               That communion was one long remembered in the annals of the Meadow Brook church, as one of peculiar solemnity. The Master was present at the feast, and his spirit flowed forth in rivers of refreshing to the hearts of his beloved; and for weeks thereafter the sweet influence nourished and fed many a soul that was too often content to satisfy its hunger upon food less Divine.
               Joseph Stapleton, though urged by many of the younger and more enthusiastic of his friends to present himself at the Lord's table, and though in his own heart he earnestly desired to do so, prudently refrained, out of respect for the scruples of those who yet looked upon him with suspicious eyes; but to him, as well as to Kate, there fell crumbs of comfort from the overflowings of the feast.
               "I am sorry you are not with us, Joseph," said James, as they passed out.
               "The Lord has been good to me, James; three months of probation, and then, please God, I will join you, around His table."
               The feast was over. The company dispersed. God only could mark or measure the growths in grace which resulted therefrom; but in the Book of Life they are all recorded.
            
            
               
               XV. A DONATION.
               THE next incident of general interest respecting the Bible-class was one which occurred about the first of July. As had been customary in former years, it had been decided that there should be a recess of six or eight weeks during the middle of the summer. As the last meeting before the recess drew near, there arose spontaneously in the class a desire to offer some testimonial of affection and respect to their beloved teacher, to whom, under God, they owned so much enjoyment, and so many rich spiritual blessings. All agreed that it should be some simple and appropriate gift, and that it should be given in a manner to avoid all appearance of ostentation or display.
               As if Providence designed to facilitate their enterprise, Lizzie, before a lisp of the design could possible have reached her ear, very kindly invited the class to spend the afternoon of the appointed Thursday at her house, to proceed thence, after tea, to the vestry room where the meetings were still held.
               Samson, who had been the first to propose the gift, was appointed to conduct all the business of the affair. In his earnest, straight-forward manner he set about collecting the funds, which he did without difficulty, and then taking with him Mr. Hastings as confidential adviser, he proceeded to N——, where he invested them, according to directions, in a handsome quarto Bible, designed as the gift of the young ladies, and a set of Commentaries, for the gentlemen. This much accomplished, he returned to Meadow Brook, highly elated with his success, and deposited the volumes for safe keeping in the study of Mr. Hastings, where they were secretly and with great satisfaction inspected by the class.
               Meantime, no rumor of what was transpiring had reached the ears of Uncle Timothy. We will not take it upon ourselves to affirm that Lizzie was equally innocent of suspicion, but at least she kept her own counsel, of only looked that secret satisfaction which ladies can so ill dissemble when anything pleasant is about to happen to those they love.
               The expected day at last dawned, clear and bright, and not too warm; and quite early in the afternoon the guests began to arrive. Uncle Timothy, dressed in his neatest suit of brown, his thin has brushed smoothly over his broad, prominent forehead, sat in his great arm-chair in the parlor; a handsomely-polished, silver-headed cane rested by his side, which had been the gift of the young men in the first year of Bible-class, and which was seldom used expect on state occasions.
               
               There, with kindly dignity, he received the guests. Lizzie, meantime, moved gaily about among the girls, and if Uncle Timothy noticed any flutterings or whispered consultations, any joyfully-expectant glances, or looks of caution and overwhelming secrecy among them, he was too happy to be very discerning, and laid them all to the account of that predominant feminine quality which makes of everything a secret, and then insists that all the world shall keep it so.
               "I'll have nothing to do with their whisperings, Uncle Timothy," said Kate, gaily, drawing a low seat to the old man's side, jealous lest he might overhear some chance remark that should let in a ray of light upon his darkened mind. "I am coming to have a little chat with you."
               "What, Katie, haven't you a secret, too, that must be talked of in whispers? I supposed that was an essential part of the happiness of every young lady."
               "I am sure you know me better than that, Uncle Timothy. Do you think I could keep a secret—I mean one that was all my own; of course I have a sense of honor about other people's—for five whole minutes, to save my life? Did ever you look at a bobolink singing on the tallest stake of a Virginia rail-fence, and think what would be the consequence if anybody was to stop his throat, so the song couldn't come out? Don't you think he would certainly explode? Just so should I, if I couldn't tell everything I ever thought of to everybody I ever knew. I am only a human bobolink, Uncle Timothy."
               The kind old man laid his hand softly on her clustering curls, and looked down into her dark eyes with a penetrating glance which she could not meet calmly.
               "At any rate, you know," she continued, as if replying to that questioning glance, "that the thoughts of all my gayer hours I share with all my friends. Every one has the blues sometimes, and then it would be cruel to bore anybody with one's mopings."
               The old man looked tenderly upon her, and sighed as he feared all was not right with her, and wished there was some one who could claim her confidence.
               "It is a pity you haven't a mother, Katie," he said at last.
               The mournful expression with which she raised her suffused eyes to his, made his heart ache. Kate, noticing the effect of it, put away her sadness, and said softly:
               "Pardon me, Uncle Timothy, for making you look sober on this which should be the merriest of days," and then in a gayer tone, she added, "you know it is a fault for which I am not frequently called to apologize."
               "No, Katie, you oftener make your friends look merry, then sad."
               Just at this moment Eleanor arrived, and Kate, with a hasty excuse to Uncle Timothy, left him to meet her cousin.
               
               As tea-time approached, the gentlemen came dropping in by twos and threes, and Lizzie's little parlor began to present a rather crowded appearance, so gradually the guests strayed out upon the piazza, and the pleasant lawn, shaded by beautiful old elms, and the sound of happy voices rose pleasantly among the swaying branches.
               "If uncle Timothy were only out here," said May Burroughs, "how pleasant it would be!"
               A dozen voices chimed in:
               "Let's bring him out here; he must come, to be sure!"
               "Walter and Charlie and I will elect ourselves a committee to bring him," said Kate gaily. "I'll lend him an arm, and you, boys, shall wheel the chair."
               "You shall divide your honors with me Katie," said Ella Burroughs; "you may be crutch, but I am going to be cane."
               "Very well," said Kate, "and which of you girls, will bring the footstool?"
               A dozen volunteered for the office, but Eleanor claimed it as her right, and in three minutes more the great chair was wheeled into the hall, by the wide front door, and Uncle Timothy was comfortably seated therein.
               Anxious eyes were meantime directed down the road, and it was not long until Mr. Hastings and Samson accompanied by William Temple, were seen approaching, the two former bearing substantial looking packages. A deputation of the young ladies met them at the gate, and escorted them to the hall, where Lizzie and Uncle Timothy were in waiting to receive them.
               Hats and gloves and the mysterious packages being deposited upon the table, Mr. Temple took his place among the interested band of spectators who had by this time ranged themselves in the most convenient positions, in the hall and parlor and upon the veranda.
               Samson, who had, much against his will, been appointed master of ceremonies upon the occasion, now proceeded to uncover the boxes containing the books, and then turning to Uncle Timothy, who by this time looked conscious that something was about to happen, thus addressed him:
               "I could wish, my dear sir, that some person better qualified than myself, might have been chosen for the delicate duty of expressing to you the esteem and gratitude of your pupils, of which these books, which I now offer for your acceptance, are only the outward symbols.
               "I am confident however that I express the sentiment of the class, when I say that we wish you to accept them, not in any way as even a partial equivalent for services which have been to all of us invaluable, and to many of us we hope and trust of imperishable benefit. We are conscious that that which you have given to us, the labor, the watchfulness, the prayers, can never be repaid; but from the fullness of our hearts we offer you this slight testimonial of our reverent and grateful love; and it is our united prayer that Our Father, for out sake, and for the sake of his truth, may spare for many years a life so purely consecrated to his service; and if it may be that in your declining years, you may gather comfort and inspiration from this volume of his Word, and these commentaries upon it, I am sure that each one of us would feel doubly grateful for having been allowed to share in the privilege of this donation.
               "My dear sir, I ask your acceptance of this volume of the sacred Scriptures, from the ladies of your class, and the accompanying Commentaries from the gentleman."
               There was a momentary pause. As Samson had commenced speaking, Uncle Timothy had risen, and now stood leaning upon the back of his chair. Tears of joy and warm affection mingled with gratitude suffused his eyes, as, looking around upon the circling group of happy faces, he attempted to reply.
               In a few plain and simple words, he thanked them for this kind remembrance; expressed the satisfaction which their conduct had always given him, and assured them that although it was very true that his labors had been of such a nature that no material equivalent could be given for them, it was nevertheless also true that the satisfaction of feeling that through his humble efforts some hearts had been led into the pure and perfect way of love, who might otherwise be still wandering in mazes of error and blindness, repaid him a thousand times for it all.
               "But," he concluded, "my labors are not yet ended. Some there are among the most dearly beloved of you, my children, who are yet, I sadly fear, astray from the narrow path. May God in his mercy win you by his love, to his outstretched arms, and give you rest and peace upon the bosom of the Saviour.
               "My dear children, I thank you for the happiness which you have this day bestowed upon me, and may God reward you for it."
               Mr. Hastings then read aloud the simple record of the donation which he had inscribed upon the fly-leaf of each volume, and delivered each successively into Uncle Timothy's hands for inspection. The pupils meanwhile gathered around, each with a word of love and congratulation, and the books were passed amongst them for examination and comment.
               Meanwhile, a deputation of the girls, headed by the ever-active Kate, had drawn Mrs. Temple aside, for the purpose of preferring a request.
               "Please, Lizzie, it is so pleasant, can't we have tea served out of doors? It will be a little more trouble, but we will all help."
               "Certainly," was the pleased response. "Come with me into the dining-room, and we'll arrange it in a moment."
               Lizzie was so happy to-day, that her usual amiability actually overflowed, and her cares, as hostess, became burdens which it was pleasant to bear.
               Seats were soon arranged upon the lawn for a part of the guests, but most of them preferred sitting upon the grassy sward. Lizzie's table was set upon the piazza, and from thence tea was served by the willing hands of Kate and her confederates, assisted by one or two of the gentlemen. All the party were in the best of spirits, and the flow of humor was quite delightful.
               Tea over, an hour remained, the pleasantest of all the summer day, for social conversation and enjoyment. Uncle Timothy, whose crutch and cane had been voted out of office for this day at least, walked, with the assistance of his pupils, all over the lawn, and at last to a pleasant summer-house in the garden, where a group of a dozen or more had gathered to watch the sunset.
               The horizon was nearly clear. A few clouds only lingered around, catching new glories from the radiance of their departing lord. Slowly, the broad disc sank, until it seemed to rest for a moment upon the tops of the forest trees, and gradually descending, was lost to view.
               There was silence for a few moments over all the group, until James Hollis, who was standing by the side of Ella, in the door of the summer-house, remarked:
               "How like is the close of the summer day to the peaceful end which should be the blessed privilege of every Christian!"
               "Yes," said Ella, "and to trace your simile back ward, I think the life of a Christian should be just such a one as would be justly typified by the march of the sun through the heavens. His course is ever onward, and life and activity, and constant progressive growth, follow ever in his train."
               "I wish we could all oftener remember," said Charlie, "that the mission of Christianity in the world is an aggressive one, though its warfare is a warfare of love."
               "That expression, 'a warfare of love,' doesn't seem as inconsistent to me as it used to," said Eleanor; "for I begin to find that love is the strongest weapon which we can use. He who cannot be conquered by judicious kindness, must, indeed, be unconquerable."
               "It is strange we are all so slow to find it out, when it is the great axiom of the moral universe; yes, and of the physical, too; for is not the truth that 'God is love,' written on every page of nature, and all revelation is a record of mercy?"
               "Uncle Timothy," said Walter, "don't you think people sometimes err in their zeal for church-extension, when they fancy that building a church, and setting a minister over it, and enrolling the names of the wealthiest members of the community among its attendants, is going to convert souls, whether the lives of the members practically accord with the life of Christ or not?"
               "Yes; I have often thought it was one of the real weaknesses of nominal Christianity, that it covers so much ground where it has so little depth; for it must be conceded that the really growing, fruit-bearing members in the churches, are usually a small proportion of those whose names are recorded upon the books; and these are not oftenest found among the wealthy and those who give external character and influence to the church, so that the real strength of the church, in the eye of God, and that strength of which the world takes account, and by which it measures its moral usefulness, are too often widely separated, both in the sphere and character of their action. Still, it is one of the crowning blessings of our country that the means of grace are so multiplied amongst us; all that is wanting, is for every professing Christian to be earnest in his efforts to make his life and influence among men correspond to the name he bears."
               Such practical lessons as these, enforced as they were by an example of constant endeavor for the good of others, could not fail of their effect upon the minds and hearts of their hearers; and Uncle Timothy was daily cheered by evidences that the good seed, thus sedulously sown, was taking root, and gave promise of an abundant harvest.
               The rosy twilight was deepening into darkness, when the little party turned their steps toward the house. Kate, who had been a silent but attentive listener to the conversation, was walking with Charlie and Eleanor.
               Charlie's eye alone, except perhaps Uncle Timothy's, had noticed the fixed and earnest gaze which, from her seat in a shadowy corner of the summer house, she had bent upon the group in the doorway, and his previous suspicions took silent confirmation therefrom.
               "James has a fine mind," said Eleanor; "what a noble man and useful minister he will make."
               "Yes, indeed," replied Charlie. "James has splendid talents, and withal a warm, honest heart."
               "Yet he is singularly exacting of those he loves. His own mind is so well regulated, so perfectly under control, so little subject to impulse, that he is very quick to see faults of thoughtlessness or indiscretion in others, and not as ready to understand or pardon them. I should very much dread to be always under his surveillance. His wife will need to be a very sensible and proper person."
               Charlie, who thought Eleanor's remarks rather fortunate than otherwise, dared not give voice to his conviction that a wife of a vivacious temperament would be better adapted to unbend his mind occasionally from his severe employments, and give him that kind of rest of which he would often stand in need—the rest of change—so he only replied:
               "He is likely to find such a one in Ella."
               "Then they are really engaged?"
               "I suppose they are."
               Kate, who had not spoken, now abruptly changed the conversation.
               "Weren't you very much surprised at Samson's cleverness at speech-making? I knew he was a sensible man, but I did not expect so smooth an address from him; he used to be so rough and unpolished, you know."
               "A striking example of the power of woman's influence," said Charlie, gaily; "I suspect Samson has repented long ago in dust and ashes his ungallant endeavors to shut the door upon the ladies. Certainly, no one has reaped more benefits from their overthrow than he."
               "I agree with you," said Eleanor. "I, too, was surprised at his case of manner to-day."
               "I suspect he told the whole secret of it when two or three of us were congratulating him upon his success. 'I only spoke as I felt,' said he."
               "And that is the only true eloquence—the eloquence of feeling."
               The meeting that night at the vestry room was of short duration. At its close, Uncle Timothy made a few appropriate remarks, which were listened to with swelling hearts, and among the ladies with tearful eyes. Some were to leave town on short travelling tours, or for visits among friends, and this was to be their last reunion for several weeks. There were parting words to be said, good wishes to be interchanged, and prayers for each other's safety and happiness.
               At last, when the hands of the vestry clock pointed to the usual hour for separation, Uncle Timothy rose quietly in his seat, and, waiting a moment for the chatting to cease, offered a brief, but fervent prayer that the blessings of God might rest upon them all during the weeks of separation which were to ensue, and that they might meet again in safety and peace at the close of the recess.
               And thus the day ended.
            
            
               
               XVI. REACTION.
               SHORTLY after the commencement of the summer vacation, Uncle Timothy whose health had been very precarious during the early part of the summer, left Meadow Brook for a short sojourn at the sea-side, accompanied by Lizzie Temple. It was near the middle of September when they returned, and although the old gentleman found his health much improved, he was still willing to postpone for a few weeks the commencement of his labors, until in the coolness of autumn his strength should be fully reëstablished.
               Early in October, Samson Thorn and Sophie Berryman were united in matrimonial bonds, and the rejoicings consequent thereupon caused a delay of a week or two more, in the coming together of the class.
               It was nearly the first of November when the session commenced, and as Uncle Timothy took his accustomed seat at the head of the table that night, and looked around upon the gathering circle of faces, he could not repress a sigh at missing some whose presence had hitherto been most welcome. Samson and Sophie were absent upon their wedding tour; Lizzie was in delicate health this winter and would not attend, and William, who was now much occupied in business, spent all his leisure hours with her; James and Charlie had left home for the studies preparatory to their theological course. Walter Converse too had gone to New York to enter his uncle's store as book-keeper.
               There were new-comers it is true, who supplied, so far as numbers were concerned, the places of the old pupils; but they were mostly young, unformed in character, and exerting a far less potent influence than those who had gone out from the class.
               "I must not be selfish," said Uncle Timothy to himself. "It is hard to part with them just when they were growing so dear to me, and such a comfort; but they go at the call of their Master, to do his work in the world, and may his blessing go with them. My work meantime is here, with these young recruits whom He has sent to me."
               Some of the new scholars were promising enough to cheer his heart with hopes for the future. Hugh Maxwell was a fine thoughtful boy of sixteen, and Uncle Timothy felt that in a year or two he would quite fill Charlie's place. Henry Barnes, a high-spirited, warm-hearted lad, and Hughey's especial friend and companion, needed only careful and judicious training to develop him into a superior man. Joseph Stapleton's two sister's were also there, intelligent sensible girls, whose pale faces and prominent brows bespoke thoughtful and attentive minds.
               
               Joseph was there too, still active, zealous, and giving additional evidence daily of his superiority to temptation.
               Upon the whole it was an interesting class; and Uncle Timothy entered upon his winter's labor with a good degree of hopefulness.
               It soon became evident, however, that there was a lack of some of the elements which had heretofore contributed so signally to his success. At first he felt in doubt as to the real nature of the deficiency; then he was disposed to lay it to his own charge, and attempted, by renewed zeal and watchfulness and prayerfulness, to awaken that spirit in his pupils which he felt was so needful to their proper appreciation of the truths presented to them. But all his efforts were of little avail, and at last, after a long and silent but thorough examination of the influences which operated upon the class, he became painfully conscious of the difficulty.
               The church had been prosperous during the past year; many converts had been added to their numbers; the Lord had signally blest them in many ways; but now the harvest had been gathered in, and the work was done. So thought many, if not most of the members of Meadow Brook church.
               It is true, there were a few, the tried and experienced among them, who realized that the labor was in fact only just begun. In their view, the good seed had only been planted, and sprung up; what it now required was careful watching and culture, that the fruit might not be blighted by mildew or starved by drought. A few there were of these deep-hearted Christians, who felt that the work of the Master is never finished; but that each foot-hold of vantage-ground gained, should be used not as a resting-place, but only as the scene of renewed and extended effort; that the breaking up of fallow ground, the planting of seed and even the rearing of one crop is but a tithe of the labor required to bring the soil under perfect and profitable cultivation.
               Of this number was Uncle Timothy; but alas! how few he found ready to second his efforts! "We have done a great deal, we may rest now," was the sentiment of half the congregation. The mechanic attended again more closely than ever to the labor of his shop, the manufacturer to his loom, the merchant to his counting-room, the husband man to his fields; each bought and sold got gain, and became more or less absorbed in the traffic. The atmosphere of home became murky with the miasma of earth, and the celestial dove lightened it less frequently with its heavenly rays; the love of gain and self-indulgence began to rule again, instead of the love of God's works and word, and the interest for souls; and this predominant influence was daily and hourly molding the hearts and consciences of the children and youths of the congregation; they too began to think that, after all, religion was something to be talked about now and then when people became excited, when there was a revival, or somebody died, rather than something to purify and refine all days and hours of a man's life alike, to open his heart to daily and constant communion with the celestial world, and to ripen him gradually as the sunshine ripens the corn, for the joyful harvest home. Oh! when shall the love of God take such deep root in the heart of man, that he shall incorporate it into every act of his life, and see in it the sweetest element, the only delight some element of this earthly existence. When shall come back the promised time, when the angels of God shall again hold sweet converse with the sons and daughters of men, and heaven and earth be wedded in sweet and indissoluble communion.
               Uncle Timothy lived in no such time. All the envious strivings after wealth, and the pernicious luxuries which it can buy, all the greed of gain and self-indulgence, which so strongly mark the age, exerted their due influence in Meadow Brook. And children coming from the atmosphere of homes where no higher motives ruled, bore with them hearts hard to be reached by the sweet influences of heavenly love and truth. Yet through all these adverse circumstances, this faithful man of God still labored on, and success in some partial degree crowned his efforts.
               The Thursday night of Christmas week was a happy one for Uncle Timothy. James, and Charlie, and Walter had come back to spend the holidays at Meadow Brook, and could by no means omit to attend the regular meeting of the Bible-class. Samson and Sophie were there, too, though they were now no longer regular attendants; and the spirit of the olden time seemed to have come back to them. The lesson, too, was an unusually interesting one, and the session was prolonged a half-hour later than usual.
               At its close, Joseph Stapleton accompanied Mary Hollis to her home. It was a bright, moonlight evening, and they walked slowly over the smooth, glittering snow, talking in low and pleasant tones of the past; and the future, if it mingled not in their discourse, lay dim but love-lighted close before their minds.
               "I cannot bear to have you think me any better than I am, Mary," said the young man, earnestly, 'and you never can know how many struggles it has cost me to overcome those terrible habits which had so complete mastery over me when I first returned to Meadow Brook. Nothing but the kind and constant counsel of such good friends as James and Charlie, the love and anxiety of my poor mother, and, most of all, Mary, the sweet encouragement of your dear eyes and gentle voice, could ever have given me strength to endure them all."
               "You have persevered nobly, Joseph, amid many trials and discouragements, and you have made us all very happy by so doing. I feel that your reformation is a triumph not only of morality but of true religion; for, surely, it was nothing else than the purest of Christian charity which extended the helping hand to you in your affliction."
               "So it was, Mary; would to God there was more of it in the world. And what was more to me than all the rest, under God, was that you trusted me. I mean those who have proved my true friends; for there are some who have wounded me beyond measure by their cold doubts and suspicions. It was not that I did not know that they were deserved, but the very fact of being continually told that I was unworthy of confidence lessened my own self-respect and gave me less courage to face my foes. Mary, I think but for you I should have fallen. It was much, to be sure, for the young men to treat me with so much kindness—and my mother, she was never, even at the worst, anything but—my mother; a patient, loving woman, an earth-treading angel—but when you, a woman, gentle and refined, bound to me by no ties save those of charity—when you smiled kindly upon me, treated me, even while I was yet tainted with the evils of my past life, as a friend and a brother, shaming my own vileness by the peace and purity of your life—my own hatred of goodness by your love for the erring, never, by word or look, insinuating that I was less good or pure than you, but leaving to my own conscience the office of conviction—how could I but strive, with all the powers of my soul, to become as pure as I ought to be, to be worthy of your confidence and friendship? Oh! if women, who call themselves Christians, would but be more Christ-like in their lives, what good might they not effect in this world!"
               "It has often struck me that our Saviour never seemed to fear contamination either for himself or his followers, from the society of the fallen; neither did he commend his own righteousness to them except through deeds of love; not until he had relieved their wants, and made them whole of their diseases, did he bid them 'Go, and sin no more.'"
               "I have lived long enough among the erring, Mary, to know that they can never be driven to repentance; but many a man now lives in the abodes of shame and misery, to whom, if the gates of light and knowledge could be opened by the hand of love, he would lay by his unseemly garments, and gladly go up into the regions of purity and peace. But men must be enlightened to know what is for their best good; they must be patiently taught, and, if one attempt fails, another must be made, and yet another, if needful; how many Christians are willing to make the seven trials, to say nothing of the seventy-times seven, which is the rule of Christ?"
               Poor Joseph! he little thought how soon the charity of those he loved would be put to the test.
               It was late when he left Mary at the door of Farmer Maxwell's house; when he reached the village again it was near midnight. Upon the way to his boarding-house, he was obliged to pass the hotel, in the bar-room of which a bright light was still shining. As he approached the door, sounds of revelry and bacchanalian strife fell on his ear, and, with a sigh of pity, he thought to hurry past. Suddenly, however, a shrill scream startled him, and in another instant the cry of "Murder!" rang out, clear and penetrating, upon the air. At the same moment the door opened, and George Hartwell, rushing out, exclaimed to him:
               "For God's sake, Stapleton, come in here, and hold Horton; he is drunk, and swears he will kill somebody; and there ain't a man in the crowd sober enough or strong enough to hold him."
               Joseph had already had sufficient reason to dislike both Horton and his satellite, Hartwell, and in a less urgent case, would have hesitated before meddling in any way with the affairs of either; but, for humanity's sake, he could not resist such an appeal. In an instant he was in the midst of the excited, half-drunken group, and dashing aside two or three swearing, bloated debauchees, who were striving to disarm Levins, he seized a knife which he was flourishing in his hand, and soon succeeded in wresting it from his grasp; not, however, without receiving from the apparently infuriated young man a severe cut upon the forehead, which bled profusely. The knife once secured, and in the possession of the barkeeper, who seemed the most sober of the party, and quiet in some degree restored to the room, Joseph turned to leave.
               "You are not going so soon, are you," said Hartwell, with an air of well-feigned anxiety. "You must have that ugly cut bound up, and take a glass of something to stiffen you up a little before going out into this cold air."
               "No, I thank you," said Joseph, turning again toward the door.
               "Indeed, Stapleton, you ain't going off this way," said Tom Higby, an old friend of Joseph's, in former days, before either had known anything of the evil ways into which both had afterward been drawn. "Nobody can tell what might have happened here, if it hadn't been for you. Come and take a drink, for the sake of old times."
               "No, I thank you," said Joseph again, firmly; "I have no inclination to drink." But, as he spoke, a sudden faintness came over him, he grew dizzy, staggered, and fell upon one of the benches.
               The barkeeper sprang forward, and raised him in his arms. "Blamed if I don't think you have carried this joke too far, boys," he said. "The fellow is hurt badly."
               "Give him a glass of brandy, then," cried Horton, "and let it be a sweetener. I'll risk him."
               Already Hartwell held the stimulating draught to his lips.
               "Water, give me water," gasped Joseph, faintly, but unable to make any further resistance, he was at last compelled to swallow the liquor.
               "Now let him be a minute," said Hartwell, who was the ruling spirit in this devilish plot to ruin the character and peace of mind of a man who had never harmed a hair of his head. "Let him be a little, till he gets over this faintness, and then he will be in trim for sport. I've seen such cases managed before now."
               "He was mighty stiff, though, before he got this faint turn; if Horton hadn't given him that blow, you never'd have managed him in the world," said Tom.
               The barkeeper had by this time bound up the cut, and laid the poor youth, still half senseless, upon the bench.
               Hartwell, however, raised him to a sitting posture, and, in answer to his eager, bewildered cry for water, poured another glass of brandy, this time strongly drugged, down his throat.
               The effect of the liquor was all that he could have desired. In a half-hour, Joseph Stapleton, maddened by the fever proceeding from his wound, and the more raging heat of a depraved and inflamed appetite, was as thoroughly insane as any inmate of a lunatic asylum, and the helpless prey of the fiendish men who made him their sport and jest.
               Over the scenes which transpired that night, let us draw the curtain of silence. Good angels wept, and demons jeered, but let us hope that the influences of the former were efficacious, in some slight degree, in shielding the heart of the fallen penitent from the deep stains of impurity which it might otherwise have gathered.
               Certain it is, that when, the next morning, he awoke from his stupid, drunken slumbers, and found himself lying upon the floor of the bar-room, his head aching, his hair matted, and his clothes soiled with blood from the wound on his forehead, and his eyes blackened and bruised, he had not the slightest conception of the means by which all these evils had come to him; nor could he ever after recall to his mind any circumstance of the night, beyond the moment when, attempting to leave the room, he staggered and fell upon the bench.
               Rising from the floor, his first impulse was toward the bar, for a glass of brandy. His better genius, however, though sorely wounded, had not yet wholly abandoned him, and he hesitated. There was no one in the room save the bar-keeper, and he was a man not wholly destitute of feeling and principle. Noticing the confused, bewildered air with which Joseph looked around him, he said:
               "You are badly off, Stapleton; those devils have played a foul game with you, but if you really want to let liquor alone, and be a decent man, as I believe in my soul you do, brandy ain't the thing for you now. Just you sit still there a few moments, till some of your friends come along, as they are pretty sure to do, in the course of a half-hour, and I'll see you well taken care of."
               Joseph had no power to answer, even by thanks, this kind proposition, so settling back into an armchair which stood by him, he fell into a wondering, painful, half-stupid revery.
            
            
               
               XVII. THE FOLD.
               FRIDAY morning dawned bright and beautiful over the wintry world; lighting up the incrusted snow and the ice-jewelled trees with more than fairy splendor. Ere the stars had faded from the deep sapphire of the heavens, Mary Hollis had risen from sweet slumbers and pleasant dreams, and after a careful toilet, had drawn the curtain from her eastern window, and looking out upon the dimly foreshadowed glories of the rising day, had sent up an earnest prayer for strength to meet its exigencies.
               No shade of coming evil troubled the serenity of her mind, but as her eye glanced upward into the emblazoned arch of the heavens, its solemn and majestic beauty thrilled her soul anew with wonder, reverence, and love.
               Gratefully she noted the wisdom which, while it clothed the day with joyousness and glory, gave to the night, also, charms purer, chaster, more severe; and to her mind there was suggested an analogy, not new, but strikingly enforced by the scene before her.
               "To the Christian also," she murmured, "the night-time frequently comes; but is not its firmament emblazoned always with the mysteries of God's loving purposes, which the eye of the spiritually enlightened may translate into richest promises and sweetest consolations. Lift up your eyes therefore, oh ye troubled ones! into the calm pure heavens which nightly bend about you, and learn that the darkness cannot hide from him, in whom is all your comfort and strength; that upon the night-time also he can write with a splendor surpassing that of the day, the wonders and the glories of his united wisdom, power and love."
               Strengthened by the exercises of this quiet, devotional half hour, she joined the happy family circle gathering in the great kitchen below. Uncle Hugh came in from feeding the cattle; James and Charlie had been chopping at the wood-pile, just for exercise, and to give them an appetite for breakfast, and Hughey brought favorable reports from the poultry-yard, to whose inmates he had been dispensing their morning rations of corn and buckwheat. Mis' Blackie and Mis' Beauty had each laid an egg, and Old Speckle had cackled as if she had thoughts of following their example. Harry had a word of praise too, for his beautiful grey squirrels Jennie and Dick, who were getting so tame as to eat from his hand; and Annie's blue eyes fairly danced with joy as she commented on the thriving condition of her pets the rabbits.
               All this chat was going on, as the various members of the family, gathered one after another around the blazing fire, warming themselves, while Aunt Rachel and Mary industriously dished up the ham and potatoes, and turned the hot cakes on the smoking griddle.
               "Have you any errands at the village, wifey?" said Uncle Hugh, as they were seated at the table; "I see the feed is getting low, and I am going to mill directly after breakfast."
               "Mrs. Stapleton has some mittens, I believe, which she would like you to sell at the store; and if you are not in too much haste, I wish you would drive around by Mrs. Lot Stanton's and leave her a bundle of things I promised to send her soon. She is wretchedly off this winter, poor thing! Times have gone hard with her since Lot died."
               "So they have, and now that you remind me of it, I'll have a bushel of corn ground for her. Flour is high this winter, and a little meal will help to piece out her barrel.
               "Then there's chicken down cellar, that I saved out of the lot we killed at Christmas, for Sam Atkins. His appetite is so delicate, I thought a little chicken broth might do him good."
               "Certainly; it isn't long we shall have him to do for, I suppose. I saw the doctor yesterday, and he says he can hardly live through another spring."
               "Come, wifey," said uncle Hugh, rising, "get your bundles ready quickly, for I must be going. I shall have to leave you to turn out the cattle, boys, while I harness the horses. I suppose you have not been away long enough to forget how."
               "No indeed father," said Charles, "I have too much of the farmer in me to forget how to take care of cattle. You know I always did think dumb animals much nearer human, than most people imagine them to be; and respect them accordingly."
               "I know, Charlie, I know. Somehow your mother made you very fond of pets; I am sure you never took the weakness from me," and he laughed a hearty good-natured laugh.
               "Oh!" said James with a dry smile, "we all know that uncle Hugh has no bowels of mercy for anything weak or dependent."
               "Well, well, children, this won't do for me. I must be going. I suppose, Mollie," he said, chucking his niece under the chin, "if I see a certain brown-haired, rosy-cheeked youngster at the village, I am not to give him your love, or to tell him anything about those pleasant dreams which visited your pillow last night."
               "I dream! Why, uncle, I am sure you are not in earnest when you intimate that I ever dream of gentlemen," said Mary, too much accustomed to her uncle's raillery to blush very deeply; though her cheek certainly did take a little additional color.
               "Oh! no; of course young ladies never dream of gentlemen; at least, they never care to own it. You might be a little more frank with your old uncle, though, Mollie; for you know I wouldn't betray your secrets. I wouldn't tell the youngsters, now; really, I wouldn't."
               Mary smiled as he closed the door behind him, and went about her work with a ripple of pleasant thought flowing through her mind, awakened, we shrewdly suspect, by that casual allusion to the brown hair and the blue eyes, which were to her so different from any other which the world held.
               Uncle Hugh was meanwhile harnessing the team; while Charlie's clear voice rang out from the barn, as he untied the cattle from their stalls, and let them out to the watering-trough; singing mean-while the old, familiar strains of the Ploughboy's Song.
               The sun was just rising, as Mr. Maxwell drove out of the yard. The lowing of the herds, the bleating of the sheep—among whom James walked in quiet, meditative mood, distributing the plentiful morning repast, thinking, perhaps, of the Good shepherd who walked among men, and of the duties of those who are called as under-shepherds in the great flock, and of the time when he should enter upon them—the busy, happy voices which resounded from the poultry-yard, all ascending harmoniously, the exponents of varied and active, yet still harmonious lives, fell pleasantly upon his ear and heart.
               "I am a silly old man, I suppose," he thought to himself; "may be some folks would call me a fool, but there is something in all this that I like. I wouldn't be a doctor nor a lawyer; I don't think I was made for a minister; it would go against my feelings to have everybody I went amongst always sick; and I'm sure I could not live amongst quarrelsome folks, and get my living by their disputes. No, I'm too much of a peace-man for that; but a farmer's life is just to my mind, and, as far as I can see, it is nearer like what God intended for us than a'most anything else a body can turn their hand to. Here, now, is my farm, in pretty good condition, and it is all mine; then, settin' aside my wife and children—which is what, it's my idee, everybody ought to have, saint or sinner, but which everybody hain't got, especially such a one as mine—there is, besides, all the live stock on the place, the cows, and the oxen, and the horses, and the sheep; why, they're all next akin to human critters for company, and they are something for a man to look out for, and take care of; and, to my mind, that's about all we poor mortals are good for is to take care of one another, and the dumb brutes, any try to follow as near as we can in the footsteps or the Good Shepherd. It's all little kind o' flocks all the world over, and every man is a sort of a shepherd because every man has somebody that is some way depending on him, if it is only an old bachelor that has his landlady and his washerwoman to be good to, and kind o' look out for. As for a farmer, why he has a little of 'most everything to do for the critters on his place. If they get sick, why he has to cure 'em, and that's doctoring; and if they quarrel, or get breachy, and go to trespassing, why then he has to try his hand at lawyerin'; and, if he's fit for his place, he can settle matters better than two lawyers, a judge, and a jury; and," with a low chuckle to himself, "if he ain't fit for his place, he ain't no man at all if he can't settle a dispute better than a whole court of lawyers; then he has his civil cases and his criminal cases. When the old black sheep got to butting Daisy, why that was a criminal case, and I settled it by partin' the two critters; old Billy, he had to be shut up, not in State prison exactly, but in a corner of the north pasture, and that's about the same to a sheep, I reckon, as the 'stone jug' to a human; as for Daisy, why I gin her damages in the shape of an extra dipper of bran, and she proved herself a good citizen, and grateful to the laws, by giving me an extra quart of milk every day.
               "Then, when old Broadhorn jumped into the clover lot, and made himself sick eating clover, why that was a civil case; I should have judged him to wear a board on his horns, I guess, but death got ahead o'me, with the executionering business, which didn't exactly suit me, for I go agin capital punishment, any way.
               "But, bless me! old man, what are you fooling your time this way for? Here we are most to mill. Get up, Dobbin."
            
            
               XVIII. THE LOST SHEEP.
               MR. MAXWELL proceeded at once to the mill and left his grist, and while it was grinding, he drove around the village to execute his various commissions. To reach Lot Stanton's house, he was obliged to pass the tavern; just as he was opposite which, the door opened, and the barkeeper looking out, called:
               "Come in a moment if you please; there is a friend of yours here, who wishes to see you."
               "Don't; don't call him in," pleaded poor Joseph earnestly, "not one of that family, can I ever see again."
               Meanwhile Mr. Maxwell was alighting slowly from his sleigh, greatly wondering in his own heart, what friend of his could be awaiting him in that bar-room. It was a place, the threshold of which his foot had never crossed; and in the simplicity of his good honest soul, he felt a degree of almost childish timidity, as he entered it now. What then was his surprise, when closing the door behind him, and looking inquiringly around the room, his eye fell upon Joseph Stapleton, his elbows resting upon his knees, and his head leaning ing despondently upon his hands. It was a moment before he could satisfy himself of the reality of the scene, and still another moment elapsed before he could account for its singularity. The despairing attitude of the young man, however, his torn and bloody clothes, and swollen face, suggested only too quickly the scene through which he had passed.
               "Joseph, Joseph," he murmured slowly, going forward and laying a hand pityingly upon his head, "what does all this mean, my son? How has this terrible evil befallen you?"
               Joseph, to whom those moments of silence had seemed an age, now raised his eyes, full of all the eloquence of the keenest grief and darkest despair, to meet the earnest glance of Uncle Hugh. For a moment his lip quivered, and he essayed to speak; but unable to command his voice, and weak yet from the reaction of the strong excitement through which he had passed, he burst into tears.
               "It is not his own fault at all, sir, as I can see;" interposed the barkeeper. "Those young devils, Horton and Hartwell, were in here last night with a pack of their cronies; and happening to see him pass here on his way home with Miss Hollis, laid a plot to entice him in as he returned, and to get him drunk if possible. He withstood them nobly for a time, and would never have yielded, I am sure, if Horton hadn't struck him that infernal blow that you see the cut of, just over the eye. It bled till he got faint, and they gave him brandy, and that woke up the old appetite, you know, and then there was no controlling him."
               "You seem to have some conscience, young man," said Mr. Maxwell, almost sternly; "how could you stand by and witness such a transaction, and not attempt to stay it?"
               "Why you see, sir, when a man gets into this accursed business, he's got to stand by it. I did tell the boys they was a-goin' too far; but they was more'n half primed themselves at the time, and it wasn't of any use to talk to 'em; they wouldn't mind anything I could say, no more than the wind's blowing."
               "Why didn't you put them out of the house?"
               "I should have got turned away from my place, if I'd 'a done that, and that I can't afford; I've got a poor sick sister, dependent upon my earnings, and I can't make so much money any other way as I can this way, so I must keep in with my employer. He has made good ten dollars out of this scrape, which he would have lost if I had done what I thought was right in the case."
               "But hadn't you any conscience of your own, in the matter?"
               "I don't know why I should have any more than he. He is a member of the church, and I ain't."
               Mr. Maxwell remembered, with a sigh of regret, that it was too true; and turning to Joseph, he said:
               "Come, my boy; this is no place for you; put on your hat and coat, and come home with me; we must talk this business over quietly at home."
               "No, indeed," said Joseph, earnestly, "I cannot go home with you; I cannot see my mother, or look in Mary's face again. And James and Charlie, oh no! I cannot go there."
               "Where will you go, then?"
               "Anywhere else; somewhere where no one knows me; where there will be no sad eyes to remind me of all that might have been, but which now never can be."
               There was a dimness in Uncle Hugh's eyes, and a choking in his throat, but after a moment, he managed to say cheerfully:
               "Why Joe, my boy, you don't fancy we are going to give you up so, do you? Not a bit of it; we're just going to take you home, and nurse you up a little, till you get over these ugly bruises, and then you'll be all right again: everybody catches a tumble now and then; this is a pretty bad business to be sure, but it might be worse, so don't despair; it will all come right again; never fear."
               Joseph could hardly believe his own senses, as these encouraging words fell upon his ear. He looked up wonderingly into Mr. Maxwell's face and exclaimed:
               "Do you really think there is hope for me yet sir? Can I ever be pardoned for this fearful lapse?"
               "Why, it don't seem to me, if I've got hold of the right end of the story, that you have been so very much to blame in the matter; and if you had, why I hope our good Christian friends will not be more vindictive than their Master. He said we should forgive our brethren, not only seven times, but seventy times seven. I guess you hain't hardly got beyond the reach of that rule yet. Doubtless there will be some folks that will be inclined to be a little harsh, but I guess the less we think about them, except to pity their small-heartedness, the better. So come now, my boy, get your hat and coat, and we'll start on for home as soon as possible."
               With a look of gratitude in his eye, but with heavy forebodings of evil in his heart, Joseph obeyed his friend, and stopping for a moment to thank the barkeeper for his kindness, left the house, and in five minutes was on his way toward those whom he most loved, but whom he now most dreaded to meet.
               Few words were spoken by either during the ride home; for the hearts of both were full, the one with the deepest sorrow, anguish, and mortification; the other also with grief, and an added compassion. Mr. Maxwell was reflecting also upon the severe, uncharitable remarks and conduct which would be sure to emanate from many who should have drank deeper of the spirit of their Master than to convict the erring—who should have been more truly enlightened of the Spirit than to confound hatred for sin, with a bitter and persecuting spirit toward the sinner. Grief for the poor mother, too, whose fond hopes were thus to be dashed to the ground, and sympathy for Mary, whose heart he knew would be sorely wounded, increased his sadness, and as he approached the house, he dreaded more and more the effect of suddenly introducing Joseph to them, in his present disordered condition. He saw no alternative however, and driving on, entered the yard, and reined up his horses, in front of the door."
               "Here comes father!" cried little Annie, who was looking out at the window; "and he has got somebody with him; why it is Joseph, I do believe; but his face is bruised and he looks so badly!" and with a child's intuition of something more dreadful than appeared upon the surface, she looked up in affright to Mary, whom her exclamations had drawn to the window.
               "It is Joseph, surely," said Mary, wonderingly. "What can have happened to him?" In the innocence and simplicity of her heart, she never for a moment suspected the truth. Mrs. Stapleton's eye was however more practised in reading such symptoms as manifested themselves in his countenance, and with one long agonized look upon him, she uttered a slight moan, and fell prostrate upon the floor. Joseph, who was just entering, weak as he was, sprang forward to raise her, exclaiming in tones of bitterest anguish:
               "My mother, my poor mother; I have killed her."
               "No," said Mr. Maxwell, as he lifted her gently in his arms; "she has only fainted; we shall restore her soon; but it is best you should not be here when she recovers. Mary call your aunt, and bring water."
               With all the tact and gentleness of a woman, the strong, kind-hearted man bore the unconscious form to a lounge which stood near by, while Mary loosened her dress, and applied proper restoratives. Joseph, meanwhile pale, and himself almost fainting from weakness and emotion, stood looking on full of agony and remorse.
               "You must not be here when she recovers. See, she opens her eyes; she is better now, and if we can keep her from going into another fit, she will soon be perfectly restored. You are in need of rest and sleep. Go to your own room, and remain there for the present."
               "Full of anxious thought as he was, he felt that solitude would be a relief to him. Seeking the chamber, therefore, which he was wont to occupy, during his visits at the farm, he threw himself upon the bed, and buried his face in the pillow. His overwrought physical energies could no longer be denied their proper restoratives, and after a brief period of conflict and unrest, he fell asleep.
               That was a sad day for the household at the farm. Mrs. Stapleton, always weak and hysterical, passed for hours from one fainting fit into another; and when, at last, she was enabled to retain her consciousness, she lay moaning in helplessness and distress. Mrs. Maxwell sat constantly by her bedside, comforting her by every means in her power, while Mary went about the house, attending to every duty with unrelenting energy and promptitude; very quiet and self-possessed, but with a burden upon her heart which drank the life-hue from her cheek, and the lustre from her eye.
               After dinner, she found a few leisure moments, and going to her own room, she knelt by the bedside and poured out her spirit in humble, earnest prayer. Comfort and inspiration came to her. Cowper's sweet hymn; 
                     
                        "God moves in a mysterious way
                        His wonders to perform;"
                     
                   was breathed in strains of sweetest music upon her soul; 
                     
                        "'Judge not the Lord by feeble sense
                        But trust him for his grace;
                        Behind a frowning providence,
                        He hides a smiling face.'"
                     
                   said the comforter; many "things which seemed grievous to bear, have brought thee rich treasures of experience; this trial also may have a mission for thee. Remember that God ordained the night-times as well as the day, and that his power can make either glorious with his praises."
               "One could bear this sorrow better," said Charlie, as he and James drove slowly toward the village, to bring home the grain from the mill, and obtain some further intelligence in regard to the incidents which had befallen Joseph, "if it would not give occasion for the expression of so much harshness and uncharitable feeling. There has always been, in spite of his amiability and winning manners, such a current of bitter envious feeling toward him; and there are some, even in the church I fear, who will regard this affair with secret if not with open triumph. 'I told you so, I knew it was of no use to try to reform him,' will be the cry from more than one; and many will lose faith in the great doctrine of charity which we have been striving to illustrate."
               "For a time, perhaps," said James, calmly; "but it must triumph in the end. It is of God, and, therefore, immortal and invincible. I have ceased to allow such things to cause me much disquietude. God has put his truth into the world; he has made it our mission to use our best efforts as men and Christians to aid in its diffusion, and its application to the hearts and lives of men. We are to strive earnestly to accomplish this mission, but results must be left to Him. The cultivation of the seed is our work; the growth of it is His. The one work is entirely distinct from the other, and we only embarrass our own efforts when we strive to assume a responsibility which in no way belongs to us."
               "But you surely would not have us spare any effort for the promotion of truth?"
               "Certainly not; that is part of our work, and must be pursued with all due diligence; but when this has been done, then if the fruit does not seem to us immediately to mature, we ought not to worry or accuse ourselves; but patiently wait God's own good time. Even if blight seems to settle upon all our expected harvest, we are nevertheless to lose no whit of our confidence in the love, and power, and wisdom which conducts the work; but remember our own shortsightedness and reverently work."
               "I don't see as deeply into things as you do, James; but it seems to me that much advantage might be taken of such a doctrine, to excuse sloth and want of diligence in well-doing."
               "Every truth is capable of perversion by those who only half understand it, when, could its whole scope, and force, and beauty, be at once translated to the soul, its true mission would be recognized with delight, and yielded to with cheerful zeal. In the present instance, we ought to keep constantly in mind that what seems to us evil, is oftentimes only the instrument in the hand of God for the evolution of good. Thus when our efforts seem most signally to have failed, they may have wrought the very end which he designed for them, in laying the foundation for deeper and more permanent reform. So that those who would be efficient workers in the vineyard, need not only active energies for the labor, but also discretion, with patience and firm reliance upon God, that they may know when to cease their endeavors, and leave him to the performance of his work; in short, when to 'labor' and when to 'wait.'"
               "But the apostle commands us to be 'instant in season and out of season.'"
               "Christ often compares the work of the ministry to the sowing of seed and the cultivation of the grain. What would you think of the man who, the instant he had ceased ploughing and planting, commenced hoeing and digging about his seed?"
               "Why, that he was crazy, of course?"
               "Why?"
               "Because he would allow no time to the grain to germinate."
               "To be sure; he would take the work of nature out of her hands, and attempt to make his own efforts suffice for all. Now, that is the fault of many earnest workers in the field; they forget that however much good seed may be planted in the minds of individuals or communities, unless it be made to germinate and grow there, it will be of no value whatever; and unless they can see fruit springing up instantly under their labors, they either become at once faint-hearted, and abandon the work, or they go directly over the same ground again, repeating their efforts, and so dislodging much of the seed already sown, and interrupting the growth of all."
               "Surely, one's labors are not to cease altogether, in such a case."
               "No; as the husbandman, after his seed is planted, watches the clouds and the rain, and longs earnestly for growing weather, so must the laborer upon God's moral acres watch closely the leadings of his providence, and seek earnestly and always the vivifying and growing influences of his spirit. And after all, that is the great need of this age. After men have arrived at maturity, in a Christian community like ours, and, in nine cases out of ten, before they have left the confines of boyhood, they are as much enlightened in mind and conscience upon the great truths of revelation as they ever can become, by any system of mere human instruction. The seed is sown, and all after-effort of that sort is of more injury than assistance. What then remains to be done is to seek that inspiration of the spirit, which shall breathe life into the soul, and set in motion the living principle of growth and fructification."
               "But how is this Divine influence to be secured?"
               "By living, to the utmost of our endeavors, a pure life; by subduing every carnal lust, and making our hearts meet temples for the indwelling of the Holy Ghost; by earnest avoidance of every ambition whose tendency is earthward, and a sincere desire for every influence which is pure, and holy, and heavenly."
               "James, when will men ever learn the blessedness of living such a life? when will they ever see that through the exercise of the highest faculties must the highest happiness be attained? that if they would enjoy haven above, they must begin to enjoy it below? When will Christian men and women learn that a quiet, lowly, unambitious life, a life free from the cankering cares which those experience perience whose dearest aim is the getting of gold or fame, or the satiety and unrest of those who seek for happiness in luxury and self-indulgence—a life spent in healthful, invigorating labor, and earnest, loving, Christ-like efforts for the good of others, is the one, the only one which God has made us capable really of enjoying—upon which he has set the seal of his blessing and approval?"
               "The mid-day glory of the millennium does, indeed, seem afar off, but I sometimes think the eastern sky grows bright with its dawning, said James, quietly.
               One more scene at the farm, and then our chapter, already spun out to an inconvenient length, must close.
               It was long past noon before Joseph awoke from his sleep. The house was still; the children were at school; Mr. Maxwell was busy with some outdoor work, and his wife still sat by the bedside of the afflicted mother. With a heavy heart, but a brain clearer for the refreshment it had received from sleep, the young man rose, and descended to the sitting-room. There he found Mary, alone, busy with her accustomed sewing. For a moment he paused upon the threshold; but her sweet smile, as she looked up and inquired if he were better, reassured him. Still, it was with a humbled, down cast eye that he crossed the room and seated himself at he side.
               "You look the better for your rest, Joseph," she said pleasantly, "the cut upon your forehead is swollen some yet; does it pain you?"
               "Not as much as it did this morning," he replied, faintly, as if scarce assured that all this kindness could be real.
               "Sit down in this rocking-chair, while I go for the camphor-bottle. It needs some attention, I think."
               Still, with a wondering air, he obeyed her, and in three minutes more she was bathing his forehead, smoothing out the tangled masses of his hair—first having drawn the lips of the wound together, and placed a cloth, wet in camphor, upon it—cheering him all the while with pleasant, friendly chat.
               "There," she said at last, "you are a much better looking young man, than when, a half-hour ago, you presented yourself at the doorway, looking so hopeless and woe-begone."
               "Doubtless; and, Mary, have you looked in my eyes to see if half the change is not there?"
               "Well, I do think the light in your eyes is a little brighter; is your heart any lighter than it was?"
               "A vast deal, Mary; you don't know how I have looked forward to this meeting all day, even in dreams through my sleep; and such miserable foreboding fears as I have had. I can hardly realize that I am not dreaming now; though, God knows, visions like this did not visit my slumbers."
               "You thought I was going to be sad, and perhaps reproachful. Well, there are some sad things to be talked about, though, I am thankful to believe, I have little to reproach you for; but it would have been cruel to have inflicted them upon you now, when you are so ill able to bear them."
               "Then it is only because I am in trouble that you are so kind. This is only compassion which you feel for me."
               She sat down beside him; her hazel eyes were smiling softly, but they were averted from his.
               "I know your gentle charity for the fallen, Mary, I have felt its sweet, persuasive influence before. Because I am a brother, by the ties of humanity, and still more by the closer, purer tie of redeeming love, you pity me, and afford me aid; but, by and by, when I am well again, quite strong, and in no need of your forbearance, then will come the time to talk of those sad things. Then you will tell me: 'I am your friend, your sister still, Joseph; I see the good in your nature, and appreciate it; but I see, also, the deep, dark evils, and I fear them. I can be your sister, but I dare not be your wife.' Is not that what you will say?"
               "Are those terrible evils of which you speak such as shame back the power of heavenly love, and mock its promises of redemption? Is Christianity, think you, powerless to efface them? Do you intent to cherish them there, in opposition to every sweet and purifying influence which can be brought to bear against them?"
               "Now it is coming, Mary; now you are getting more like the girl who has haunted me like an accusing angel."
               "Then you sink under the charges; you acknowledge the power of evil, not only over the good that is within you, but the good which the Spirit of God offers for your succor; you give yourself up, voluntarily, a prey to evil passions and desires?"
               "Mary, why torment me so? You know that I desire, with all my heart, to live a pure and Christ like life; but I am doubly hindered. In the first place, I have a naturally corrupt heart, like all the race. I am not perfect, Mary, any more than others, and the sincere, and the cold looks, the envious, malicious remarks which I have encountered within the last year, have had the same effect upon me that they would have upon most people. They have not only wounded me sorely, but they have made me at times almost reckless and despairing. All these, by the grace of God, I had struggled successfully against, and, in a measure, outlived; but there was yet one demon within me unexorcised; and that was the morbid and unnatural appetite which the evil habits of other days had gendered. From that, strive as I may, I cannot free myself. It may slumber for years, and yet in an evil hour accident may awaken it; and, if circumstances are against me, it may be victorious in spite of my best efforts. This is why I speak so hopelessly of my evil heart. I labor under disadvantages in attempting to redeem my character, which only those who have known my experiences can realize; and I have been made to feel to-day, that to ask you to share the fortunes of a man thus fettered, is selfish in the extreme; and yet, Mary, how can I give you up?"
               "The moral depravity, Joseph, is common to us all; there is but one cure for it, and that, I trust, I need not point out to you. As for the appetite, which your former experience has fastened upon you, it is purely physical, and strict attention to the laws of health will, I believe, entirely remove it in time. Such circumstances as occasioned this temporary lapse, may never, and, I trust, for the sake of human nature, will never happen to you again. But there is one fault in your character which has hither to occasioned me much uneasiness, which this very experience proves to me that you are overcoming; and from that source I draw comfort inexpressible for myself, and encouragement for you. It is this: you refused to listen to entreaties—no persuasions could induce you to violate your pledge, or your convictions of right and duty. I think the indecision which I have noticed in you, the disposition to yield to outward pressure, is diminishing; and upon that indication I can base strong hopes of your future safety."
               "Mary, if what you say is true—and I think it is—to what influence, under God, I owe the change? Whose has been the hand to mold my character anew? Must I lose that sweet, guiding, controlling influence, and give myself up to despair?"
               
               "Has any one but yourself suggested so reckless a course?"
               "Mary"—
               But our chapter is too long already; we must close it here.
            
            
               XIX. KATE'S MISSION.
               ONE sunny afternoon of New Year's week, Eleanor Wentworth sat with her cousin Kate, in the quiet back parlor of Mr. Buckingham's pleasant mansion. Each of the young ladies was busy with some trifle of fancy-work, over which they were discoursing after a fashion peculiarly feminine, upon matters of greater surface than depth.
               "Oh dear!" said Kate with a yawn, as she raised her head from counting the stitches of a gorgeous bunch of flowers which she was embroidering upon cloth. "I do wish these slippers were done; I'm getting to hate the very sight of them."
               "Pray who are they for?" asked Eleanor, in reply. "I've been wondering at your uncommon industry all the afternoon, and puzzling my brain with guesses as to who was to be favored with the fruits of it. Uncle has a dozen pairs of slippers already"
               "Well now, since you have been taking such liberties, suppose you give us the results of them. Upon what young gentleman has your active fancy bestowed them? Suppose I were just working them now, to fill up a few idle moments, it would be necessary to make some disposal of them when finished. Which one of my devoted admirers would you advise me to make supremely happy by the gift of them?"
               "Don't pray call upon me for aid in any such case as that; as if, forsooth, I could tell which one of all your score of sighing swains had found favor in your saucy eyes."
               "Now that speech shows you a novice at once, Nellie; with all your advantages, a thousand times greater than ever I enjoyed, you are not half as finished in ways of coquetry as I. Your Washington and Saratoga experiences seem to have been actually wasted. Think how I, country-born and country-bred damsel that I am, should have improved them. My genius is purely natural now, just think what I might have been with proper training."
               "I've waited through all this homily to learn the nature of my error, but you don't seem disposed to enlighten me."
               "Why, one would think the ridiculousness of the idea you advanced was sufficiently apparent. What possessed you with the old fashioned whim of singling out in the eyes of all the world a favored cavalier, by the bestowal of gifts upon him. My way is a thousand times nicer. Now there is Frank Mason, the dear, elegant, fascinating, little creature; the trimmest figure, the prettiest face, the most bewitching air in all Meadow Brook; such languishing glances too as he bestows from those beautiful eye—such shakes and pressures from that neatly kidded hand—such exquisite perfumes as emanate from that daintiest of handkerchiefs—now Eleanor he is, entre nous, the man of my heart. Oh I do so adore him! I really have a notion to work him a pair of slippers some time. They shall not be of woollen cloth, and brilliant colors like these—no indeed, that would be sacrilege; they shall be of velvet wrought with delicate moss roses, and leaves all in the finest chenille, and they shall be lined with satin; oh dear! that's too wearisome even to talk about; I won't have him after all, Ellie; it would be so much work to take care of such a man! They are pretty to look at, the dolls; but dear me, who would be persecuted by the thousand whims they are sure to possess? Not I for the world."
               "Well, if it isn't Frank Mason, who is it? I really am curious to know."
               "I wish you would spare my blushes Ellie, really I do. I'm quite ashamed to own the truth about these slippers; it isn't remarkably complimentary to my taste."
               "Well, your conduct often pays your tastes all sorts of compliments; your friends all know your failings; they don't expect as much commonsense and consistency from you, as from most; so don't let any vanity of that sort keep you away from the confessional. Come I'm not in mood to be put off with evasions. Out with the truth."
               "Ellie, I really am surprised at your dullness Just look at that, now," holding up the work playfully, and regarding it herself with quizzical look, "can't you see at once whose fancy that substantial broad cloth, set off with those gorgeous exotics, will please? Isn't that black cloth strongly typical of the depravity of human nature, and aren't those gay flowers strikingly suggestive of the growths of grace in the heart? Now that is what I call very theological-looking slipper. You know I pride myself upon my perception of the fitness of things."
               "Oh!" said Eleanor, in a subdued tone, "they are for Charlie Maxwell, are they?"
               Kate looked up with a slightly amused expression in her eye, and paused a moment as if inclined to humor her cousin's suspicion; but suddenly changing her voice and countenance, she replied in a prosy, half ill-natured tone:
               "No indeed; Charlie would think too much of them; besides, it would set him up amazingly to fancy I thought enough of him to spend some hours of my precious time in his service; no, no, I shan't bother my head to work slippers for Charlie"
               "Charlie isn't vain, and I won't hear him abused," replied Eleanor with some spirit.
               "No, but there is his grave, ministerial cousin—I don't see why it didn't strike you immediately that those slippers were just precisely adapted to please his fancy, and then he'll take them with such a grace, too, as if I ought to feel myself honored by his acceptance of the gift. If talented men weren't always so vain they would really be endurable."
               "But what upon earth set you working slippers for James Hollis?"
               "Oh, nothing," said Kate carelessly, "only that I happened to eat a philopœna with him the other day, and he won it. Just fancy the embryo great man descending to such trifles. Won't it be delightful to wake up cold mornings hereafter, and think of him sitting in his study, by morning candle-light, bothering his fevered brains over Greek and Hebrew, and warming his chilled feet in my slippers!"
               Eleanor laughed at what she considered one of her cousin's idle whims, and Kate, declaring that her eyes ached from the confining employment, threw herself down upon the sofa, and shaded her face with her hands.
               A half-hour's silence ensued, at the end of which Mr. Buckingham's footstep was heard at the door, and Kate sprang hastily up to meet him. Running into the hall, she assisted him in divesting himself of his overcoat, and reëntered the parlor hanging affectionately upon his arm.
               "What does make you look so gloomy this afternoon papa? Something has happened to trouble you, I am sure?" she exclaimed, looking up into his fresh and still handsome countenance, over which a cloud at present evidently lingered. "Has something gone wrong at the counting-room during your absence?"
               
               "Not exactly; where are my slippers, Kate?" was the reply, in a tone which showed that he disliked to be questioned.
               "Just here, sire ready for you; but mayn't I know what is it that makes you look so cloudy this pleasant afternoon?"
               "Why should you want to know, you will only be unhappy too, if I tell you?"
               "Why, is it anything so very sad, papa?"
               "I don't know; I suppose many a one in my place would be more vexed than sorry; but somehow I can't help regretting it; poor Joseph is too good a youth to be thrown away so. I never had a better clerk in the world than he has proved, ever since the day he entered the house."
               "And what is the matter now, father; he hasn't been getting into disgrace has he?" said Kate, earnestly, while Eleanor dropped her work and looked up with an anxious eye.
               "Yes; he has disgraced himself and all his friends," and he detailed to the two young ladies the exaggerated account of Joseph's misfortune which had reached him in the course of the day.
               "Who told you all this?" was Kate's first inquiry.
               "Oh, it is the town's talk. It seems Horton and Hartwell have been trying these two months to trap him, and they are bragging of their triumph all over town."
               "Well, then of course they exaggerate Joseph's crime. Father, I don't believe the half of this."
               "That's right, Katie, defend your friends to the last; that's the true womanly nature," said Mr. Buckingham, smiling. "Believe all the town humbugged, and yourself only, sharp-sighted enough to see the truth."
               "Laugh away, papa; but see if it don't prove that I am right in the end. Have you seen Joseph?"
               "No; but James Hollis has been with me these last two hours. He wants me to promise to give Joseph another trial, but that I can't do."
               "Now stop, papa," interposed Kate; "don't be too hasty. The least you can do is to give his case a fair hearing."
               "Why, Kate, you aren't going to plead for the young man again, are you?"
               "Don't you know, papa," she said, seating herself upon his knee, and stroking his face caressingly, "that it is my mission to keep your heart bright. It is a good heart, and true as steel; but you take it out in the world so much, among selfish, scheming men, that it gets rusty once in a while, and then it needs somebody to polish it up a little; and that is Katie's work; don't you know it is?"
               "It must be a soft heart, Katie, he said, looking tenderly upon her, "or it wouldn't be so easily moved by your soft ways. But don't tease me about this now, chicken; you know I have yielded to your persuasions once, and it is impossible for me to do it again."
               "You shall not yield to my persuasions, papa, but to your own sense of justice; just hold your judgment in suspense a day or two, and see if I don't bring things out all right."
               "You forget, Katie, that I have heard Joseph's side of the story; James Hollis has talked to me steadily, for two hours, about the matter."
               "Yes, I know all about that; and I know that he was so sure he was right and that you were wrong, and talked so deeply and theologically about the matter, that he puzzled your plain, matter-of-fact brain, and made you three times more set in your way than you were before."
               "Katie, I don't like you to be always abusing James Hollis; he is a very capable young man, though, as you say, a little opinionated; but I don't know, after all, a man whose judgment I would trust sooner, in any affair but one of religion; there, I own, he does seem a little fanatical to plain, practical business men, like myself."
               "Father, you wouldn't trust the judgment of an angel, in any matter, if it conflicted with your own. There are only just two ways to manage you. One is to convince you, and the other is a little private way of my own, which I'm not going to tell you about. But this, I believe, is a plain matter of judgment and conviction, so just hold yourself amenable to reason for a day or two, and I'll take it upon myself to be answerable for all that follows."
               "But what new witness are you going to bring up, Katie? It seems to me that I have heard all sides of the question now."
               "Didn't you mention Tom Higby, among the men who were there?" asked Kate, with a suddenness of impulse very characteristic of her.
               "Yes."
               "Well, he is an honest soul, if he does drink sometimes; and I'd trust his version of such a scene as soon as anybody's. It happens he is at work in the barn to-day, and I'll call him at once, and we'll see what he has to say in the matter."
               "It seems to me that is a very foolish manœuvre, Kate. It is extremely improbable that he will favor Joseph's side of the case, when he was himself one of those engaged in effecting his downfall. I doubt if he tells half as good a story as James has done."
               "Ah! papa, but you didn't place any confidence in James' account, because you looked upon him as an interested party; besides, I am not half as anxious to hear a 'good story,' as I am to learn the truth. Depend upon it, there is nothing like the truth to found an argument upon, be it what it may; for truth always harmonizes with justice, and with charity."
               "You surely were born for a lawyer, Kate."
               "No, indeed, I wasn't. I was born to defeat lawyers; they are always trying to prevent justice, and I, in my small way, try to uphold and administer it."
               "Well, then, carry out your whim. It is certainly a little original, but it wouldn't be at all like you if it was not."
               With the first lisp of permission. Kate had flown from the room, and in three minutes returned, ushering in Tom Higby, a rough, but honest-looking laborer, whom Mr. Buckingham had employed for some extra services about the house.
               "Come in, Tom," said the gentleman, as he noticed the rather hesitating look which he cast about him, as he stood upon the threshold.
               "These young ladies have called you in to learn some particulars of a case wherein they are slightly interested. My version don't suit them, and, of course, woman fashion, they dispute it, and appeal to higher authority. You were at the tavern night before last, I believe?"
               "Yes, sir," said Tom, with a blush and a bow.
               "Sit down, then, and tell us, if you please, what happened there. I was out of town at the time, and only heard of the occurrence today."
               "Why," said Tom, confusedly, "it ain't a very pleasant thing to talk about, sir, to ladies; and, besides, I wa'n't there all the time; I went away tolerable early, for I didn't approve o' the carryin's on, no how; though at first, when I thought they was a-goin' to make a fair game on it, I went in with 'em; though, after all, when you come to think on't, soberly, 'tain't just the thing to urge a man to drink against his will, no way; if a man don't want to drink, and especially if he knows it's dangerous for him to take a glass, why let him alone, I say; but when a feller gets half primed, he don't allers do the thing he knows is right."
               "Then you think Stapleton was unfairly treated, do you?"
               "Law bless you! yes; why the feller didn't drink for the askin,' nor wouldn't. I tried my best to make him drink with me, but he wouldn't; 'twan't till after Horton struck him that ugly blow, and he got so faint he couldn't stand, that he took any liquor; and then it was poured down him. Hart well and Horton acted like two devils let loose beggin' the ladies' pardon; and now they are a lyin' about it all over town, and accusin' Stapleton o' things he never thought of doing. If they are gentlemen, I don't want to be one, that's all."
               "I knew there was no confidence to be placed in their statements," said Mr. Buckingham, meditatively.
               "Well, there don't anybody know anything certain about it but them that was there; and they was all in for the scrape, and all pretty well primed, too, but Jim Stokes, the bar-keeper. Ask him about it, and he'll tell you a straight story, I'll venture; Jim is an honest feller, he is, though he's got into a pretty hard calling. I s'pose 'tain't no worse to sell liquor than to drink it. I'm quit of the whole of it, though, hereafter."
               "How is that, Tom?—have you signed the pledge?" asked Mr. Buckingham.
               "No, sir, I hain't signed no pledge, but I got enough of liquor that night. Since I've seen how Horton and his gang worked it in that scrape, I've been sick of my company; and thinks I to myself 'if that's what liquor makes of men, here's what'll let it alone hereafter.'"
               "And do you really intend to keep your resolution?"
               "Yes, sir. I don't like to brag much about it, but Tom Higby's a man, sir, that when he has made up his mind don't change it till he sees good cause. I never see the harm before in a little good liquor; but after this, I don't touch, taste nor handle it."
               "I'm glad to hear you say so, Tom, for I believe you are in earnest; and you couldn't have taken a better resolution."
               "There's Jim Stokes, sir; I'm sorry for him; he knows liquor-sellin' is a bad business, and he'd be as glad to get out of it as the next man, but he hain't got nothin' else to do, that he can earn as much money at, and he has got a poor, sick sister depending on his earnings; if I could do anything to give him a lift out of the business, I would."
               "You think," said Mr. Buckingham, inquiringly, "that Joseph's old appetite for liquor wasn't in any way the cause of his yielding to temptation?"
               "He didn't yield to no temptation. I tell ye 'twan't nothing but brute force that put the first two drinks down his throat. After that, when he was half-drunk already, he called for more liquor, and carried on pretty high. But that's the way with a feller, you know, that's been used to drink; when he gets the taste of liquor in his mouth, why he ain't himself any more."
               "That is very true; but then if a man has the accursed appetite about him, he isn't safe. I don't like to have anything to do with such men."
               "Somebody must have something to do with them, papa," interposed Kate, gently, "if it is only to do them good. Because Joseph has been unfortunate in erring once, we won't throw him away altogether, will we?"
               "I won't detain you longer, Tom," said Mr. Buckingham, without appearing to notice her remark.
               "Thank you," said Kate, kindly, "for the interest you manifest in poor Joseph."
               And she stole quietly after him as he left the room, to inquire about Jim Stokes' sick sister, where she lived, and whether she stood in need of aid.
               Before she returned, or Mr. Buckingham had recovered from the revery into which he had fallen upon Tom's departure, the tea-bell rang, and Mr. Buckingham started up, exclaiming gaily:
               "Well, Nellie, how have you and Kate got along during my absence? been lonesome any?"
               "Oh no, sir!" said Eleanor, blushing. "The time has passed very pleasantly. It was only a little while any way, you know."
               "No," said Kate, as she seated herself at the table, "hardly long enough for us to talk over all our privacies together. By the way," she added, "I had quite forgotten Charlie; he was to be here to take tea with us. I wonder what detains him? we really ought to wait for him."
               "Here he comes now, I presume," said Mr. Buckingham, as the door-bell rang.
               It proved as they anticipated, and, after an apology from Kate, and a kindly welcome from Mr. Buckingham, they all sat down to tea.
            
            
               XX. A TÊTE-À-TÊTE.
               "I AM very sorry," said Mr. Buckingham, as they reëntered the parlor after tea, "but a business meeting demands an hour or two of my time this evening, and I shall be obliged to leave you young people to take care of yourselves. Charlie, you must see that the girls don't get lonesome."
               "Certainly sir, I shall do my best to prevent it."
               "Well; success to you; Katie, bring my over coat."
               "Here it is papa; and do be home early."
               "As early as I can, pussy, that is the most I can promise. Important matters are coming up to-night, and I don't know how late they may keep me."
               "People call papa stern and sever," said Kate as the door closed after him, "but I don't see where they find it; I'm sure at home, he is the dearest kindest man that ever lived; and the most loving and indulgent of papas."
               "Uncle has one of the noblest and most generous of hearts," said Eleanor, "but like many another such, the luster of its good qualities is sometimes times dimmed to the eyes of others, by his strict sense of justice, and his unwavering firmness and decision."
               After a half-hour's pleasant chat upon indifferent subjects, Kate started up, gaily, exclaiming.
               "That reminds me, Nellie, of a letter which must be written this very evening, to go by to-morrow morning's mail. It should have been attended to this afternoon, but I entirely forgot it. Will you excuse me for a few moments?"
               The excuse was blushingly accorded by Eleanor, and by Charlie with a ready grace, which Katie might have interpreted as not very complimentary to herself, but she probably took no notice of it, for she tripped lightly up to her own room, to the performance of her epistolary duty; while Charlie drew his chair nearer to that of Eleanor, and commenced a low and earnest conversation.
               "This opportunity of saying a few words alone to you," he commenced, "is precisely what I have been for some time past ardently desiring; yet until this moment, the fates have never seemed propitious; and as I leave town to-morrow, and this will consequently be my last opportunity of seeing you, I am going to make the most of these few minutes."
               "You leave so soon?" said Eleanor hastily. "I thought you were not going until some time next week.
               "I had hoped to be able to remain a few days longer, but circumstances have occurred which have changed my plans, and made it necessary for me to leave to-morrow."
               He hesitated, and then with a mantling cheek, and a voice slightly tremulous, but still with manly courage and earnestness, he continued:
               "Eleanor, I have a very great favor to ask of your, one which I can scarcely expect you will grant, and yet upon the concession of which I have dared to build many hopes."
               He paused and looked earnestly into her eyes, as if to gain therefrom encouragement to proceed.
               She understood him; and while her color deepened, and her eyes fell beneath his steadfast, soulful gaze, she murmured.
               "Go on, Charlie."
               "I need not tell you how pleasant the acquaintance which has grown up between us, has always been to me; I have prized it highly; but never until I was separated from you, did, I realize how dear your friendship and confidence had become to me. In my lonely student life, I have misses it very much, and often I have been tempted to write to you, and invite you to renewal of our pleasant intercourse by letter. Nothing but the fear of being considered presumptuous, restrained me from so doing; since I have been at home, I have watched your conduct and countenance closely, for something which might inspire me with confidence to urge my request, and, forgive me if I have misinterpreted them, but I have thought I saw in you a real and true friend."
               
               "It is true, Charles, I am your friend."
               "I am aware that is no ordinary request which I am preferring. I know that neither of your parents would sanction an intimacy between their daughter and the son of a plain but honest farmer; I know that situated as I am at present, I cannot in honor ask more of you than your friendship; yet, Eleanor, I do crave the comfort and support of your encouragement and sympathy, and I trust I am doing no wrong in this far soliciting it. Can you in conscience correspond with me, and will you do so?"
               "You are right, Charles, in thinking that my parents would scarcely approve of an intimacy between us; yet this is a matter in which I feel at perfect liberty to follow the dictates of my own judgment; especially as I know that their objections are not founded upon any want of confidence in your personal character. Similar prejudices led them to oppose my connection with the Bible-class; but my father has too much respect for himself and for his children, ever to tyrannize over them, in any matter where their judgment is opposed to his own. Consequently although I cannot count upon his approval, I nevertheless feel perfectly free to choose for myself."
               She hesitated a moment; and Charles, clasping still tighter the hand which he held, whispered:
               "And you will choose in my favor. May I hope it?"
               She raised her eyes blushingly, and replied, "I do not know whether I am acting a very wise part; but I will promise so much, if you write to me: your letters shall not be disregarded. The tremulousness of her voice, and the eloquence of his look, told how many unspoken thoughts thrilled the bosoms of each, but he only answered earnestly—
               "Thank you."
               Kate's letter must have been a long one, for it was still a half an hour until she returned to the parlor.
               "Eleanor," she said, after they had retired to their room that night, "I know I'm a heedless rattle-pated thing, without the least pretension to sober common sense; or discretion; I don't set myself up for a model for anybody, but even I, thoughtless I, can't but be a little surprised that an individual of your proverbial prudence and propriety and discrimination, should be running headlong into just such a predicament as you seem to be shaping your course for."
               "Kate, what are you talking about?"
               "Why, everybody knows Charlie Maxwell is about the best-looking, best-natured, best mannered, best everything in short, of all the youths in Meadow Brook, and I, personally and individually, haven't the slightest objection to taking him for a cousin, any fine day, when you and he and the minister can agree about it; but what do you suppose my honored Uncle Wentworth will have to say in the premises?"
               
               Eleanor blushed crimson, but Kate went on brushing her hair before the glass, with as much unconcern as if her question had been the most casual one in the world.
               "I don't know what you mean, Kate, by rattling on so fast, about Charlie Maxwell," commenced Eleanor; and then, as if conscious that she was not entirely frank, she paused. "At least," she added, "you know there is no immediate prospect of any such thing as your insinuations point at."
               "Not an immediate prospect of your getting married I grant you; but I do think there is a very immediate prospect of you both falling much deeper into love than I'd care to get without some slight counting of the cost beforehand."
               Kate's manner piqued her cousin no more than she meant it should, for she had no idea of inviting her to any such sentimental confidences, as might too forcibly suggest a return; but it hindered her somewhat in arriving at a true knowledge of Eleanor's sentiments.
               "I am not in love," replied Miss Wentworth coldly; "and I don't know that you have any reason to suspect Charlie of any such foolishness."
               "Haven't I? well, now I really thought I had; and perhaps after all I am the better judge. At any rate, if I hadn't thought my company would be very easily dispensed with, I shouldn't have run away and left you just as I did this evening; and if you did both try to look as grave and proper as deacon's children when I came back, there were two pairs of eyes in the room that told tales out of school. If I'm not as wise as an owl, I can see some things in the dark as well. It is all one to me, however, only the wiseacres say—of course I don't know how wisely—that love is a brier bush that it's easier getting into than out of; and I just thought I'd give you a word of kindly caution."
               "Well, suppose for a moment that there was any foundation for your suspicions, what then?"
               "You are not disposed to flirt with Charlie?"
               "No, nor with any one. I don't aspire to that role."
               "So I thought; well, are you prepared to lose caste by marrying him? Society is a very different thing here in Meadow Brook, you know, form what it is in a city; and even here your father is far more exclusive than mine. What kind of a welcome, think you, would he give Charlie, coming as a suitor for his daughter's hand?"
               "Not a very kindly one certainly; I doubt if he would even admit him as a visitor to the house; but all that will make no difference to me, Kate; God evidently intended love as a requisite to marriage, and he who would keep all the commandments inviolate must bear this fact in mind; so wherever my heart goes my hand will go too, God willing."
               "That is all I wanted to know," said Kate as she extinguished the light. "Success to Charlie, say I, for I know of none worthier; but I was afraid you were taking a 'leap in the dark,' Nellie.
            
            
               
               XXI. A BAR-TENDER'S NATIONS OF RIGHT AND WRONG.
               IN spite of the sneers and gibes of the greater part of the community, and very greatly to the joy of those whole-hearted Christians who had espoused his cause, Joseph was finally reinstated at his desk in Mr. Buckingham's counting-room.
               The short-lived triumph of those who had been the occasion of his misfortunes, appeared to afford them but little gratification; and their disappointed malice wreaked itself daily in sneers and sarcasm, and all sorts of annoying acts, which in the aggregate fell little short of persecution. Joseph, doubtless, found some difficulty in receiving all these trials in a Christian spirit; but past experience had taught him charity, and he strove constantly to remember that, however God may look upon the violation of his law, and to whatever penalties he many doom the offender, he has nowhere authorized man to rebuke his brother, save in the spirit of brotherly forbearance and affection; and, by the grace of God, he was enabled so far to emulate the divine law, as to give little occasion for the unkindly remarks of the scoffer.
               Early in the spring, he was enabled to put into execution a favorite plan of his own, which the ill-health of his mother had rendered hitherto inexpepedient. A small house was rented, a little out of the village, and thither Mrs. Stapleton, with all her children, save Martha, whose services Samson was desirous of retaining in his own family, removed. Once more free from even the appearance of dependence, Joseph felt himself a man, and though he labored daily and with diligence, and was obliged to husband every farthing of his income, and to deprive himself of many comforts which his associates enjoyed, still he carried about with him a light and happy heart.
               In justice it should be mentioned, that, long ere this, Mr. Buckingham,—who possessed a truly Christian heart, notwithstanding that the strength of his own character made him sometimes unappreciative of the weaknesses of others, though his prejudices had recently undergone a material modification,—had sought out Jim Stokes, the barkeeper, and finding him a young man of heart and capacity, had procured for him a more respectable calling; while Kate had made the acquaintance of his sister, and by those womanly attentions and sympathies, so invaluable to the suffering poor, had not only lightened her heart of much of its sorrow, but had even been the means of alleviating, in a measure, her bodily sufferings.
               "I tell you what it is," said Jim, as he walked one evening with Joseph to the Bible-class, upon whose meetings he was now a frequent attendant, "that girl is a real Christian. I don't know whether she belongs to any church or not, but I've often thought, when she has been at our house, cooking little niceties for Sarah, or reading to her out of the Bible or some other good and interesting book, or going about the hose tidying things up, that she was more like an angel than anything else ever I saw; 'tain't because she is good-looking either, for I've seen many a girl that was handsomer, so far as features goes; but it was the light that shone in her face, and in all her motions too. I have seen pictures of saints and angels that had a halo around their heads, and it appears to me she is all covered with light, like, as she goes about the house; I can't express myself very well, but that is the way it looks to me. I am sure, anyhow, there is a little of heaven in her, and if there is any such thing as a Holy Spirit, that's what has given it to her, I'm thinking."
               "I hope you don't doubt, Jim, that there is a Holy Spirit, and that it is his constant mission to inspire the hearts of men with knowledge of the truth," said Joseph, anxious to gain some insight into the religious opinions of his new and somewhat singular friend.
               "I tell you what it is, Stapleton," was the reply, "a fellow that has been brought up just as I have, don't exactly believe much of anything, I reckon. Neither my father or mother were professors of religion; they never taught me much about the Bible, or sent me to Sunday-school; so as far as such things go, I expect you'd call me a pretty ignorant sort of a chap. They both died when I was young, and I felt their loss if ever anybody did; for they was good to me—especially my mother. I knew they didn't belong to no church, but still it went agin' my feelings to think they was a sufferin' for their sins in the other world, as you know it naturally would; so I got to thinking that there wa'n't no such place as hell, after all; and I ain't clear in my mind on that ar' point yet, either. Well, I had a pretty hard life of it for five or six years, and it so happened that just those who treated me worst, were all of 'em professors of religion; well, thinks I to myself, if you are Christians, I don't want to be no such. At last I got into the tavern, and that finished me up for any sort of religion. How any man that believes in God, hell, or the devil, can sell rum, or entice men to drink it, is more than I can see into. There's Deacon Hatch, the very man that made such a fuss about your coming back to Meadow Brook the way you did, and said you shouldn't never step your foot inside his door, owns the tavern, where just such as you was then, are all the time a makin; it's Satan's own manufactory; and old Jake Cross, that keeps it, is as firm a church member as any in the lot, and gives as much money to the support of the minister. I've seen him many a time come to the drawer, Sunday morning, and take out money which I had taken from men who I knew were spending their week's wages for drink and would go home drunk to beat their wives and children, and carry it to meeting to put into the collection. Maybe to would be half a dollar, maybe a whole one, for he was liberal, people said; but I knew he could afford to be liberal. Hadn't he made twenty or thirty dollars that week out of poor men, and poor women, too, for there's more than one man goes to that bar-room and spends the money that belongs to their wives, that their wives have earned, stitched out, stitch upon stitch, in the dead of the night. Couldn't he afford to give a dollar now and then, or five dollars if he chose, every extra lift there was to be made? Of course he could; but as for any charity he had, bah! a wolf has more. He knows very well that he couldn't follow the business he does and keep up his respectability a day, if he didn't belong to the church, and pay liberally into its funds. There's the source of all his charity and benevolence. He is benevolent just so far as he gets well-paid for it, and no further. When it came to his dealings with a poor fellow like me, he would cheat me out of every penny that he could; I wouldn't have cared for myself so much, for I'm a man, and can stand hard rubs, but when I saw Sarah wanting for things that I couldn't possibly get for her, and knew that he was getting twice as much out of me as he paid me for, it uses to go hard. Such things will make a fellow swear, and if he don't do worse things he is lucky. I've been tempted to steal many a time, but, thank God, I never did."
               "I have seen some of these things myself," said Joseph, "and can understand very well how you feel. How did it happen that you never fell into drinking habits?"
               "Well, there were two or three reasons; one was I knew I should lose my place if I got to be a drunken coot, and that I couldn't afford, neither for my own sake nor for Sarah's. People may say what they like about women—and I've heard bad things enough said—but I've a notion this world wouldn't be much without 'em. I never had much to do with 'em, any way, for while I was around tendin' bar, I never felt as if I was good enough to go amongst good women, and the other sort never was good enough to go with me; but my poor sister has been more to me than a dozen brothers would have been to keep me from doin' wrong; and then, besides, a fellow does get dreadful sick of rum that is right amongst it all the time. I know that was the way with me, any how. I tell you what it is, Stapleton, if Jake Cross had been the man he pretended to be—a real Christian, trying to be good himself, and make everybody else good—he couldn't a' had a better subject than I was, the best part of the time I was in his bar-room. If ever a feller did get sick of walkin' in the dark, and did feel willing to get out of that into something better, it was me. But I didn't know where to go. Such kind o' religion as he had, that made him drive me and everybody else around him to destruction as fast as possible, for the sake of making a few dollars out of us, to keep him in idleness, I didn't want. I'd seen too much o' that already. He made as many professions, and went to church as often, and prayed as often—that is, in public—as any of the rest of 'em, and how did I know that they wan't all alike? I did think there was some good somewhere, because I felt a hankerin' after it in me; but whether to find it in this world or to wait till I got to the next, I didn't know."
               "Well, I hope your are convinced by this time that all church-member are not like Mr. Cross, and that there is substantial good to be found in the doctrines of Christianity."
               "Well, yes; I do see some things plainer than I did. I know that church-members ain't all bad, any more than they are all good; and I believe there is something in the right kind of religion that makes a man better and happier; but, as I said, my mind ain't altogether clear on some points yet. It takes longer to convince a feller that has lived by his wits all his days, and ain't used to believin' things except on pretty plain proof, than it does them that has been brought up to it from the cradle, and kind o' growed into it. I like Uncle Timothy, as you call him; I think he's one of the right sort; and I'm willing to listen to him, and, if he can convince me, I'm willing to be convinced. I must say he has done more toward it than anybody else ever did; and, to my mind, them pleasant, Christian-like smiles of his'n is about the most convincin' arguments he uses. It does me good to see him smile; it seems as if the love that was in him just ris' right up to the top and flowed over. He is a good man, Uncle Timothy is."
               "That is very true," said Joseph, "and the life of one such Christian as he, is of more real value in the world than the lives of thousands who make themselves famous, and win the admiration of men."
               They had reached the vestry room. Entering, they found Uncle Timothy sitting in his accustomed chair, while a half-a-score of interested pupils gathered around him, listening to the details of an affecting narrative which had reached his ears in the course of the week. As the two young men approached him, he paused to receive their respectful greetings, and to inquire after those at home.
               "It seems to me," said Joseph, "that you are not looking as well as usual recently, Uncle Timothy. I hope your health is not really suffering?"
               "The winter has been rather hard for me," was the mild reply, "but I hope as the warm weather approaches to find myself improving."
               Still Joseph noticed sadly that there was a mournful tone in his voice as he spoke, and, for the first time, he felt that Uncle Timothy was growing old, and that in a few years, at the furthest, his active labors must cease.
               The time for the commencement of the lesson had now arrived, and the class was called to order. It was not such a class as the one to which the reader was went to be introduced in bygone years. As we have before stated, most of the young men who then gave it character and interest had been, by the changes which come the years, removed from its ranks. The ladies had increased to a decided majority, and might now almost have expelled the gentlemen, had they been so inclined; but it is in no wise probable that such a thought ever entered their amiable hearts. Still, as before, however, there were active minds to be trained for the service of the Master; warm young hearts to be impressed with the excellence of Truth, and the profitableness unto all things, both in the life which now is, and that which is to come, of seeking first the kingdom of God and Hid righteousness.
               Uncle Timothy felt, therefore, as he looked around upon the circle of attentive and happy faces, which weekly gathered around him, that his work was not yet done, and that so long as health and strength were spared him, so long it should be earnest endeavor to expend them faithfully in this precious field, in which he felt that God in his providence had so plainly called him to labor.
            
            
               XXII. THE DISCLOSURE.
               EARLEY in the autumn succeeding the spring of which we have been writing, an event occurred, as gratifying as it was unexpected; and which marks an era in the history of the Stapleton family. At the opening of the will of a recently deceased relative of Mrs. Stapleton, and from whom she had long been estranged, it was found that he had left her a legacy, which, though comparatively small, would still yield her a sufficient income for her own support.
               The joy which the reception of this intelligence produced at the cottage, was of course very great.
               "Why, mother," said Joseph, as he finished reading the letter, and listened to her exclamations of delight, "I am quite astonished; I never thought you ambitious of riches before."
               "Nor am I," was the reply. "But it has been such a trial to me, to feel myself a burden upon you; to know that you were giving the best years of your life to my service, and depriving yourself of so many joys and comforts! You have been a good son to me, Joseph, and God will reward you for it."
               
               "It has been a great comfort to me to be able to take care of you, mother," said Joseph thoughtfully, as he looked up into her glistening eyes. "I have owed it all to you, and more, not only for your care of me in my years of helplessness and dependence, but for the trouble I have been to you in later times. Oh mother! I have shortened your years by my follies; there is no service I can render you, which will repay you for that."
               "Do not speak of it, my son; it is all forgiven and forgotten. The comfort of these past years has amply repaid it all, and now we shall be so happy—shall we not?"
               Joseph assented, but it was with only half his usual cheerfulness.
               His mother, too full of gratitude and joy to notice his mood, continued:
               "It will be such good news to Mary, too! She is a perfect treasure of a girl, and I shall be impatient now, until you give me the right to call her my daughter. We will hire a larger house—may be we shall be able to buy one, who knows?—and you shall bring her home, and we will all live together. A woman who once told my fortune when I was a girl, said that my last days would be my best ones, and I do believe it is coming to pass."
               "You have seen a great deal of trouble; and God grant you may live long to enjoy your good fortune; but remember, mother, nothing ever happens as we expect it, in this world.
               "What does make you so gloomy this evening, Joseph—you who are wont to be so much more cheerful than I, and to chide me for my sadness—I cannot understand it?"
               "I have been a little sad for some time past, but I am not going to trouble you with my sadness to-night. So call the children in and tell them the good news, and be as happy as you can without me, for I am going out."
               "To see Mary of course; well you know that my best wishes go with you. You will come back more cheery, and I hope to-morrow you will be able to tell me the wedding-day."
               Joseph made no reply, but kissed his mother affectionately and left the house.
               Avoiding the little path which led across the fields to Farmer Maxwell's, he kept on up the turn-pike, toward the village, and two minutes' walk brought him to William Temple's front door.
               "Is Uncle Timothy in?" he inquired of the little serving-girl, who answered his summons."
               "Yes sir, will you please to walk in?" and she led the into the back parlor, to which the reader was long ago introduced.
               It was twilight, and Lizzie sat at the window, watching for William's return, and indulging her own wayward thoughts, while Uncle Timothy, in his great chair by the fire-place, upon the hearth of which a bright wood fire was burning, was fondling his first grandchild, a babe of six months.
               "Good evening, Mr. Stapleton," said Lizzie, coming forward with her accustomed warmth and kindness of manner, to meet Joseph. Pleasant inquiries followed, respecting those at home; and Uncle Timothy's pet came in for a share of the greetings.
               "He is a fine child," said Uncle Timothy, gaily; "he knows his grandfather already, and has these three months, and what is more, he will not be content to go to bed till he has had one fine frolic with the old gentleman. He knows who pets him most right well."
               "I don't know," said Lizzie, laughing, "which can claim that distinction, you or his father, I am sure no child was ever so spoiled before."
               "Not spoiled, Lizzie; petting seldom spoils children; where one child is injured through abundance of love, ten are ruined by harshness and ill-timed restraint. Give them all the love their young hearts crave, and with it wise and affectionate counsels, and they will be far more sure to come out right in the end, than if their self-respect is lowered, and their affections soured by cold treatment and iron discipline at home."
               "That is very true," said Joseph; "there is nothing which attracts and subdues the hearts like kindness; a mother's tender love, and the true hearted affection of brothers and sisters are about the strongest earthly cords which can bind a man's heart to purity and virtue."
               "So, Lizzie," said Uncle Timothy, smiling "never be afraid of petting your children too much. Instruct them thoroughly in that truest of wisdom which teaches them to govern their own impulses, and wrong desires, and then love them without stint. There will be far less danger, than in attempting to do all the governing yourself, and making your indulgence depend upon their obedience."
               "But surely," said Joseph, "children should be governed while they are young and unable to govern themselves."
               "Certainly, just as they should be fed, until they are able to feed themselves; but I believe parents often err in holding themselves responsible for a child's actions, long after he might properly be himself held responsible for them; that is they frequently imaging it their duty to compel him to do right, when the wiser way would be to show him the right, and then if he neglects to heed the counsels, to allow him to learn the lesson by experience. Neither should there be any withdrawal of affection if he errs; but a simple and kindly exposition of his error and an affectionate exhortation to avoid it in future."
               "That would be a very easy way of getting along, I should think."
               "On the contrary, it is difficulty; and therein lies one reason I believe, why so few parents adopt it. To scold a child, or punish him for a fault, is far easier than calmly to reason with him, and patiently to wait until he shall be taught by experiences, the error of his ways."
               "Well," said Joseph, smiling. "I never thought much about these things, but since you speak of it, I can testify, that every punishment which was ever inflicted upon me, made me dislike the right, and every forgiveness drew me with strong cords toward it."
               "Your confession amount to a great deal; in fact it covers the whole ground, and there are few men who could not give similar testimony to the power of love, in subduing the heart."
               The entrance of William put an end to the discussion, and very shortly afterward, the baby being placed in the care of Rhoda, Mr. and Mrs. Temple prepared themselves to spend the evening away from home, in accordance with a previous engagement.
               "Joseph," said Uncle Timothy, soon after they left, "it seems to me you are under a cloud this evening. May I know what it is that trouble you?"
               "I came in purposely to have a confidential conversation with you;" was the reply, "but first I must show you something which I received this afternoon," and he handed the letter containing the intelligence of his mother's good fortune, to his friend for perusal.
               "Well," said the old gentleman, as he finished reading it, "I don't see anything here to occasion your gloomy looks. I rather think I ought to congratulate you. I certainly rejoice exceedingly in your mother's good fortune."
               "Thank you," said Joseph; "I too rejoice; but the easing of one burden from my mind, has only brought another in the place of it."
               "Indeed! how is that?"
               "Because it places me in position to decide at once upon a question which has long been agitating my mind; I am not satisfied, sir, that I am in the path of duty."
               "Why not? It has obviously been your duty to labor for the maintenance of your mother and her family. This you have done faithfully, and I do not see that you have anything to regret."
               "Yes sir; but that obligation is now removed; and there is something else that I have thought about. I know I am not prepared for it now; it would be some years, perhaps, before I could prudently undertake it, but do you not think, sir, that I might in time fit myself to be a missionary to foreign lands?"
               "A missionary, Joseph," repeated Uncle Timothy, astonished. "What put that into your head?"
               "I do not know, sir," was the modest reply. "I hope it was no evil motive which suggested it. I have thought about it more or less ever since I knew that James and Charley intended to devote themselves to the ministry. It seems to me that I am under so many obligations to Christianity, and its precious influences, that I am called upon in an especial way to devote myself to its promulgation."
               "Have you spoken about this to any one else?"
               
               "No; I did not think it right to trouble either my mother; or—or Mary, with it, until I had spoken to you, and found out whether you thought me justified in pursuing such a plan."
               "It is a case, my dear boy, in which I should hardly hazard advice without some forethought. Tell me freely what your own thoughts and hopes and fears are, and I shall be better able to judge in the matter."
               "My fears are most easily told, and I presume most easily comprehended. Save a disposition to do all I can for the cause of the truth, by devoting time, talent and energies to its service, I fear my qualifications for the work are few and small."
               "A firm will, and an earnest purpose are certainly requisite for the work, and go far in themselves toward fitting a man for it. I think, too there is an elasticity, and a coming strength in your character—for it is scarcely matured yet—which will serve you well in such an undertaking."
               My attainments are not now what they should be, but I think I could do much in three years toward remedying that."
               "Doubtless you could; for you have a quick mind, and if your heart were in the work; as it doubtless would be, would progress fast."
               "One thing more, sir, troubles me very much; and that is my past history; knowing it as you do, and you cannot know all that I know, do you think it would be safe or prudent for me to place myself in circumstances of so much responsibility?"
               "That is a question to which it is not easy to give a direct answer. Doubtless you should undergo a trial first; but if during the three years of preparation which you have assigned to yourself, no untoward events occur, and if at the end of that time you feel yourself capable, with the blessing of God, of continuing in a course of rectitude and virtue, then I do not know why it should be an insuperable objection. Men who have fallen lower than ever you fell, have attained to eminent virtue and usefulness, and so long as there is an Omnipotent God, the fountain of whose grace is open to all, no man should despair either of his own salvation, or the power of being instrumental in the saving of others. 'Let the dead past bury its dead,' is a motto fraught with wisdom to all, and especially to those whose past errors hinder their present desires for usefulness. I think you said you had not taken Mary's advice in the matter?"
               "Not as yet; I intend to see her soon—this evening if I have time—and open the matter to her."
               "It is certainly one upon which she has a right to be consulted."
               "I know her mind pretty well, and I think she will approve my desires."
               Uncle Timothy was thoughtful for a moment.
               "After all," he resumed, "these things are but the preliminaries—the non-essentials, as one may say. The one great requisite remains yet to be considered. Do you feel yourself called and chosen of God for this peculiar work, and can you, after deliberately counting the cost, give yourself up to it entirely and unreservedly? It is a great thing to do, Joseph, and we may well hesitate and consider deeply and thoroughly our own heart, and the secret springs of its action, before committing ourselves unto it."
               "I have thought of it much and prayerfully; and although I feel that I have no right to speak with any confidence of my own powers or capacities, yet I do feel especially convinced, that to those who trust the promise and the providences of God, and venture boldly upon them, trusting all to his care, he will prove a faithful and a covenant-keeping Jehovah. Thus far, strong as my desires have been, the way has been shut up before me; but it does seem to me, that this provision for my mother, wonderful and unexpected as it is, has been sent in answer to prayer. Perhaps it is presumptuous, but I can but so regard it, and it is that which has brought me here to-night. 'This is the way, walk ye in it,' was the message which came to me, as I read the latter; it has ever since been sounding in my ears, and, in coming to see you, I have taken the first step."
               "You have done well," was Uncle Timothy's reply; "but I think you should take other advice in the matter, before going further. Your mother has a right to be at once informed, and I should advise you to see Mr. Hastings."
               "I have thought of speaking to him," said Joseph, "but I do not wish to make the matter public at present. There are so many in the community who, I have good reason to believe, are prejudiced against me, that I should desire to have as little said about these things at present as may be."
               "That is discreet; but I think you would gain much by making a confidant of him; and I think I can assure you of his prudence. For myself, I desire to consider the subject, and make it a matter of prayerful attention, before giving you any further counsel; and I advise you not to relax your endeavors, at the throne of grace, to learn, if possible, the whole will of God in the matter, and be sure that you act from no rash or selfish motive."
               For another half-hour, the two continued in earnest conversation; and then, bidding his kind friend good-night, Joseph took his leave, and, as it was not yet late, bent his steps toward Mr. Maxwell's house, intent upon laying the cherished project of his heart before his beloved Mary.
               To her, as to Uncle Timothy, the idea proved a startling one; and it was long before she could think calmly of leaving home and friends and everything which the habits of her lifetime had made dear to her, for a dwelling in a foreign land, amid trials, perils, and vicissitudes. It was long, too, before she could overcome her shrinkings from the labors and responsibilities which such a life would entail upon her. But strength came to her at last, and in the fullness of a woman's love and trust, and in Christian confidence and hope, she answered:
               "Where thou goest, I will go, and where thou lodgest, I will lodge; thy people shall be my people and thy God, my God."
               To Mrs. Stapleton, the trial was greater perhaps then to any other. Continued afflictions had broken her naturally cheerful spirit; her physical health, too, had suffered greatly, and it seemed for a time as if she would sink under this unexpected sorrow. Kind friends were near, however, to strengthen and cheer her; and the consolations of religion were also hers, so that in time she was able, in a measure, to lose the sense of her own bereavement in the stronger emotion of love for her divine Master and his cause, and gratitude that a child of hers had been chosen to the great work of spreading abroad the glory of His name.
               And so, in the course of the winter, Joseph and Mary came to be looked upon by the small circle of their intimate friends as devoted to a holy cause. Quietly, but diligently, their preparations were going forward. The new idea gave tone to all their thoughts, and impress to all their plans. It purified their affections, and hallowed all their intercourse with each other and the world; and daily the prayer arose from the heart of each, that they might be purified from all earthward affections and desires, and more and more sanctified to the pure service to which they felt themselves called.
            
            
               XXIII. A WEDDING IN HIGH LIFE.
               ABOUT New Year's, the gossips of Meadow Brook were thrown into a good deal of excitement by the announcement of a marriage engagement between Cora Wentworth, Eleanor's younger sister, and Levins Horton. At first, there were many who discredited the rumor. The Hon. Alfred Wentworth was too proud, they said—of far too aristocratic blood—to give his daughter's hand in marriage to the son of a bricklayer; the conduct of the two families, however, and especially of the young people themselves, was strangely confirmatory of the report. Visits and attentions of all sorts were exchanged between the elders; and Levins and Cora walked, and rode, and sang, and danced together, until people could no longer disbelieve. Finally, it came out that Mr. Wentworth had met with severe losses, which had placed his affairs in some embarrassment, and very much reduced in bulk the expected portions of his daughters. Pride and poverty, it is well known, do not harmonize; the Hortons were rich, if they were vulgar; hence the propriety of an alliance, which should secure to one party wealth, and to the other the prestige of an old and proud name.
               Eleanor's opinion of all these things may be gathered from her reply to a remark of Kate's, as the two sat sewing one day in the latter's room.
               "Cora seems well enough pleased with her affiancé; what do you think of him, Ellie?"
               "I don't know but the match is fitting enough upon the whole. Cora's appreciation of Wealth, and her fondness for display, are her ruling passions; so, at present, she is happy enough. Papa and mamma, though they are far from being satisfied, affect to be so; though papa, I know, finds the sweet morsel excessively hard to digest; the idea of a bricklayer's heir claiming a sonship in his family, is not altogether agreeable; but he sees no alternative. As for myself, his being the son of a mason is no especial objection; but his being the son of a coarse, vulgar, unfeeling man—a man so nearly destitute of all moral sense and pure principle, and especially his being so eminently worthy of his parentage, is a very serious one. But, then, I can neither help nor hinder; so I shut my eyes, and float on with the current."
               "Cora is, as you say, happy enough now; but will it last, do you think?"
               "Of Course it will not. What lasting happiness can there be for a mind regulated upon the principles which rule her life? Good-natured she can be if she chooses; smart and industrious she certainly is; and a good calculator, particularly where money is concerned. She will have her good points as a wife and a mother, and will make, I doubt not, an excellent housekeeper; but she is selfish; preëminently so; and Levins, though possessing by turns an easy good-nature, which will sometimes yield because to yield is easier than to strive, is, in reality, no less exacting and imperious than she. The most I can hope is, that the experiences which the next few years must inevitably bring to her, will open her eyes to the folly of living as she now lives, and put her in possession of some different standard of morals from the one which now forms the groundwork of her creed."
               "Well," said Kate, "I'm glad duty don't compel me to get married. I'm sure my poor brain isn't half equal to the task of selecting, from the drove of marketable male bipeds, the one which I can make most profitable as my own peculiar property,"
               "Never let your brain have the chief word in the matter, Kate; it is these brain marriages that are the curse to the world. You may marry heads, or purses, or estates, or names, and, if the hearts are not united, it is no true union in the sight of God; and no true happiness, such as he made consequent upon the institution which he ordained, will flow therefrom; but, on the contrary, as the greatest blessings perverted become the most effectual curses, so an unholy marriage is the parent of the worst of misery."
               "Eleanor, you always frighten me when you get into this grave strain. Under this view of things what is to become of Cora?"
               "Why, she must reap the harvest from the seed she sows, to be sure. The trouble is, with such people, they can never be properly mated. Any person who marries simply to make herself happier without reference to the well-being of her husband, cannot attain her end; but, on the contrary, will most effectually frustrate it; for true marriage is founded upon a principle which is diametrically opposed to selfishness."
               "Well, well, Nellie, you are getting beyond my depth. As I said, I am thankful I don't feel called upon to bother my brains in any way about such nonsense. I have a dear, good papa to take care of; and its quite enough for me to do to mind all his whims, and keep him straight. Can't think of burdening myself with another man, just yet."
               But somehow Kate's contentment with her own lot didn't have the effect to make her more than usually cheerful; for she relapsed into silence, and, for the next five minutes, the click of the needle and thimble, and the snapping of thread, were all the sounds to be heard.
               A day of the early spring was fixed upon for the wedding. Kate and Eleanor were to assist as bridesmaids—so constantly are we called upon in this world to smile approvingly upon things, to laud them with our tongues, and even to clap our hands in seemingly half-envious delight, when all the while the heart secretly revolts therefrom, and protests with vital earnestness against the hollow, but, perchance, solemn mockery. It was to be a grand affair, and Eleanor, as she looked over the costly materials which had been ordered from town—the silks, and laces, and embroideries—and as, day after day, she bent over her needle, assisting in their making up, felt sometimes the worthlessness and vanity of it—the worse than worthlessness, since it was a wasting of money, and time, and strength, upon things which could not possible conduce to real, solid happiness. Yet there was a fascination about those gay baubles; the smooth lustrous silks, their soft and delicate tints blended and harmonized with the nicest art; and over all the veil of an ethereal shining thrown, till their light seemed self-created; the gossamer laces, of marvellous workmanship, and exquisite in their beauty as the most delicate tracery of frost-work; embroideries, rich with finely-wrought leaves, and flowers so perfect that the fancy could almost supply the wanting bloom and perfume; the eye lingered delightedly upon them; took pleasure in their fair proportions, bright coloring, or beautiful workmanship, and paid homage to the art which had wrought so much of the spirit of beauty into material form. And, surely, such feelings are in themselves no sin; they are akin to that which draws our souls out in admiration toward the majestic hills, the living, leaping waters, the on-rolling clouds, or the solemn stars; but who ever coveted a cloud, or a star, or a water-fall? who ever desired selfishly to appropriate to himself, and his own uses, any one of God's free gifts to all? Whoever has, has transcended the perfect law, much as he does who covers, for his own selfish aggrandizement, those elegant, those elegant, and tasteful, and costly things, which the art of the artisan has spread broadcast over the world.
               It was not always that Eleanor felt this distinction. Surrounded continually by an atmosphere of worldliness, and receiving all her impressions through this medium, it is not strange that the tone of her mind often fell below the scriptural standard; her affections, instead of seeking always heavenly things, wandered sometimes earthward. The exercises of the Bible-class lost their interest, and she frequently found excuses for absenting herself from its meetings; the flames of the secret altar burned less brightly, and the hours of public worship were often invaded by thoughts of a worldly and unsanctified nature. The lapse into this state of indifference in regard to spiritual things was so gradual, that at first she was almost entirely unconscious of it. One manifestation however it soon assumed, which she could not ignore.
               Charlie's letters, breathing always a spirit of fervent and self-sacrificing devotion, and hitherto her chief comfort beyond her Bible, in her isolated heart-life, were no longer received with the same joyful emotions—no longer treasured with the same tender, half-reverent care. To be sure he had as yet, said nothing to her directly of love; but in her heart she knew that he waited only until time should place him in a position honorably to claim her hand; and she felt, too, that she had given him sufficient encouragement to warrant him in strong hopes of success in his suit. In all this, she had hitherto found unspeakable pleasure. Her daily and nightly dreams had been of a quiet rural parsonage, shaded by tall trees, and made beautiful by every change of season; by roses and climbing vines in summer, and by its sheltered comfort, and indwelling peace in the winter, and at all seasons enshrining parity and contentment. But a dimness gathered now over the fair landscape which hung thus among Fancy's rarest limnings. Blight settled on its springing leaves and buds; its summer flowers drooped beneath an ungenial sun; its orchards bore only leanness and decay, and coldness and desolation cast their gloomy shadow over all. Other scenes, in brighter colors, flashing with intenser lights, and striking the eye with the attractive groupings started out upon Imagination's magic canvas. Her eye was dazzled and bewildered, her sense charmed; but amid all their witching allurements, her heart, with still and small, but earnest voice protested against them and declared itself unsatisfied thereby.
               Dreams are after all but a small part of the actual life; they flash their bright wings athwart the gloom with which the Real oftentimes overclouds clouds the heart—and are gone; others come and they too depart, and so each changing heart-season brings in its turn a new flight of these celestial singing-birds. Their ministrations impart to the soul present joy, but they themselves are evanescent as the morning dew or summer cloud. Nor is it too much to say, that they sometimes bestow upon the soul lasting strength and happiness. What heart has not caught a glow from the changing glories of a sunset cloud which, even as he gazed upon it, faded away—that came back in some after-hour of gloom, reviving Hope, warming Fancy, cheering the whole soul with the soft radiance of Faith, and the bright certainty of celestial Promise.
               Yet, after all, they belong chiefly among the adornings of life; colors woven in to give beauty, rather than tissues wrought in to give strength; they are illuminated indices to the text of the heart-life, showing where its brightest hopes lie, where its shuddering fears are concealed; shadowing, with their shifting hues, every phase of emotion which drifts over the soul.
               But as we began to say, somewhere anterior to this long digression, Eleanor's dreams were only by play now; the busy scenes of the Actual occupied most of her time and energies. Sober, earnest meditation, serious thought, she had little opportunity for; so she went drifting on like a bark amid rapids, whose crew are busied with strange infatuation, trimming her sails while the tiller is unthought of. Gradually, the sadness which had at first inevitably linked itself with the occasion—for spite of the cold, half sarcastic way in which she had spoken to Kate, there was at her heart, a great deal of sisterly affection for Cora, though sympathy and congeniality were out of the question—gave way to more worldly and ambitious feelings; and when at last the long anticipated evening arrived, when Lust of gold, and Lust of respectability, met, clasped their cold finger, and with solemn mockery of priestly service, and with the name of the Invisible upon their lips, vowed to each other vows of purity and love, while in the souls of neither could the shadow of such substance be found wherewith to pay the vow; on that night Eleanor shone preëminent for grace and beauty, sparkled to the admiration of all observers, with wit and gaiety and brilliant repartee.
               There were manly eyes, too, which lingered observantly upon her charms; and manly voices that whispered, in low insinuating tones, words of flattery in her ear; as she walked among the brilliant crowd who filled the large and well-lighted drawing-room, she felt that all the triumphs of a belle, all the exciting pleasures of a coquette, lay still within the reach of her effort. She thought of Charlie, his humble home and parentage, the life of lowliness and poverty which very probably awaited him; but the idea was too distasteful to be cherished, and she banished it as untimely, and gave herself up to the whirl of excitement and gaiety.
               
               "Eleanor really is growing like herself again," said Mrs. Wentworth, delightedly, to her husband, as they met for a moment during the evening, and stood contemplating her animated countenance and attractive manner. "I was sure it was only the quiet life she has led which has made her grow so dull and mopish. We must manage to take her more into society."
               "I too am pleased with her appearance this evening," was the reply. "Young Mason is very attentive to her, I see, and he must be encouraged. I hear his aunt, Mrs. Pelham, intends to make him her heir, and in that case he will be no bad match for Eleanor. It is time she was settled in life."
               "Trust me to manage that," said Mrs. Wentworth, approvingly, and with a significant smile upon her lips she moved away to attend to her duties as hostess.
            
            
               XXIV. A PLEASURE RIDE.
               THE wedding tour was a short one; and the return of the young couple was signalized by a succession of large parties; given not by only the elite of Meadow Brook, but by families of distinction for miles around; for Mr. Wentworth was a lawyer of eminence and note, and the sanction which he had set upon his daughter's marriage, and the splendor with which he had celebrated it, not only induced others to look more favorably upon the young couple then they might otherwise have done, but stirred a tide of emulation which could only find due expression in similar displays of magnificence and hospitality.
               All these gatherings, as the sister of the bride, and first bridesmaid, Eleanor must necessarily attend. And at all of them she met Frank Mason; who, by Mr. Horton's invitation, had been groomsman at the wedding. He was a man just suited to shine upon such occasions; of medium size, possessing what ladies and tailors would call a perfect figure, correct in its proportions, and admirably adapted to display the elegantly-fitting garments which he invariably wore; regular features, wherein in beauty was far more evident than character; a complexion that a wax doll might envy, and hands and feet as pretty as you could model in putty or clay; he was quite au fait, in a parlor; could command all the airs and graces of a French dancing master; and was withal quite as correct in habits and morals as young men usually are. Moreover, he was well-furnished with this world's goods at present; would be very wealthy, whenever a widowed aunt of years and respectability and very delicate health, should see fit to depart this life. He was exceedingly attentive to Eleanor, and what should hinder her from falling in love with, and carrying off, the gallant prize? What, truly?
               The parties were all over at last; a week had intervened since the latest—time for the excitement of two months of dissipation in a measure to subside, but hardly for the returning tide of Reaction set in.
               It was May morning, but not bright and fair as the May morning of one's fancy is. Restless, shifting clouds drifted uneasily about over the face of the heavens, letting fall occasional scanty showers of drops; a north wind blew, not violent or strong, but gustfully and with moans, uttering not a wailing or a sorrowful sound, but a discontented, repining voice—as a spirit bereft of hope, but not doomed to absolute despair, might wander about the earth, uttering ceaseless, yearning cries—complaints not of what it was, but what it was not.
               Eleanor sat in her own room, thinking;—un wonted occupation of late. Her writing-desk was open before her, and upon it lay an unanswered letter from Charlie. We said she thought; her mood could scarce be called a thoughtful one; wave after wave of restless, unsatisfied emotion swept over her mind; thoughts, hopes, feelings, desires, an undistinguishable chaos, surged to and fro in her bosom; and deeper than all, though she herself may have been unconscious of it, was the unsatisfied yearning of the soul after something which the pleasures of sense can never afford—that yearning which always will make itself felt when ever a strong, earnest nature seeks its highest good in any earthward or selfish pursuit—that yearning which is the voice of immortality, crying out for immortal food.
               Yet Eleanor was not altogether dissatisfied with the experience of the last two months; even now her fancy lingered half-pleased upon the memory of it; but a shade of deeper thoughtfulness gathered upon her brow, as she leaned back in her chair, and bent her gaze upon the letter before her, with its neat envelope, and handsome, manly superscription. She lifted it, and poised it daintily upon the end of her long, slender finger, just as she was at that moment weighing the writer in her mind. Charlie was good and manly and true; all his virtues and accomplishments she knew by heart; he was moreover, she sincerely believed, an earnest, thorough Christian; and he was pledged to the service of his Master, as a shepherd of the fold. Ah! there it was—he was poor; as a minister of the Gospel, he was likely to remain so; his life would be one of trial, of humility, of constant dependence, and she who shared it must necessarily forego all the pleasure of wealth and rank, and even many of those refinements which make life so attractive to the eyes of the uninitiated, but which are of so little real worth, balanced against true happiness. Charlie loved her, she knew, with the strong healthful love of early manhood: this very letter had announced the fact, of which her womanly intuition had long ago taken cognizance; but knowing the circumstances by which she was surrounded, and conscious of the influence they might exert over her, he had made also a very plain statement of his own affairs and the prospects which he must set before a wife. Three months ago, her answer would have been given unhesitatingly; now, she wavered. To do her justice, she doubted other things besides her capacity to bear meekly the ills of poverty. The lot of a pastor's wife is one which has its own peculiar crosses and temptations. "Charlie, as a man," was her inward confession, "approaches more nearly my ideal standard of perfection than any other whom I have ever met. Under favorable circumstances, I am certain I could be to him a true and faithful wife, in that highest sense of the term, which only is the sense in which God interprets it; nor do I doubt his perfect fidelity and devotion to me. But does such love endure through all trials, and are not the petty vexations, the constant annoyances and sacrifices which a life of poverty and dependence engenders, just the trials which most effectually put it to the test; which oftenest undermine and destroy it? Again, suppose all those doubts satisfactorily solved; does not the minister's wife need to be chosen of God, just as much as the minister? Has she not equal need of peculiar grace and faith? and does she not incur almost an equal responsibility, and one which it is vastly more difficult, satisfactorily to discharge? With my proud will, my strong ambition, may I not well hesitate?"
               It was a little strange that she did not consider that three months ago, such reasonings would have had little weight with her. A strong love, an earnest purpose to do right, an overcoming faith in the promises of God, would have been the weapons which she would have deemed sufficient to put a whole army of such doubts to flight. But the lassitude of pleasure had not then weakened her soul, nor the delusions of idle day-dreams, built up of things as frail as the airy splendors of a soap-bubble, or the glories of sun-tinged mist-wreaths, intoxicated her fancy.
               She was incapable of decision, and sitting down by the window, she strove to banish the whole subject from her mind; and as she watched the clouds, which were now breaking away and letting down gleams of the far-off blue, she wove of those cloud fragments visions of a life far different from the one whose pictured shadows had so appalled her,—different indeed from any which mortals enjoy, for riches do not purchase freedom from pain; elegance does not lap the soul in delight; not the praise of the world bring peace and contentment of mind; least of all do the combined influences of all these tend to the growth and harmonious development of the immortal nature in purity, truth and holiness, which only constitutes true happiness, either upon earth or in heaven.
               The ringing of the dinner-bell broke in upon her revery, and with a sigh and an exclamation of impatience, as she noticed the still unanswered letter, she rose, and, with a glance at the mirror, added a few hasty touches to her toilet, and proceeded to the dining-room. Dinner over, her mother requested her attendance upon some household duties, which occupied an hour or two.
               "Now, Eleanor," said Mrs. Wentworth, as they finished, "it is time for you to dress for your ride. Mr. Mason was to be here at four o'clock, and I do hope you will succeed in making a favorable impression upon Mrs. Pelham. She is very eccentric, and no doubt somewhat difficult to please; you must humor her for the present, you know, and get on the blind side of her, till you get Frank fairly caged, and then there will be no further difficulty. She can't live a great while any way, I suppose."
               Perhaps the heartlessness of this speech did not altogether escape Eleanor's notice; it might have recalled to her mind some scenes which had occurred during the incipient stages of Cora's court ship, and which had then excited her supreme disgust. At any rate it did not incline her toward the duties of the afternoon.
               At four o'clock precisely, an elegant pair of horses were reined up before the door of Mrs. Wentworth's mansion. A gentleman alighted from the hand some vehicle to which they were attached, and ringing the bell, was ushered into the drawing-room. Mrs. Wentworth met him with her blandest smile, and entertained him, during the few moments until Eleanor's appearance, with all the easy grace and polished courtesy which she had gained from long familiarity with society, and which were so admirably adapted to cover her real heartlessness and insincerity. Eleanor soon entered the drawing-room, dressed in most becoming costume, and bonneted and shawled for the drive.
               "Do be careful now, Mr. Mason," said the amiable mamma, as she watched their departure; "your horses are so spirited, that I really would not trust Eleanor with you if I were not aware of your superior skill."
               "Never fear, Mrs. Wentworth," was the reply, "they are rather gay to be sure, but they know their master well, and are as gentle as Juno's doves under my hand."
               "Well, Eleanor is provided for," soliloquized Mrs. Wentworth, as she stood for an instant watching them, as they drove down the street in elegant style. "It isn't every mother who is as fortunate as I. To be sure, Horton wasn't a gentleman, but then he is very lavish in his expenditure, and money is, after all, the essential in these days; and Mason is a splendid match; his connections are so unexceptionable. I am so thankful Eleanor isn't going to throw herself away after all, as I feared she would."
               She had closed the door and ascended to her private room, and leaning back in a comfortable rocking-chair, gave herself up to delightful visions of the future glories of her daughters.
               Eleanor, meanwhile, was not enjoying the ride as much as, under the circumstances, she thought she ought. The carriage was easy as a cradle; the horses, spirited but gentle, pranced over the smooth road, under the guidance of their accomplished driver, with motions as proud and graceful as those of a swan. A spirited horse is a noble animal; it is a very fine thing to own such a one, and a very proud and pleasurable feeling to sit at one's ease and watch the fleet, strong limbs, the arched neck, the well-set head and flashing eye, and to know that all that fire and mettle is under your firm and sure control; that the lightest touch of those slender lines makes it obedient to your will. And to hold the reins of two such animals is more than doubly pleasurable, for there is the added beauty of harmony and concert in their motions. It is a fine thing, no doubt, to own such a pair of horses, and to be able to drive them well; and it adds a charm to a man in a lady's eyes, too; but the mind is not, after all, always rightly attuned to feel all this.
               Besides the smooth road, the fine horses, and the skillful driver, the day was fine. The morning clouds had disappeared, leaving the earth hung with jewels, which the soft, mellow sunlight lighted up with a splendor that fairies never dreamed of. The misty spray of coming leaves had gathered all along the elm boughs, and upon the trailing branches of the willows, and the sturdy limbs of oaks and maples; and birds twittered and sang and cooed lovingly to each other, as they built their nests. The air was balmy with the breath of violets and cowslips, and crocuses and anemones. All the chords of nature, in short, seemed attuned to harmony; but what is even nature's harmony but discord, to a mind ill at ease?
               If now, in Mr. Mason's conversation, the key-note might be found which should reduce Eleanor's emotions to concord—should bring them into order and thread them through with harmony, as pearls are sometimes threaded on a string, why happiness might yet ensue.
               You shall have a taste of it, and judge.
               "Been quite gay times in town lately—since the wedding, that is; but now all the parties are over, I suppose we shall sink down and be as flat as ever again. Meadow Brook is a terribly stupid place, don't you think so?"
               "Somewhat dull, to be sure; but there are people enough of refinement here to make a very pleasant society, if it was rightly organized."
               "To be sure; but then, in such a place as this, there are always so many of that sort whom one never knows where to class; rich perhaps, but vulgar in their tastes; unfit, that is, to associate with people of more refined manners." Mr. Mason blushed a little and paused, for he was in truth touching upon dangerous ground. "Ahem!" he added, "are Mr. and Mrs. Horton going to the Springs this summer?"
               "I believe that is their intention."
               "You will accompany them, I presume?" inquiringly.
               "That is not at all certain."
               "You do not think of spending the season in this stupid place?"
               "It is very possible I may."
               "It is a shame for you to bury yourself so from society. Miss Eleanor; excuse me, but few ladies as well fitted to shine in gay saloons as you, would be content to hide their charms from the public, as you appear to strive to."
               "You can hardly accuse me of living a recluse life these past three months."
               "Of course such a happy event as the one which had given us all so much pleasure, could but draw you out; but you do not seem disposed to follow up your conquests."
               "How far is it to Mrs. Pelham's place?" asked Eleanor, abruptly changing the conversation, which already ennuied her.
               "About six miles."
               "I knew it was near Gray Ridge, but I have never been directly past it; Gray Ridge is a some what different place from Meadow Brook, I presume."
               "Oh! exceedingly different I think you would like it very much better. Our society is so very much more exclusive. It is an old place you know, and there are a few old families there, whose position is fully established, and they of course regulate the society. I have been quite surprised, in visiting at Meadow Brook, to notice the difference."
               "Our village has grown so very rapidly within the last ten, or indeed five years, that our society is necessarily rather in a forming state. People come there we don't know from whence, and if the gentlemen are business men, and have money, of course they must be encouraged. One sometimes makes disagreeable acquaintances in that way, but it can hardly be avoided."
               "Of course not; but that is one of the advantages of Gray Ridge as a residence. It is not a business place, and no considerations of that nature hinder our being as select and exclusive as we please."
               Again Eleanor thought of her new brother-in-law, and felt inclined to change the topic of discourse. Harmony seemed to be unattainable.
               And upon harmony of the internal with itself and with the external, our happiness does, after all, mostly depend. Circumstances are pleasing or displeasing as they agree or disagree with the tone of the mind. He who is surrounded by wealth and luxury and refinement, may be and often is far more a stranger to pleasure than he who knows hard penury, stern toil, and chilling want; for, if the latter can learn that happiness dwells not in the gratification of the bodily sense, but upon the harmonious growth and expansion of the soul, he has the whole boundless realm of nature spread before him, and, free from a thousand temptations to which the former is subject, may feast himself upon its pure joys in kingly abundance.
            
            
               XXV. MY AUNT.
               IT was nearly five o'clock when Mr. Mason's fine horses entered the avenue gate of Mrs. Pelham's splendid grounds. The mansion itself, a large villa somewhat after the Italian style, was visible a half-mile distant, through groups of fine shade-trees, and was approached by a winding, circuitous route. Mr. Mason drove very slowly over the smooth, gravelled road, stopping from time to time to direct Eleanor's attention to some fine view, or to point out some especially rare shrub or majestic tree. Halfway to the house, upon the right of the road, was a tiny lake, filled with beautiful fish, and surrounded by dark evergreens, and graceful willows. The miniature stream which served as its outlet was spanned by a rustic bridge; and just beyond it a fairy temple had been erected.
               "What a beautiful spot!" exclaimed Eleanor, with more animation than she had manifested before during the ride. "What a charming retreat from the heat and oppression of a summer's day!"
               "Tolerably pretty, I think," was the reply; "cost a great deal of money, though, for such a trifle; my late uncle expended five hundred dollars upon that dell; Fairy Dell, we call it."
               
               Alas! the charm had flown. After that speech, the whole place was as unromantic to Eleanor's eyes as five hundred-dollar bills. I don't think Mason could be made to understand how malapropos was his remark; but he very probably saw that it did not please her, for the next time he spoke, it was to call her attention to a fountain, which sent up its tiny jet in full view of the drawing-room windows—which he did in a some what different style from the one he had last employed.
               "A fountain is a remarkably pretty object; don't you think so, Miss Eleanor? The tinkling sound it produces is so very soothing."
               "Very," replied Eleanor, curtly; it certainly was very wrong of her, but she was losing control of her temper. Politeness, however, demanded a restraint of her feelings; for by this time the carriage had stopped, and Mr. Mason was offering his hand to assist her in alighting. A well-dressed waiting woman conducted her to a chamber, where she laid aside her bonnet and shawl, and afterward led the way to the reception-room, where she was formally presented to the lady of the house.
               "Aunt, allow me to introduce Miss Wentworth. My aunt, Mrs. Pelham, Eleanor."
               Eleanor bowed gracefully, and extended her hand to meet the two fingers of the dumpling shaped member which Mrs. Pelham vouchsafed to her, from her luxuriously-cushioned arm chair.
               "You must excuse my not rising," said the lady, in a languid voice. "My invalid habits are sorely vexatious to me."
               "Certainly," said Eleanor, sinking into a chair which had been placed for her, directly in front of the glowing fire, which Mrs. Pelham's "invalid habits" obliged her to inflict upon her friends, even at this late season.
               "Frank, my dear, hand a screen to Miss Wentworth; I am afraid you find a fire a little uncomfortable, but there is still so much dampness in the atmosphere, that, with my tendency to asthma and neuralgia, I am afraid to be without one. It is a dreadful thing to be an invalid."
               Eleanor assented. For some reason, she didn't find conversation very easy; but it didn't matter much, for Mrs. Pelham abundantly supplied her deficiencies.
               "Frank, my dear, move my chair a little; Martha had made the fire so warm; she knows better, but servants are so careless! Not quite so fat; now, the sun comes in my eyes; there, that will do; now push the footstool along, and Sylph, too;" and for the first time Eleanor noticed a weazen-faced little lap-dog, curled up among the cushions upon which Mrs. Pelham's feet rested; "poor little Sylph! she gets sadly neglected now-a-days; put her into my lap, Frank. How is your mother, Miss Wentworth, and the bride, Mrs. Horton? I hope they are both well."
               Eleanor had scarcely time to reply in the affirmative until the invalid resumed:
               
               "It is a great misfortune to be deprived of the pleasure of visiting one's friends. I used to have a slight acquaintance with your mother, years ago, when Mr. Pelham was alive. I dined at your house once with him, and I certainly esteemed Mrs. Wentworth very highly; although the state of my health, which was even then delicate, though I was not nearly as bed as I am now, prevented my keeping up the acquaintance. It would have given me great pleasure to have renewed it at this present time, however, and I should certainly have called on her long ago if my health had permitted; but, as I said, an invalid is necessarily debarred many pleasures. I hope you find your seat agreeable, Miss Wentworth; perhaps you would like to move a little back from the fire? Frank, move Miss Wentworth's chair."
               Eleanor had nothing to do but to listen to all this twaddle; she was sitting in a spacious and elegantly-furnished room; she was surrounded by evidences of taste and refinement, yet somehow she wasn't comfortable. All the beautiful things around her did not produce harmony within, and therefore she could neither be cheerful nor happy.
               Tea was announced at length, Martha was called in, and her aid and that of Frank were put in requisition, the invalid chair was rolled across the hall into the dining-room, cushions, lap-dog and all; and thus after much fuss and disturbance Mrs. Pelham was deposited at the head of her table. She was unequal to the fatigue of pouring tea, however ever, which was dispensed by Martha from a side table.
               The first cups had scarcely been handed around, when a sudden exclamation from Mrs. Pelham caused everybody to start in alarm.
               "Oh! Martha, how could you be so careless? You have forgotten to give me my medicine. It is so fortunate that I remembered it in time, I might have died of dyspepsia otherwise." Martha made no reply, but dropping her cups, hastened out of the room, and soon returned, bringing the nauseating draught. It was no sooner disposed of than Martha remarked quietly.
               "You have forgotten that Sylphine was to take part of it."
               "Oh! to be sure; well you must prepare some more. Would you believe it Miss Wentworth, this poor dear creature is suffering terribly from indigestion; and I have been forced to put her under Dr. Beckwith's care. She takes her medicine as regularly as I do, poor thing. We are a couple of martyrs, are we not, Sylphine?" This last was said compassionately, as she stroked the thin, dyspeptic looking little animal, and held her up to Martha, who had now returned with the medicine.
               Eleanor was somewhat surprised after the announcement of the extreme danger of Mrs. Pelham's death, from dyspepsia, to notice that she ate without stint of the warm cream biscuit and rich sweetmeats which the table afforded: not even sparing the fruit cake, which was so rich that the healthiest person might well avoid it. Sylphine too, shared with her mistress, and Eleanor's sympathies were really excited for the poor creature, when she saw that she was not allowed to refuse the dainty food, but was forced to eat after her appetite was evidently satisfied.
               "Mine is a very peculiar case of dyspepsia," said Mrs. Pelham, with the most amusing gravity. "It does not seem to arise from my food, at all; whether I eat one thing or another, makes not the least difference in the world; the doctor says it arises from a derangement of the nerves; and it seems to be better for me to take a little hearty food, as I evidently need all the strength I can get; though the dear knows, I have little or no appetite, for anything but tea; that I must have, and I need it very strong. Martha, my cup is out."
               It was her fifth.
               After tea, Frank left them for a little while, and then a new chapter of the old lady's troubles was opened.
               "It is so very disagreeable living here so much alone; for of course I can't keep Frank with me all the time. I sometimes almost wish I hadn't adopted him; he is of so little use to me; but then there must be somebody to take the property, you know; and I hadn't any nieces of my own. As for Mr. Pelham's friends, he began a poor man, you know, and his connections are all poor, and vulgar at that. He used to want to adopt one of his nieces, indeed he brought two or three of them here, but they were such great, vulgar, hoydenish things, I couldn't endure them in my sight, so I packed them off right away. They were farmers' daughters, all of them, and would you believe it, one of them told me she had never been sick a day in her life; and I do believe she had a great mind to make fun of me for being sick. Of course I never could have such a creature as that around me; my nerves are altogether too delicate to undergo such an infliction. Well, Mr. Pelham died at last, and when the will was opened it was found that he had left all his property unreservedly to me. Of course it was all as it should be, but it has given me a great deal of trouble, I assure you. His sisters thought they ought to have had something; but don't you know such people never know how to use money if they get it, so I thought it was better as it was. I made them all handsome presents, and they ought to have been contented, but some people are so grasping."
               "Well, then the trouble was to get somebody to make an heir of. As I said, I hadn't any nieces, and all my nephews except Frank were either too old or too young; and of course it wouldn't do to have the property go out of the blood. I rather think I shall insist upon Frank having his name changed, because I think it is due to the family that the money should belong to the name. It is a credit to them you know; sounds well to talk about the Pelham place, and all that; but I do wish Frank would get married, and bring a wife here. If she was the right sort of a person she would be a great comfort to me; and the dear knows my comforts are few enough. I have been terribly afflicted in my life, but I try to bear it all with Christian resignation." Here the good lady became so much moved that she put her handkerchief to her eyes, and affected to weep.
               What was Eleanor to reply; such an appeal for sympathy manifestly called for some notice, but what could she say?
               Fortunately she was soon relieved by the entrance of Frank, who proposed to accompany her in a tour about the grounds, for a more minute survey of them than she had hitherto enjoyed.
               "I am extremely sorry," said Mrs. Pelham, "that I cannot accompany you; but if you will believe me, Miss Wentworth, it is a year now since I have been able to walk as far as Fairy Dell. Frank has driven me out a few times in the carriage, but his horses are so spirited I am in continual fear of my life; he assures me of course that there is no danger, but my nerves are so dreadfully weak, that I am in a state of perpetual alarm. Dear me, I don't think there is a laborer's wife in the community who suffers so many privations as I do."
               Eleanor silently but emphatically acquiesced in this judgment.
               "My aunt is a very good natured person, naturally," said Frank, as they left the house; "though her illness makes her sometimes rather uncomfortable able to live with; but she is very liberal I assure you. One can afford to have a little patience with such old fogies, you know, when they make it pay well."
               "What heart! what independence! what manliness!" thought Eleanor; but she only replied with quiet sarcasm:
               "One would think Mrs. Pelham should be very grateful for your affectionate attendance."
               "Oh! such people are never grateful," said Frank, innocently enough. "I don't expect it, but never mind, I shall get a more substantial reward when the old lady steps off," and he looked around at Eleanor with a smile of low significance.
               "Here is a pretty view," he continued; for he knew all the fine points of the grounds, and could discourse upon them about as originally as a showman details the beauties of a diorama. "Fine place to watch the sun set. When Governor B. was here—that was while my uncle was living—he pronounced it the prettiest afternoon landscape that ever he saw. I haven't much taste for such things myself; but really, I must say, this is my favorite spot in the grounds."
               The view was really a delicious one, and Eleanor wished, since her companion confessed that he had so little taste for these things, that he would allow her at least to enjoy it in silence; but he kept up the constant chattering of a magpie.
               "Did your uncle plan the arrangement of these grounds himself?" she asked, wondering if the husband band of woman like Mrs. Pelham, could be a man of so much taste.
               "Oh dear no!" said Frank, for he was a lady's man and sometimes affected young ladyisms; "he paid an immense sum to a man from Boston to come and attend to it, though uncle was a man who had an eye for these things; but then he was too shrewd a business man to have much time to spend upon them. He was a remarkable man for business, Uncle Pelham was."
               "And he spent a life-time acquiring all this property for a man like you to spend," thought Eleanor. "Well that is much the way of the world."
               The sum was setting beyond the valley, and the river and the forest which formed the landscape upon which they were looking, and before the golden glimmer of his departing rays had faded into twilight— 
                     
                        Slowly o'er the eastern hill-tops a milder glory shone,
                        And the sunset and the moonrise were mingled into one."
                     
                  
               
               "Beautiful! beautiful!" murmured Eleanor, and she yearned painfully, almost, for a presence which should sympathize with her, in her deep enjoyment of all the hallowed influences of the hour.
               "I thought you would like it," said Frank, noticing her exclamation, "almost everybody does."
               Eleanor gathered her shawl about her, and moved slowly toward the house, Frank following, talking incessantly.
               When they entered, they found Mrs. Pelham in the midst of one of her "bad spells," of indigestion; which Eleanor thought not the least astonishing, nor was she much surprised to find Sylphine lying stupidly upon the hearth rug, and rolling up her eyes in a sad way. Martha was in attendance, and as Eleanor could be of no assistance, but was manifestly in the way, she bade Mrs. Pelham a hasty good-night, and prepared herself as speedily as possible for the homeward ride, vastly thankful that no duties or obligations bound her to a continued residence with such a woman as "my aunt."
               "She is welcome to her money; it makes her selfish, it robs her of health—for the exercise and wholesome diet of a poor man's wife would soon rid her of her dyspepsia and neuralgia and all the rest of her ailings; and it surrounds her with sycophants and flatterers; while a true friend, one who would tell her plainly the evils of the life she leads, is the very last person she would tolerate near her.
               "Well, this has been a day of varied experience thus far; I wonder how it will end."
            
            
               
               XXVI. MY NEPHEW PROPOSES.
               A BROAD, full moon was shining through the elm-boughs, dappling with light and shadow the soft greensward, as the carriage passed down the avenue.
               "A beautiful evening, isn't it, Miss Eleanor?" remarked Frank.
               She assented and them there was a pause. 
                     "'Moonlight hours are meet for love,'"
                   hummed Frank, in a just audible tone; but Eleanor, although she perfectly heard him, took no note, but sat silent as a marble statue.
               Frank was evidently uneasy; but at least, with a sudden effort, he asked:
               "Well, Miss Eleanor, what do you think of my aunt, and of her home?"
               "The place is certainly a very fine one; but Mrs. Pelham seems to enjoy very little of its comforts or beauties."
               "That is true; but by and by, when she is gone, it will have another mistress; and then I think a body might live very comfortably there; don't you?"
               To a woman of tact and sensitiveness there is nothing more thoroughly vexatious than the awkward advances of man whom she despises. Eleanor felt her lip curling with scorn as she replied, coldly.
               "That might depend very much upon circumstances."
               "Oh! of course," replied the astute Mr. Mason, with more wisdom than he was aware of; "everything depends upon circumstances in this world. But if one couldn't be happy in such a place as that, I don't know where they could."
               "If happiness were altogether dependent upon externals," thought Eleanor. "Mrs. Pelham's place is certainly very handsome," she replied, "but the care of so large a house, so many servants, and so extensive grounds must be quite a burden."
               "Yes, to be sure; but there are plenty of ladies who would be willing to undertake it."
               Mr. Mason grew very red in the face, and stammered a little, but, finally, with very commendable coolness, he managed to say:
               "Eleanor, you see the place wants a mistress, and I want a wife; and, though I can't say it very sentimentally, I don't know of any young lady I like as well as you, or whom I would so soon ask to marry me. What do you say?"
               Now, the first part of this speech was plain and straight-forward and Eleanor found not a word of fault with it; but the little query at the close of it had been uttered in a tone of disagreeable familiarity, which had piqued Eleanor's pride.
               "Mr. Mason," she replied smothering her indignation beneath a cold, impassive manner, very foreign to her real feelings, "you have been very direct in your address and plain in your speech, for which I thank you; and I hope you will allow me with equal straight-forwardness, to acknowledge the honor conferred upon me, but at the same time most unequivocally to decline it."
               "As you please, Miss Wentworth; but I must say I am somewhat surprised. Hitherto, you have received my attentions willingly enough, and it seems to me that your present conduct is very much like that of thorough coquette."
               Eleanor was silent for a moment; her conscience condemned her; she was conscious that her speech had been hasty, and it seemed that she owed the young gentleman some acknowledgment. When she spoke, it was in a more subdued tone.
               "Mr. Mason, I beg you will forgive the intemperance of my manner. I have been very greatly in fault, and the only atonement I can make is a full confession. I have not intended to act the part of coquette in encouraging your attentions; although I certainly have never given the subject the serious thought which perhaps I ought. To-day, however, it has become evident to me that our tastes can never harmonize, as they should before we enter any nearer relation; and I assure you very seriously that I am quite as doubtful of my own powers of making you happy, as the reverse. I trust you will not harbor any unkindness in the matter."
               "Certainly not; every young lady has a right to do as she pleases in such affairs, of course."
               He spurred on his horses, and the remainder of the ride passed very quickly, and almost in silence.
               Mrs. Wentworth was awaiting her daughter's return with some anxiety.
               "Well, what for a time have you had?" she exclaimed, as Eleanor entered the room, looking fatigued and out of humor.
               "Dismal enough," said Eleanor; adding more carelessly: "There is no very great pleasure to be expected, you know, from visiting an invalid like Mrs. Pelham."
               "Of course, you couldn't expect her to be very entertaining; but she was kind, wasn't she? and how did Frank appear?"
               "Much as usual."
               "The place is very fine, I suppose; I called there once when it was quite new."
               "Splendid! by far the handsomest of anything in this part of the country, I should judge."
               "Well, was Frank attentive? you could judge somewhat from his manner to-day, I presume, whether he was really in earnest."
               "He behaved very much as he always has; I don't think him very agreeable at any time."
               "Why, Eleanor, what has come over you? I thought you liked him. I hope you have not been quarrelling with him?"
               "I believe we parted friendly enough; but I am tired to-night, mamma; let me go to my room."
               "Certainly; I don't wish to hinder you, but if a young lady can't be confidential with her own mother, I don't know with whom she can."
               Eleanor vonchsafed no other reply than a kind good-night, and left the room. If she had had any desire to conceal her refusal of Mason from her mother—and in truth she would have preferred to do so, for several reasons—she knew it would be impossible, for he was sure to bruit it about the town himself, and to complain loudly of her treatment of him. Her endeavors to avoid confession this evening, therefore, arose more from aversion to the whole subject, and a desire for a quiet hour alone, than from any deeper motive.
               Once secure in the sanctuary of her own apartment, with the door locked between her and the rest of household, she gave herself up to deep and somewhat troubled meditation. For the first time, the life she had led during the last three months appeared to her in its true and actual light, disrobed of all the dazzling and illusive drapery which an excited fancy had thrown about it; and remembering all her solemn vows to renounce the world, the flesh, and the devil, she trembled as she thought how recreant she had proved to them. Opening her Bible at the fifty-first Psalm, she read and watered the page with her tears; at the close, she knelt and strove to pray. Only broken utterances came at first, but gradually she grew calmer, and words deep and earnest flowed from her lips; acknowledgement of her sin; thankfulness for convicting power; petitions for the guidance of the spirit, that her feet might henceforth be kept in the true way, and for strength that her feeble limbs might be supported.
               Rising, she felt that she breathed once more a purer atmosphere. Discordia, with her thousand clanging tongues, had fled from her soul, and all the inward voices being attuned by the sweet spirit of Celestial Love to noblest harmony, peace and joy were her portion. The soul, centred once more upon everlasting truth, could calmly gaze about her, and view all the elements of life in their true aspect and proportions. And here let me say to the young Christian: Judge always of your actions and your relations to this world during those seasons when you are conscious of the fullest and most intimate communion with the Spirit of all truth, certain that when the eye is nearest the centre it will judge most correctly of all things radiating therefrom.
               Overshadowed by the Father's love, and the Father's wisdom, Eleanor's vision was cleared of many mists, and looking through the pure medium diffused around her, objects appeared in their true relations. With trembling and self-conviction, she approached the still open writing-desk, and took up Charlie's letter, to re-peruse it. As she read, a new significance was added to each sentence; new emotions tions of joy awoke in her heart, responsive to each word of tenderness, or of devotion.
               "The pure, noble, manly soul," she murmured, as she read, "Frank Mason, with all this houses and lands, and superabundance of wealth, can offer nothing of comparable value with one throb of his warm, earnest heart. And if the man be worthier than the parasite, what comparison can there be between the strong-hearted philanthropist, the devoted Christian; and the weak, inglorious sloth, whose life is given to ease, and his highest faculties made to pander to his selfish lusts? Let the world say what it will, my choice is made."
               Yet many painful thoughts still remained to her; the right had triumphed, but the victory was not to be a bloodless one; there remained, besides her own indwelling pride and ambition to be conquered, the wishes of her parents to be opposed, and the convert scorn or open sneers of her worldly friends to be lived down.
               The pitched battle had been fought, but the long, harassing march through the enemy's country was yet to come. Still, the Fountain of strength was open to her, and she dared not fear.
               It was late before her mind was sufficiently composed to write; but she could not sleep with the burden of that unanswered letter upon her mind; so, wrapping a shawl about her, she seated herself at the desk, and commenced the reply.
               Confessions long and deep filled the first pages; the history of her trial and its results. With determined termined and relentless hand, she laid open all the secret sources of her temptations, acknowledged her weakness and liability to err, and at the same time expressed her strong desire to be kept in the path of a pure, and simple, and holy life.
               "All this I would have you know," she concluded, "because I would have you estimate me at my own proper value; there must be no covering of faults, to be revealed hereafter; you must know all my unfitness to make you happy; all my liabilities to err in the peculiar duties of a pastor's wife. This much, both my conscience and my pride demand. But if, after all you should still be unwavering in your choice; if, knowing all my faults, your heart still refuses to alter its election, then, dear Charles, I can see much good in store for us both, growing out of these late trials. The pearls we are nearly wrecked in attaining, grow more precious in our eyes, from the dangers they have cost us. Even now, I shudder as I think what would have been my fate, had my eyes remained blinded, until vision would have been only another name for despair, and my heart thrills with gratitude to God."
               Mrs. Wentworth was, doubtless, much exasperated when she heard of Eleanor's decision; she stormed somewhat. Mr. Wentworth looked very angry, expressed himself highly offended, but, as usual, did nothing. There was, after all, a sense of right in that man's which acted as a restraining power. Cora sneered and tossed her head, and carried herself more haughtily than before—though it was not long until even Cora's pride began to totter beneath the inflictions of a jealous, tyrannical, and exacting husband, and the continued annoyances of his vulgar and interfering parents—but Eleanor bore all her trials with a calm determination and Christian fortitude, which outfaced her persecutors, and in the end made them ashamed.
               As she had bravely chosen the right, bravely she bore its standard on to victory; and where others would have fallen and been trampled in the dust, she outrode the fight and won the laurel crown. Would there were more of like energy and endurance.
            
            
               XXVII. THREE YEARS AFTER.
               AND now we must ask the reader to pass over in imagination the next three years. In that time, few changes had occurred beyond those which necessarily attend the lapse of time. Maids had become wives, and wives mothers; and death had not failed to claim his tribute from the flock. Little Teddy, the widow's pet, had been taken to the sphere where sorrow and wasting sickness prey no more upon the strength; and little flaxen-harried Annie, the darling of Uncle Hugh's heart, had closed her blue eyes and lain down to sleep. But Time, the comforter, and Faith, the angel, had closed the wounds their parting had inflicted; and the hearts which, in the first deathly sickness of bereavement, had seen all things through the pall of hopelessness, and the mist of tears, had gradually been lighted by celestial rays, and drawn, by the sweet cords of parental love, into nearer communion with the skies.
               Our old friend, Ned Cunningham, now a prosperous merchant, as well as a devoted Christian, and an earnest laborer in the field of truth, had married Susie Belknap, and promised to become in time one of the most useful and valuable citizens of Meadow Brook.
               Samson and Sophie lived near them, in a pretty little cottage, which the thrift and industry of the young carpenter had reared. Tow sweet children, the boy blue-eyed and flaxen-harried, and the girl possessing the soft brunette charms which had made the mother so attractive, had sprung up in their home; and Samson, as he sat in the twilight, with Sophie upon one knee, and the tow babies nestled close upon the other, and his great, strong arms encompassing them all, was, I do believe, just the proudest, happiest man in all Meadow Brook. Tears sometimes glistened in his eyes, as he thought of the dear mother who had lain down beneath the green grass of the church-yard; but not one unfulfilled duty looked reproachfully out of the Past upon him; and he knew that to the heart long tried with the sadness of earth, death had been but the awakening to a dream of untroubled joy; the purpose of her life was fulfilled, why should he wish her back? Better far to bend all his energies to the preparation for that blissful reunion, to which it was his daily comfort to look forward.
               Long ago, Walter Converse had come back to Meadow Brook, and borne thence May Burroughs, to make a home for him in the city. They were boarding now, but, before very long, for Walter was prospering in his business, a pretty house on Brooklyn Heights would be finished, and then the young couple meant to go to house-keeping.
               During the very spring of which we write, James and Charlie finished their preparations for the ministry. They were to spend the summer at Meadow Brook, previous to their settlement in the fall, over charges; and their visit was the occasion of much rejoicing among the older members of the Bible-class. As for Uncle Timothy, the care and interest which he had always manifested in the welfare of his pupils, had been well-nigh paternal; and his pride in the two young theologians, both of them as nearly worthy of all his admiration and respect as mortals well could be, can better be imagined than described. The good old man was beginning to show deeply the marks of years. His hair was perfectly white, his eyes grew dim, and his hand sometimes faltered. But under all the mellowing influences of old age, his heart only grew the warmer, his sympathies the more genial, and wide-spread; and his intellect, if it was less acute, was more directly aided by down-shinings from the Celestial Courts; for in old age, as in youth, the strong and active energies of the mind are dormant; while pure Faith, the child-like clinging of the soul to some stronger power, draws down from Heaven such sweet, and hallowing, and directing influences, as the proud and eager combatant, in the arena of life, knows noting of.
               Now, as ever, he was the idol of his pupils, and the evidences of their affection and forethought, which he was constantly receiving, kept his heart warm, and cheered him in his passage down that declivity which is to all a thorny pathway.
               But the leading topic of discourse among the devout of the village, or borough, rather, for to that distinction had Meadow Brook arrived, was the recently expressed determination of Joseph and Mary to embark in the fall as missionaries to China. Already the Board had accepted them, and the date of their sailing was fixed in October. Some surprise was expressed; and one or two, among those who had been the most malignant of his enemies in former times, ventured a few sneering remarks, but the general sense of the community obliged them speedily to hold their peace, and confine to their own bosoms the envy and spleen of which they could not wholly rid themselves. During the past three years, Joseph had lived a most exemplary life; not one, even among his enemies—and he had few left, for most had been won over by his amiability and Christian deportment—could point to a single stain upon his character; he had certainly been the most filial of sons, the kindest of brothers—a pattern, indeed, in all his daily walk and conversation; and those who knew best the state of his religious affections, considered him admirably fitted for his chosen work. As for Mary, her virtues and graces were know to all, and not one in the community questioned her admirable adaptation to the field of missionary labor.
               That there was sorrow in the homes which their outgoing would darken, who can doubt; but that sorrow was chastened by holy joy; such as only they know who have made some great sacrifice for the cause which transcends all others in importance; as it should out-rival all others in the affections of the true Christian, the cause of worldwide evangelization. That is the appointed labor of the Christian church; it a work the responsibility of which no individual Christian can throw off. Somewhere, either at home or abroad, by word or deed or influence, must his mite be thrown into the great treasury. The field is wide; the opportunities for entering it numberless, the labor to be performed varied, and suited to every capacity. From oldest to youngest, from the most to the least capable, not one is exempted. Reader, in what way are you fulfilling your obligation to the world, the church, the Master?
               From the very first, one of the interesting features of the Bible-class had been, the strong social spirit which it had encouraged among its members, and, so to speak, its alumni. They seemed bound together by the ties of an especial affinity; the interests of one were, in a manner, felt to be the interests of all; and certain chords there were of sadness or of joy, which if thrilled in the bosom of one, the vibration extended through the whole circle.
               Never was this feeling more pleasingly manifested than upon the occasion of the first announcement of the intended departure of Joseph and Mary. A strong current of sympathy immediately ately flowed through the battery of responsive hearts. Every one manifested a desire to do something for the young missionaries. The heart-feeling would not be satisfied without some substantial expression.
               As the indications of this sentiment continued to appear, and the feeling seemed to diffuse itself through all classes without losing any of its original force, it began to be seen that only union and coöperation were necessary in order to effect very gratifying results.
               Samson, as usual, was one of the first movers of the enterprise, among the gentlemen; and Kate Buckingham's ready sympathies were soon enlisted, and she assumed a sort of directorship among the ladies. At first, there was some little discussion, as to the direction of their endeavors; but it was soon settled that the ladies should from a sewing-society, to which the gentlemen should contribute their funds, and that a box of clothing and other necessary articles should be prepared; partly for the use of the missionaries themselves, and partly for distribution among the pupils of the school over which they were to have charge. At the close of their efforts, there was to be a public festival and distribution among the pupils of the school over which they were to have charge. At the close of their efforts, there was to be a public festival and presentation, in which all were to join, and where several interesting speakers, among them James Hollis and Charles Maxwell, were expected to address the meeting.
               The society met at the houses of the various ladies composing it; and the interest in it soon became general and hearty. During the summer it increased so much in numbers that an auxiliary was formed among the younger members, whose school-duties prevented their conveniently attending the meetings of the older society. Still the tow moved on in perfect concert and harmony, and besides the ultimate good which they accomplished were each conducive to much praiseworthy industry, kindly feeling, and innocent social enjoyment.
            
            
               
               XXVIII. KATE.
               WE omitted to mention in the proper place that nearly two years since, the congregation had been somewhat surprised by the announcement of Kate Buckingham's determination to unite herself with the church. The date of her conversion, she fixed during the revival a few winters previous; and most people confessed that her conduct had undergone a marked change about that time.
               "Why did you not join the church at the time the rest of us did?" asked Eleanor, one day, as they were conversing upon the subject.
               "I can hardly tell you, Eleanor; although I did not act without motives, and what I considered weighty ones. You know that I am greatly given to acting upon impulse; whichever way my sympathies are attracted, in that direction I usually move with an impetus which too frequently gives rise to reaction. There were circumstances at that time which made me feel myself peculiarly liable to temptation; and I could not be certain that the strong desire which I felt to unite myself with the people of God, was purely a love of his service; consequently I considered it the wisest course to deny myself the gratification for a time, in order that I might test the true character of the motives which impelled me, and I have never regretted the course."
               "Doubtless," said Eleanor, "there are too many who enter the church from excitement and inconsiderate impulse; and that is one great reason of the fearful apostasy among professing Christians. There are many who have taken upon themselves the solemn vows of the church, who still live lives no way conformable thereto; who could not indeed by any standard of measurement which affects the outward character, be distinguished from the most careless and irreligious. Such are actually the most dangerous foes which the church encounters, and you did well to seek carefully to distinguish yourself from them. But why, my dear Kate, did you so sedulously guard your changed views and motives from the knowledge of your friends?"
               "That was a part of my trail, and the hardest part; but it was necessary to my own full conviction upon the subject. Besides, to have confessed the truth would have laid me open to so many solicitations and importunities; and by attracting toward me so much Christian affection and sympathy, especially from the members of our beloved class, and from Uncle Timothy, himself, that I doubted my own capacity to withstand it all. But oh Eleanor! I did so long for you and some others to know it. It would have done me so much good to have been able to talk freely to some one."
               "And you admitted no one to your confidence?"
               "No one but Charlie; I once, in obedience to an impulse which I could not restrain, imparted the secret to him. I believe he kept it faithfully."
               "He certainly never imparted it to me," replied Eleanor, in a tone the scarcely perceptible coldness of which attracted Kate's notice, as well as the slight shadow which darkened her brow as she spoke.
               "Charlie is one of the best of men, Eleanor," she replied. "Much as your parents oppose your choice, I don't think you will ever have reason to regret it."
               "Perhaps not," was the answer, still in a slightly altered tone.
               "You and I have never been very confidential, upon love affairs," said Kate, intent upon banishing the slight shadow which seemed to have fallen over Eleanor's spirits. "How happens it, that you have never inquired about my ideal lover? Of course every girl has such a one."
               "To tell the truth, Kate, it has been because I always fancied you were not inclined to give me confidence, and I am not given to soliciting such favors."
               "There is your Wentworth pride again. Why didn't I get a little stronger tincture of it, I wonder? Confess now that you inherit a little of the jealousy that goes with it; come to think of it, Charlie and I did use to be very good friends, before you came along; I wonder if you didn't spoil my market now. I have a notion to get jealous myself and call you out to 'pistols and coffee for two.' What do you say?"
               "I say you are just the most rattle-headed madcap I know. Whatever put it into your head that I could think of being jealous of you?"
               "And why not, pray? If I have a correct eye, and the mirror tells no stories, I am a good-looking old Wentworth blood in me, too; and I shall have money one of these days, besides: now why, I beg to know, wasn't a sensible young man like Charlie Maxwell just as likely to fall in love with me, as with your proud and honorable self? I knew him first, too; and he used to come home with me from Bible-class, regularly: and when I, out of pity to your forlorn condition, trotting home demurely by yourself every night, with only that hang-dog looking Jerry to carry the lantern for you, took you under my protecting wing, and generously shared my cavalier with you, you, with the usual gratitude of people in such cases, rewarded me by stealing my bean altogether. I declare the matter is more serious than I ever thought before; I will call you out, Eleanor."
               "Will you ever hold your peace, Kate! You know I haven't been really jealous of you; but I have sometimes thought, that you had some secret of that sort, for you never talk about love at all, when you are so communicative upon other subjects. But I will promise not to suspect you again, if you only will not tease me."
               "Of course I won't, pussie, if you will be reasonable. Charlie and I were playmates at school; he has been for years just like a brother to me; and the idea of you being the least particle jealous of me, is about as rational as the most of lovers' whims. As to my being uncommunicative about love affairs, pray when did I ever have anything of the sort to talk about. As for the way girls sometimes rattle on about their beaux, and the foolish rickety likings they fall into, and fall out of as soon, I always did think it silly, and always felt myself above it. When I have really anything to tell you about, any real substantial love affair, that I dare look in the face myself, without blushing;—for true reciprocal love is not a thing to blush for, Nellie—I will not fail to tell you. Till then you must be satisfied to let me be uncommunicative about love affairs."
               "Well, I have always been so free with you—I, who really am so reserved with most—that I felt as if you ought to reciprocate the favor; but as you say, I believe your life has been somewhat singularly free from such experiences. You might have had beaux enough, though, if you had encouraged them."
               "I never was a flirt," said Kate. "I have my own dear papa, still, and till I find some one who can out-rival him in my affections, I shall content myself without a lover. As for you, I congratulate you most earnestly. Spite of your trials, I know your are happy in you love; and I can most heartily and sincerely bid you God-speed. As I said before, I don't think you will ever regret your choice."
               "Cora's experience strengthen me every day in my preference. Money has not sufficed to make her happy."
               "No indeed; poor child! what a wretched life she lives!"
               "She is far enough from being happy it is true; Levins is so dissipated and Mr. and Mrs. Horton are so disagreeable to live with; even the baby, which I really think she does love, is a constant source of trouble between them."
               "I wonder if she does not sometimes repent her marriage?"
               "No, scarcely; it is the only comfort I have when I think of her, that she does not feel these things just as a person of more sensitiveness would. Her nature is hard and grasping and worldly; I wouldn't say this to one who knew us both less intimately than you, Kate; you know that I am not wanting in sisterly affection, and if I speak of Cora's faults, it is because they are equally well known to you as to myself. She is not happy, for she has not the capacity for real happiness within her, but it is a satisfaction to feel that she is not as miserable as you or I would be in her place."
               "Kate," said Eleanor, as she finished the garment ment upon which she had been sewing, and which, by the way, was for the missionary-box, "I am tired of sitting, and so, I presume, are you; will you put on your bonnet, and go with me to call on Ella Burroughs? I heard this morning that she was worse."
               "Certainly," said Kate; "I was there last evening to be sure, but she seems glad to have her friends come often. She is a good girl, Eleanor."
               "Yes, I have always loved her, ever since the day of the prayer-meeting there; that was when I was in deep anxiety, and she was the first to speak a word of comfort to me."
               "I have never known her as well as since she has been sick," said Kate, "I think I may have been a little prejudiced against her, previously; but I am getting to love her very much."
               "I believe they have called Dr. Beckwith, and he thinks she cannot possibly recover. It will be a sad loss for James."
               "Yes indeed," said Kate, thoughtfully, as she laid down her work and prepared to accompany her cousin. "By the way, Eleanor," she continued, after a moment's pause; "I noticed you had oranges for dessert to-day; I heard Mrs. Burroughs say yesterday that Ella was very fond of them and they had been trying to get some for her; but there were none at the stores. Would you mind carrying her a few?"
               "Certainly, I should be very happy to; I am glad you mentioned it; papa brought home quite a quantity from town the other day, and we can spare a few as well as not;" and going to the dinning-room closet, she filled a small basket with the fruit, and the two started upon their walk.
            
            
               
               XXIX. BLUE VIOILETS.
               IT was mild and lovely summer afternoon, and the two young ladies walked leisurely along the shaded path which led through a grove of fine maples and beeches, to the house of Mr. Burroughs. They had chosen this by-path rather than the highway, not only because it was more direct, but for its coolness and seclusion, and the love which they both had for the woods.
               "I do think," said Kate, as they sat down to rest under a broad-spreading oak, "that I was made for pioneer life. Now, do you know, nothing would suit me better than to go West, and settle in the woods, and live in a log-house. It really would be delightful."
               "In fancy perhaps," replied Eleanor, smiling. "But I am afraid some of the rather stubborn facts of life in the clearings would upset your fine notions."
               "Well, at any rate, I do love the woods; and since meadow Brook is getting so citified, I begin to think seriously about emigrating."
               "Whither, pray?"
               "I can't certainly tell, yet; that is, my ideas are not thoroughly settled. My mind runs to extremes, you know, and I don't know really which I should prefer, a wilderness of woods or a wilderness of people. One thing I do know, I should like to live either in the city or the country, and Meadow Brook is neither now, thanks to the innovations of progress and enterprise. The fact is, I am getting tired of the old place."
               "Why, Kate, I am surprised. You growing restless and discontented? you are the last person of whom I should have suspected such things. I thought your home and your father filled all your ideas so completely that you never dreamed of change."
               "Everybody has dreams, Eleanor, I as well as the rest."
               "Well, that is just what I have always charged you with, and you have denied it. What is the reason you never share your dreams with others?"
               "Listen. I am going to share with you something more substantial than dreams."
               "What, pray?" said Eleanor, wondering some what at the grave tone which Kate had assumed.
               "It seems a strange thing to me, Eleanor; I don't know how I am going to tell you of it; you will be so surprised."
               "Don't keep me in suspense, Kate, you frighten me."
               "You need not be frightened, it is nothing alarming; only—papa is going to be married."
               "Married! you amaze me. To whom, and when?"
               
               "Don't you know he has been a good deal at N——, recently?"
               "Yes, but I supposed he had business."
               "So it seems he had, of an interesting nature. At any rate there is a widow lady there, a very fine woman, I believe, and every way suitable, whom he intends to bring home some day, to be Mrs. Buckingham second."
               Strange," said Eleanor; "but I am glad it isn't a young girl."
               "Papa is very sensible," replied Kate, "he would not do a foolish thing."
               "So I have always thought," said Eleanor, "but I must confess this seems to me unlike him."
               "Why so?" said Kate, a very little pained, perhaps, even at this delicately implied censure. "I am sure, if he will be happier with a wife, I don't know any good reason why he should not have one. It seemed a little strange to me at first, I have been so long accustomed to be first and all in his affections, it seemed hard to yield the precedence to another."
               "But that you don't intend to do," said Eleanor, quickly; "you can't imagine he is going to love anybody better than you."
               Kate smiled, a little sadly, as she stooped to gather a violet, which bloomed at her feet.
               "I couldn't at first," she said. "But then when I thought of it, I knew perhaps he might, and so I concluded to reconcile myself to it. It would be so terrible to be jealous of papa's wife, you know!"
               "Well," said Eleanor, whose temper, never more easily roused than in behalf of a friend, sometimes needed a curb, "I don't see how you manage to take it so easily, I am sure I shouldn't; and I should have thought a person of your spirit, just the one to resent it."
               "Oh," said Kate, gaily, "my temper is a sort of flash-in-the-pan, any way; it never does much execution; and I am sure, papa is the last person I should think of getting angry with. Besides, I do think he has had my good in view; you know he has said a great deal lately about my being so tied up to him."
               "Well," said Eleanor, "I don't know, on the whole, but it will be a good thing for you. I expect you will begin to look about for a husband now, and I am sure you never would have thought of marrying otherwise."
               "Do you know, papa was saucy enough to say the same thing; that he found he must get a wife or I should never take a husband."
               "So he joked about it, did he?"
               "Only a little; he was quite brief in his communication. I think he regards it rather as a business transaction than anything else, though I don't doubt he respects the lady, and will be, as he always was, every way a model husband."
               "No wonder all this has set dreams stirring in your brain. Which way do they tend?"
               "Oh, they are only fancies, having no particular aim. They will probably end as most of my fancies cies do, in thin air. Come, we have been sitting here a long time; let's go forward."
               "You are strange girl," said Eleanor, as they rose. "One can never get beyond the outer limits of your confidence. That which concerns you only in an external way, as one may say, you tell freely enough; but when it comes to things concerning your own individuality, your inner self, you are as much a mystery as the temple of the Grand Lama. Now, it would gratify me vastly to know just what impression all this makes upon you, Kate; whether, in your heart, you are glad or sorry; and what sort of fancies those are, which you confess are wakened thereby; but I suppose I must be content to kneel in the outer courts, with the congregation. I wonder, though, who the High Priest will ever be, who will be permitted to enter the sanctum sanctorum."
               "Nellie, there is no denying but you have a very strong imagination. Everybody but you takes me for just what I suppose I am, a good-natured, rattle-pated, shallow-brained thing; but you, forsooth, must take presumptuous fancies into your head, which make me like yonder pond, which lies glimmering in the sunlight, all glow, and sparkle, and foam on the surface; but beneath, full of deep holes and miry places, exceedingly dangerous to the inexperienced who venture in their vicinity. Now, the sheen and the sparkle I confess to, but the depths, Nellie, are of your own creating."
               "Well," said Eleanor, shaking her head, "I see I shall be obliged, as usual, to accept the old-fashioned verdict of 'not proven;' but I am not the less suspicious of you, nevertheless. Time, I fancy, will unlock that hidden treasure-house, and we will wait patiently and see what is then brought forth."
               "A very sensible resolve," said Kate, as they knocked at Mr. Burroughs' door. "If, however, you should finally have your labor for your pains, you must not blame me."
               "Of course not," was the reply "I am willing to run the risk."
               The door was opened by Mrs. Burroughs, a mild, thoughtful-looking woman, who conducted them at once to the cool, airy room, which was the invalid's apartment. It was plainly furnished, but there was an air of neatness and refinement about it, which made it particularly pleasant and attractive. Ella, to whose disease an upright position was more favorable than a reclining one, was sitting in a large cushioned arm-chair; a loose muslin wrapper enveloped her slight figure, and the hectic of her cheek and the lustre of her eye, added new charms to the pensive beauty of her countenance. As the two young ladies entered, a smile of welcome lighted up her features, and never before, it seemed to them, had she looked so lovely.
               "It was so kind of you to come," she whispered, as she returned the warm kiss of affection. "Kate has been better than a sister of charity to me all summer."
               Eleanor presented her basket of fruit, which the invalid received with unaffected gratitude and pleasure, while Mrs. Burroughs' eyes filled with tears as she turned away to place it in the closet.
               "Her appetite is so delicate now," she said, "she can eat scarce anything but fruit; and we sometimes have difficulty in procuring it; though the neighbors are very kind."
               "Yes," said Ella, with a sweet smile; "everybody is so good to me. All my wants have been so thoughtfully supplied. The members of the dear Bible-class have been especially kind. I scarcely think there is one, old or young, who has not visited me, and brought some token of affection and interest."
               Kate was sitting on a low stool by her side, and the thin hand of the invalid was caressing the rich dark curls of her hair.
               "My offering to-day," she whispered, "is a very slight one; but as we were coming through the woods we found a few stray violets; and I knew you were so fond of flowers, I picked them, and brought them along."
               "Thank you; they are very sweet, and it was kind in you to bring them. I owe much to you Katie."
               Kate's only reply was one of the sweet, outgushing smiles peculiar to her, and which of itself was sufficient to redeem her character from the charge of levity and thoughtlessness. There are smiles which flash out upon you with a meteor-like brilliancy and depart; there are others which flit in sincerely across the face with an ignis-fatuus light, and fade away in blank unmeaning obscurity; but the smiles which ripple around the gently-parted mouth, and suffuse the softly-beaming eyes, and ebb quietly away, like the tide a moonsetting, these well up only from deep places in the heart; and the superficial cannot counterfeit them.
               "You are looking better than I feared," said Eleanor. "We heard this morning you were worse."
               "I had a very bad night," was the reply, "and I scarcely think I am really better to-day; though the fever, doubtless, lends me a deceitful glow."
               "Consumption is, I know, a most treacherous disease; but when I noticed the bloom on your cheek, and the lustre in your eye, I could but hope you were better."
               Ella smiled.
               "I shall never be better in this world," she said; "but in the land to which I go, the bloom will be perpetual, the light will never fade."
               "And can you give up the world, and all its alluring prospects so easily?" said Eleanor, for her nature was so strong, her grasp upon life so firm and determined, that she could scarcely comprehend the meek submission, the perfect resignation, which appeared in Ella. To Kate, light and airy as she was, it was far less a mystery.
               "There have been some ties which it was hard to server," was the reply; "some links whose breaking was attended with much pain. But I trust the worst is over now. Heaven seems so near; its glories are sometimes so present to me, that earth by contrast, looks very dark and drear."
               "If you can listen to me without too much fatigue," said Eleanor, "there are some questions which I very much wish to ask you."
               "I can talk a little while very well," was the reply; "and it would give me much pleasure to converse with you. I cannot last very long, and I do not know how I can better use the little strength which remains to me than for the gratification of my friends."
               "To die young has always seemed to me so terrible a fate, especially to one like you, whose prospects for future activity and usefulness are so flattering, that it is difficult to comprehend by what exercise of mind become so thoroughly reconciled to it as you appear to be."
               "Simply, my dear Eleanor, by the exercise of faith. It is hard to die in youth. It is a fate which crosses the whole bent of one's nature; the faculties are all active and vigorous; the mind feels no symptoms of decay, and would fain continue here to work out its mission of life. I do not know how it is with others, but to me heaven seems always like a rest, to be attained after labor, or rather a condition of happiness growing out of the harmonious exercise of the highest faculties; earth seems a preparatory school; life, a course of discipline to fit us for the heavenly sphere; and so it seems to me that an early death is a misfortune. But in my own case I cannot regard myself as in any way responsible for this premature decay. The disease is hereditary, nor has it been developed by any carelessness of mine. Hence I can regard it as only a dispensation of my Father's will. Coming from his hand, I receive it as a blessing; confiding in the omniscience of his inscrutable purpose, for that explanation which I shall never read, perhaps, save by the light of Eternity. Yet his love is boundless; how can I, therefore, waver in my faith?"
               "All this it is common to hear people say; but, dear Ella, forgive my seeming skepticism if I ask do you really feel it, and at all times? Are there not seasons when faith gives way, and the heart sinks beneath the heavy clouds of doubt and fear, which Eternity rolls back upon it? My faith is weak, I know; sometimes, I fear it falls far below the requirements of the Word; it does not seem to me that it could withstand such a trial as you are now undergoing."
               Faith comes by grace, Eleanor; and One has said, 'My grace is sufficient for you.' The arm of the Lord is strong, and the weaker one grows, with the more perfect trust may one rely upon it. For myself, it was long until I perfectly learned the lesson. There were many times when I grew despondent—almost despairing; but I never felt myself plunging in the depths, but straightway I felt, also, a strong arm placed beneath me, and I was lifted out, and my feet set again upon the rock. Gradually I learned that the Helper was ever present sent; that a Presence, divinely spiritual, walked ever with me, and in his strength I trusted."
               "Ella, I think you must have had the religious experience of many years, crowded into these few weeks or months of your illness."
               "It may be so: I have had much time for reflection, neither has my own mind, unassisted, wrought out all the satisfying results at which I have arrived. I do think that amid the active pursuits of life, Christians as well as the unregenerate, too often forget the mission of the Holy Spirit, and by their heedlessness of his admonitions, grieve him away, and deprive themselves of the inestimable comfort of His ministrations. The apostle was earnest in his warnings to his brethren upon this very subject, 'Quench not the Spirit,' he said; and if Christians would lay the warning to heart, and daily open their minds to the enlightening and guiding influences of the Comforter, I feel convinced there would be loss of blindness and unbelief in the churches, than there now is."
               "That is a subject which has puzzled me very much," said Eleanor. "It seems to me there are very few Christians, who really believe in the mission of the 'Holy Ghost, the Comforter,' as Paul and the apostles believed in it. With the church at large, it has grown to be a sort of myth; a something that once was believed, rather than a living principle of faith which enlightens the daily walk and purifies the daily conversation. Can you assign any reason for this?"
               "I think it is, as I said before, that Christians are constantly grieving away the Spirit, by their own worldliness; their constant and eager pursuit of the pleasures of sense. Earth is too near, too dear; Heaven too far off, too little prized. Earthward influences preponderate in swaying the mind, and the Divine Teacher, finding his admonitions unheard and unheeded, withdraws from them with sorrowful reproach; waiting for a time when sickness or affliction or the bear approach of death, shall so subdue the eager, restless passions of the soul, as to give him access once more to the heart and conscience. It is in this way I believe that Christians often deprive themselves of much spiritual enlightenment: starve their souls, so to speak, while every effort is expended to gratify the sense and pander to the base ambitions of the carnal, selfish nature."
               "And what is the remedy for this evil, Ella?"
               "A truer sense of the relative values of heavenly and earthly things; a deeper consciousness of the dignity and importance of the soul, and the reality of its eternal existence; and the consequent living of such a life as shall curb the earthward propensities of the body, and promote the harmonious growth of the soul in truth and purity and holiness."
               "And how is this to be attained?"
               "By prayer, and devout meditation, assisted by the Spirit of Truth. It must be striven for, with a definite aim and purpose; and worldly ends and issues must be made subservient to it."
               
               "I fear, Ella, that this long conversation has fatigued you, but I can assure you it has done me much good. I think I see plainer than ever before, the true life of the soul; and I think I see, too, that we all err more or less in making it subservient to the life of the body—'the life which now is.' Yet it seems rational enough that the soul being the divine and imperishable part, the pleasures which pertain to it, must be, if rightly enjoyed, altogether more worthy, more satisfying, and more enduring than those which pertain to the frail and perishable body. Why do we not all realize it more, I wonder?"
               She spoke musingly, resting her head upon her hand in earnest thought.
               "I think it is, as Ella remarked," said Kate softly, for she had been an attentive listener to the conversation, "that we do not sufficiently court the indwelling of the Spirit; the inspiration which is the natural food of the soul."
               "Yes," responded Ella, "James often says, that men argue falsely, when they claim that the days of inspiration are past; for the whole mission of the Comforter, is the inbreathing of faith and knowledge, and holy desires into the soul. It is very ground work of the soul's heavenly growth; and it is that, too, Eleanor, which gives one strength to bear with meekness and resignation, nay, with holy joy, the most trying dispensations of God's providence. Heaven gets so near, that all things earthly, seem of comparatively little importance."
               Here the conversation was interrupted by the entrance of James Hollis, and soon after the young ladies took their leave. When James was left alone with Ella, he seated himself upon the low stool at the side which Kate had been occupying. She was holding in her hand the little knot of flowers which Kate had brought.
               "Violets," he said, "at this season; where did you find them?"
               "Kate brought them to me," she replied. "Kate is a dear good girl, James; I love her better than any other, I think, save May."
               "I too, admire her very much," said James pensively.
               A Violet fit of coughing followed, which for some time interrupted all conversation. Gradually it ceased, but when Ella spoke again, it was with a slight accession of sadness.
               "You see I am going very fast; I shall not be with you long, James."
               A warm pressure of the hand, and a tearful glance at her flushed countenance, was his only reply.
               "You know that my love for you is too pure to be selfish," she continued. "I would have you happy when I am gone; I shall be permitted to come back to you sometimes, James; I am certain of it: and it will make me sad to find you grieving over my love the cause of unhappiness to you; neither must it mar your usefulness among others. Promise me that it shall not be so."
               
               "My darling Ella; how can I promise you not to mourn the loss of the one treasure of my life. I have given up Mary; but the Master called her to his service, and I could not say nay; now he is taking you, and you bid me refrain from mourning. It is too much, Ella."
               "Me, also, hath the Master called, James. I, too, must go. I know it grieves you; but the pang will soon be over and then——I cannot ask you to forget all our love, all our dreams of future happiness, but dear James, let your grief be chastened by submission; you are not naturally hopeful, do not sink into despair."
               His agitation had been but momentary; looking up calmly into her face he replied:
               "You are right, Ella, as you always are; it is not fitting that a Christian should ever despair; least of all, one before whom so wide a field of usefulness is opening. I have to-day received a letter from the officers of the church in Brooklyn of which Walter and May are members, and for whom I have preached once or twice during the summer, giving me a call to their pulpit. I shall accept it; I would that you could have gone with me, to have been my helper in the work, but since God has willed it otherwise, I must go alone, and though I shall miss you daily more than I can tell, I feel it would be wrong to unfit myself for labor by excessive grief. In the lonely life which awaits me, all the energies of my soul must be devoted to the Master's service."
               "James, that is what I feared; you must not lead a lonely life. Will you hand me 'Keble's Christian Year,' from the table?"
               He did as she requested. It was a favorite volume with both, and one which they had spent many pleasant hours reading together. Opening it at a marked passage familiar to both, and to which she was certain he would revert many times, when she was gone, she placed upon it Kate's violets, and arranging them carefully, kissed them and closed the book. Then with her pencil, she wrote upon the flyleaf, "Ella to James," with the date.
               "Take it," she said; "and when I am gone let it remind you of me, and—of another."
               He took it reverentially, kissed her hand in silence, and for some minutes not a word was spoken by either.
               The pause was broken by Ella.
               "I wish May would come home." she said.
               "She will be here soon," replied James. "I received a letter from Walter also to-day, saying that he could on no account miss being present at the Bible-class Festival, and that he should bring May and little Ella with him, and that they would probably remain some time at home."
               "Ella is better, then, I suppose; nothing I am sure but her illness would have kept May from me so long; she is a darling sister."
               "I am afraid she is ill prepared for the change which she will find in you. The past three months have altered you amazingly, Ella."
               
               "I suppose so; yet I would rather it would be so, than to linger along for years as many do, a burden to myself and to my friends, for the warmest affection, though, as I have daily evidence, it can make the fatigue of a sick-room, pleasure, yet it cannot prevent its wasting effect. No it is better to go soon; if I can only live till May comes, and Walter and dear little Ella."
               The hope was realized. Hastened by her fears, may came three days sooner than had been anticipated; and she was just in time for the last farewell. The sun was sinking slowly in the west, and the evening breeze perfume-laden, stole softly through the casement, when, amid tears and sighs from hearts wrung with anguish, Ella Burroughs closed her brown eyes and calmly breathed out her pure spirit into the atmosphere of a heavenly clime.
               "Peace, peace—exceeding peace," was her answer to James's tender inquiry as to the state of her mind. They were her last words; ere her lips had ceased to quiver with the vibrating sound, the peace of heaven was hers.
            
            
               XXX. THE FESTIVAL.
               THE missionary-box was finally completed, and a day toward the middle of September was appointed for the public presentation and farewell. A beautiful grove near the village, the same through which Kate and Eleanor had passed on their way to visit Ella Burroughs, had been selected as the scene of the exercises; and during the preceding week, stands had been erected for the speakers, and seats arranged for the audience.
               The weather was favorable: a more perfect day could not have been made to order, and by nine o'clock, groups of cheerful-looking, well-clad men, women and children, were wending their way toward the grove. By ten, all the seats were filled, and scores of ladies and gentlemen were walking about on the outskirts of the grounds, or standing in the shadow of the forest trees, engaged in earnest conversation. All noise of mirth or audible speech was however instantly checked when precisely at the appointed hour, the speakers of the day, accompanied by a deputation of clergymen from the neighboring towns, and several gentlemen of note in the vicinity, walked down the middle aisle of the scats, and took their places upon the stand. In the centre of the group sat Uncle Timothy, his noble head uncovered, and his silver locks waving in the gentle summer breeze. At his right, sat Joseph, the usually animated and buoyant expression of his handsome face somewhat subdued by the sense of responsibility which rested upon him; near him were the friends of his early youth, and of his ripening manhood, James and Charles, while upon the other hand stood the pastor who for the last few years had been his spiritual adviser.
               Samson was on hand, as busy as a bee; but his native modesty, as well as the active nature of his duties, prevented him from taking a seat upon the platform. Walter and May too were among the audience, and though we have not time to specify them all, we may be sure that not one who had ever been connected with the Bible-class, and to whom distance and circumstance made the privilege possible, was absent upon the occasion. It was by far the most general gathering of the scattered flock which had ever occurred; and as such was richly enjoyed.
               A brief prayer by Mr. Hastings opened the exercises; after which the Missionary Hymn was sung by the whole audience standing. The effect of that grand old choral, as it rang out from full and overflowing hearts, echoing and reëchoing through the forest aisles, will not soon be forgotten by those who listened to it. Long ere its close, tears started from many eyes that were unused to weep.
               Amid the deep hush which succeeded its close, a gentleman, one of the invited clergymen, arose, and in a few brief but eloquent sentences stated to the audience the object of the meeting; and for the benefit of such strangers as might be present, introduced to them the Rev. Joseph Stapleton. The box was next brought upon the stage.
               Upon Uncle Timothy, as the representative of the class, devolved the ceremony of presentation. As he rose slowly to his feet, resting somewhat heavily upon his cane, for his infirmities had greatly increased during the past few months, a murmur of appreciation and applause ran through the whole assembly.
               In a voice broken by emotion, but still distinctly audible, he addressed his young disciple, and in the name of the beloved class, so dear to the hearts of both, offered to him, and through him to the future partner of his joys and labors, and also to the pupils who would hereafter be under his charge, the testimonial which had been prepared, of their interest in them personally; and in the cause to which they proposed to devote themselves. The exhortation which followed, though clothed in language the most simple and unadorned, was feeling and impressive, and drew tears of emotion, not only from the noble heart to which it was addressed, but from many of the less interested listeners. The failing energies of the good old man necessarily occasioned brevity in his remarks; but every word had been expressive, and when he closed, there was no one who would have added or subtracted a single sentence.
               Joseph's reply was full of the eloquence of deep feeling; subdued by the sense of weighty responsibilities. His earnestness, his modesty, the touching manner in which he alluded to his mother and the dear ones who must be left behind, and of the noble work which lay before him; and the strong appeal which he made to all present not only for their sympathies, but for their earnest and unremitting prayers—moved all hearts in his favor.
               An ode written for the occasion was then sung, and other speakers followed, among them James and Charles; both of whom won the hearty and intelligent applause of all who listened to them.
               At the close of the exercises, a collation was served from the tables near by, and an hour or two of pleasant social intercourse followed. Innocent games were provided for the children, the elders, mingling therein, and showing unreservedly their hearty sympathy with childish amusements and recreations. A singing circle was formed in one part of the grounds, and under the leadership of Samson Thorn, who had long been the church chorister, hymns and appropriate songs were sung; greatly to the edification and delight, not only of the youthful performers themselves, but of many older listeners who gathered around the spot. Even Joseph, wearied with the solemn and somewhat exciting scenes through which he had passed, was glad to throw off the dignity with which circumstances had all day invested him, and re-tone his highly strung nerves by joining in the innocent joyousness of the youth around him, most of whom he had known from infancy, and many of whom he had loved with an almost brotherly affection.
               Some there were who objected to this proceeding.
               "I am sorry," said a straightfaced, austere-looking clergyman, approaching Uncle Timothy, "to see Mr. Stapleton manifesting such levity and light mindedness. Knowing his youthful errors, I have always had my fears of the stability of his character. His conduct on the stage to-day, and his eloquent address, went far toward eradicating my prejudices; but I must say, I consider his present behavior decidedly unworthy of his high calling."
               "I don't know," replied Uncle Timothy, mildly, "I am afraid you gentlemen of the cloth, and indeed, all of us, sometimes get a little narrow-minded upon the subject of amusements. Joseph is certainly of a lively, animated turn; and he will have need of all the buoyancy and rebound of his nature, in the arduous labors of his calling. One great reason why half, not only of our missionaries, but of our ministers, break down before they reach middle age, is, that they don't allow themselves recruiting time. They are constantly expending strength and energy, without gathering it in again from the sources which God has placed so abundantly at their command."
               "Ministers and missionaries, and indeed all good Christians, have little to do with enjoyment in this present evil world. If they labor zealously in the field of duty, God will take care of their bodies."
               "But he don't take care of them," said Uncle Timothy, earnestly. "They are breaking down by scores, year after year, and the reason is that they constantly insist upon living in direct violation of God's physical laws; which I take it is as much a sin as to live in opposition to his moral laws. It is certainly a son which directly entails a penalty, and which is therefore marked in the most express way with divine disapprobation. The physical strength with which he has endowed them is as much a part of their talents as the mental abilities, and they are equally accountable for its judicious expenditure. If they use up in ten or fifteen years what should-last them from thirty to fifty, as many of them do, are they not directly responsible for the waste?"
               "I must say I have never considered the subject in this light before, and am therefore scarcely prepared to argue it; yet I cannot conceive that such childishness as Mr. Stapleton is this moment manifesting," pointing to Joseph, who was swinging little Clara Thorn in a large swing that had been suspended from one of the tress, "is in any way consistent with the dignity and importance of the ministerial calling, especially after the solemn scenes of the morning."
               "I confess I don't see anything very undignified about the proceeding," said Uncle Timothy. "In the first place he is evidently affording the child a gratification; and to my mind, the simple fact of giving happiness to another, though it is only in the offering of a cup of cold water, is sufficient to redeem any act from insignificance or unworthiness. But he is besides affording himself exercise and relaxation, as well as giving scope to his natural and certainly very blameless love for children. Look at him now, as he lifts the little one from the swing and leads her to rejoin her parents, his countenance all aglow with animation and outgushing love; do you think Satan would dare hover around that man's heart now, with suggestions of pride, vain-glory, or ambitions desires? Do not good angels seem whispering to him rather, of that love, childlike in its simplicity and its universality, which led the Master to come among men for their redemption; yes, and to take little children in his arms and bless them, even while his disciples were fearing lest his dignity should be compromised. I tell you, brother Ironsides, love and an active joy-promoting spirit are very great levelers, but to my mind their passport to Heaven is a far surer one than that of Dignity, which is only another name for Self-concentration."
               "Well," said Mr. Ironsides; "if a man must take recreation, he can find it in some rational pursuit. This levity and childishness is what I most object to. Surely a man, and most of all a minister of the Gospel, should put away childish things."
               "The doctrine of the apostle is true in a certain sense, the one in which he evidently intends it to be understood. In treating of grave matters, sober and weighty reasonings should be employed, and in all the earnest pursuits of life, an energetic, manly, and determined will are necessary; but in another sense it is entirely inapplicable. Christ himself inculcated a childlike spirit as necessary to perfect holiness, and I know of no better way of catching the true spirit of childhood—its simplicity, its generous kindly feeling, its out-gushing affection, and its filial reverence, than by mingling heartily in its sports and enjoyments. Many a minister might far better spend the half of the time which he consumes in poring over dusty volumes of histories and commentaries, romping in the garden with his children, or those of his neighbor, if he has none of his own; studying the human heart in its rudiments and drinking in fresh life and inspiration from the pure fountain of nature. Some straight-laced, puritanical people there are, who look upon children as little out-growths of wickedness, having no business whatever in the world except to remind us of the innate depravity of human nature; and ministers especially seem sometimes to regard them with anything but the tender sympathy and affection which Christ ever displayed and inculcated toward the lambs of the flock; but to me they appear in a very different light. They are little human flowers, the embryo of the fruit; besides being of themselves types of beauty and purity and truth. They are equally a benefit to adults, as they are benefited by them; every child, properly trained, pays for its own rearing, in its smiles and joyousness and the innocent mirth which it diffuses in a household. To my mind, one of the greatest evils of celibacy is, that it deprives a man, in a measure, of the softening and refining influences of childish companions."
               "There may be some truth in what you have advanced," was the cautious reply of Mr. Ironsides; "but I have never accustomed myself to look upon the subject in just this light. It always seemed to me that Christians, and especially ministers, had no time to waste upon frivolities; and so far as my own children are concerned, I have confided them mostly to the care of their mother, endeavoring always to do my duty toward them, by setting them an example of sobriety and godliness, and if the result has not always been perfectly satisfactory I have held myself in no way responsible, seeing that I was absorbed in the more arduous and pressing duties of my vocation."
               Uncle Timothy thought of Mr. Ironsides' pale, feeble, overtasked wife; of his six half-grown children, the eldest already inclining strongly toward vicious habits, and sneered at among scoffers as a "minister's son," and wondered how it was that the plainest instincts of nature could be so perverted; and he longed to ask Mr. Ironsides, in what manner he had ever obeyed the injunction, "Feed my lambs." But already the crowd was dispersing from the grounds; careful hands were gathering up the fragments from the tables, which were to be distributed among the poor of the congregation; others were removing the seats, and the platform, and every indication proclaimed that the festival was over.
               Leaning therefore on the arm of one of his pupils, who came to attend him home, the old man left the ground, thanking the Lord in his inmost heart for the solemn pleasures and the innocent recreations of the day.
               "The young and the old are mutually dependent upon each other," he said to himself, as he walked thoughtfully homeward; "and if the barriers which sometimes intervene between the pleasures and pursuits of each, could be thrown down; if children were allowed a larger share in the interests of the parents, and parents would mingle more unreservedly in the scenes which their children frequent, how greatly might the good of which each is capable, be enhanced."
               The festival was over, and the pure and hallowed influences of the day were cherished in happy hearts, for many a long week thereafter. Childish instincts had not been chilled by the dread solemnity of the meeting; they carried away no remembrances of 'the missionary,' as a stern, forbidding man, long of face, and serious of aspect—a being altogether apart from themselves, or anything which they could or would ever become. He was to them, in all points a man—earnest, warm-hearted, energetic—just such a man as they would like to become. The religious nature of his calling they were quick to comprehend, and they reverenced it; and who knows what holy ambitions were awakened, that day—what good seed sown, to bear precious fruit hereafter, in the waste places of God's vineyard?
               The festival was over. Anticipation and excitement no longer buoyed up anxious hearts with a false and illusive strength; and that night a heavy cloud lowered over two hearth-stones in Meadow Brook.
               Uncle Hugh sat in his great chair by the fireside, with Mary upon his knee; his arms were clasped tenderly around her, and as he looked into her pale, sweet face he whispered:
               "You have always been a daughter to me, Mary; since Annie's death, you have been my only one, and it is hard to give you up. What shall I do without you?"
               Tears and a soft caress of the rough brown cheek, were her only answer.
               "Charlie cannot stay with me always, and Hughey, he is a good boy, but he is young; Mary, you were to have been the comfort of my old age. I always thought so; ever since the day your dying mother placed you in my arms, and bade me be a father to her child, I have looked to you to be the solace and support of my declining years. I cannot let you go. There is time yet to alter your decision, Mary; stay with me, won't you?"
               "Uncle Hugh," she answered gently, but with a quivering voice. "you know I love you as I would have loved my own father; you could not be dearer to me than you are. In all the days of my orphanage you have been the truest, best of fathers,"—she hesitated.
               "But you cannot stay with me, now, when I am getting old, and need you so sorely. Is that what you would say, Mary?"
               "Not when my Saviour calls, dear father."
               The old man bowed his head, and tears filled his dark eyes.
               "You are right Mary, my child;" he whispered, as he held her closer to him, "and I am weak and rebellious. Forgive the pain I have caused you, and remember only my love; and that my blessing will follow you whithersoever you go. God in Heaven, keep you, my child."
               At midnight too, of that same night, Aunt Rachel stole noiselessly from her bed, and entering Mary's apartment, bent over the pillow and watered it with bitter tears. Mary, startled from her light slumbers, opened her eyes, and with a gush of filial tenderness, twined her arms around the neck of her than mother, and wept in silence with her.
               "Mary," said the good woman, "it must be; God forgive me that I regret it; but it is hard to give you up. Pray for me that I may be able cheerfully to say, 'Thy will be done.'"
               There was no more sleep for either that night; but before the dawning, strength had been sent to nourish their fainting hearts; and each could look forward calmly, hopefully, and with a strong sense of divine approval, upon the approaching separation.
               Joseph, too, passed many sleepless hours, comforting his mother; for to him, to Mary, seemed given more of grace and faith, than to the older and more tried hearts, whom it was his province to sustain.
               "They were called of God," said Mr. Maxwell, months after they had gone; "and he meted out to them a full measure of his grace, for their day of trial."
               Two weeks intervened, and then the day of departure came. On the morning previous, a small company of intimate friends were assembled in Mr. Maxwell's parlor, and in their presence the vows were said, which united two hands, as the hearts had already been for years united, in bonds indissoluble.
               The last blessings were invoked; the last farewells interchanged, and then the young couple strong in their mutual faith in the divine appointment of their labors, looked, for the last time on earth, upon the scenes and the faces which alone were dear to them in all the world—and went out from them, forever.
               
               James only accompanied them to the port of sailing; and when he returned, it was as one comes again from visiting the tomb, where the heart's best affections lie buried. Yet his face shone like Moses' with light celestial, as he delivered Mary's last message to the loved ones at home.
               "Tell them," she said, "that to-day no cloud obscures my vision of the Better Land; I know that if on earth I leave all things to follow Christ, I shall not fail of my reward; and for them as well as for me, the bliss of Heaven will be all the sweeter for the brief pang of separation."
               Uncle Hugh bowed his head in mournful resignation; Aunt Rachel wiped away a silent but joyful tear, and James treasured up in his heart the bright example, to cast a pure and peaceful light upon the thorny way of his future pilgrimage.
               Thus by the mutual intercourse of life, are our good deeds multiplied a thousand fold, in the strength and comfort and encouragement which they afford to other hearts. Thus is proved the immortality of virtue; into whatsoever nature it falls, it reproduces itself.
            
            
               XXXI. THE TRIUMPH OF FAITH.
               ABOUT the middle a autumn, an event occurred which threw all Meadow Brook into mourning. Uncle Timothy's health, which had long been very precarious, suddenly failed altogether and the first of November found him confined to his bed with a dangerous outbreak of the chronic complaint which had occasioned his lameness, and which had been his life-ling enemy. Distinguished medical aid was called, and every effort made to afford him relief; but if soon became evident that all endeavors were vain—death was inevitable.
               Day after day, the room was crowded with anxious, weeping visitors. "Is there no hope?" "Can he not be saved?" were the constant inquiries, in tones of earnestness, which showed how deep and lasting was the affection which he had inspired in the hearts of all who knew him.
               The invalid himself was perfectly conscious of his situation; and, though suffering most of the time acute pains, his mind was nevertheless perfectly composed; and, while his friends stood weeping around him, he was able to impart to them great comfort and consolation. Much time he spent apparently in silent prayer; and constantly through his illness he spoke of the nearness of his Saviour, and the ministrations of angels who came to strengthen him for his hour of trial.
               The afternoon of Thursday, the eighth day after the attack, Mr. Hastings was with him, reading most of the time from the Bible, and other comforting volumes. Toward evening, the following conversation took place:
               "This night," said the sufferer, in one of the intervals of his pain, "if I had been in health, I should have spent with the Bible-class. Will you bear them all my affectionate remembrances, and bid them keep ever in mind the precious lessons we have learned together? If I have been able to do them any good, I praise God for it; and may he continue to watch over the good seed that is sown, and cause it to bring forth abundant fruit."
               "Amen!" murmured the pastor, in a broken voice. "And may he also raise up some one from among us, to fill the place which this painful dispensation is leaving vacant. But, in truth, I know not whence the man is to come."
               "I have been thinking much about that recently," said Uncle Timothy, "and though I would not wish to dictate, yet I would like to make a suggestion in regard to my successor."
               "You would oblige us all very much by doing so, I am sure," replied Mr. Hastings; "for, from your position, you are better fitted to judge in the matter than any of us; and certainly the breaking up of the class for the want of a suitable teacher is a thing we all should deplore."
               "It must not be," said Uncle Timothy, positively. "All the experience of the last seven or eight years has proved to me that the institution, properly conducted, is of inestimable value to the church, and it must be sustained. A plain, practical, energetic man, of deep piety, and intelligence in all that relates to religious matters, is what is required for a teacher. Samson Thorn possesses all these attributes, and, in my view, is the proper man to take charge of the class. He was connected with it at the time of its formation; and through all the changes which have since transpired, his interest in it has never flagged. He is well acquainted with the system which I have always pursued, and which has certainly proved in a measure successful. Of all the men I know, he is the one whom I should choose to fill the relation which I have sustained toward the class."
               "I believe your choice is a wise one," said Mr. Hastings, thoughtfully, "and I am glad you have mentioned it, for it will relieve us of many difficulties in settling the matter."
               A spasm of intense pain interrupted the conversation. It was longer and more violent then any which had preceded it, and evidently tried the strength of the sufferer to a fearful degree.
               Doctor Beckwith arrived during its continuance, and immediately announced the impossibility of his resisting another such attack—if, indeed, he survived vived this. William Temple was immediately sent for, and Lizzie, who for the last three days had scarcely left the room, hung over the bedside, watching tenderly every breath, and anticipating every want.
               About nine o' clock, the violence of the pain abated; and when Samson Thorn and James Hollis—who were to watch with him through the night—entered the room, they found him lying in a comfortable position, and, though very weak, wearing a smile of patience and resignation.
               "I am nearly gone," he replied, in answer to their inquiries. "The rising of another sun will see me free."
               "There can be nothing painful in the prospect," said James, as he listened to the recital of the fearful struggle through which he had just passed.
               "Very far from it," was the earnest answer. "Heaven seems very near, and I long to pass the portal."
               Lizzie did not leave the apartment again, but Mr. Temple, worn already with the fatigue of daily labor and nightly watching, lay down in an adjoining apartment, with the request that he might be called in at the slightest change. Doctor Beckwith also remained in the house until morning.
               At intervals through the night he was able to converse. Once, as Mrs. Temple knelt weeping by his bedside, he laid his hand upon her head, and whispered:
               "Lizzie, my darling, I am only going to our common Friend, the blessed Redeemer. Will you not, also, every day, in your closet, seek his presence? We shall not therefore be separated; and be assured that in Heaven the interests of your soul will not be less dear to me than they now are. Heaven is not far, my child; I know it is very near; I have heard its music to-night, and I know that angels are waiting to convey me to its blessed shores. The Valley will not be dark—the River will not be troubled; it is all peace."
               At another time, after a season of silent prayers, he murmured:
               "'The Valley of the Shadow of Death.' It is only a figure of speech with which we perplex ourselves. I see no dark valley, no troubled river between me and the Rest of Heaven. It is only a little film which the clay weaves before our eyes, and which Death kindly brushes away. The body only quivers with the expiring throe, as its celestial inmate frees itself; the soul must thrill with gladness. Blessed be Christ who hath given us the victory."
               After a pause. "The way must be dark, the shadows terrible, to those who know him not, but to the Christian it is only the portal to eternal joys."
               In this quiet state he remained until an hour or two past midnight, when a change was perceived. Those of the family who were not already present, were instantly aroused. Mr. Temple came in, leading his eldest child, and bringing the other, still an infant, in his arms. Each was laid upon the pillow beside the old man; and receiving his kiss and blessing was carried away.
               "Lizzie!" he called.
               "I am here, father;" said Mrs. Temple sobbing, "do you not see me?"
               "I hear you voice my child; but my eyes are opening upon the glory. Do not weep, heaven is not far: soon you, too, will come, and then there will be no more parting. Kiss me, my child."
               Still holding Lizzie with his left hand, he stretched out his right to William.
               "You have been a good son," he said, "and may God reward you. I need not charge you to deal kindly with the orphan; I can trust her to you without a fear. God bless you, Good bye."
               One after another, those in the room received his blessing and his farewell. To Samson he said:
               "With you, I leave my last blessing for the Class, my last appeal to them to seek the more excellent way. To each and every one, my kindest adieux; my warmest benediction, my most earnest injunction to meet me in the Better Land, to which I go—and Samson, be faithful to your charge."
               "Good bye, Lizzie—I go in peace. Your mother—my Saviour—they call—oh! the glory of of Heaven. It flows like a river into my soul."
               A smile of unutterable sweetness illumined his countenance. His eyes closed; he was gone. 
                     
                        "Dead he was not, but departed.
                        For the Christian never dies."
                     
                  
               
               The approaching Sabbath was the day appointed for the funeral, which for the accommodation of the number who would desire to attend it, was to be held in the church. The exercises were deeply interesting; the sermon by Mr. Hastings was pronounced his best effort, and altogether worthy of the occasion. With tears the young pastor acknowledge his own indebtedness to his venerable but now deceased friend; and reminded the members of the Bible-class of the obligations, which, under God, they owed to him. As he spoke of the vigilance and tenderness with which he had always watched over there interests, and the solemn and affecting charge which in his last moments he had left for them, sobs arose from every part of the house.
               "He is gone," said Mr. Hastings, "and when these solemn offices shall be completed, we who remain have but one other duty to perform toward him: and that is, so to honor his precepts and example, that when the moment of our departure shall arrive, we too may hail with rapture the opening glories of the better World—we too may be caught up into the Saviour's welcome embrace, with the blessed assurance of communion and fellowship with him."
               Immediately after the mourners, in the procession to the grave, walked the former pupils of the deceased, nearly a hundred in number, each wearing a badge of a crape. The followed a long train of carriages and foot passengers, until, when they had all entered the burial-ground, it was nearly filled with the concourse; and almost every face bore traces of deep grief and sensibility.
               In silence they laid the body down to its last repose; but some there were, as they moved silently away from the sacred spot, who caught glimpses, by the eye of faith, of a form glowing with the youthfulness of immortality, of a face radiant with celestial glories; and who heard a voice singing in tones of rapture, the song of the Redeemed. To such the low mound, with its simple headstone and its drooping willows, bore little significance. They treasure up in their hearts, the memory of his deep piety, his sincere humility, and charged themselves so to emulate his faith and love, that they might look joyfully forward to the day when they should join him in those heavenly courts, to go no more out for ever.
            
            
               XXXII. CONCLUSION.
               THE dawning of the new year found James Hollis well settled over his pastoral charge in Brooklyn, and comfortably domesticated as a boarder in the family of Mr. and Mrs. Converse. His congregation was a highly respectable and intelligent one, and his field of labor in many ways peculiarly interesting. His quiet dignity and the natural reserve of his manner, deepened, perhaps by the scenes of sadness through which he had so recently passed, made him for a time somewhat a stranger among his congregation; but his deep and all-pervading piety, his earnest endeavors for the good of souls, and the absorbing love which he felt for the cause in which he was engaged, could not long be concealed; and his congregation grew in time to regard him with respect and affection, which were not only highly gratifying and encouraging to him, but which made his efforts among them doubly effectual. The success of his labors led to repeated and flattering calls to other fields; but regarding the blessing which attended him, as the seal of God upon the fitness of his course, he refused them all. Yearly his popularity increased, but he accepted it only as deepening his reponsibilities by widening the sphere of his influence; and sought to live and labor so as to be able to render strict account of it, among his other talents. Every reform, either in or out of the church—every good work, whether public or private, found in him an earnest and consistent advocate; and his charities, both of deed and gift, were those of a humble follower of Him who gave his life for the poor and needy.
               The same winter, Charles Maxwell and Eleanor Wentworth were united in the ties of marriage. The afflictions which had befallen Cora—for young Horton had ruined his own prospects in life, and all her chances for happiness, by his extravagance and dissipation; and finally had so abused her as to bring about a seperation—had in a measure humbled the pride of Eleanor's parents; and though they could scarcely give a cheerful consent to her marriage, they offered no violent opposition. And we may add that in the course of a year or two, they became so much changed in their views upon religious matters, as to devote much serious attention to the subject, and eventually became hopeful converts, and consistent members of the church.
               Cora, too, was much changed by the lessons which adversity had taught her. After she returned to the home of her parents to reside, much of her time was given to the education and training of her child—toward which she manifested a stronger affection than for anything else, and her own mind became expanded and improved thereby. She learned to look upon life more seriously than she had ever done before, and there was much reason to hope that her later years were hallowed by influences to which in youth she had been a stranger.
               Charles and Eleanor were settled over a flourishing congregation in one of the beautiful rural districts if western Massachusetts, and during the summer succeeding their marriage, they received a visit from "Cousin Kate."
               One pleasant afternoon Charlie was absent upon a round of pastoral calls, and the two ladies sat in Eleanor's apartment, as usual busying their fingers with some pretence of needle-work while their tongues discoursed pleasantly of old scenes and acquaintances. Talk of Meadow Brook led to talk of James Hollis, who had been spending his summer vacation there.
               "What do you think!" said Kate in the demure matter-of-fact way which it sometimes suited her to assume; "the Rev. James Hollis, D. D., that is to be—has been making love to me."
               "Making love—to you—Kate, what do you mean?"
               "Just what I say, of course. Is there anything so very preposterous in the idea?" replied Kate with a slight blush; adding with a dryly comic way peculiar to herself, "I though now, it was a very sensible thing in him."
               "Kate, you are harder to understand than a problem in Euclid. What do you mean?"
               
               "You'll never demonstrate me in any other way than by reducing me to an absurdity, as the mathematicians say. In this case, however, I fancied I had spoken plainly enough to be comprehensible, even to your mathematical, unimaginative mind; but I suppose it is funny that any sensible body like Mr. Hollis should fall in love, even in a second-hand sort of way, with—with a person like me."
               "I hope," said Eleanor, with a slight shade of embarrassment, "that you will acquit me of all intention to wound your feelings, but I was astonished, and you know I am very apt to express myself rather unguardedly. But are you in earnest—did James really propose to you, or are you joking?"
               "Perfectly in earnest. He actually desired me to become the Rev. Mrs. James Hollis, D. D., that is to be."
               "Well, what did you do? I confess I cannot even guess."
               "Do, why I accepted him, of course."
               Eleanor looked up with the air of one much mystified and not a little afraid of being hoaxed.
               "If any one knew when to trust you, Kate!"
               "I believe I am, as you say, a complete absurdity. When I am gayset, people think I am most earnest, and when I get earnest and sober, like other people, then I am considered very funny and a perfect enigma. Well, when I get to be a D. D.'s wife I expect all these things will rectify themselves."
               "Cease your mocking Kate, and tell me; do you intend to marry James Hollis?"
               "If I live, yes," quite soberly.
               "And you love him?"
               "I have loved him for years."
               Eleanor looked wonderingly into the open but blushing countenance, which was earnestly up-raised to hers, and sat for a moment speechless.
               "This them is your secret," she said, at length. "Who but you could have kept it as you have?" Another pause, Kate there are few who know you."
               "Very few," was the quiet reply.
               "Do you think James understands you thoroughly?"
               "I know he does not," was the reply with a slight and somewhat painful accession of color. "But I know that there is that in our natures which will harmonize; he only feels it vaguely now; time will, however, develop the assimilating points, and then I have no fear but he will appreciate and love me."
               "I believe no one can help loving you, who does know you thoroughly, Kate; and now that I think of it, I believe you will make him a better wife than—than Ella would have done."
               "I think so," said Kate, quietly; "they were too much alike, there was intellectual harmony between them, but not that electrical affinity of soul which is the essence of true marriage."
               "And does James see all this?"
               
               "No, he only feels it now; intellectual perception of the truth will come later."
               "Well, dear Kate, I wish you much joy; sincerely and from my inmost heart, I congratulate you. You will let me tell Charlie, won't you?"
               "Certainly; I think Charlie has had shrewder suspicions upon the subject than any one else. Don't you recollect getting mightily jealous of me once, because I told you that I had spoken confidentially to him upon religious matters?"
               "I wasn't really jealous, Kate; but I always did fancy, that is I had my suspicions at times, that you were in love with some one, and I suppose," she added with a blush, "it was not very unnatural that I should think Charlie the most probable person in the world to have engaged your fancy. By the way, I begin to understand better the cause of your delay in avowing your change of heart, though I must confess I am only partially enlightened."
               "I don't expect any one ever will quite appreciate all that I felt upon that occasion; but I had such a fear of acting from any unholy or unworthy motive, I knew the power of sympathy to sway my judgment, and felt it a solemn duty to try myself, thoroughly, before I allowed myself the pleasure for which my heart so longed, of an open avowal of my faith, and the sweet 'fellowship of kindred souls,' which would result therefrom. Still another consideration, but one of less value, was the danger to my own heart of adding to the ties which already drew me in a direction which prudence taught me to shun."
               "I think you acted wisely, Kate; but there are few who would have been as conscientious. I remember, now Charlie once saying to me that he thought it seldom happened that a young convert could be excused from at once announcing his conviction and conversion; but he believed your case to be an exception."
               "It is a dangerous rule to follow, I admit; but you must remember, that I doubted the nature of my own experience."
               That evening Kate retired early to her own room, to write some letters for the next day's mail; and Eleanor took advantage of her absence to narrate to her husband the conversation of the afternoon.
               "Kate is a true woman," said Charles; as she finished. "I don't know," he added, teasingly, but if I had never seen a certain cousin of hers, I might have fallen in love with her myself."
               Eleanor, whose old whim of jealousy was fading away in the sober light of happy matrimony, only pretended to pout, as she replied:
               "You couldn't have won her, sir; I happen to know her estimate of you very well, and I can assure you it falls far beneath her ideal standard of perfection."
               "Well," said Charlie, good humoredly, "I don't know as I shall make myself very unhappy about it; I suspect on the whole that I am just as well off as it is; but I do think James is a fortunate man."
               
               The conversation soon turned into another channel. The cares, perplexities and pleasures which had come to the young minister in his day's experience, were all poured into the sympathizing ear of his wife; the sadness was lessened, the pleasures doubled thereby; mutual love was strengthened, and faith in a higher power confirmed; and when they knelt side by side that night, the evening incense which arose from the altar of their devotions was fraught with pure thanksgiving, and holy joy. Life seemed to them neither a howling wilderness, nor a garden of thornless roses; but a heritage whose fruitful acres would afford to earnest, cheerful labor, harvests of imperishable value; and they knew of perennial fountains, too, cleft from the midst of rocks perhaps, which yielded sweet drops of refreshing to the weary fainting laborer.
               So it proved to them; so it proves to all, who use its good gifts rightly.
               The dying request of Uncle Timothy was faithfully executed. Samson assumed the charge of the Bible-class, and under his careful and energetic supervision, and by the blessing of God, it still remains one of the most flourishing institutions of Meadow Brook.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            Derby & Jackson's Publications.
            "To the list of John Milton and other 'blind men eloquent,' must be added the name of WILLIAM HENRY MILBURN."—London Athenæum.
            
            
               AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF DEEP INTEREST!
               For Sale by Booksellers, Preachers, Colporteurs, and Book Agents generally.
               TEN YEARS OF PREACHER LIFE;
               OR, CHAPTERS FROM AN AUTOBIOGRAPHY.
               BY WILLIAM HENRY MILBURN
               AUTHOR OF "THE RIFLE AXE, AND SADDLE-BAGS."
               One neat 12mo. volume. Price, One Dollar.
               
                  
                     "There was a time when meadow, grove and stream,
                     The earth, and every common sight,
                     To me did seem
                     Apparelled in celestial light,
                     The glory and the freshness of a dream."
                  
               
               
                  LIST OF THE CONTENTS (IN PART).
                  Early Reminiscence. The Accident.
                  The Sick Chamber. Surgical Consultation.
                  Two Years' Imprisonment.
                  Land of the Setting Sun.
                  "There were Giants in those days."
                  The Backwoods Preacher.
                  The Saddle-bags taken up.
                  Let on Man Despise thy Youth.
                  A Western Wedding.
                  A Western Camp-Meeting.
                  An Exhorter in a Dilemma.
                  Liberality of Methodists.
                  The Last Scene of Conference.
                  Walking the Hospital.
                  Cry Aloud and Spare not. A Sermon on Deck.
                  Its unexpected Rewards.
                  Heavy Purse and Congressional Chaplain.
                  Necessities for Extempore Speaking.
                  A Stump Speech Described.
                  Value of the Eye in an Orator.
                  Congress and two of its Young Men.
                  Congressional Eloquence.
                  Stephen A. Douglas.
                  Alexander H. Stephens.
                  Entering the Senate Chamber.
                  Memories of the Great Departed.
                  Author's First Prayer in Congress.
                  Henry Clay. John C. Calhoun. Daniel Webster.
                  Social Life in Washington.
                  Attractions of the Capital.
                  Power of Memory. Influence of Women.
                  A Death-bed Summons. Marriage of the Author.
                  Chicago in 1841, 1846, and 1855.
                  A Night Ride in a Deluge. Narrow Escape.
                  The Dying Preacher.
                  Grace in "Spots." Life on Wheels.
                  Life on the Mississippi. A Boat Race.
                  Passengers excited. S. S. Prentiss.
                  Phelps the Desperado. Riding the Circuit.
                  Sojourn in New Orleans.
                  Alabama Scenery. A Southern Home.
                  Tribute to the South.
                  Author Charged with Heresy.
                  Stage Coach Dialogue. A Fearful Spectacle.
                  Strange Superstition. The Anxious Moment.
                  Homage to Ladies. Southern Hospitality
                  Southern Matron. Southern Literature.
                  Old Friends and Pleasant Faces.
                  The Pioneer Preacher. Western Cookery.
                  A Night Scene in a Village Store.
                  Indisposition of the Author.
                  Returns to New York. The Infant's Cry.
               
               The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price
               DERBY & JACKSON, PUBLISHERS, 119 NASSAU ST., NEW YORK.
            
            
               
               THE RIFLE, AXE, AND SADDLE-BAGS,
               A VOLUME OF LECTURES
               BY REV. WILLIAM HENRY MILBURN.
               A most interesting Work.
               One neat volume, 12mo. Price $1.00.
               
                  CONTENTS(IN PART).
                  THE SYMBOLS OF EARLY WESTERN CHARACTER. The Untamed Wilderness—Daniel Boone—The Female Captive—The Mysterious Shot—A Narrow Escape—A Backwoods Marriage—Wedding Dinner and Dance—Homes in the Wilderness—Justice in the Backwoods Preachers in the Wilderness—The Preacher's Dormitory—Henry Beidelman Bascom—"Old Jimmy's" Reproofs—The Pioneer's Work.
                  THE TRIUMPHS OF GENIUS OVER BLINDNESS. Beauty and Effects of Light—Emment Blind Men—Remarkable Sense of Hearing—John Milton—Premonitions of Blindness—Blindness an Impediment to Oratory—Sympathy Necessary to the Speaker—The other Senses Quickened—The Blind Man's Need is his Gain—"I am Old and Blind."
                  AN HOUR'S TALK ABOUT WOMAN. The Moral Greater than the Intellectual—John Howard the Philanthropist—Ancient and Modern Women—Frivolity a Prevailing Evil—Earnestness of Female Authors—Women the Best Literary Instructors—Woman's Responsibility—The Power of Sympathy—The Importance of Conversation—Woman the True Reformer.
                  EARLY DISCOVERIES IN THE SOUTHWEST. Exploration of the Mississippi—Gold Unsuccessfully Sought—Collisions with the Indians—Attack upon the Chickasaws—Historical Traditions—Incidents of Forest Life—Dispersion of the Settlers Anglo-Saxon Supremacy.
               
               Address, DERBY & JACKSON, PUBLISHERS, 119 NASSAU STREET, N. Y.
            
            
               BEULAH.
               BY AUGUSTA J. EVANS.
               "Miss Evans may well be called the Charlotte Bronte of America."—Troy Whig.
               
               "We place 'BEULAH' beside 'John Halifax.'"—Baltimore Adcocate.
               
               One neat 12mo. Price $1.25.
               
                  From MARION HARLAND, herself, the writer of the most popular series of Novels ever published in this country.
               "TO MESSRS. DERBY & JACKSON:
               "I speak my honest sentiments when I pronounce 'Beulah' the best work of fiction ever published by a Southern writer. To my mind, no American anthoress has ever produced a greater book. Can it be true that Miss Evans is young? There is a life-time of thought and research, of struggles of mind and heart, in 'Beulah.' I have read every word with intense interest. The character-painting is fine, the description of passing events and scenery graphic and striking; put to me the chief charm of the book lies in the vivid portraiture of the doubts, the conflicts, the yearnings and the final triumph of a great soul seeking for truth. If the public can appreciate a thoroughly good work, they will thank you for having given them 'Beulah.'"
               
                  From Rev. Wm. II. Milburn (the Blind Preacher Eloquent). "I have no hesitation in saying that few books have ever interested me more. The plot, the delineation of character, and the action, I think, are all admirable. It would be an extraordinary work from the hand of any woman, but it is peculiarly so from one so young. The reading of it cannot but do great good."
               
                  From Frederic S. Cozzens, author of the "Sparrowgrass Papers." "I have been greatly interested by this story of the Mobile heroine, and I am convinced that the story will produce a sympathetic impression on the public mind. There is not a word in it, nor a phrase in it, that I have not meted and measured. Over and above the method of telling the story, the story itself wins, commands, controls the sympaties of the reader. This, I take it, is the highest test of excellence."
               
                  From the Home Journal. "Since the appearance of 'Jane Eyre,' no volume has fallen from the pen of a lady writer evincing more power and learning than the novel 'Beulah,' and we do not hesitate to say that in the production of this volume, Miss Evans has achieved the highest rank among novelists of her sex in this country."
               
                  From the New York Evening Post. "She has, at any rate, established a rank among the best novelists of her sex whom our country can boast, and we do not remember any work of fiction which has been produced in this country for years, which is written with more power and is more full of promise than 'Beulah.' She has achieved a decided literary success, a success which will at least be as cordially recognized at the North as at the South."
               
                  From the Boston Post. "Beulah' is a book of great merit, and one which will bear critical and close inspection. The volume is one deserving the attraction of the reading public. It is healthy in sentiment, pure in its influences, and grand in its treatment of great moral questions. As a literary work, 'Beulah' will rank with any issue of the day."
               The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
               W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y
            
            
               
               FROM DAWN TO DAYLIGHT;
               OR, THE SIMPLE STORY OF OUR WESTERN HOME.
               BY MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER.
               One neat 12mo. Price $1.00.
               
                  From the N. Y. Evangelist. "MRS. HENRY WARD BEECHER has written a book entitled, 'Dawn to Daylight, of the simple Story of our Western Home,' which, we are informed on good authority, records—though under a thin veil of fiction, and with use of other names—the incidents of their own western life. This fact will attract to it the attention of many who will be curious to trace the early struggles of one whose subsequent career has been so distinguished. The story is modestly told, with no affection of sentiment, and no appeal to the sympathy of the reader; but there is a deep pathos in this tale of trials, very hard to the flesh and the spirit both, and yet bravely and uncomplainingly borne. No one can read without emotion, of their modest beginnings, of the sore straits to which they were sometimes put by a lean pittance of support, and of the deeper sorrow that darkened over their home in the death of their children. It seems like a just recompense of Providence that these years of struggling should be followed by the sunshine of prosperity. His early Western scenes Mr. Beecher has long since left behind, and his career since has been brilliant and successful enough to satisfy the ambition on any man. The world is ready to give him full credit for his genius and resolution. But how much of his success is due, he only knows, to that cheerful presence which has always gladdened his home, which lighted up the long dark days of early life. He only knows how much his own manly courage has been strengthened by so much of true womanly heroism, patience and hope."
               
                  From the Springfield Republican. "Mrs. Beecher's new book, 'From Dawn to Daylight,' is the old unvarying story repeated in a thousand parishes both east and west, where the people have not religion enough to understand the immutable law of compensation, or the divine spirit of the golden rule, which without reference to a Greek lexicon, in his special case, may be translated. As ye would that your minister should do unto you, ye do exactly unto him. She had told us the true story of stingy pay, and tedious people; of everything demanded, and little given; of poverty, sickness, and care; the unpoetic western missionary life, whose stark reality has chilled the ardor of thousands of loving Christian hearts, because its hardest phases are unnecessary, and has laid prematurely in the dust thousands of gentle and heroic ones, who might have lived to be a joy and blessing if Christians had been only a little kinder.
               
               "But our 'Minister's Wife' has not forgotten the 'sunny side,' nor the 'silver lining,' nor the blessed hours of love and leisure which steal unawares into the most care-crowded life. No! nor the blessed 'mothers and sisters in the Lord,' His loving 'little one,' whose chief joy it is to be good to their minister and his wife; to get up delicious little 'Teas for their benefit; to fill their larder with provisions, and their souls with loving kindness. Mrs. Herbert (misnomer) is by no means of grumbler. She contrived to be happy in spite of poverty and the fever and ague. Never mind if the salary was not said, she could hold the lantern while her husband planted trees, and sew and rock the cradle while the good man wrote his sermons. Thinking it all over, she exclaims, "Happy hours! Toil and poverty could not take them from them, or, should brighter days dawn in after time, and under more prosperous circumstances, will not their hearts turn from affluence and the highest refinements of life with intense longings for the simple joys shared together.' Well, the time of looking back has come. Is it with 'intense longing' we wonder?"
               The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
               W. H. TINSON, Printer and Stereotyper, 43 & 45 Centre St., N. Y.
            
            
               BOOKS WRITTEN BY A. S. ROE.
               THERE is no writer of the present day who excels this charming author in the natural and home-like simplicity of his style, and the natural interest and truthfulness of his narrative. In thousand of families and Sabbath Schools his books are read and re-read with ever-increasing delight. The young and old, the quiet and gay, are alike fascinated by his pages. Rival editions of all his books have been published in England, edited by the Rev. Dr. TAYLOR, where they have already reached the enormous sale of 120,000 volumes—a sure indication that his pen is one whose "touch of nature makes the whole world kin."
               
                  IV'E BEEN THINKING; or, The Secret of Success, 12mo., clo., $1 00
                  TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED; or, Strive and Win, 12mo., clo., $1 25
                  A LONG LOOK AHEAD; or, The First Stroke and the Last. 12mo., clo., $1 25
                  THE STAR AND THE CLOUD; or, A Daughter's Love. 12mo., clo., $1 25
                  TRUE TO THE LAST; or, Alone, on a Wide Wide Sea, 12mo., clo., $1 25
                  HOW COULD HE HELP IT? or, The Heart Triumphant, 12mo., clo., $1 25
               
               
                  From the London Critic. "Mr. Roe is one of the most successful of American writer. He has originality of thought, and natural powers of invention."
               
                  From the New York Christian Intelligencer "Mr. Roe evidently knows how to touch the heart-strings; indeed, he sweeps them with a master's hand. At one time we find it impossible to restrain a gushing tear; at another ever risible nerve is in full exercise."
               
                  From the United States Magazine. "Hogarth not more surely touches life with his wizard spell. It is transfixed and permanent. 'A Long Look Ahead' is the crystallization of his genius, and, like Goldsmith's Vicar of Wakefield,' should be placed upon the shelf to show what American views and manners reveal, just as that simple tale tells of what comes from English institutions. He is an American truly and heartily: American in thought and feeling, American in tone and language. His books will live as graphic pictures of the times he delineates. Rather of the old school in Church and social privileges, he is sufficiently universal to make his delineation national. There is about him a complacency, a wholesome cheerfulness, a fertility of resource, a hopefulness, a glow and persistency wholly Yankee."
               The above will be sent by mail, post-paid, on receipt of price.
            
            
               
               THE WORKS OF CHARLOTTE BRONTE
               (CURRER BELL.)
               Comprising "Jane Eyre," "Shirley," and "Villette." Complete in 3 Vols., 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $3 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 3 75
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 6 00
               
            
            
               EVELINA;
               OR The History of a Young Lady's Introduction to the World.
               BY FRANCES BURNEY, (MADAME D'ARBLAY.)
               
                  With Life of the Author by T. B. Macaulay. 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $1 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 1 25
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 2 00
               
               "Frances Burney was the wonder and delight of the generation of novel readers succeeding that of Fielding and Smollett, and she has maintained her popularity better than most secondary writers of fiction. In painting the characters in a drawing-room, or catching the follies and absurdities that float on the surface of fashionable society, she has rarely been equalled."—Cyclo. of English Literature.
               
            
            
               CORINNE; Or, Italy.
               BY MADAME DE STAEL.
               TRANSLATED BY ISABEL HILL.
               
                  With Metrical Versions of the Odes L. E. Landon. 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $1 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 1 25
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 2 00
               
               "It (Corinne) possesses the highest merit as a work delineating character, and descriptive of scenery, and inculcates a pure morality. Its eloquent rhapsodies upon love, religion, virtue, nature, history, and poetry, have it an enduring place in literature."—Goodrich.
               
            
            
               THE WORKS OF JANE AUSTEN,
               Comprising "Pride and Prejudice," "Sense and Sensibility," "Mansfield Park," "Northanger Abbet," "Emma," and "Persuasion." First American Edition, With steel vignettes, complete in 4 vols., 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $4 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 5 00
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 8 00
               
               Miss Austen is emphatically the novelist of Home. The truth, spirit, ease, and refined humor if her style, have rarely been equalled. She will always retain a leading position in literature, as the representative of the domestic school of novels, of which she was the founder, the great charm of which is truth and simplicity; and notwithstanding the brilliant successes of many recent imitators, she still remains undisputed mistress of this class of composition.
            
            
               THE WORKS OF HANNAH MORE.
               Two vols. now ready.
               Comprising "Cœlebs in Search of a Wife," her Tales and Allegories. With portrait on steel. 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $2 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 2 50
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 4 00
               
               How many have thanked God for the hour that first made them acquainted with the Writings of Hannah More. she did, perhaps, as much real good in her generation as any woman that ever held the pen. It would be idle for us dwell here on works so well known. They have established her name as a great moral writer, possessing a masterly command over the resources of our language, and devoting a keen wit and a lively fancy to the best and noblest of purposes."—Quarterly Review.
               
            
            
               
               THE WORKS OF ANNE RADCLIFFE.
               Two vols., now ready.
               Comprising "The Mysteries of Udolpho," and "Romance of the Forest" With steel portrait. 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $2.00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 2.50
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 4.00
               
               Like the great painter with whom she has been compared, Mrs. Radcliffe loved to sport with the romantic and terrible—with the striking images of the mountain forests, the cloud and storm, wild banditti, ruined castles, half-discovered glimpses of visionary shadows of the invisible world which seem at times to cross our path, and which still haunt and thrill the imagination.
            
            
               THE WORKS OF JANE PORTER.
               Two vols., now ready.
               Comprising "The Scottish Chiefs," and "Thaddeus of Warsaw." With steel portrait. 12mo.
               
                  Price in Cloth, $2. 00
                  Price in Sheep, library style, 2.50
                  Price in Half calf, gilt or antique, 4.00
               
               "'Thaddeus of Warsaw,' 'which in our youth beguiled us of our tears,' is a favorite. It is to Miss Porter's fame that she began the system of historical novel-writing, which attained the climax of its renown in the hands of Sir Walter Scott. And no light praise it is that she has thus pioneered the way for the greatest exhibition of the greatest genius of our time. She may parody Bishop Hall, and tell Sir Walter: 
                     
                        'I first adventured—follow me who list,
                        And be second Scottish novelist.'"
                     
                  
               
               
                  Frazer's Magazine.
               
            
         
      
   
