
    ----CITATION----
        Pleasants, Julia, (1827?-1886). Callamura .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6187 wright2-0657
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               CALLAMURA.
            
            BY JULIA PLEASANTS.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, 
                     Nos. 819 & 821 MARKET STREET.
                  
               
            
            1868.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by CLAXTON, REMSEN & HAFFELFINGER, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
               WESTCOTT & THOMSON, STEREOTYPERS, PHILADA.
            
         
      
      
         
            Callamura
            
               CALLAMURA.
               CHAPTER I.
               IT was September, and the evening closed in rain. My eyes, inflamed from incessant watching, were fain to fold themselves in slumber; but a long and weary vigil stretched before me, and I roused myself for the duties of my lonely post.
               "What is the time?" asked the invalid.
               "Eight o'clock," was my answer.
               "Only eight?" The invalid sighed and sank back upon the pillow.
               "You are better?" I asked, eager to seize the rare opportunity for conversation.
               "I don't know—maybe so;" and she relapsed into the same heavy slumber which had marked the progress of the disease for the past few days.
               I arose, and adjusted the lamp, so that its rays might not fall upon the still beautiful face of the sleeper; folded the covering around her shoulders; lifted a log upon the hearth, for the physician had impressed upon me the importance of preserving a uniform temperature throughout the apartment; and placing the powders and other medicines cines on a convenient stand, seated myself upon a low stool, to while away, as best I might, the anxious moments of the heavy night that "hung so darkly o'er me."
               It was impossible to wait, to read or to fix my mind steadily upon any pursuit; my faculties were too thoroughly fraught with suspense and distress. One after another, I threw aside the handsome gilt annuals that crowded the marble slab beside me; I feared to yield to the torpor oppressing my overstrung faculties, lest I might omit some important prescription; and leaning my head upon my wasted little hands, I sit for a wile gazing in the fire and pondering upon the strange vicissitudes of human fortune.
               I was barely thirteen, yet I sat there in that large and silent mansion, sole mistress of its fortunes, sole mourner over its fatalities.
               The large gilt family Bible lay within my reach. I turned over its golden leaves and drank from is diamond waters.
               I was not too young to feel sorrow, not too ignorant to seek its solace. "Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest." So spake the sweet stranger amid earth's stern realities and oppressive burdens.
               Sorrowfully I laid my head upon His heavenly arm, while the big tears rolled though my scorching eyelids.
               Between the blank pages of that sacred register were enrolled the cherished names of precious ones now crumbling mutely in the dust. Then, in my father's bold and manly hand, stood the melancholy record:
               "Charles Herbert Buccleugh, third son of Mona Kenner and Charles Buccleugh, was born in Baltimore, Maryland, April 5, 1812."
               This was my father. On another page was traced in fairer, more delicate lines the sad termination to his career.
               "Lost at sea, on the steamship Oriole, during the month of April, 1847, Captain Charles Herbert Buccleugh aged 35 years. 'His sun has gone down while it was yet day.'"
               My gallant father, whose stately step yet reverberated through my memory!— 
                     
                        "The eternal doom
                        Of Heaven decreed him to a briny tomb"
                     
                  
               
               And his faithful wife! How many tears had she silently shed over the departed bark, destined to return never more! Mournful, mournful memories!
               There were other records in my father's hand: that of his marriage with Edith Barnard; the birth of Hubert, their beauteous first-born; the birth of Mona; the birth of Henry, and that of Edith—dear little sainted Edith!
               It was for her that my tears were now so ready to flow, for not many weeks had elapsed since my mother and myself had stood weeping by her early grave.
               Ten o'clock struck on the mantel, and I stood by the bedside with the powders.
               "Isn't it too soon, darling?"
               "Just ten," I said.
               "Is that rain?" she asked.
               "Yes, and it does pour down." I forced myself to reply in a cheerful tone.
               "Hubert and Hugh!" she sighed.
               "They will be here soon," I answered, but I did not think so.
               They had been telegraphed two days previous, and I hardly thought could have arrived before morning, even had the elements proved propitious; but the assurance seemed to convey pleasure to the sufferer, for she quaffed the fabrifuge and fell back to rest once more.
               Vigils and constant exertion were telling on my attenuated frame. For three long month I had scarcely known a night's rest. First, my little sister Edith had lain sick and pining, inciting my sad young heart to extraordinary efforts to relieve my sorrowing mother; and since her death I had watched alone, with wat assistance the servants could render me.
               Sleep would brush my eyelids, and my head fell heavily back against the table; but it was a feverish sleep, broken, by dreams, and unrefreshing.
               When the clock struck twelve, I started; I rubbed my eyes and mechanically seized the powders.
               I was shocked at my delinquency, but overjoyed on glancing at the dial-plate to discover that I had not over slept the appointed time.
               "Come, wake up now." I said, kneeling at the bedside.
               "It's time again. Don't I come too often?" I asked.
               "No never too often, dear child," she replied: "not you, but the dose does. It is nauseous."
               She drank it off, and as I sat the cup down on the floor to draw the coverlid more closely round her, she threw her arms around my neck and kissed me repeatedly.
               "God bless you, for a dear, good daughter!" she said, "and such a faithful nurse! But I am better now—much better. Lie down and rest some."
               She turned over and dropped asleep.
               This was glad news to my sad young spirit. What would this wide and boundless universe be to me without that idolized mother?
               I shuddered at the bare prospect, and my heart beat glad and free once more as I realized that God had answered my many and fervent prayers, and she would live—yes, she would live!
               Aunt Mima had promised to relieve me at twelve o'clock, but I know how important it was that there should be no neglect or omission on this critical night, and I declined awakening her. I made a cup of coffee to reinvigorate my exhausted strength, built up by the fire, and picked up some magazines at hand to beguile the time.
               In one of them was a beautiful lithograph of a withered rose, and on the opposite page a poem, so entitled. My mother had once read it to me and admired its pathos. Insensibly I perused the lines. The withered rose represented a lovely woman fading away from earth, and she was described as possessing heavenly blue eyes and soft golden curls, like those that lay floating on the pillow beside me; and in spite of my renewed hopes, my heart saddened as I could but draw the obvious parallel.
               I closed the book, and sat dreamily watching the fire and listening to the continuous torrents of rain without till the tireless clock should measure out the moments for me to administer another potion.
               Such strange thoughts busied themselves in my circumscribed little brain. "Were any other children like me?" I thought. "How strange it was that God should entrust such weighty responsibilities to so heedless a little child!"
               But I had read somewhere that Providence fits the shoulder always to the burden.
               The gay, rosy little girls whom I sometimes saw flitting about did not look to me as if they had ever known a care. People said that I was an old, odd-looking child; and indeed I never felt like playing with those of my own age. My mother was the only companion I ever craved. Probably Providence had endowed me with unusual maturity of thought and power of endurance, to enable me to fill the peculiar station to which I was assigned.
               Then, too, we had to kinsfolk, like other people. I had no grandmothers: other little girls that I knew had tow and even three "grandmas." I boasted to uncles and aunties except Uncle Hugh, and he lived so far off that we seldom saw him. My father's family lived in Baltimore, and were never mentioned. Uncle Hugh was mother's only relative. How I wished that long, dark night that he would come!
               The rain was abating. The clock struck two: the last of the powders. I mixed it and raised her arm to awaken her.
               "Mother," I said, "another dose!"
               She did not awaken at once, and when she did, her large blue eyes stared at me so coldly and sternly.
               "I know." she slowly said, and closed them heavily again.
               "But you must take this," I persisted. "You know you must keep off a return of the fever."
               She opened her eyes reluctantly again, and motioned me to place the cup to her lips. She had sought to lift the cup with her won hand, but it trembled so that she had failed.
               She quaffed the medicine, and shut again those clear blue eyes where I had loved so long to behold my heaven of happiness.
               My mother!
               As I turned away, struck by a peculiar expression upon her countenance, I lifted the white hand she had let fall upon the coverlid.
               It was cold.
               What was it in the aspect of that pale, fair face which curdled the life-blood around my youthful heart and froze my childish soul with awe?
               I roused Aunt Mima.
               "Aunt Mima, do wake up," I cried in a low tone. "Mother looks strange."
               "Go away, child—Miss Edith's sleep!"
               "Get up, Aunt Mima," I persisted, solemnly.
               Something indescribable in my voice struck the old woman, and she rose, following me to the bed.
               She looked for a few moments on my sleeping mother and listened to her heavy breath.
               "It's a chill." said the old woman, sorrowfully. "Wake up Andy, Miss Mona."
               I called him from an adjoining room, and as Aunt Mima charged him with some directions, which I did not heed, I stood transfixed and fascinated by my grief to the contemplation of my mother's fair and angel-like countenance.
               Every breath she drew with a deep, heavy inspiration that now resounded throughout the apartment, penetrated my young spirit, as with a poisoned arrow. Tumultuous sobs were rising in my bosom, but I crushed them down, fearful that any ebullition on my part would but discompose the sufferer and add to her distress.
               Andy had wakened others of the household, and voices were now heard in the entry—among them one like a boon from Heaven.
               "Hubert! Hubert!" I shrieked, and fell at my mother's feet, burying my giant grief among the loose clothing.
               It was indeed Hubert. His sunny curls dripping with the rain, he stepped eagerly yet mournfully into the solemn chamber.
               "Going, going, Hubert!" I cried—"out precious mother!"
               "Too late, too late, dear Mona," he sadly responded.
               We showered out kisses on the beloved brow and chafed the cold white hands, but never a responsive look beamed back upon us there from the blue orbs scaled up in that eternal leaden slumber.
               I leaned on the bedside, weeping as though my heart would break: the sympathetic servants glided round, obeying the behest of the physician, who had been speedily summoned. Remedies were resorted to, but there was a silent awe pervading the apartment, as if all felt and knew that they would be no avail.
               
               I was myself scarcely conscious of what was passing, till a light hand rested on my head and a soft voice whispered,
               "Weep no more, dear Mona. It is God;" and my cousin Mabel rested her gentle face against mine. "Come with me," she continued. "You can do nothing now. Aunt Edith will soon be at rest."
               I would not go.
               "No, let me stay," I cried, "and see the last of my angel-mother!" I leaned breathlessly back, watching her faint-fleeting respirations; 
                     
                        "And when the sun, in all his state,
                        Illumed the eastern skies,
                        She passed through glory's golden gate,
                        And waled in Paradise."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               BRIGHTVALE was to be our home no more.
               The snowy marble shaft that rose above our father's grave was to be left in lone guardianship of the loved ones slumbering near. Though the stormy seas dashed o'er his hair, conjugal love had reared a stately monument to his memory, and around its graceful urn Hubert and myself had wreathed our fond immortelles. There too we planted roses and violets, fair young willows and everlasting cedars.
               Uncle Hugh was busily engaged taking an inventory of the property and preparing for future arrangements, which interested me little, encompassed as I was with so mighty a sorrow. Cousin Mabel had relieved me of all necessary supervision of household matters, so that I had had little to do, save to contemplate my grief and move about in a silent listlessness and abstraction, Which doubtless appeared as the result of resignation or philosophy.
               I remember but little of my sensations or reflections, save that as we wended out way from Brightvale the dew sparkled on the brown grasses and hung in mimic rainbows on the crimson forests, and the dull, aching thud which had be-numbed my overwrought brain seemed lightened somewhat by the cooling wings of the autumn breeze.
               But the heavy crape fold profusely bordering my black bombazine dress was not more sombre than the settled calm of solidified gloom which had made its dwelling within my childish spirit; and I felt that the raven hues of my habiliments ments were henceforth a stationary and monitory line of demarcation between my soul and the outward sunshine.
               Cousin Mabel, Hubert and myself were the travelers; Uncle Huge having been compelled to remain at Brightvale for the furtherance of business arrangements.
               Cousin Mabel and Hubert were very nearly the same age, though she was a fully matured woman and he only a stripling of seventeen. She was a quiet, lovely maiden, with a seraphic expression of beatitude upon her delicate features, which no trouble or vexation seemed equal to disturb, and no sorrow to obliterate.
               I well remember the maternal solicitude with which she attended to my wants during our journey, and the fear she seemed to entertain lest my fragile frame should yield to its fatigues.
               Hubert reassured her on that point, however:
               "Mona is made of steel springs, Cousin Mabel, and can stand more now than either of us."
               "I can't believe that," she argued, "for she is nothing but a shadow."
               "Mona is never fleshy, though she is thinner now than usual. But you ought to see her run. I do believe she could catch a deer. She is made for speed, and she is not a quarter nag either."
               "She looks half sick now." said Cousin Mabel, kindly. "Do lie down, Mona, and try and sleep; you look worn out. You can have all the back seat to yourself. Perhaps it makes you ill to ride in front."
               "Oh no," I persisted. "I like to ride in front, where I can look out; it doesn't trouble me at all."
               "Mona is not sick," answered Hubert. "That great shock of hair makes her look so cadaverous. Do put on your net, Mona."
               "My net makes my head ache," I said.
               "Let me smooth your hair," kindly suggested Cousin Mabel. She endeavored to bring the rebellions locks into something like acquiescence, but I fear she was illy rewarded for her pains.
               I continued to look out of the front window, noting from a kind of half-clairvoyant state the monotonous features of the level, uninteresting country through which we journeyed, while Hubert and Cousin Mabel, after regaling themselves with a lunch of wine and sandwiches, sank comfortably back into a dreamy doze.
               My mind ran insensibly into a train of speculation on the singular phenomenon of sleep—"Sleep and his brother Death"—speculations which, I have since learned, have occupied wiser heads than mine was at the time, or can ever aspire to be.
               But strange, incongruous thoughts were always tormenting my brain, and after many vague and bewildering ideas, I remember to have settled down into one decided problem, as the result of my investigation into the nature and substance of sleep. Why was it that I, who was certainly as exhausted and wearied as either of my companions, could sit there under the same influence of the motion of the carriage, and yet feel no inclination of slumber, although I had assiduously courted the partial god? It could not be that I was interested in the landscape, for I was only observing it as food for thought and a diversion from sadder images. I could not remember ever to have felt superlatively sleepy in my life, and even after a day of unusual fatigue, my mother had observed that a simple pronunciation of my name was always sufficient to awaken me.
               Then, too, why was it that such a number of continuous and generally well-connected dreams always thronged my hours of rest?
               Aunt Mima had informed me that I oughtn't to tell my dreams "before breakfast, no how;" and, when I awoke in the morning with some recital of the past night's adventures, would admonish me with her finger upon my heedless lips.
               She never did dream, she said, "about anything more'n seeing a dog running 'long, or it mout be a cow standing by a calf. It was a bad sign to dream so much: that was the time the devil took to tempt folks; and you ortent to tell it before breakfast, no how."
               I was too young to be acquainted with the true theory of dreams, and did not understand that the old lady's faculties were so thoroughly locked up in obliviousness that thought became almost dormant, while mine was so lightly enveloped that it ran riot and chainless.
               But my train of speculations was interrupted by flights of blue-and-colored pigeons whizzing through the air, while open fields and hedges of Cherokee roses bordering the lanes seemed to indicate that the term of our pilgrimage was drawing to a close.
               And true enough, just it sight, among hosts of trees and flanked by numerous white cottages—and reared upon a graceful eminence, the stately heights of Callamura flashed upon my view.
               Like some "fairy city of the heart," sprung as though from the stroke of "an enchanter's wand," its snowy architraves lay glistening in the mellow sunlight. Splendid magnolia trees almost embowered its windows, save where a now of enormous white pillars projected, bearing the roof of a circular colonnade, and looking out unobstructed on the handsome gateway.
               There were roses and spireas and glossy evergreens dotting the circumjacent lawn, and a graceful deer came bounding up to greet Cousin Mabel as we entered.
               "Bless you, little Dora!" she exclaimed, caressing its beautiful head. "You've lost all your ribbon, you mischievous thing!"
               "She's done worse than that," chimed in a servant who just now approached us. "Since you've been gone she's killed two of my lambs."
               "Two lambs?—oh, naughty Dora! How did it happen, Armstead?"
               "Well, she began playing with them, I suppose, and before I could get to them she had done pawed 'em to death—the owdacious pest! But where's Mass' Hugh? And I don't see any of your trunks?"
               "Oh the baggage-wagon is on behind, and Uncle Hugh won't be here for several days; he had to stay behind to rent out everything."
               "And Miss Edith?"
               "She's gone," interrupted Mabel, sorrowfully turning away her head.
               "Gone!" echoed Armstead, and he looked sympathetically at my sombre clothing; "and this is Miss Mona?"
               He offered me his brawny hand, which I quietly took and walked on toward the house.
               My new home was an inviting and cheerful, spot, and a substantial repast was awaiting our arrival.
               "How do you like Callamura?" questioned Cousin Mabel.
               "Very much," I responded.
               "Oh, fine, fine!" chimed in Hubert—"all but the name: it smacks too much of Latin, and I get enough of that at college. But I shall have splendid times hunting and fishing. Are there many deer around here?"
               "Indeed I don't know about that," was her reply; "you must ask Philip. I expect there are, though, as he gave me the doe you saw."
               "That wicked little Doe-ra?" emphasized Hubert. "And who is Philip?"
               
               "That you must find out?" blushed Mabel.
               Oh, I see—a kind a beau chevalier. Well, I'll not be jealous," pursued the saucy boy, "for I never believed much in cousins loving. But I have no sweetheart at present, and must confess, Cousin Mabel, I was in hopes, some what, you would aspire to the occupancy of that enviable situation."
               "You? you? Why, you are nothing but a chap—a mere greenhorn. What has become of your beard, boy? You must have shaved very deeply when you did shave."
               "Yes, when I did shave. That reminds me: Armstead, can you supply me with warm water and soap, and—ah, yes—a razor—one of my uncle's? Mine is badly blunted: I will be much obliged. Really, my beard is becoming very incommodious, very."
               Hubert stroked the smooth, fair feature where that hirsute appendage was destined to wave at some remotely future period of time, and addressed himself very assiduously to the discussion of a huge chicken-pie before him, while Armstead from behind admiringly watched his execution.
               "And who is Philip? Armstead, don't you know?"
               He quizzically turned up his mirth-brimming eyes in a manner Armstead could not withstand.
               "Certainly, sir. I suppose it's Master Conway."
               "Now, Armstead, "objurgated Mabel—"Now, sir, you'll lost by that." Her face, usually so placid, looked really troubled.
               "Oh, I see!" shouted Hubert, enjoying her discomposure. "It's a wedding! Well, old boy, you sha'n't lose. You are a venerable piece of antiquity, a genuine Simon-pure; and here's a drink for your pains."
               He shook back his golden curls, thrust his hand in his pocket, and with the air of a grandee distributing largess, extended into the palm of the old servitor a broad silver coin, which seemed to magnetize his faculties astonishingly.
               I was glad when Uncle Huge returned to Callamura.
               Cousin Mabel I dearly loved, and in my absorption followed her fairy little feet about the house as the shadow follows the sunshine; and Hubert I idolized. I loved to stroke back the beautiful silk pennons of hair that floated so carelessly over his marble-like brow, albeit as I did so, from the contrast between them, my wiry little fingers looked marvelously like brown buns.
               But Hubert's mirth, which seemed always so infections to others, only roused in me a subdued kind of wonderment and speculative inquiry as to the hidden source of the interminable flow of jests and smiles which ever sparkled round his joyous countenance.
               While I was once regarding him thus, "Do remove those great eyes, Mona," he broke forth. "They look like enormous crows picking holes in me. What makes you look at a body so hard and so seriously?"
               "I don't know, Hubert; I love to look at you."
               "Cousin Mabel," darted off the volatile boy, "did you see the conquest I made at church yesterday? Who was that red-headed girl, with the green bonnet, sitting up in the choir?"
               "With a freckled kind of complexion?"
               "That's the color of the horse."
               "It was Carry Horn, I reckon."
               "Ah, yes, the Early Horn Carrot, I presume," punned Hubert, mockingly. "Well, present her my compliments when you see her, for I know she will be glad to receive them."
               "She is a great fortune."
               "What does she wear a green bonnet for? It must be to simulate carrot tops," suggested Hubert.
               
               He seemed wonderfully pleased with his simile, and indeed it was a very apt one, for she was long and tapering, saffron-hued, and always surmounted some way with green ribbons or plumes.
               She was the daughter of Uncle Hugh's quondam overseer, which Hubert did not know or he would hardly have honored her with a passing notice; he was aristocratic and exclusive in his notions to a fault.
               Although surrounded by luxury and sunshine, still my days were desolate amid the stately and oppressive splendor of Callamura. My uncle was a man of immense wealth, and there was a grand feudal expression about all his surroundings. Callamura was bisected by an immense hall running through its centre, lofty, and supported by a row of graceful Corinthian pillars. In the back saloon thus formed there wound a flight of stairs going of the upper story. Through these vast and generally silent corridors the lightest footfall rang in a hundred reverberating echoes, which to my imaginative spirit bore hollow and sepulchral into nations. I feared to climb those awful spiral steps and penetrate within those dreary unknown chambers above, lest perchance I might encounter some eerie inmate from the far Beyond; for I bore internally and constantly about me the pale visage of my expiring mother, and the memory of that terrible stormy night when my helpless and inexperienced childhood had kept its lonely, silent vigil be her dying slumbers.
               All the world bore to me the reflection of my own raven-hued apparel, and it was a matter of astonishment that golden sunshine could still fall upon the material earth while there was so much darkness and sorrow in my sad young heart. It was astonishing that smiles could bedeck the human countenance when there lay one so fair and lovely beneath the sod. I wondered that all people, like Miss Taylor's heavenly visitant, were not rushing through the world, seeking escape, and lamenting, "I must die! I must die!"
               The very name of Callamura, signifying a white wall, suggested to my gloomy and preoccupied mind but a snowy sepulchre and the white marble shaft that gleamed above my parents' grave.
               Still more astonishing, if not shocking to me, was Hubert's gay and joyous mirth. He had shed tears bitterly as long as we had lingered around our mothers's tomb, but no sooner had we turned out faces toward Callamura than his attention was diverted to new objects and his grief dissipated.
               I loved Hubert with all the intensity of despair, for he was my all, and I could not bear to see him so recklessly gay; still, never a word of reproach escaped my lips, only the melancholy wonderment that sometimes rolled from my eyes while contemplating his mirthful countenance. This I suppose, was what he termed their "crow-like propensities to pick holes in him."
               He was beautiful as a seraph, inheriting our mother's personnel, while I had the olive complexion and raven hair of the Buccleughs.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER III.
               I HAVE said I was glad when Uncle Hugh arrived at Callamura. He came from Brightvale, and seemed to my imagination to bring, although mute and unspoken, sweet tidings from the idol of my soul, now slumbering under the fadeless cedars there.
               The tears sprang from my eyes as I kissed his rugged cheek in welcome.
               He raised his nervously twisted eyebrows, as if pained by the sight, but did not otherwise notice my emotion.
               "Glad to see you, Mona," he said, gently putting me down. "All well?"
               "Yes, Uncle Hugh—all well, I believe."
               "And where's Hubert?"
               "He's gone gunning."
               "And Mabel?"
               The latter answered for herself, just then meeting us at the door, her mild, beatific countenance assuming fresher shades of satisfaction on greeting our uncle.
               "I am so glad you have come!" she exclaimed. "Old Mrs. Burns is quite sick."
               The latter was our ancient housekeeper—by courtesy.
               "Come in, uncle," she continued; "you are quite damp." There had been a heavy fog in the morning, and the rays of the sun had not been sufficiently penetrating to dissipate its effects.
               Mabel drew him into the library, bustled round to have a fire kindled, and soon came up holding in her hand a dry coat for his occupancy.
               "What is that for?" asked Uncle Hugh, stoically surveying the garments as she patiently displayed it before him.
               "It's a dry coat," smiled Mabel; "your own is quite wet."
               "Sure enough!" replied he, looking round on his damp shoulder with the astonished air of a discoverer. "I had quite forgot."
               He began pulling off the sleeves, and had fairly disposed of one when a new idea seemed to strike him:
               "Didn't you say Mrs. Burns was sick?"
               "Yes—quite," replied Mabel, continuing her occupation of valet-de-chambre, despite the little assistance he vouchsafed her. "She has some symptoms of quinsy, and as soon as you are rested I wish you would go up and see her."
               "So I will—so I will," he dreamily answered.
               I has sprung to Mabel's assistance, seeing that it was imperatively required, and between us we finally succeeded in rendering the old man comfortable.
               "Didn't you say something about Hubert? He is here, isn't he?"
               "Out hunting," Mabel smilingly answered.
               "Certainly, certainly—I remember now. He left Brightvale with you, but he must go back to college soon; he is wasting time. Fine head that boy has but the organ of, reverence too small—too small by one-half. He will fly in the face of his Maker some day. Organ of reverence too diminutive by far—rather, entirely wanting. Concentrativeness minus also. Still, a fine head, a fine head!"
               Uncle Hugh seemed about falling into a speculative revery, doubtless on the subject of Hugh's craniological developments, but it was interrupted by the entrance of servants, eager to extend the cordialities of welcome.
               
               There were details of farming operations, chronicles of the worm and various occurrences—the accumulation of several weeks' absence—ready for immediate effervescence, Armstead, from position and rank, officiating as chief spokesman.
               I had entertained until then no idea of the awful atmosphere of disaster, disease, accident, and almost crime, with which we had been so fearfully surrounded for the past two months.
               The old Tally mule had run away with a plough while turning up a potato-patch, thereby breaking her leg; Jim Forsyth had cut his hand badly while ginning; one of the new wagons broke, Jonas Bird driving it over a stump; old Polly had stuck her scissors in Bythum, 'case he called her a thief, chickens being the property in question.
               A dozen such catastrophes were poured into my uncle's ears, and after the catalogue was concluded, Armstead did not fail to chronicle with unusual emphasis the misdeeds of the unhappy Dora.
               "She's done killed two of my prettiest lambs,' he recounted; "and if she are not destroyed, she'll kill as many more. She are nothing but a wild varmint, no how. She's dangerous, Mass' Hugh."
               "That may be so," was his absent reply.
               "Come, Armstead," defended Mabel, "you only want a nice venison roast. Don't be murdering my poor little Dora just for two little lambs."
               "I wouldn't give one lamb for a dozen deer," argued the old servitor. "'Tain't that, Miss Mabel, but I fears she might kill something human: there's a power of little chillern 'bout here."
               "If I thought that," she admitted, "I would shoot her myself. But they all have nurses."
               "So they have," decided Uncle Hugh in response to Mabel's appealing look. "But, Armstead, it would be a good idea to watch her."
               "I'll be bound to do that," grumbled he; "and if I ever so much as catch her pawing round, I'll put an end to her cavortings."
               "Oh, Armstead, you wicked old Murderer! I see my poor Dora is a doomed deer."
               "If she'll behave herself, I'll not trouble her. Here she comes now. Look it her!" he added.
               True enough, there she came, bounding through the yard like mad, with every leap a dissonant rattling of metallic substances striking furiously on the ear. Each repetition of sound served to launch fresh terror through her trembling frame, and inspire her to renewed exertions to escape from her unwelcome honors.
               Simultancously a merry roar of laughter announced the advent of Hubert, who had returned from his sport, or rather want of it, and to console himself therefor had fallen in an evil moment upon the track of the luckless Dora.
               He had contrived in a most ingenious manner to secure an old tin-pan and several broken pieces of iron to her caudal appendage, and to derive an immense share of satisfaction from her consequent amazement.
               On she went, careering over the shrubbery, and louder and louder laughed Hubert, while we all stood in the doorway, sympathizing spectators of his merriment.
               "There she goes!" he shouted, his golden locks streaming in the wind. "Look, Cousin Mabel, at your Pandora!" Even in the midst of mirth his propensity for punning displayed itself: "She's the goddess of mischief, isn't she? Look at her now, Pandora—Pan-Dora!"
               He could scarcely speak for the spasms of laughter which shook his frame as the poor creature, terrified and exhausted by her futile efforts to escape her metallic tormentors, plunged incontinently into a pot-stand of rare azaleas and crushed them to fragments. He stood there enjoying in imagination Mabel's grief over the loss of her flower-pots, together with Armstead's secret chuckle over one more misdemeanor added to Dora's awful catalogue of crime.
               Before she could recover from her mishap, however, Mabel rushed up compassionately to her mute favorite, and, succeeding in releasing her from her rusty honors, hastily exclaimed:
               "Oh, Hubert, you thoughtless boy! see what you have done!"
               "It was not me—it was Pandora," roared Hubert; looking so handsome, and so saucy withal, that it was impossible to be angry with him.
               For myself, I would have been immeasurably shocked had I committed such a trespass upon the dignities and proprieties of Callamura, but Hubert's want of reverence, as I suppose Uncle Hugh would have termed it, prevented him from even realizing his character as a culprit.
               "Uncle Hugh has come," I said to him, sotto voce observing that he had not noticed that fact.
               His radiant countenance took a fresher shade of enjoyment as his quick eye caught a glimpse of our uncle standing in the doorway, a spectator of all his mischief.
               "Hooray!" he cried, rushing up impulsively. "How are you, old fel? When did you come?"
               I thought he was going to slap him upon the back, but his familiarity did not proceed to that extent.
               Meanwhile, Armstead appeared endeavoring to remedy the mischief occasioned by the unfortunate Dora, mentally anathematizing, I could see, her temporary assumption of the individuality of the heathen goddess.
               At that moment, while uncle and Hubert were exchanging greetings, another arrival decorated the gateway.
               Cousin Mabel was still standing with her arms around her mute companion's neck, the slant rays of the evening sun illuminating her brown tresses with a halo of golden sunshine, when her mild blue eyes seemed suddenly glued to the apparition alighting before her, and a faint tinge of conscious pleasure heightened the glow of health upon her cheek.
               I thought I had never beheld so beautiful a being as she was at that moment.
               Although I had never seen him before, her expression betrayed the identity of the individual.
               She half-way hesitated from maiden coyness, and then, impelled by delighted surprise, sprang forward to greet him, her steps accompanied by her now calmed and tranquilized protégé.
               
               "How glad I am to see you, Philip! When did you return?"
               "Only this morning—of course," was his reply, as he kissed her snowy hand.
               He glanced at me where I was standing, near the gate, among the broken flower-pots.
               "This is my little cousin Mona, you know!" she exclaimed, from amid her blushes.
               Philip looked inquiringly at me for a moment, and, young as I was, I fancied I could read his mental estimate of his new relation in futuro.
               
               "What a sepulchral-looking little gypsy!" his surprised expression seemed to convey. But he kindly took my hand and uttered some commonplace remarks tending toward future acquaintanceship.
               Gradually, however, I was lost sight of by the lovers, and they strayed down the shrubbery.
               
               "Mona," said Mabel, turning back her fresh, fair countenance, "when you go in the house tell uncle not to forget to see Mrs. Burns."
               "Yes, ma'am," and away they went, with my great eyes staring in wonderment after them.
               If Philip had been astonished at my appearance, I was no less so at his, though from a far different motive. I thought there never could have been a prouder, handsomer creature. Clearly-cut features, with a short, scornful upper lip, keen gray eyes and rather sharply-defined nose, although of Grecian east, a graceful step and a remarkably small foot, together with a somewhat athletic person inclining to embonpoint, completed his tout ensemble.
               
               Armstead had continued picking up the azaleas and transplanting them into fresh pots, carrying on meanwhile a continuous conversation with himself, which finally caught my ear, more from the constant reiteration of a certain trite monosyllable than from any particular gist the train of ideas conveyed:
               "She's a drot pest—drot little Dora! I'm tired of her drot pranks. See how she's done these drot azaleas."
               "Oh, Uncle Armstead," I could not help objurgating, "Why do you curse so? You ought not to curse, particularly a poor little brute, irresponsible and ignorant withal."
               "You call that cussing, Miss Mona? That's only perlite literature. All the gentlemen say 'drot." 'Drot' ain't cussing."
               "I think it is," I replied. "I always feel horrified when I hear people say 'drot.' "
               "That's because you ain't accustomed to it," observed Armstead, complacently. "It's all the fashion down here, in these enlightened parts. All the fashionables—'specially Mass' Philip—drot their best friends. Its a sort of side compliment."
               I could not help smiling at Armstead's ingenious defence, but remembering Mabel's parting injunction, walked into the house to remind Uncle Hugh of his promise.
               "Uncle," I said, "Cousin Mabel says you must be sure to call up and see Mrs. Burns."
               "Certainly, certainly," replied the old man. "What a thoughtful child Mabel is! I certainly would have forgotten; but the question for solution would have been, Whether I myself would have been responsible for the dereliction or the delightful pages of Montaigne. Good head Mabel has—all the moral affections equally developed; great equanimity. I will go now."
               He closed reluctantly the pages he had been reading, but did not relinquish the book.
               "Who is it sick?" he questioned, half shutting his dreamy-looking eye and letting fall one of his thin, silken eyebrows.
               "Mrs. Burns," I replied, astonished at his apparent forgetfulness.
               "Of course, of course," reiterated the old man, with a bright look of pleasure at the recovery of his lost idea; "and Mabel says I must go and see her; I will go now. Yes, as I was saying, Montaigne is the most delightful of authors. His self-conceit is dressed is such a classic garb of quaint naïvetè, that it more attracts than repulses."
               The old man rambled on thus, repeating, "I must go now, I must go now;" and sallied out in quest of Mrs. Burns, forgetting, however, to relinquish his volume; and I had the satisfaction of believing that he would soon allay her suffering and put her cold to flight.
               Although not at present practising his profession, Uncle Hugh's reputation still survived in the estimation of the younger members of the faculty, and through mere courtesy he was still drawn into frequent consultations.
               I sauntered out on the steps, where I sat down to observe the decline of the lingering sun; when Hubert was roaming off—which was nearly all the time—and Cousin Mabel occupied, my hours were dreary and lonely enough.
               At lest, so they doubtless appeared to others. For myself, I loved solitude; and probably, had the house been overflowing with company, I would have crept off to some quiet nook, where I might enjoy the surroundings of Nature and my own melancholy train of reflections. I asked no better occupation than to gaze from some door or window on the lavish panoply of Nature around.
               Splendid magnolias dotted the neighboring lawn; an extensive high brick wall, surmounted with heavy stone flags, which the busy cooing pigeons had converted into a sort of minature Broadway, ran all round our stately residence, hedging it in from common view.
               Far away the pigeons wheeled, flashing the dying sunlight from their wings, and communicating their peculiar whirr to the air as they rushed on high.
               They traveled to distant fields where scattered grain tempted their appetites. I raised up, peeping if possible beyond the walls to follow their distant flight.
               "What are you looking at, Mona?"
               It was Mabel, returning from her walk down the shrubbery with Philip.
               I blushed: "Only watching the pigeons."
               "You seem very much in earnest." remarked Philip.
               "She is always in earnest, about everything," Run and attend to supper; Philip will spend the evening."
               I hurried off, glad to escape and proud of my new post of housekeeper.
               As old Mrs. Burns was sick, I had for the nonce sole charge of the pantry, and I found exquisite delight in piling the light-golden-colored West Indian preserves on delicate cut-glass salvers, and in arranging the china and an important vised epergne upon the table according to my own taste.
               I was busily engaged in turning a can of sardines upon a delicate china dish and in placing near a miniature fishslice, when in rushed Hubert:
               "What are you doing, Mona? I have been looking for you. I wanted to show you a bow Armstead made for me."
               "Huber, I think a boy of seventeen might have more masculine amusements than shooting bows and arrows."
               "That's a fact, Mona; for instance, I might help myself to a part of these preserves."
               Before I could remonstrate he had pitched into a dish of oranges, preserved whole, with an open pen-knife he held in his hand; and in endeavoring to balance, before conveying the coveted treasure to his lips, it rolled irretrievably plump upon the snow-white damask, leaving a huge sugary photograph thereon.
               "Now, sit," I exclaimed, "see what you have done! All my labor for naught!"
               "Not at all," returned Hubert, philosophically; "I don't see that at all."
               He commenced leisurely demolishing the orange, bedding gracefully over the hearth, so as not to receive upon his clothing any of the luscious syrup that gushed luxuriantly forth.
               "Don't you see I will have to put a fresh cloth upon the table? Don't you see what a stain your orange has left?"
               I really felt like crying.
               "Oh, that's the matter, is it?" questioned Hubert, dashing back his golden curls to gain a full view of Armstead, who was just then entering with the lamps.
               "Armstead," I said, "you will have to call on Venus for a clean cloth. See what Hubert's greediness has done."
               
               "Sure enough," the stately Armstead replied; "and what is to be done? Venus would go distracted to have to set all this table over again. Besides, Mass' Hugh'll be calling for his supper before long. That's one thing he never forgets, never forgets."
               If I had been guilty of Hubert's conduct, I should have encountered old Armstead's scowls for several days, but my brother's beauty and mirth formed a broad charter to freedom.
               "Is that all the mischief?" queried he, deliberately wiping his mouth. "Then it's very easily remedied. Here," he cried, seizing the débris of flowers left from arranging my epergne, "see what a great thing it is to have an original inventive mind!"
               He twisted them together into a truly graceful resemblance to a bouquet, pulled out a ribbon from a book lying on the mantel to secure it, and laid them just over the unlucky portrait of the orange on the tablecloth.
               "Now that will do. Who would ever suspect there was anything rotten in Denmark now?'
               Armstead looked on admiringly; he seemed to exercise a peculiar fascination over him.
               "Lord bless the boy!" he ejaculated.
               Hubert's stratagem seemed absolutely necessary from the lateness of the hour, and I submitted to its adoption, though not without some misgivings.
               "Well, Hubert, that may remedy the mischief, but you had better not choose that seat; you'll be certain to misplace the bouquet."
               "No, I'll not. Let me alone. I'll sit here myself, and I assure you it will pass off well."
               "Well," decided Armstead, "it's time I was looking up Mass' Hugh. I saw him up stairs, leaning out of the window with a book in his hand. I know it was so dark he couldn't see to read it. Ring the bell, Mass' Hubert, while I run and bring him down."
               Off marched Armstead, and Hubert's vigorous assaults upon the bell soon summoned the lovers.
               Cousin Mabel had twined fall flowers in her hair, and looked surpassingly lovely. She presented Hubert to Philip, and we sat down, the former taking good care to ensconce himself behind his bouquet.
               "How did you find Mrs. Burns, uncle?" inquired Mabel, pouring off the tea.
               "Mrs. Burns?" he echoed with an air of unfeigned surprise, and letting fall that unfortunate left eyebrow of his, while the right eye seemed to gather deeper intensity from the partial obscuration of its fellow. "Mrs. Burns? Why, I should think she was doing very well. I did not find her in her room, and concluded she must have walked out."
               "That was impossible," exclaimed Mabel: "she could not have convalesced so rapidly as that, I know."
               "She certainly was not in, and I sat down a good while, waiting for her. She stayed out too late—she stayed out too late!" Then came a troubled look on his wistful countenance, the consciousness of some blunder about to dawn on him.
               Armstead chuckled to himself; Mabel raised inquiringly her mild eyes to him for some solution:
               "Where was Mrs. Burns this evening, Armstead?'
               "She's been in her room all day, all day. I don't think Mass' Hugh's been in there."
               Uncle looked puzzled indeed.
               Armstead continued: "I saw Mass' Hugh sitting in the room adjoining hers a good while this evening.
               He had solved the problem. The rooms were similar, furnished alike, and the old man had dropped into the first one of course; and not finding his invalid, had consoled himself with the ever-welcome pages of Montaigne.
               "Really, really," he began exculpating himself, "I could not have been persuaded that I could have been guilty of such—"
               "Inadvertence," kindly put in Philip, observing his self-accusing expression. "It was merely an inadvertence, we will say."
               "Now, uncle, you see," Hubert oracularly commented—"you see if you had had less of Montaigne and more of mundane in your thoughts, you would have proved a wiser man. See the mischief books can do: they are the destroyers of the peace of mankind."
               "Nevertheless, you shall devote a little more of your precious time to them in future," uncle remarked, quietly. "Nothing but the walls of a college can confine your bold flights."
               "I observe you are fond of flowers," remarked Philip, referring to Hubert's enormous nosegay.
               "Who? I?" he echoed with an innocent air. "Ah, yes—not generally so; but on this occasion—a gift—a gage d'amour, you understand."
               He gracefully bowed his head and simulated a blush, which seemed to amuse Philip highly.
               "A gift from some one of the fair sex, of course. Well, continue your confidence, if you please, young gentleman, and let us know the giver thereof."
               "Really, I should have no objection myself, but you know the fair donor might. In fact, too—as—as my acquaintveniently convey the desired information."
               "Possibly Armstead might enlighten you," Mabel wickedly suggested.
               "Certainly, Armstead might," Hubert assented. "What did you say, my good man Friday, was the young lady's name?"
               But Armstead found it imperative to rush out after a plate of wafers and deceptions, as if Hubert's were not sufficient for one meal.
               "I remember me now"—continued the latter, beginning to wince under inspection and Mabels' ill-concealed mirth.
               "Oh, you don't remember at all." she interrupted. These are my own flowers; you have tied them up yourself."
               "But I do. The name reminded me some way of a bugler carrying a Horn, or of some horned animal—I don't know what."
               "Carry Horn! cried she, laughing at his queer countenance
               "No, I don't say it was her."
               'Let me see the bouquet," she cried, reaching over her hand.
               Up it went, and there lay the orange stain in bold relief.
               "Enchred, as I live!"
               Hubert jumped to his feet.
               "All I can say is, 'Out, damned spot!'"
               He brought down his fist with a tremendous blow upon the disfiguring tell-table, which communicated a terrible jingling to the surrounding china and cut-glass, and with a merry roar darted from the apartment.
               I explained the accident and Hubert's ruse, much to Philip's and Mabel's amusement.
               It seemed to strike the former wonderfully.
               'He's an original!" he commented. "I am disposed to cultivate him assiduously."
               "You'll have short time for the work," said uncle, "for he will go wild at Callamura. I design sending him back to college in a week at farthest—in a week."
               
               Uncle seemed always roused from his absent moods when Hubert was present. He possessed the rare power of personal magnetism, and always drew without an effort to him self the liveliest faculties of every nature with which he came in contact
               "Mona, my dear," said Mabel, after a while, "you may go with Uncle Hugh now, and light him to Mrs. Burns' room."
               I took up a candle, and up stairs we went to see the old lady at last, finding her room, this time, without any difficulty whatever.
               Her head was grotesquely enough bound up in a red flannel petticoat, and she was evidently suffering considerably.
               Uncle Hugh's lotions and potions and pills and powders, however, stood high in her estimation and seemed to exercise a wonderful effect upon the invalid's spirits.
               Strange to say, as soon as he has professionally engaged, absence of mind seemed to form no part of his character whatever. He ordered Venus about with an alacrity and promptness which were truly surprising.
               "Place heated irons, for the present, round the shoulders," was his command. "Meanwhile, place a kettle of water on the fire, and have some flannels ready to wring out."
               The powders were all administered, and nothing more was to be done but to await the heating of the water and the application of the wrung-out flannels.
               Mrs. Burns declared herself already somewhat relieved and becoming sleepy.
               Uncle was about a leave the apartment, but spying, unfortunately, a volume of Chateaubriand perched upon the mantel, he seized it an regained his seat.
               "I will sit here a while and read a few pages," he said to the old lady, "till I see the effect of the powders."
               "Thank you kindly," was her reply. "I believe I'll drop to sleep. It's the first time I've felt sleepy for several days."
               He leaned back, adjusted his spectacles on his nose, and commenced diving into chateaubriand's "Dissertation on the Genius of Christianity."
               After a while he laid his head back dreamily on the back of his chair.
               "Are your eyes good, Mona?"
               "Splendid!" I replied.
               A blush came surging over my dark features at the apparent vanity my answer conveyed.
               "I didn't mean splendidly beautiful." I explained; "I only meant splendidly good as regards sight."
               "I know, my child." he kindly replied. "I wish you to read aloud for me. My cornea is not so convex as it has been."
               I took the book and entered immediately into a comparison of Christian and Pagan poets. Milton and Homer, Tasso and Virgil, and many others equally unknown to me, if not to fame, were made to stand in contrasting juxta-position, as it appeared, much to the disadvantage of the ancient worthies.
               Meanwhile, uncle seemed intensely enjoying the intonations of my voice, which mother had always said was good, and sat with his feet stretched out on the hearth, divested of shoes, his thick woolen socks absorbing the heat of cheerful fire.
               The tea-kettle was singing a sad, musical kind of symphony with my voice, and I read on an hour, I suppose plunging into learned arguments and triumphant conclusions in favor of Christianity, without, I think, any succinct comprehension on my part of the great philosophic aim of the work.
               
               I was beginning to weary of my employment from mere physical exhaustion. Had I had any idea of the interminable task on which I had entered, my enthusiasm would never have precipitated me on it; or had I known uncle as well as I did afterward, my politeness would never have strained my vocal powers to exhaustion.
               But, happily—or unhappily—my labors were brought to a signal close by the sudden upset of the tea-kettle. Far and wide flowed the boiling deluge. Uncle shrieked:
               "Run, Mona! run, child! The broom! the broom!"
               Fortunately the little household god was just at hand. I frantically seized it.
               "'Quick, quick, child! I shall scald to death."
               I commenced energetically removing the steaming swamp that enveloped the hearth, amid uncle's heart-piercing and pitiful groans.
               'Lord! Lord! but 'tis severe! O Mona, do be quick, dear!"
               I plied the broom with unceasing energy, almost superhuman for one of my years.
               Just then it struck me, with almost a sense of the ludicrous, that uncle had not moved a muscle himself.
               Then he sat motionless, with his stockinged feet both planted helplessly in the midst of the watery ruin, and truly in danger, as he expressed it, of being scalded to death.
               "For Heaven's sake, uncle, move your feet!" I cried, dropping the broom and endeavoring to jerk him back by the rockers with all my force.
               Fortunately, just then Venus opened the door and hastened to our rescue.
               I drew his feet from the scalding element, turned down his socks, and, sure enough, they were both fearfully blistered.
               "Oh, uncle, why didn't you move? why didn't you jump out of the way?"
               "Why didn't I move?"
               He dropped his eyebrow, as if it had just then occurred to him. "It would have been a fine preventive, sure enough. I might have done so, but it did not exactly strike me at the time. It's dreadful pain."
               He shut his teeth to crush down a groan.
               'Lord! Mass' Hugh," said Venus. "I felt obflusticated when I was outen here. Nobody ortent ever to leave you alone by yourself, no how; but I thought Miss Mona could attend to things while I was eating a bite of supper."
               Uncle continued to groan, trying to limp our of the room, but found it impossible.
               Armstead and some of his compeers had to be summoned to assist him down stairs; and it was many a day before the recovered from his dreams of Chateaubraind.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               UNCLE had fulfilled his promise: Hubert was to leave.
               I remember how bitterly I shed my tears, plenteous as silver rain, on the morning of his departure. The sight of them seemed to give him not only pain, but dissatisfaction:
               "Lord! Mona, you are a complete Magdalen. You cry as if I were going off for ever."
               A fresh burst of tears was my sole reply.
               "You are well named: Mona you are, and a mourner you'll be all your life. If you have not a real grief, you'll be sure to create one."
               His words had the garb of jest, but, alas! unconsciously they had the true spirit of prophecy, as after years proved. Their apparent heartlessness would have shocked me emanation from any one else, but I knew that Hubert loved me. Frequently I caught its betrayal in his large azure eyes, when momentarily shadowed by some passing thought of unusual depth, or by the exhibition of some extraordinary emotion on my part.
               In spite, too, of his apparent negligence of the gift, I knew he prized my exhibitions of devotion, and that their withdrawal would have caused a great vacuum in his daily life.
               "Write to me, dear Hubert," I cried, kissing his fair, golden hair floating profusely round his temples. "Write often. I shall miss you so much!"
               "There, now! Good-bye," he said, and tore himself away.
               Only those who have one human object in life on which to expend the despairing outpouring of an abyss of love, can fully realize the utter blank which Hubert's departure thus left in my life.
               I loved Mabel; I loved Uncle Hugh; I was beginning to like Philip Conway; but Hubert, Hubert only I idolized with all the Etna-like fervency of my pent-up nature.
               Strange, too, that the more lightly he seemed to estimate my devotion the more religiously it was offered, for Hubert was one of those joyous, self-confident beings who 
                     
                        "Cast off their friends as a hunter his pack,
                        For they know when they choose they can whistle them back."
                     
                  
               
               Many times now I watched the pigeons traveling forth to gather their sparse and scattered banquets from the distant fields of the plantations, and seldom were my dreary watchings of their operations interrupted by advents of Cousin Mabel or Philip, or even Dora, for everybody seemed most imperatively busy in their own concerns.
               Old Mrs. Burns, now happily restored, was commendably engaged in putting up jars—and it seemed to me even barrels—of preserves, ketchups, pickles and vegetables for the approaching winter.
               Philip and Mabel took long and almost endless strolls down the shrubbery in the evening, the latter coming in with Love's own celestial hue of rosy red unmistakably portrayed upon her countenance.
               During the day Mabel seemed environed by an amount of muslin seamstresship and mantuamaking almost suffocating, tending, one would think, toward the obliteration of the individuality of one poor little woman, and which led me into a somewhat daring speculation upon the wisdom of Providence in thus assigning a part unto woman to which she was evidently so unequal.
               
               Phillip I regarded as a fortunate exempt. He seemed ever to have nothing to do, and presented an expanse of unbroken serenity, save when some unexpected contingency landed him suddenly among Mabel's sewing-girls and pyramids of muslins and tarletans. Mabel, however, generally contrived in some adroit manner to hurry her mysterious bales of merchandise out of sight, and to restore thereby his equanimity.
               Thus the days glided on, till my uncle, roused probably by suggestions of Mabel, began to consider the propriety of advancing my own education.
               A new teacher—one said to be excellently qualified—was about to take charge of the Pineville Institute, and it was the occasion of my claims being preferred. I was ordered to hunt up my school-books and prepare for entrance into the Institute, and it was truly an era in my life when the day dawned which was to view my entrance into it unknown precincts.
               Pineville was bout three-quarters of a mile distant, a pleasant, picturesque little village, half-buried among rolling pine hills, or, more properly speaking, uplands, where, as is usually the case with Southern villages, resided the wealthy, planters of the adjacent river-lands, then under the snowy sway of King Cotton and his sable ministers.
               These wealthy planters, some ten or fifteen in number, constituted the nucleus of Pineville. Their converging rays consisted, as a matter of course, of a church, two or three stores, a grocery, two or three drug-shops, a smithy and forge, and a seminary of learning more pretentious in name than in reality.
               The Institute was a modest wooden building, surrounded by a picket fence, and sheltered under lofty oaks besprinkled with pipes. A stray bench or two was placed out in the yard, where some of the scholars were seated with their books. They raised up their eyes of course to observe the new scholar approaching.
               A few stripling magnolias and young rose bushes were scattered through the grounds, conveying the impression to one that the institution had passed into the hands of some one endeavoring to surround it with an air of taste and refinement.
               Uncle had accompanied me, and I remember that I involuntarily clasped his had as we entered the gate. All the children turned the eager gaze of curiosity toward me, and I felt an immense satisfaction in shrinking within the friendly depths of my great black shaker. But on we passed, through a battery of glances, manfully supported by a bevy of little Abecedarians, who victoriously sailed up, hovering round our progress.
               Just as we reached the steps the bell rang, and in precipitately rushed the whole crowd bearing me on within the doorway by the sheer force of numbers.
               'Order there!" pronounced a deep, authoritative voice. "Take your seats quietly, like ladies and gentlemen."
               The intonation was the clearest I had over heard.
               The little creatures seemed immediately transformed to stone.
               I saw a tall, dark form on the rostrum, waving his hand toward his infantile corps of engineers, and they instinctively slunk to their seats, leaving me free of their skirts, and a free field of observation.
               The taller girls meanwhile had quietly taken their seats, and uncle—from whom I had been temporarily separated—having regained my side, now led me by the hand.
               Mr. Sterne bowed, gravely polite.
               "I have brought my niece, wishing to place her under your charge temporarily, sir—under your charge, temporarily."
               Mr. Sterne again bowed, offering his chair:
               "Will you please to be seated?—though," drawing his watch, "my time for conference is necessarily limited."
               "My name is Morant," said uncle. "My niece, Mona—Mona Buccleugh."
               "Miss Mona, I am glad to see you," the teacher said politely, though Heaven knows he saw nothing beyond the black border of my bonnet.
               "You may take your seat, at present, among those young ladies on the right. Hang your bonnet on one of those pegs."
               He designated them by a lank-looking finger.
               Insensibly I fell into the fashion of his scholars, and went with assumed alacrity to divest myself of my friendly head-gear, though in truth I felt that I would as soon have parted with the head itself.
               But there I stood exposed to view, all shaven and shorn in feeling, but in fact a tremendous frowse of stiff, wiry hair, black as midnight, stood out like the rays of the porcupine all around my face, uptorn from their temporary inertia by the communicated velocity of the sun-bonnet!
               Although he continued his conversation with uncle, I was conscious that the preceptor measured me with one quiet, searching look. My face seemed suddenly giving birth to the growth of a thousand nettles, such a stinging surge of blood rushed over its dark, diminutive surface; but I quickly fell into the first vacant seat I saw, and internally lamented it was not an ice-house.
               How long I sat there with burning eyes directed to my desk I know not, but I had finally an impression that uncle was departing. The a sudden quiet fell upon the schoolroom, and a deep, sonorous voice poured forth:
               "How amiable are thy tabernacles, O Lord of hosts!
               "My soul longeth, nay even fainteth, for the courts of the Lord. My heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.
               "Yea, the sparrow hath found her a house and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young—even thine altars, O Lord of hosts, my King and my God.
               "Blessed are they that dwell in thy house. They shall still be praising thee. Selah.
               "Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee, in whose heart are the ways of them.
               "Who passing through the valley of Beca, make it a well, the rain filleth the pools.
               "They go from strength to strength; every one of them in Zion appeareth before God.
               "O Lord God of hosts! hear my prayer. Give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.
               "Behold, O God, our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed.
               "For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.
               "For the Lord God is a sun and a shield. The Lord will give grace and glory; no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.
               "O Lord of hosts! blessed is the man that trusteth in thee."
               The soothing influence, that fell upon my soul with the distinctly beautiful intonations of that splendid Psalm it is impossible to describe. An angel of peace seemed to be unfurling his golden wings over the quiet precincts of that school-room, and when the preceptor closed the exercises with a short but fervent prayer, I mentally concluded he must himself be one of those blessed men that trust in Him.
               
               Mr. Sterne rang the bell, and a class of young ladies, seven or eight in number, ranged themselves around the rostrum.
               "Miss Buccleugh, will you please walk up here?"
               I arose, the nettles making a desperate effort to resume their theatre of operations on my facial nerves, but I managed to find my way to his sanctum.
               Awkardly enough I stood by his desk, my eyes riveted to the floor, wondering, by way of mental sedative, how it was that the architect had contrived to render the lines of the floor so perfectly parallel.
               "Your uncle tells me, Miss Mona," said the preceptor, "that you are rather deficient in mathematics. Do you think you can join the class of young ladies before you? They are ciphering in multiplication of denominate numbers."
               "I do not know what denominate numbers are," I almost whispered, not daring to lift my eyes from a contemplation of the architect's wondrous skill in accomplishing parallel lines.
               'Indeed! Then your education must have been sadly neglected. When you hear the second class in arithmetic called, you can doubtless join them. You are familiar with the multiplication table?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Very well; you may resume your seat."
               Crestfallen, I retreated to my desk, where I had the mortification of hearing Mr. Sterne propound examples to the class which Hubert and my mother had long since taught me to work, under what designation I did not exactly recall. I think I had a vague idea that such examples were under a general head of "compound numbers," or "complicate numbers," in the antiquated arithmetic we had used.
               After the young ladies had finished their exercises, the second arithmetic class was summoned, and, according to instruction, I joined their number.
               Mr. Sterne looked on my slate, where I was accomplishing with scarcely an effort the simple propositions he orally propounded.
               He inspected its queerly-arranged hieroglyphics, while I imagined something like a smile stood on tiptoe for expression within the dark repose of his face, but it did not succeed in making good its exit.
               He watched me figure out one example, and succeeded in understanding my modus operandi:
               
               "Who taught you to cipher?"
               "I taught myself" I stammered. "Mother,"
               He cleared his voice: "Ahem."
               He looked sympathetically, I thought, at the deep mourning I were. I think he noticed my voice tremble at the word "mother," for it always did.
               "You have no mother?" he said, gently.
               I feared the tears would gush from my eyes, so I only shook my head.
               "You must take more pains in methodically and neatly arranging your figures," he continued, without further allusion to my bereavement. "You can never understand your examples yourself, unless you cast them up more legibly and gracefully. Take pains on this point, will you?"
               "Yes, sir."
               My eyes became glued to the floor again.
               "The class is dismissed." He turned and waved his long, bony finger, but his attention being still directed to me, I did not dare to move.
               "What have you studied, Miss Mona?"
               "Everything—nothing," I hastily added, feeling a terrible flood of fire rushing over my neck and face at the exorbitant vanity of the first remark.
               
               "You contradict yourself."
               I felt that the same singular smile was tiptoeing again into sight above the gravity of his face, but he stoically preserved it unbroken.
               "I will assume your latter answer the correct one. You have not studied grammar, then, nor geography, nor any philosophy, nor any work on botany?"
               I did not reply.
               "You must answer. I must know what your education has been.
               I felt compelled now.
               "I have never studied anything on those subjects," I replied, "but—'
               "But what? Go on."
               "I have read several grammars."
               "Whose?"
               "Green's, and Kirkham's, and Clarke's."
               "What geographies have you read?'
               "Mitchell's Encylopedia of Geography."
               "Ah!" he said, looking keenly at me. "Did you understand it?"
               "I thought I did—most of it."
               "Did you read all the volumes?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "The class in geography," he suddenly turned to the school. "Miss Adaline Sims, will you commence hearing that recitation for me?"
               Miss Sims, a fair, elegant-looking young lady, acted as preceptess pro tem., while Mr. Sterne continued his catechism:
               "Where is the Amoor river?"
               "In Siberia—in the southern part."
               "Where is Iceland?"
               "Iceland is east of Greenland."
               "What are its most remarkable natural features?'
               "The Geysers and Mount Hecla."
               "What are the Geysers?"
               "Boiling springs."
               "And Mount Hecla?"
               "A volcano."
               "What is Australia?"
               "A large island, or rather continent."
               "Can you describe the country? Is it fertile?"
               "Gold is found there. The interior is mostly a desert, but its borders consist of fertile valleys."
               "Very well. Now tell me what Philosophies you have read."
               "Comstock's Philosophy and Humboldt's 'Cosmos'?"
               "Did you comprehend the 'Cosmos'?"
               "I skipped over the dry parts. I only read it for the descriptions and interesting facts."
               "Can you analyze a flower?"
               "I believe so."
               "I have now questioned you, assuming that your last reply was correct, and that you had studied 'nothing.' Assuming now that your first was, and that you have studied 'everything,' tell me some of those pursuits. Everything meant—what?"
               I was dumb again.
               "I must know the bent of your mind, the extent of your capacity, and to do this must know what authors you have studied, or, as you say, read. You must acquaint me."
               It was like tearing my tongue out by the roots, but I commenced mentally summing up the long array of authors which composed my father's library, into nearly every one of which I had dabbled more or less; but so save my life I could remember the name of but one insignificant volume.
               "'Alonza and Melissa,'" I half-way whispered, with my eyes bent down on his table, where my short brown fingers, with an incessant backward and forward movement, were vigorously endeavoring to remove the varnish.
               "Go on," he calmly said.
               "'Vathek,' 'Shipwrecks and Disasters at Sea,' 'Thy Mysteries of Udolpho,' 'Thaddeus of Warsaw.'"
               I stopped. Somehow I feared I was speeding on the wrong track.
               These only sprang foremost to memory, from having been more forcibly impressed upon the imagination than others—not that they were especial favorites.
               "has your reading been all of that description?"
               "'The Polish Revolution,' Scott's 'Life of Napoleon,'" came to my rescue.
               "And you have never attended school before?"
               "No, sir."
               "Very well," he commented, putting an end to our colloquy. "By and by I will had you a list of the books you will require."
               He then turned his attention to the transferred geography class, while I gladly escaped further observation by resuming my seat.
               I had looked forward with some trepidation and many secretly-indulged hopes to entering on this acquaintance with my teacher.
               My mind rushed into the atmosphere of literature on an eager and undaunted wing. The very face of a printed page possessed a strong attraction for my ardent young spirit, which received the impression of the stereotype plates almost as faithfully and indelibly as the paper itself.
               Beyond measure I had felt the loss of my mother's sympathy in my mental cultivation, for although her mind was less vigorous and bounding than my own, she possessed a clearness of judgement and a beautiful equipoise of faculties which rendered her an invaluable guide to a wayward and irregular intellect. In my teacher I had looked forward to find in some measure her substitute, and I had been exceedingly anxious to impress him favorably.
               I had made a miserable failure!"
               Never having familiarly known any gentlemen but the few members of our own family, my manners were conspicuously deficient in ease and self-possession; and I saw there biting my nails and consumed with vexation at my own awkwardness and wretched inelegance.
               As school was dismissing, Mr. Sterne handed me the list of the studies I was to pursue.
               Now, for the first time, I ventured a look at the object which had inspired me with intimidation and reverential awe. Thick, dark brown hair, shoveled up over a some-what promontory-like head; an angular and rather bony frame, but powerfully set; large, deep, serious eyes, almost shaded from close inspection by the heavy, approximating brows above, and a wide and flexile pair of lips—flexible when in motion, but iron-like when in repose—opening round snowy-white, regular teeth, were all that my timid senses were capable of arriving at in their hurried survey.
               I received my list of studies, and bounded home with the treasure, anxious to enter in competition for the honors and redeem the ignominy of my entrance into the Institute.
               Nor was I disappointed: although my advent had been so unpropitious, after a few weeks of shyness the purest pleasures I had ever known were my daily tasks; conned frequently as I ambled into school, the cool morning air fanning my cheek, and kindling into bloom the almost perished rose of health.
               Mr. Sterne possessed the rare art of diving into the minds of the pupils, and if anything lay dormant there, he dragged it forth triumphantly to light.
               Only a few day's observation on my slate, where I had striven to render my calculations more ornate and legible, served to reveal my capacities for higher flights, and I had the satisfaction of being transferred to a broader sphere of operations.
               And indeed I began to find in him some compensation for the loss of that sweet mother whose voice had died out for ever in my ear. Often, when I was conscious that my mind made one of its clear leaps of advancement through some difficult branch of science, resting after its toils till the slower plodders of the class should overtake me, his clear eyes would lift up their dark, heavy arches, and shine upon me with an unmistakable glow of approbation, that filled up very appreciably in my life the great vacuum caused by my mother's loss and the departure of Hubert.
               His "very well" and "very well done" were the great guerdons for which I toiled. No high-mettled courser dashing around the well-beaten track ever strained muscle and nerve more tirelessly than I pressed forward in the pursuit of excellence.
               So thoroughly was I absorbed in this particular that I had seldom leisure or opportunity for forming friendships among the pupils. Indeed, never having been accustomed to the society of little children, I had none of their gay, innocent ways of endearment to render myself popular among them, and I instinctively shrank behind the black crape folds of my dress, poring over my books in their much-coveted play-time, doubtless avoiding and losing much of the bright sunshine so naturally welcome to youth.
               But my soul had been deeply baptized in grief, and we are what the gods and the Fates choose to make us.
               Only the master filled the measure of my ambition and completed the sum of my aspirations—only the master; and on his rostrum I daily laid my little tribute of heliotropes tropes and geraniums, timidly glancing up for my daily pabulum of encouragement, one of the rare, beautiful smiles that sometimes quivered around his great, iron-like mouth, and a flash of pleasure from his large, serious yet benignant beaming eyes.
               Callamura boasted the finest collection of plants in the vicinity, and my floral offerings were really prized for their rarity and uncommon beauty, for Mr. Sterne was an enthusiastic botanist, and they purchased for me all I craved—kind looks and heartfelt thanks.
               There was one among our pupils to whom I was insensibly attached, possibly from the fact that our mothers had been friends, yet possibly still more from my ardent appreciation of her personal beauty; for we had very few sympathies of tastes or pursuits in common. Miss Adaline Sims was admitted to be, beyond question, in that respect, the star of our Institute.
               Soft golden curls floated over a brow almost as serene and saintly as that of the Madonna, perfectly azure eyes clearly shone into your soul, while her figure glided with the light and undulatory grace of a summer zephyr. Often my eyes wandered from a brow aching over some puzzle in the cube root extraction to behold her tripping across the school-hall, throwing a momentary gleam of sunshine upon the master's desk.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER V.
               TIME was rolling along his noiseless wheels, bringing the usual finale to Philip's and Mabel's somewhat protracted engagement. Mabel's usual good sense had opposed an earlier consummation: she was still a sufficiently youthful bride, not yet twenty.
               Callamura was nearly prepared for the festive occasion; new white curtains and crimson hangings adorned the parlor windsows, new carpets were on the floors, and all of Mabel's bales of merchandise had melted away.
               Nearly two years had passed since I first hailed its gleaming white walls, and I had entered upon my sixteenth year.
               Mabel was solicitous I should lay aside my mourning, and grace her bridal with colors.
               "You must wear white, Mona, with cherry-colored trimming; they will offer a fine contrast to your raven hair. Our new cousin will probably be here with her fine city fashions. Hubert will be home, too, and you will looks so sepulchral in that black bombazine."
               "I am willing," I replied, "but not that any one may notice me. It will make very litttle difference how I look."
               "You know it will to me," she mildly answered. 'Besides, I would like you for one of my attendants. I think you are growing sufficiently young-ladylike enough."
               I was surprised, but I only said I thought it unwise and in poor taste to have so many attendants—two were sufficient.
               "But suppose Cousin Hermione should not arrive?" queried Mabel. 'I should be in a dilemma."
               "Then Miss Adaline will be a hose within herself."
               "So she would, as far as a partner for Hubert, but who is to suffice for Philip's brother. I have so few intimates—indeed none—that I am poorly provided with bridesmaids."
               "Invite Carrie Horn to stand with Hubert," I suggested, remembering with a smile his jests concerning her.
               'Oh no," Mabel laughed, "taught I intend sending here a card of invitation."
               Our society, like that of moist villages, was sparsely supplied, and as only the most aristocratic families were welcomed at Callamura, the range for invitation there was necessarily quite limited. Mr. Horn had, however, in former years been uncle's manager, and a faithful one—a relation now remembered in Miss Carrie's inclusion among our guests.
               Still there were many friends of the family—of Mabel's mother and my own, as well as professional acquaintances of uncle's, scattered around in neighboring towns and precincts—summoned to share in our general happiness, so that no dearth of wedding-guests was apprehended.
               Cousin Hermione, however, was par excellence the bright cynosure of all our imaginations and expectations. the fame of her beauty and accomplishments had reached us from various sources, and uncle had been for a long time announcing that she would pay us a visit. There was a splendid Chickering instrument in the parlor now, awaiting her soft sweeping fingers with their magic touch—a present from uncle designed for her, but rather forestalled in the purchase by Mabel's wedding, while her old French upright had been wheeled very deservedly out of sight.
               
               None of us knew Hermione. I had never heard of her before coming to Callamura, and am quite sure mother had no acquaintance with her existence.
               Uncle stated that she was the child of his half-brother, who had died at Demarara. Her surname was the same as his—Morant. I had myself an intense desire to behold her, for I dared hope to find in that brilliant tropic flower something that I could not only worship myself, but a heart that would reward my deep devotion with the response it so earnestly craved. All that my ardent young nature had hitherto sought was simply to be permitted to worship. A return of equal feeling was what, in my wildest imagination, had never dawned upon me, except as a rare possibility almost beyond attainment; and I now dreamed to discover it in her.
               Hubert, I knew, loved me, but I was but one among his many friends, whose name was legion; nor indeed was it probable that he ever bestowed much deep feeling on any one.
               Uncle sometimes roused from his abstractions to bestow a kind glance upon me, and Mabel, from amid her bridal preparations and her deep and absorbing affection for Philip, had ever gentle tones and affectionate religious guidance for my benefit; but where did I meet a tithe of that deep, heart-flowing adoration that was incessantly seeking but a resting-place—pouring out from my eyes only, for my lips seemed but mute sentinels for ever guarding my impulsive soul?
               Nature, or the accidents of early circumstances, had niggardly denied me all flow of language, and I seemed, like Harpocrates, for ever placing, without volition, an invisible finger over my lips.
               Mr. Sterne? I dared not dream of any response from him of that reverential passion with which I gazed upon his superior acquirements. He, to my childish comprehension, was an intellectual pharos, shedding an intense illumination over my Lilliputian hemisphere, in whose radiance it was a sufficient happiness to back.
               Even old Mrs. Burns I had exalted into something like a heroine, as she seemed more at leisure to receive my devoirs than any one else. But the old lady was quite deaf, and an interchange of ideas very difficult on that account, together with a still more serious impediment, which maturer faculties have since discovered—namely, a hopeless and total absence of mental coinage on the innocent old lady's part—precluding all possibility of exchange or barter whatever. But I used to take my knitting or crochet on Saturday evenings to sit a while with her, and derived an occasional stray waif of sunshine from some of her consolatory remarks.
               This proceeding on my part did not arise from any natural propensity for such occupations, but was a voluntary tribute to the charms of the old lady's society.
               I cannot account for this passionate craving of my orphaned spirit more naturally than from the fact that, having been my mother's constant companion, and once having tasted the sweetness of her untiring devotion, life was worthless and my spirit famishing for its accustomed aliment.
               "That's right, Mona!" would the old soul great me. "Bring your work. Industry is the thing now, child. Keep at work—money makes the mare go."
               "I don't like to work—not at this sort of work."
               I laid down the abominable needles.
               "I would like to clean up the pantry, if you will permit me."
               "Make pancakes?" she inquired, raising up her dim old eyes, without a suspicion that she has misunderstood me. "Oh no—Venus can do that."
               "Let me clean up the pantry, then," I bellowed in her ears.
               She did not relish a hint that she could not hear well, and I always permitted her to reply to imaginary speeches without enlightenment on my part.
               "'T would spoil Venus for ever," she complacently objected. "She'd think it your business always."
               "Then how am I to learn how to work, and how to make money, and how to make the mare go?"
               I raised my voice, so that she was compelled to hear.
               "Keep on at it, my child," she triumphantly argued. "I have always worked hard myself in my day. As the twig is bent the tree's inclined, you know, and see where I am now."
               I saw very well, for she was in reality a pensioner upon uncle's bounteous kindness, with the nominal post of housekeeper.
               "Keep at work, child; money makes he mare go."
               She smile benignantly and encouragingly.
               I caught up my gypsy, lying temptingly near:
               "And I believe I will go too."
               To myself I muttered, "What a terrible obstruction to companionship is deafness!—worse than dullness. I am sorry it's Saturday. I'll be glad when the holidays are over. I wish I was back at school."
               I tied on my hat.
               "Where are you going, dear?"
               "I believe I will walk down to Pineville."
               "That's right, child—take plenty of exercise. All the young men like a fine complexion."
               "The young men have nothing to do with me," I brusquely roared.
               "Oh yes, child, you will have beaux and sweethearts by and by."
               "Not I," I contradicted; "I shall never marry, Mrs. Burns, I think."
               "Certainly, child," she graciously accorded, "marriage is a burning link,"
               The deaf old post!"
               "I say I shall never marry," I shouted in her ears.
               "Ah, indeed!" she opened her eyes wide; "and why not, Mona?"
               "Because I don't think anybody will every have me," I screamed; "I am too ugly."
               "Oh no," said the old woman, regarding me compassionately and shaking her head rather deprecatingly. 'I have seen uglier people than you that had husbands. I think you might get one."
               She laid down her knitting, and coolly and scientifically surveyed me over her Brazilian pebbles; then rolling her head problematically from side to side—
               'It's not so very bad a case," she concluded; "you might get one. Never say die anyhow, child and hold a stiff upper lip at any rate."
               I held my breath with suspense while this critical examination was going on, for I was more interested in the simple old being's pronunciamento on the subject than I cared to acknowledge.
               "You are not so pretty as Mabel, nor even as Carrie Horn"—
               I became wretched, for I thought Carrie Horn hideous.
               "But you'll do."
               I was beaming in my new gypsy hat—the latest innovation of fashion and beauty, and I thought if my feminine Rhadamanthus, pro tem., decided against me with that valuable auxiliary, I might despair indeed.
               
               "You'll do, Mona," she reiterated. "I think you are improving. At any rate, put the best foot foremost, and go it while you're young. You may get a husband, for all the fools ain't dead yet."
               I bade her good-morning, and rushed out among the green trees and down the bordered lane that led to Pineville.
               The wretched old Sancho Panza, sawing eternally through my spirit with her miserable slang proverbs, and I had striven to invest her with some kind of interest, and install her as some sort of an apology for a divinity!
               There lacked but three days of the bridal, and no tidings of Hubert of Hermione.
               Philip's brother from South Carolina, more prompt, had arrived, bringing with him a couple of his cousins—Mr. Britt and his sister. None of us, however, had as yet seen them.
               Mabel had mentioned her intention of including Mr. Sterne among her guests, and I had informed him of the honor in store.
               My face flushed with excitement consequent upon Mrs. Burns' remarks, I hurried down the lane, when in a sudden turn of the road, embracing an open skirt of wood, I swept unexpectedly upon him.
               "Whither away, Mona?"
               "Me!" I exclaimed, surprised at the sound of his voice, for I had not observed him. "I don't know—nowhere."
               He had his gamebag filled with birds.
               "I've been out gunning, and see how successful I've been."
               I looked at the poor little innocents drenched with their own guiltless blood, and could not repress an exclamation of horror at the cruelty which had occasioned their doom.
               "I see you are no sportsman."
               "No," I replied, "nor could I boast of such cruelty as that."
               "We must all have our victims through life," he lightly spoke. "Some, particularly those of your sex, number human hearts among their spoils. For myself, I am content with birds."
               He was talking generally, I knew from his abstracted air, but being in an excited mood, I rushed on nervously.
               "A generous spirit," I cried, flashing my eyes on him, "will forbear such triumphs: and what might be excused in a woman, from the weakness of her sex, would be criminal in yours."
               "Very true, Miss Mona," he quietly remarked, looking nevertheless somewhat astonished at me; "and I sincerely hope you will never have cause to bewail the perfidy of mankind. You look too young," he continued, observing me narrowly—"you seem too young to speak from—"
               My checks flushed scarlet. All that Mrs. Burns had said to me about the hopelessness of my pretensions was ringing in my ears, and I felt, as I sometimes did yet in Mr. Sterne's presence, exceedingly nonplussed and ridiculous.
               "You surely can have no bitterness toward any of my sex, Mona," he said after a while; "you cannot have made the acquaintance of any false-hearted—"
               "I?" I burst into a genuine laugh, which finally relieved my confusion. "I never had a lover in my life, and I think I never shall. I am too young.'"
               We were walking toward the village, now only a little way distant.
               "Where did you say you were going?"
               "I had no particular object in leaving home," I replied, "unless it were to drop in and see Miss Adaline."
               However, this was entirely an impromptu thought.
               "I will join you then," he said, "as soon as I can step in and wash my hands."
               
               He walked on ahead, and soon reappeared from the school-house.
               As he met me, he inquired: "Your uncle informed me, if I remember aright, that you were only temporarily under my charge. Where does he intend to finish your education?"
               "In New Orleans," I replied. "He wishes me to attend a fashionable boarding-school, where my cousin Hermione is at present."
               "How old are you, Mona?"
               "I am nearly sixteen."
               "So young?"
               He regarded me full in the face, while a deepening blush came surging over its dark olive hue, which my jaunty hat exposed fairly to view.
               "You are so womanly, both in person and mind," he apologetically remarked, "that I imagined you to be much older."
               His quiet, deliberate surveillance was so embarrassing that I rambled on:
               "Yes, I will probably leave for my new school with Cousin Hermoine."
               "When will she come?—did you say?"
               "She will be at Mabel's wedding—at least, we expect her."
               "Is your cousin about your age?"
               "No she is older—some two or three years."
               "Then she must very nearly have completed her education."
               "Yes, she has finished her studies. She is only a parlor-boarder now, learning music and French. Uncle thinks it a good idea for me to room with her, and enjoy all the advantages which have rendered her, they say, a miracle of perfection."
               My preceptor seemed lost in thought, and did not speak for some time.
               Finally he abruptly asked,
               "Do you wish to go?"
               There was something about him, some way, which always appealed immediately to truth, and I answered without hesitation,
               "No, I do not."
               "Why?"
               "Because, frankly, I think I would gain more useful knowledge and more mental improvement at Pineville Institute than anywhere else."
               Although I answered thus abruptly and decidedly, I am not sure that I had ever given the subject one moment's deliberation before; but, as I have intimated, Mr. Sterne possessed the rare art, without preliminary or circumlocution, of arriving at the depths of his pupil's mind, and possessing himself of whatever might be there in a quiet, appropriating manner, almost unconscious to the pupil herself. Non e of us ever dreamed of attempting deception.
               He was walking on again, silent, and thoughtful.
               "Miss Mona," he said, at last, "I am actuated by a high sense of duty, especially in my tutorial capacity. I appreciate the compliment you pay me."
               He turned his deep, serious eyes upon me, and mine strove to return their regard.
               Often as I had observed them in the shadowed gloaming of the school-room, I had never been able to determine positively their color. Now was a favorable opportunity, but I suddenly found my attention riveted to an unmeaning train of cattle winding over a distant hill.
               "I did not intend it as any compliment," I replied, with averted face—"compliments imply flattery."
               "At any rate," he mused, "I have endeavored to give the proper bent of your mind—to educe order out of chaos—to discipline and prune the wild wing of imagination—to strengthen the reflective powers:—the receptive faculties were always sufficient, wonderfully vivid."
               He stopped short, and as he did not resume the topic, I said, aimlessly:
               "Cousin Hermione will live at Callamura when her music is finished: they say she is beautiful as an hour."
               "When did you say she will come?" he vacantly asked.
               "To the wedding, I told you; but if not now, she will come in July, and live with us: Callamura is her home."
               "Her name is Hermione—what?"
               'Hermione Morant. I am very impatient to know her. I crave a sister above all things, and I have enshrined her as such in my heart already."
               "And you say she is beautiful?"
               "So we hear."
               He looked at me keenly, inquisitively:
               "Do you think beauty a desirable gift?"
               "Ofcourse—don't you?"
               We were entering Adaline's residence, a stately dwelling in the prevalent Southern style, defended by a pillared portico, bisected by a broad, airy hall. Flowers and evergreens proclaimed it the abode of wealth and refinement, and at one of the open windows, pure and refreshing as our visit.
               "It has not proved a dangerous one to Adaline, at least," I observed. "I don't think she seems in any danger of being spoiled by her beauty."
               "Fortunately, we all have different conceptions of beauty. One admires her airy style of dream-like grace; another, something more tense and sharply drawn."
               Miss Adaline floated out to greet us, inviting us within, where blazed an almost unnecessary fire.
               "Although it is winter,' she observed, "I threw up the window to air my plants."
               "What would my New Hampshire friends think of an open window the week before Christmas?" commented Mr. Sterne. "Already the snows have veiled vegetation from them for the winter."
               Miss Adaline looked grave. She was one of those unprejudiced persons who have no objection to mingling on terms of friendly sociality with Northerners, and who hoped—nay even believed—that the amenities of Southern society and the charm of Southern manners were such as to deprive them of all latent virulence; but she would prefer not to have her equanimity distrubed by the faintest allusion to their distant hotbed of "isms," where even now could be heard the whispering rumblings of the coming storm.
               This was probably the meaning of that "light shadow on her brow;" but Mr. Sterne, happily unconscious of any such minor preferences, passed on to other themes.
               The wedding, however, was uppermost in Miss Adaline's ears about Mr. and Miss Britt, and Cousin Hermione, and Hubert, and James Conway, the wonderful advents which were destined to uproot poor little Pineville from its original foundations.
               Mr. Sterne became absorbed in some specimens of conchology on the table, and did not interrupt our aimless meanderings of gossip.
               Miss Adaline wiled me to a distant window with some intelligence of the canaries warbling there.
               "Where did you pick up Mr. Sterne?" she half whispered. "He never called but once before."
               
               "We met accidentally on the road," I answered, "and he offered to accompany me to see you."
               Her countenance expressed no further interest, and as we wandered back we met him, hat in hand.
               "Sit longer, Mr. Sterne," she gracefully insisted.
               "I am afraid the holidays will completely dissipate your minds from study," he answered, waiving, however, the invitation.
               "Oh no, indeed. After all the festivities are over we will all settle down and study hard—won't we, Mona? We must have some fun, you know."
               Her innocent-looking countenance was upturned so deprecatingly to our tutor, and shone so ethereally pure and free from stain of earth, that it seemed as if some invisible seraph hovering round must have brushed it with his passing wings.
               My eyes doubtless expressed my admiration, for Mr. Sterne seemed fascinated to them, instead of dwelling on the object of their inspection. Indeed I had never known him observe me so narrowly as he had to-day.
               "Miss Mona is not quite old enough to be drawn into the vortex of society, if indeed it can amount to anything more than an eddy in Pineville; but you," he turned to Miss Adaline, "are more nearly matured, and may be easily seduced from the dry, severe paths of study."
               "Now, Mr. Sterne, I know you think I am not coming back to Pineville Institute any more; but I am. Now, I will have to sit so prim all the time at the wedding," she archly reproached. "I am so sorry you said that! I know you will all the time be commenting on my gayety. I hope you won't be there."
               She saucily pouted. Adaline had the prettiest, most winning little ways in the world—never more winning than when she simulated anger; simulated, for her harmless breast being a total stranger to the reality, its simulation only rendered her more charming and irresistible.
               Mr. Sterne smiled indulgently.
               "I dare say I won't be there," was his reply. "I would as soon dream, however, of crushing song out of one of your canaries as sunshine and gayety from your temperament; and, in fact, sooner desire it. I have no wish to trammel the artless expression of nature in my pupils; but you know that very well. Come, Miss Mona, I will see you home; that is, if you are going now."
               We made our adieux, and I walked down the pavement with our teacher.
               As he held the gate open for my egress, he seemed to enumerate the features of my attire. It was the most decided abandonment of mourning I had yet displayed.
               A delicate tissue of lilac with rose-colored trimmings corresponded with the pink plumes and roses of my hat.
               "I am glad to see," he remarked, "that you have at length emerged from the sable clouds of grief. Fashion is never so cruel as when she darkens the spirits of the young with sepulchral folds of bombazine and crape."
               "It was Cousin Mabel's desire," I responded, "and my dress her choice."
               "She was correct both in judgment and taste. I have often felt tempted to suggest to you that your sable raiment was forming a sarcophagus for your youth; yet I do not know"—he dreamily looked at me—"but that air of utter grief and friendlessness has served to heighten the interest I felt."
               "I did not think," I said, "that I would enjoy wearing colors so much; already my spirits are more elastic and cheerful."
               "Some writer—I forget who," he quoted—"exclaims, 'What are the sorrows of the young? They are like the wounds of a sharp axe on the rind of a sapling of the wood, soon closing over and leaving scarcely a trace behind.' The simile seems to be a perfect one, does it not?"
               "Judeged by the rules of rhetoric, I dare say it is," I assented; "but I am not yet old enough to decide how true it may be."
               "It is not true," he asserted. "The sorrows of youth are the bitterest in life, and leave the most ineradicable traces. The spirits of a child of an imaginative, impressible temperament will imbibe the raven hues of her habiliments in the same proportion as a body is known to absorb the deleterious substances employed in dyeing the material fabrics."
               As we walked along the neat, wide streets of Pineville, bordered with painted white railings, where clumps of oleander and hedges of laurea-mundi embowered rich mocking-birds, cheerily realized the truth of his philosophy.
               It had been many years since sunshine had fallen so clearly and unobstructedly around me. My ribbons seemed in some way to have communicated a fresher glow to all things circumjacent, and my heart felt as light and joyous as the birds that were caroling above us.
               As we reached the school-house—the last building in the town—he laid his hand on he gate.
               "Possibly I had better deny myself—possibly I had better leave you here," he said, wistfully and dreamily gazing at me.
               I was surprised. My eyes fell suddenly on the ground, as they always did at a recitation when I feared I had not conned my task to suit his exacting fastidiousness.
               "You are not afraid to go alone?" he queried, still holding the latch.
               "Not at all," I answered, proudly raising my eyes to encounter his for a moment. "I never knew the emotion of fear in my life."
               "I will accompany you—at least to the enclosure," he irresolutely concluded, following me, for I had partly turned away.
               'Miss Mona, I fear I have presumed this evening upon my position as preceptor."
               There was a slight dash of bitterness, particularly in the enunciation of the word preceptor, and I wonderingly turned on a venturous voyage of discovery round the features of that singularly-shaped head, which I have elsewhere described as reminding me of some bold promontory or rocky headland jutting out defiantly through the air.
               There was a perceptible sneer curling up his wide, mobile lip, and dark cords of emotion corrugating his beetling brows.
               Scarecely, however, had I noted this strange apparition of feeling ere it had vanished, recalling one of Maryatt's graphic descriptions of a flying squall at sea.
               "I have doubtless presumed in extending an acquaintance which should have been strictly confined to the school-room."
               "Why so, Mr. Sterne?" looking, as in fact I felt, very innocently curious.
               He surveyed me with a doubtful, incredulous expression.
               "I am not ignorant," he continued, "that there exists a prejudice in this country, especially among its wealthiest hidalgos, against laborers of all classes, and particularly a contempt for those in the line of pedagogueism."
               The same indescribable sneer, as if he half sympathized himself in this contempt, trembled through this allusion to his vocation.
               I did not contravene his assertion, for although, in our limited family circle, I had never heard anything corroborative rative thereto, yet I thought that possibly it might be true.
               "Still further," he continued, with that distinct, clear enunciation which rendered his conversation like the flow of a musical river, "I think it very probable that any expansion of our acquaintance beyond what is exactly necessary to your advancement in intellectual culture might not prove entirely agreeable to your friends. I am called a Yankee, you know."
               The half-perceptible sneer flushed once more through those words, while his head proudly thrown back, and his broad chest expanded as he drew himself haughtily up, seemed to alter the usual appearance of the man, and conveyed to my mind a new perception of his latent power.
               I looked up inquiringly into his large, flashing eyes, now clearly relieved from the shadow of their hirsute guardians, where I perceived the depths of his spirit troubled.
               I succeeded, too, in discovering what had hitherto eluded me—the color of that strange, changeable iris. I had thought it black or gray; it was of a fine, deep stone-blue color.
               "Yes, I knew you were called one," I replied; "but Cousin Mabel is half Yankee. Yankees are not dangerous, are they?"
               He regarded me so earnestly, as I propounded this silly question, that I threw my eyes on the ground.
               "You fear nothing, you say: then you cannot fear Yankees."
               "Not if they are all like you," I answered, confidently. "I have never been afraid of you; only I would not like to offend you. But are you a Yankee, Mr. Sterne?"
               "Not quite," he answered; "like your cousin Mabel, half-way. But there is Callamura!" he exclaimed, as her snowy architraves broke upon us through the embowering magnolias—"unfortunately for me, the stateliest residence in this region, and her inmates doubtless the haughtiest and most exclusive."
               "Indeed, Mr. Sterne," I earnestly interrupted, "you never were more mistaken in your life. We are somewhat exclusive, but never to merit and culture, and I hope we are not haughty toward any."
               "Well, excuse me now," he said, smiling kindly at me. "Do not forget among the Christmas excitements and wedding festivities that there are such things as Paleys and Legendres."
               He was leaving.
               "Are you not coming?" I cried. "You are surely coming to the wedding?"
               "I think not."
               "Oh! won't you come?"
               My countenance must have revealed the deep disappointment I felt.
               "Is it your desire I should?"
               Impetuously I answered: "Certainly, certainly it is. Who will I have there but you? Mabel will have no time to think of me, she will be so busy; Hubert will be too full of fun; all the rest will be strangers—Miss Britt, and even Cousin Hermione. Oh do come, Mr. Sterne!"
               There rolled a great surge of light over his face us J. pleaded thus.
               I saw he was relenting, and with a childish impulse I caught his arm.
               "Promise me, Mr. Sterne, please, or I shall have to talk all night with old Mrs. Burns, and she is deaf as an adder."
               "You are very childish, Mona, for one of your appearance."
               His words were half reproachful, but they were not endorsed either by his tones or his eyes. The latter were fastened on me—how well I remember it now!—as I stood carelessly clasping his motionless arm, as though they could have gazed there for ever.
               "So you are: you will never be tall; but your movements have all the maturity of womanhood."
               "But I am still a child. I don't wish to be grown, either; and you must always please children, you know? You'll come, won't you, Mr. Sterne?" I triumphantly concluded.
               'Yes, Mona, to please you."
               Why I did not twine my fingers through his hair, as I loved to do through Hubert's—why I did not spring up to his brow and kiss, it, as I liked to Kiss Hubert's—I cannot tell, for the impulse of gratitude was strong enough within me to prompt any such extravagance.
               I suppose, however, my countenance was expressive enough of my delight, for, as I relinquished his arm, his eyes lingered smilingly, feastingly upon it.
               "But I had thought, Mona," he added, "that I had a very good reason for declining."
               I asked what it was.
               "I may be too extreme in my notions," he said, "but I dislike to accept any general invitation to a house where I have not previously received a particular one."
               "Has uncle, then, never invited you to Callamura?" I wonderingly asked. "I have heard him talk of doing so frequently."
               "Never."
               "Oh he is very absent-minded, you have doubtless heard."
               "Yes, I have heard it."
               "Indeed, I thought he must have asked you at some time to call and see us. I have so often heard him say it was his intention, I thought that must have been one of the few things he did remember. He thinks I am learning rapidly."
               "The credit there is not entirely due to the teacher."
               He threw me one of those rare, sweet smiles of approbation which I remembered among my spirit-jewels, and turned away.
               "Good-evening, Miss Mona. Expect me."
               I sprang with a bounding foot within the enclosure, my memory reverberating yet with the wondrously musical modulations of his voice. New wings seemed to have budded forth from my spirit, and all the dim, drear shadows, with which the melancholy groves and graves of Brightvale had unconsciously begirt my childhood, seemed glimmeringly gliding away. A joyous carol half spontaneously burst from my lips—an involuntary epithalamium in honor of Philip and Mabel; and as I placed my foot on the broad stone step of Callamura, I raised my eyes to behold standing in the doorway the living impersonation of sunshine and happy beauty—Hubert, my own matches Hubert!
               "Mona singing?" he coolly remarked, as if we had only parted yesterday. "Will the stars fall, or will the deep sea be torn from his pillars?"
               "Oh, Hubert!' I cried, with a sudden shower of happy tears, springing to his neck and clinging with all the pent-up passions of my nature.
               "I am so glad," I said amid my smothering kisses—"so glad you have come!"
               Not a tear dimmed the beauty of his cloudless eyes, though they sparkled with pleasure.
               "So am I," he answered, shaking back his luxuriant curls, still golden, though it seemed to me of darker shade; "and I am glad to see you looking so well."
               We entered the house, where was uncle, rejoiced at our happy reunion, already electrified by Hubert's return into something more than his usual life.
               Old Armstead was bustling about with uncommon energy, rubbing his hands and demming Venus in his exuberant joy very lavishly about some of the bridal cakes he was anxious for her to hurry up for the bridal cakes he was anxious for her to hurry up for Hubert's gratification. In fact, of the two old men, it was difficult to discover whose eyes most lovingly followed the actions of the fair boy, the bright hope of Callamura.
               Philip was with us, snatching time from Mabel's side to enter into his fresh, sparkling spirits and listen to his interminable flow of jests.
               As I sunk to my dreams that night I thanked the good God of the blue-bended sky for the bright waves of gladness which were overflowing my cup of happiness.
               Hubert once more at my side, fulfilling in his dawning manhood all the glorious promises of youth—his golden curls again near where my restless fingers could wander at will, and his blue, intensely blue flashing around me once more the radiance of heaven and the grace of the rainbow!
               Then, too, came floating through my fading thoughts sweet echoes of Mr. Sterne's marvelously sonorous tones.
               Though, as Hubert had noted, I seldom sang, yet no human ear was ever more keenly gifted than mine in detecting, appreciating and amplifying the existence of natural music, and no spirit ever more luxuriously reveled in its melting glow.
               Every idle word that Mr. Sterne had ever lightly uttered in the school-room had vibrated hauntingly through my soul while bending over my tasks, and, like the swirring bell of some vast musical clock, had seemed to shoe the flying feet of Time with melody.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               THERE was a sufficiently serviceable number of horses in uncle's stable, and a handsome carriage standing there veiled with a purplish-looking India-rubber covering; but as Mabel usually drove out in a buggy with Philip, and as the motion of a carriage was not agreeable to me, it was never drawn out except to favor one of Mrs. Burns' whims, which seldom prompted the dear good old heathen to go to church.
               Indeed, what should she want there? She heard no more than one of the posts, and truly it was all Greek to her.
               It was fair and cloudless the following morning; a few purple clouds hung round the gently undulating hill-bound horizon; the fallow fields, embrowned by the light frost, stretched out fair to view, and the birds were singing in the magnolia branches as ardently and merrily as though it were spring.
               I ties on my hat and drew on my gloves, preparatory to seeking Hubert.
               He made some demurs to undergoing the infliction of one of Mr. Stafford's duller morning he would spend at home, he agreed to accompany me.
               It was a pleasant walk, and delightful to me with my handsome brother at my side. How all the girls would admire him! how they would turn round in church! what bouquets they would have to send him! and a thousand such foolish anticipations, which are foolish, yet constitute the happiness of the heart of youth.
               We chatted gayly along the lane, the soft breeze fanning my cheek and playing among my ribbons, and winding among the loose curls that strayed from under his military cap, while he told me his college scrapes, striving to make himself appear—and they did contribute to make him appear—very mannish and hero-like to my worshiping and entranced fancy.
               "And really, Mona," he suddenly remarked, looking kindly at me, "you will never be beautiful; your nose bids too determined defiance to the rules of art for that, but you are absolutely not ugly.'
               "One beauty in a family is sufficient," I replied.
               "Who are the belles about here?" he abruptly questioned as we neared the town. "Who is they prettiest girl in Pineville? Have you no intimate friends a man might find it worth while to flirt with?"
               "Carrie horn—" I began enumerating.
               "Carrie D—! But there ought to be some pretty girls in as nice a little town as this!"
               "So there are. Miss Adaline Sims is perfectly beautiful."
               "What's her style?"
               "Madonna-like and saintly," I answered, "with blue eyes and real golden tresses.'
               "Not my particular fancy, unfortunately; but I will pitch in on your recommendation. Has she many beaux?"
               "Some people think Mr. Sterne admires her."
               "He is your teacher, isn't he? What sort of a looking man is he?"
               "He parted from me at the gate yesterday. Didn't you see him?"
               "That great, rough-looking carpenter? I thought he must have been tinkering on the fence. He went striding off, winding his stiff, long legs around like a pair of compasses. I'll soon despatch him.
               I could'nt help smiling, Hubert had such a ludicrous way of taking any one off; and really Mr. Sterne did have a stiff way of winding around, though it had never struck me before as resembling a pair of compasses. Still, I could not forbear aiming at hubert's vanity:
               "Dont be too confident: Mr. Sterne is considered very interesting and fascinating when he chooses to be."
               "One stone from a sling could silence such a graceless Goliah for ever," he carelessly laughed.
               "Besides, Miss Adaline is his pupil, and he has the advantage of proximity."
               "Oh, indeed? The difficulties only enhance the value of the prize." He began to seem really interested. "So she is a school-miss?"
               "Yes, but she is about to emerge from the chrysalis state."
               We entered the modest village church, where Mr. Stafford was reading out the time-honored hymn— 
                     
                        "There is a land of pure delight,
                        Where saints immortal reign,"
                     
                  
               
               There was a sufficient number of hymn-books dropped, and a sufficient number of curious, admiring stares directed toward Hubert from the diminutive congregation, to gratify the most exacting pride in a brother, and we quietly sought our seats.
               We had not long enjoyed them, however, before, graceful and noiseless, glided in Miss Adaline, a brown silk dress flowing in wide folds around her, and a blue velvet hat and plumes waving back from the fair summer-time of her countenance.
               
               She placed herself on the side bench of the pew, where Hubert could enjoy the unrestrained blessing of her radiance during the whole sermon, which he evidently seemed disposed to do, to his heart's content, taking without stint the "goods the gods provided."
               She was so near us, too that we could distinctly follow her voice through the Psalms. It was not loud, but very sweet, running through the verses like a clear, thinking little rivulet, only it was occasionally smothered by Mr. Ballard's stentorian voice, who was stationed up in the choir behind the green curtains, evidently for the purpose of tearing the ceiling down, and, if in any manner the Fates would permit, of shaking the house down also. At any rate, this seemed to be the aim and object of his presence there, and I had lived for many months in constant fear and trepidation lest at some unpropitious moment he should accomplish his fell purpose.
               Miss Adaline's post was in the choir likewise, but on this occasion, possibly as a benign condescension to the new arrival, she had preferred to occupy her family pew, it being conveniently contiguous to ours.
               What with Mr. Ballard's singing, accompanied by a very ambitions really of assistants, and the influx of strangers tricked out in some very extraordinary fashions, I think Pineville succeeded on that day in very nearly reaching the seventh heaven of her glory.
               There was Mr. Britt, with a pair of very tight-fitting salmon kid gloves on a pair of rather plump-looking hands, and a shirt collar threatening the immediate amputation of a pair of very red-tinted ears; and there was Miss Britt, dangling some remarkably long curls from the depths of a bonnet that looked as if it mysteriously meditated joining Mr. Ballard in an assault upon the ceiling, and a collar that had the appearance of a small towel folded over her shoulders ders; while not far from them was seated a gentleman I recognized at once, from his likeness to Philip, as Mr. James Conway.
               Mr. Stafford was a dull, inanimate, unimpassioned speaker; still his discourses were sensible, logical, methodically arranged, and convincing to those who loved the cause of Christ.
               Mr. Sterne required an epitome of his sermons from his pupils—a requisition which many nevertheless contrived to evade; but it had ever been my pride to lay on his table every Monday morning my childish and immature condensation of our Sabbath instruction; and I managed to bestow a somewhat divided attention to the words of life.
               After dismissal, I found myself standing at the door face to face with Miss Adaline, Hubert assiduously and judiciously flanking us.
               Her blue eyes floated up innocently and half-inquiringly to his, and with the unceremoniousness of village life I passed an introduction between them, especially as I saw that both parties were equally reconciled to the necessity.
               A radiant smile accompanied her sweet bow, while Hubert, equally charmed, bent eagerly forward.
               "What a long sermon! wasn't it?" she observed to me as we passed down to the gateway—not that any love of faultfinding was harbored in Miss Adaline's gentle disposition, but then, you know, one must have something to say, especially when a gay, dashing young cavalier, cap and shoulder-strap à la militaire, is standing admiringly near, waiting for the ice to be broken in order to prosecute a delightful acquaintance.
               "Mr. Stafford always preaches long sermons," I remarked, willing to further this delightful acquaintance as far as lay in my humble power, "but then I like to hear him."
               "I thought the sermon maliciously short," Hubert significantly contradicted, managing to make a compliment usher in that propitious acquaintance. "I was so charmingly situated that I imagined myself immediately transported to heaven, for I am sure I sat in full view of one of its angels."
               A bright blaze of pleasure darted over Miss Adaline's face at this broad, trite flattery, upon which momentarily fell the shadow of Mr. Sterne's tall, dark figure, and as I turned to bid him good-morning, she was separated from us.
               An instant afterward I saw Hubert springing in her direction, his shoulder-strap diving down after a pocket, handkerchief which she has unconsciously and inadvertently dropped. I halted a moment, awaiting his return, but to my surprise he, with his usual self-possession, had gradually entered into conversation with the captivating Miss Adaline, and was escorting her home, only throwing a hurried look to the spot where I stood; but I thought it seemed more like a gleam of exultation at Mr. Sterne for so swiftly "despatching" him, than filled with any consideration for me.
               "What a boy! I exclaimed. "I suppose he thought I was self-sufficient."
               I turned impatiently off, hastening to overtake some neighbors who lived down our way.
               "Let me," suggested Mr. Sterne, who had stood silently by, observing my desertion—"let me accompany you home."
               "You? Oh I dislike to give you trouble. I will overtake the Hemmingways."
               "Trouble?" he smiled kindly. "I am sure it is only a pleasant walk."
               And we turned down the street, seeking Callamura together again.
               We discoursed of the sermon, and rich strains of thought's deep music rolled from his lips, sowing the seeds of wisdom and reflection in my earnest young soul.
               I had long since lost that shyness of our first acquaintance ance which might prevent me from freely expressing my views and opinions. Especially on æsthetical or ethical themes our intercourse was free and unrestrained. The authors and books I had read he taught me to estimate and to generalize and analyze, and I think he took a pleasure in drawing forth earnest and excited arguments, eliminating what he was pleased to designate the "tangent line" of my peculiar and probably somewhat eccentric views.
               In fact, I have often observed that the discussion of purely literary topics generally serves to do away entirely, in most companies, with any remains of personal embarrassment.
               Mr. Sterne had lent me several volumes of quaint literature, and as they were books I had never heard of before, I knew it was with a view to discover what would be my own unbiased opinion.
               They were printed with the antiquated long s's, which I think must establish the fact that our ancestors were all splendid orthographists, since it requires a very fair knowledge of the language to determine whether the letter should be pronounced as a sibilant or a labial. But I was a good speller, and had triumphantly accomplished the books. Where Mr. Sterne obtained so many literary curiosities from was a puzzle to me. He had several scrap-books, some of them filled entirely with notices of new works clipped from periodicals and papers—some of them, I should have thought, printed half a century ago, for the works themselves had entirely escaped the memory of man.
               He called those scrap-books his "Rolls of Fame," and he had been induced to begin them when a little boy by hearing a sermon preached on the remark of Solomon that "of the making of books there is no end."
               It was amusing as well as instructive to look over these rolls of fame, and discover how many brilliant works, ushered into the world with a tremendous flourish of trumpets, had now sunk into oblivion, becoming somewhere on some deserted shelves the silent property of mice and insects. After reading a very ordinary book of his, he would sometimes point out to me flattering notices it had received from the press at the time of its publication.
               One of the books I had just been deciphering was rather dull and heavy in style, but it was classic and learned, and I thought deserved a fair share of reputation.
               "What, Mona, do you think of that hybrid production?" Mr. Sterne asked.
               Mr. Sterne, "I replied, "I fear my mind is too immature to pronounce judgement on such a learned book as that, but I was interested in it, and I wonder I never heard of it before."
               "Yet it created a sensation when it was published," he remarked. "I think a notice of it runs thus in my memory: 'A new classical romance is just now sweeping across the literary horizon like a brilliant meteor, and dividing somewhat the opinion of the world of literature. Indeed, so anomalous is its nature, and so dazzling its beauty, that its merits have not yet been clearly defined, and its final pedestal in the halls of Fame definitely fixed!" Posterity has determined all that now," he dryly concluded.
               "But, Mr. Sterne, I like the book. I think there is genius in it."
               "Nay, but what then do you think is the sphere of Romance?" he asked. "Is it to crowd the simple portraiture of every-day life with conglomerous fragments of theology, and leave the mind unsatisfied, crammed with sparkling but undefined images and antiquated reminiscences, unnecessary to delineation, and valueless and formless as the shining bits of glass which glitter in a child's kaleidoscope?"
               "Why, Mr. Sterne, the sphere of Romance is a broad one," I said. "It was the mythology of the book I admired."
               "Who are the novelists who survive best the mutations of public taste?"
               "Scott, Dickens—"
               "Miss Austin, Madame D'Arblay, Miss Edgeworth, Bulwer, Cooper, Marryatt, and others of that ilk," he continued. "Are they redundant in mythological display? What is the wonderful charm of Dickens, who is to light literature what Shakespeare is to the drama?"
               "Dickens is true to life," I replied. "His characters dwell in the imagination with all the vividness of old friendships. I fact, few of his readers can realize that they have not actually known Micawber and Steerforth and Miss Mill and dear little Dora."
               "It is astonishing how they fascinate the soul," pursued Mr Sterne. "He personifies, in every character, some leading trait of humanity, and he hammers away at it, beating in thin sometimes, it is true, but the material is of fine gold and malleable. Yes, it is certainly true that human nature, faithfully portrayed, is the valuable art of embalming a volume of romance."
               "Shall we reject all classic ornament, Mr. Sterne, as meretricious?"
               "No, not entirely; but such as is used must be within the comprehension of general readers, strictly applicable to the subject, and sparsely sprinkled. A novel crammed with the classics is like a jewel in a swine's snout, or, more aptly speaking, like mulatto tricked out with diamonds."
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," I could not forbear flashing back at him, "you have imbibed all the old-fogy notions of your Yankee school-books. Shall we banish too from composition the graceful French and the majestic Latin? Utile et non dulce?" I tossed my head somewhat indignantly.
               
               "Above all things, unity must be consulted and preserved," Mr. Sterne composedly pursued. "Classical references are delightful in works where the themes are antique, elevated or sublime; although I am not sure but that they strictly belong to the sphere of poetry. Such works as 'Hypatia,' 'Corinne,' 'The Epicurean,' and 'Telemaque' transport us at once into the atmosphere of ancient literature, and refresh the soul with imaginary pictures of the problematic past, vividly beautiful. But I doubt the propriety of crowning modern edifies with Grecian domes, particularly should the dome prove heavier than the edifice. It was the adornment on it which crushed that book."
               "Tastes are dissimilar, you know," I ventured, but my flow of language was not sufficient to embrace the kindly defence my enthusiasm prompted me to make. "Tastes vary. For my part, I like a style sown thick with classic allusions, and I think they spring up afterward a race of warriors, which defend the future existence of the work from the assaults of oblivion and time."
               "No, indeed," smiled Mr. Sterne. "Learned books are not always those that live. Too many abstruse authors, delving deep in the ancient quarries, have perished disastrously there, while such works as the 'The Vicar of Wakefield,' 'Don Quixote,' 'Evelina' and 'Cecilia,' by simply copying the universal attributes of human nature, bid fair to withstand the future as they have the past."
               Is it possible, Mr. Sterne," I asked, "that a writer can revel in classic literature and fail to exhibit his stores, no matter what the theme he chooses? Like the maiden in the fairy tale, rose-buds and jewels will drop from his pen?"
               "Yes, Mona, that is all true. I admire that book somewhat myself, too; there is some genius there. But you and I are both cultivated persons. Uncommon, isolated facts only serve to communicate to us a pleasurable activity of mind, while to the great majority of readers they present a formidable barrier to the interest of the story; and as the same obscure mythology is preserved elsewhere in compendiums and dictionaries, I think its useless array is what stifled that work."
               "You cannot say that of the other novel," I replied. "Beautiful and dreamy as it is, there is not mention of Saturn, father of all the heathen gods, in it. It is all modern."
               Whose book that was I have very little idea or remembrance now. I think it must have been a contemporary of Mrs. Sherwood or Mrs. Hofland, but it certainly emanated from as splendid an imagination as Maturin's if in fact that was not its direct source.
               "No," replied Mr. Sterne. "There is genius there of a very high order, but unhappily ill-directed. The drapery of adornment is so gorgeous that it rather veils than lends beauty to the characters. Besides, I fear they are unnatural. They do not stand out in bold, decided lines, with true dramatic effect. They are not recognized by the heart as bearing any resemblance to every-day life. Therefore, as it was not founded on those broad principles of humanity which have been necessary to the perpetuation of similar works, it has perished."
               "No," Mr. Sterne," I cried, "it has not perished: some pious hand will yet revive its deceiving fame. There are fine strokes of satire and touching bursts of pathos abounding in those pages, and it seizes hold of the mind with a powerful sway that nothing but genius, undoubted genius, could accomplish. There is a fine bust of Socrates, Mr. Sterne, sitting in Uncle's library. I suppose it is a good one for it has an ugly enough nose, and there is nothing attractive or captivating about it; yet because it is the representation of an actual character, you surely would not place it as work of art above the diadem-crowned statue of the heavenly Venus Urania, with her large, languishing eyes thrilling even from stone the breasts of mortals?"
               Mr. Sterne was looking earnestly at me, and I swept on, gathering strength from the sound of my own voice.
               "Creatures of the imagination, Mr. Sterne, may be so beautifully drawn and so brilliantly colored as to acquire in out hearts a local habitation and a name. Neither can I agree with you as to the banishment of classical illustration from the sphere of Romance. There was a time when novels themselves were an innovation in the arena of letters, and the daring hand which would weave into every-day life in the New World all the perished beauty of the Old, and cement the bright union with the affluence of exhaustless genius, would also inaugurate a new era."
               "Mona, Mona!" Mr. Sterne repeated, gazing delightedly upon my excited countenance as I thus found partial expression for my struggling thoughts, "what powers! what powers!"
               Whether it was that personalities in out intercourse had the effect of restoring my uncomfortable shyness, or that I blushed with a dim suspicion that I had won the honor of vanquishing my preceptor in the argument, I do not know, but I found no further encomiums on the writers in question.
               The weather stood me hand. I remarked it would change, and we would have a cold night for the wedding.
               "Oh, Mona, Mona," Mr. Sterne proceeded, regardless of my digression, "take care how you use the wonderful faculties with which you are endowed. I see the wayward flash of genius in your eye, and I look forward with trembling to what may be your future. So many of the laurel-crowned have drunk of bitter streams! Use your bright powers in the broad sphere of Christianity, and sanctify your genius to the elevation of humanity."
               "Do you think it possible," I turned in pure amazement toward him—"Do you think it possible that I could ever be laurel-crowned, Mr. Sterne? I never felt any inclination to become an author."
               "That time has not yet dawned upon you,"he replied; "but you are gifted—gifted bounteously, Mona. I have never trained a pupil with such pleasure; only do not suffer your faculties to flag. Every succeeding step but opens a broader, fairer view."
               My checks glowed with pleasure at this unqualified praise, yet I felt it was not entirely my just due.
               The opinion of the Institute had long been divided as to whether Adaline or myself was entitled to the honor of being his special favorite. Adaline being beautiful and fully grown the rumor had obtained foothold that marriage might possibly be in contemplation, while in my case the amiable ingenuity of school-girls had attributed a fawning recognition of the fact that Callamura was the handsomest residence in the vicinity and ours the wealthiest family.
               "You know, Mr. Sterne," I modestly began, "that the scholars say you are partial to Adaline and myself."
               "Do they say that?" he quickly inquired.
               "Yes" I pursued, "and I know you have taken great pains with me. I have thanked you very much, for I knew it was because I was an orphan; but I must not allow you to overrate my powers, not to tremble for a future I shall never realize. I do not think I am the germ of an authoress. You think I have progressed rapidly," I continued, "but you do not know how hard I have had to study. To win your approbation has been my great object in life—to please you and have you praise me as my mother did. But I am utterly devoid of ambition to win a name, and, besides, dislike a sedentary life too much to voluntarily adopt it, even if I had the powers of a Shakespeare of a Byron."
               Mr. Sterne regarded me with an amused expression:
               "What else do the school-girls say?"
               "They say—Shall I tell you all?" Encouraged by his smile, I went on: "They say that Mr. Sterne is fascinated by Miss Adaline's winning, 'dream-like grace,' and will doubtless endeavor to pass the balance of his life surrounded by its benign influence."
               "She is indeed beautiful as a wild flower," he remarked, "whose sweetness one cannot help inhaling, without a wish, however, to transplant it. But I had no idea such things were said."
               We stood at Callamura's stately gateway.
               "Come in, Mr. Sterne," I pleaded; "do come in and sit a while; our conservatory is in full glow."
               But he hesitated.
               "Come dine with us."
               The warmth of my invitation seemed to please him, as he halted a few moments on the colonnade steps; nevertheless he declined it.
               "No, not till after the wedding. Then I will come out sometimes and see my faithful little pupil. I am expecting a new music-teacher from the city. Did you know it?"
               She was a mademoiselle de Boisseau, he stated, and, I was glad to learn, promised to prove a fine acquisition to Pineville Institute, as I had never been able to make much progress under the present administration of music.
               As he was departing the recreant Hubert arrived, and I presented them to each other, which they acknowledged in the usual manner, and Mr. Sterne passed down the walk.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               MISS BRITT certainly conveyed a very striking representation of Eternity. I had seen the immortal length of her curls while she was sitting down in the pew at church, but long as they were, they conveyed a very inadequate idea of the magnificent distances which she otherwise presented. Her eyelashes made desperate efforts to sweep down to the tip of her nose; the nose bridged down to the teeth; the teeth were evidently artificial extracted from the equine family; her chin rested on her bow-shaped breast—the back forming the are of the bow; her long, tapering waist as considerably longer than her skirts, and her skirts were endless.
               As if she delighted, too, in preserving the unities, her songs were the longest that mortal poet ever composed in the longest days of summer. She had hot fairly finished Moore's "Fly to the Desert," before she launched on Diamond's "Sailor Boy," and burnt him up in fifty or sixty stanzas of flaming music."
               But of all her lengths, her arms were beyond doubt the most extraordinary; yet with her elbows crooked down to the level of the piano-stool, and her wrists crooked up to the level of the music-rest, she contrived to fashion them into a very remarkable pair of Z's, that rattled across the keys with an agility curiously surprising to the beholder.
               Mr. Britt adhered, more philosophically, to the average standard of humanity, and with the exception of looking rather younger than one felt authorized to expect from the brother of such a superlative sister, was allowed to have passed muster very creditably.
               They had just called on the bride-elect, and we stood behind the pillars in the saloon watching their departure; old Armstead balancing a streaming fly brush of peacock's feathers, with which he had been giving some finishing touches to the house on this the final day of preparation.
               "She's as long as this ere fly-brush," said the old man, balancing it a moment on his hand, then tripping across the floor, dragging it along in an amusing imitation of her manner that made Hubert roar heartily. "I'm drot if her legs ain't as long as Miley Bright."
               "She's certainly the longest maid in all Illyria," Hubert assented.
               "I'm drot if she ain't carrying off the gate!" cried the old man, pointing down the pavement, where, true enough, she had chosen to emerge through one of the side pannels, seldom used; and though she had not succeeded in carrying off the arch overhead, it had succeeded in carrying off some of her plumes and a profusion of ringlets, that might have ensured her the fate of Absalom, if, luckily, the original possessor of them had not doubtless lain under ground for some years.
               Mr. Britt, however, by climbing up the joints of the gate, succeeded in releasing the spoils of the catastrophe, and they made good their retreat.
               After we had enjoyed as much diversion as the occasion seemed to justify, Armstead remembered it was time for him to hunt up soap and water for uncle's benefit, and Hubert and I sought the old man in his library, where he was usually to be found immersed in the perusal of Galen, Zimmerman, Winklemann, Foressli, Buffon, and such philosophic and pathnogmonical writers, surrounded by charts of the human frame, and various petrified and ossified specimens of the different genera of animal creation.
               It was in this room stood the marble bust of Socrates which I had mentioned to Mr. Sterne. It was flanked by one of Dr. Johnson, and on the other side by one of Cæsar. The room contained also a mysterious glass case, covered by a dark blue curtain, which I had once nearly frightened myself to death by uplifting and finding behind a ghastly skeleton!
               It was an apartment dedicated to science and reflection, and not very often used by the family, save that sometimes I glided in for a book, careful not to disturb uncle when he seemed wrapped in his brown studies.
               It was situated in the rear of the building—a wing on the side of the drawing-rooms which served to shelter the conservatory; and it communicated with his bedroom by the same passage that divided the conservatories from the parlors. The uses of those large columns rising in the centre of Callamura's immense saloon-like hall I had discovered to be for the support of fire-places above, where the corresponding space was divided into comfortable chambers.
               Those suites of rooms up stairs had been in former times fitted up for the use of the Marquis Morant's family but uncle's family being small, we had always preferred the other side of the house, where the apartments were more cozy and home-like. But on this occasion they were opened and appropriated to the bridal festivities, and I had wandered through them in their gay modern luxuriousness without any remembrance of the silly ghost-stories with which servants, especially negroes, are so apt to people large, unoccupied galleries.
               Hubert came bursting into the library with an amusing account of Miss Britt's appearance and disaster.
               
               "Uncle," he concluded, "she's as long as the Atlantic cable."
               Uncle would listen delightedly to all the boy's exuberance of fun and frolic, yet he seemed always called on in some way to throw some dash upon its effervescence. Possibly he trembled lest it were too bright, too sparkling, and the frail vessel that held it would shiver from its own tension.
               "Boy," he said, "do you not remember that you speak of one formed in the image of our Maker—in the image of our Maker? Always remember that when you speak lightly of any one—especially of a lady—and you will not be so much inclined to ridicule."
               "Uncle," said Hubert, demurely smiling, "I have never seen but one representation of the Creator, accomplished by some daring artist in the pages of your Chateaubriand. He is represented there as a Diety enthroned in clouds, majestic and glorious; his arm resting on a globe, a triangle of light over his head, surmounted by the Holy Dove; and indeed you must pardon me if I say I cannot believe any lady—especially such a geometric straight line as Miss Britt—was fashioned after that likeness."
               "Incorrigible!" exclaimed uncle, looking at him through his spectacles a moment before he submitted to Armstead's manipulations. "Nevertheless you should entertain a reverence, boy, for the image of your Maker."
               "Uncle," suddenly propounded Hubert," do you not think golden hair the mot suitable material for weaving a watch-chain?"
               "I should think so; but what now? what now?"
               "Because I am in need of one, and I am meditating securing one of Miss Adaline Sims' ringlets for that purpose."
               "Hubert," the old man said, "I fear you are an incorrigible gible trifler too. Take care what you do child. Dr. Sims is one of my best friends—a clever gentleman—a man of fine acquirements, too; only I fear too much inclined to the Eclectic school—too much inclined that way, I fear."
               "Trifler!" echoed Hubert. "I swear I think Miss Adaline the prettiest little speck of sunshine I've seen in long time. A man might travel a long ways and see nothing so fair. I would court her to-morrow morning, or rather to-night—"
               "Hubert," I cried, "you are ridiculous. You know nothing about Miss Adaline; and, besides, you are too young to think about marrying anybody."
               "A man may talk love, I suppose—a man may begoile a girl a little," he replied energetically, half shutting his eye at me, which made me smile, "if he is wicked enough to be young; and I suppose he may marry her when he become virtuous enough to be old."
               "But your acquaintance is so slight, Hubert: besides, there's no necessity for such expedition."
               "Slight? Don't I know her now as well as you do? What woman is ever a correct judge of another? I only want to see the face, and hers is all soul and feeling."
               "Yes," I admitted, "unless you construe soul to comprehend the mental faculties."
               "Look here, Mona!" he interrupted me, half shutting his eye queerly at me again. "The Mohammedans were about half right—women have no necessity for souls; and as for mental faculties, they are a modern invention and a decided incumbrance."
               "Miss Adaline is far from deficient, Hubert, understand me."
               "Oh, I understand. She has the face of an angel, to which a man might make love all day; and if marriage should fortunately or unfortunately supervene, and it should be discovered to belong to a soul or a mind, why there would be so much clear gain; and if not, why there would be no loss—that is clear."
               "Hubert," I went on, for we had now no listener but Armstead, who, I knew, was Hubert's "confidential man," uncle having fallen into one of his reveries—"Hubert, reflect well on what you do. Miss Adaline has a very confiding, affectionate, lovely disposition; she is perfectly guileless and truthful. Be sure of yourself, Hubert; remember Carrie Horn!"
               His face turned scarlet. He glanced quickly up at Armstead, who only shook his grizzly old head, and, shutting his teeth firmly together, said,
               "Not me—not me."
               He had sent Miss Carrie some nosegays and notes, which fact I did not then know.
               "I know nothing about your affairs with her, Herbert, but I know you were flattered by her preference; and as Adaline is my friend, I wish you to follow uncle's advice, and take care what you do."
               "As for Miss Adaline, I think she is angelic and divine: as for Carrie Horn, I didn't know who she was, though I could see very well she was as homely as a freckle-face could well be." And the boy rushed out, strewing his laughter along the saloon.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               CALLUMURA gleamed under her majestic magnolias like some enchanted palace, hundreds of colored lanterns flashing though the shubberies, and the large tropical stars of a moonless night sparkling through a clear, frosty atmosphere upon her alabastrian architraves.
               Within, the chandeliers were flaming under their weight of wax and spermaceti, brilliant fires blazing on the hearths, and flowers and evergreens twining around portraits and mirrors, and trailing from vases and flower-stands in every permissible locality.
               The carriage were beginning to sweep past the porter's lodge, and Cousin Mabel was sedulously interested in arranging the programme of the ceremony.
               No Hermione had arrived. Hubert and Miss Adaline seemed resigned to their fate as one pair of attendants, James Conway and Miss Britt were awkwardly enough yoked together for another, and it was only through strenuous persuasions that I escaped falling to the tender mercies of Mr. Britt, by representing to Mabel my extreme youth, the inconvenience of having either two couples on one side opposite to one, or a couple flanking the bride and groom and in danger of being confounded with them.
               Delighted with my freedom, I ran down into the drawing-rooms, which were nearly filled with the assembled guests awaiting the grand entrée. I wore a white silk tissue sue, with crimson ribbons streaming from my waist and securing a pure white japonica in my hair. My spirits rose in happy accordance with the brilliant scene around me, and my cheeks flushed with excitement.
               The splendidly-arrayed bridal party glided in, robed in pearly whiteness, and the silent hush of expectation fell upon every heart.
               Herbert stood on his cousin's side, radiant with beauty and bursting manhood; all his sterner graces gently softened and singularly mirrored back by the gentle maiden on his arm.
               Uncle stood refulgent in broadcloth, with a slight sprinkling of rejuvenescence—a triumphant attestation of Armstead's skill—prepared to bestow the sweet bride be had reared at his hearthstone.
               And Mabel! how lovely she looked in her marble-like pallor, not a shade of variance between the pearl-hued moiré-antique and her fair, serene, almost expressionless countenance!
               There came a tightening around my heart as the ceremony proceeded and my eyes rested on her downcast brow, so pale, so almost spectral-like, gleaming though the silvery veil.
               Wild terrors shot through my brain as, from gazing so intently on the same object possibly, some vague mesmeric trace seized hold of my senses, and the bridal throng melted dimly off into undefined mists, and only Mabel's white face went floating helplessly down a sea of blood!
               I shut my eye on the horrid vision, or rather fleeting fancy, broken speedily by the movements of the crowd pressing forward to offer their congratulations.
               "What is the matter, Mona?" inquired Mr. Sterne, touching my arm, which I had unconsciously pressed across my heart. "You look ill."
               I had not observed his proximity.
               "Nothing," I answered, recovering my balance at once and forgetting immediately this strange hallucination in my anxiety to receive the first kiss.
               Mabel received me with a happy smile, and Philip with his usual cordial grace of manner.
               The round of gayeties commenced, and after I had excited my best powers towards dutifully performing the part of hostess in so far as upon me devolved, I seated myself on a divan near old Mrs. Burns, watching the revolutions of various partners, and occasionally replying to some of her queries, though I entertained my doubts if she derived any benefit therefrom. She was perfectly bewildered by the scene, and her usual string of proverbs for the nonce somewhat slackened.
               Hubert I had scarcely seen since the ceremony; only every now and then I caught a glimpse of his golden curls waving very sociably near Miss Adaline's. I knew what immeasurably soft nothings he was "begoiling" her with, as he had expressed it.
               Mr. Sterne suddenly seated himself near me.
               "I see you have fallen into that purgatory you so much dreaded," he remarked, "and I am come to your relief."
               "I am much obliged to you," I replied; "I am sure I had always rather talk to you than any one else. In fact, in such a scene as this I feel tongue-tied, and can find nothing to say, especially to strangers. I have been just looking at all this chattering crowd and conjecturing as to what give rise to so much volubility."
               "Possibly they all have the advantage of you in a companion." He shyly nodded at my deaf old duenna, and to my dismay that enterprising individual poked her head back, returning his look with a smile of recognition, and replying to his supposed remark;
               
               "Yes, sir; so I tell Mona—pretty is as pretty does she'll set the river on fire yet!"
               Mr. Sterne looked amazed, and I had to stuff my handkerchief in my mouth to prevent laughing.
               Mr. Sterne, fixing his eyes upon her, however, in the bewilderment of his dilemma, bowed very courteously and solemnly, to which the old lady, leaning over quite confidentially, returned:
               "Mona says she's over young to marry yet, but I tell her it was the early bird that caught the worm. Fast bind, fast find, you know; and the girl that goes through the canebrake will pick up a crooked reed at last."
               Mr. Sterne's blank astonishment and Mrs. Burns' delighted complacency were too much for my tottering equilibrium, and I leaned back, indulging in the heartiest laugh I had ever enjoyed.
               "Mr. Sterne," I cried as soon as I could recover myself,
               "I shall die, I shall die, if you don't quit looking at her! Do quit; she imagines you are saying something, and replies at random."
               I rose to my feet. "Let us seek the conservatory," I said, meditating escape.
               A faint smile broke over his face as the ludicrousness of the incident dawned upon him, and he followed me, giving, however, the strange old soul one parting glance of curious observation, to which she kindly smiled and launched after us a final saw.
               "Young folks don't know it," she sagely remarked, "but a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
               Mr. Sterne joined me this time in my merriment.
               "I am not surprised," he commented, "that you flinched from such companionship as that."
               "It is generally of that description," I returned. "She is perfectly deaf. but so garrulous that she infers a remark from the expression of your countenance, and daringly coins her replies accordingly."
               "Still, her advice is good, and in a few years you might do well to heed it. It will certainly steer you clear of flirtation, where so many beautiful barques have been wrecked."
               "Yes, when I am seventeen—eighteen—twenty—I suppose, like everybody else, I will fall in love; and then suppose, after all, I shouldn't win him, would I die of a broken heart, Mr. Sterne?"
               "Win whom?" he looked gravely at me.
               "Why the person whom I am destined to worship with all my heart."
               "Have you no idea who he is?"
               "How should I know? I have never met him yet; besides I am too young to more than speculate about love. But I have a foreshadowing that I am to be unfortunate in that too."
               "If you are, Mona," he seriously answered, "I hope your mind will by that time be so equally balanced as to sustain you through the trail. None but weak minds meet death from broken hearts."
               "I will come to you for counsel," I confidingly said. "You know me better than any one else, and I believe I love you best of all the world—next to Hubert."
               Mr. Sterne looked strangely at me as I thus innocently informed him in almost the same breath that I did and I did not love him; but, perfectly unconscious of the puzzle I was presenting him, I carelessly gathered some brilliant cacti blooming around us, and, handing them to him, led the way back to the parlor.
               But I looked at love as a very distant and mysterious thing. None of this waves had as yet ruffled the happy breast of my childhood, and I would have been very much surprised that any should have connected the idea of it with me. With the mind of a woman I combined the unimpassioned artlessness of girlhood, which, to the eye of suspicion, might have worn the appearance of consummate art.
               Indeed, I can now recall many occasions when my conduct must have been inexplicable to Mr. Sterne, since he was not possessed of the facts which rendered him so important a feature in my existence. He knew nothing of the great blank of companionship offered to me by the imposing grandeur of Callamura—Mrs. Burns' deafness, uncle's reveries, Hubert's absence, and his volatility when present; only Mabel left to me, and she the satellite of Philip.
               I remember well how curiously he seemed surveying me there in the dim-lighted conservatory among the fuchsias and japonicas, surveying me from head to foot, as if he said, "Is this a woman or a child?"
               As we passed through the passage we met a cold rush of a "norther."
               "How cold it is!" he remarked. "How came you in the midst of May weather to prophecy so accurately of this Iceland spell? They say it is the first time ice has appeared here for many years."
               "It has come in the nick of time," I replied, "for Mabel's creams. Frozen cream is not a very common dish in this clime. It will remind you of your New Hampshire home."
               "Nay, but you have not yet answered my question," he persisted, gazing at me with a sweet, dreamy smile hovering round his lips.
               "The wind sings a low song on the east side of the hill," I answered, "which ever fails to prelude a 'norther.' I caught its first note as we stood on the colonnade."
               "But I must not forget a beautiful bouquet," I added, "which I arranged for you and left on my toilette. I must give it to you before you leave. I am so glad you came, Mr. Sterne."
               "You do not know," he replied, "how dearly I prize your flowers. You are so generous with them. I forgot to tell you, Miss Mona," he suddenly broke off, "that I heard a whole phalanx of young beaux mustering up courage to make your acquaintance. There they stand. Mrs. Burns would be delighted to see you sweeping in such prizes. I dare say."
               I happened just then to turn my head on a backward glance into the conservatory, where I saw Hubert's fair hair bending gracefully down over Adaline's little hand, evidently the recipient of a kiss.
               When I looked back into the drawing-room a sudden hush had fallen on the crowd, and uncle was leading in, leaning on his arm, certainly the most splendid type of womanhood that had ever dawned even upon my dreams of fancy. A stray waif of the perfume of magnolias floated in the room with her. An air of pride, even a stray return of youth, had replaced the old man's usual listless abstraction; an uncommon nervous energy horizontalized his drooping brows, whence his eyes flashed out clearly and proudly upon his guests, as be evidently enjoyed the surprise he was giving them.
               Decidedly tall and Juno-like in her tread, as she swept in the door, several feet of white satin trailed upon the tapestried floor; a costly tiara of diamonds flashed on the classic brow, and, extending to the rear, confined the profuse braids of her chestnut hair. Diamonds begirt her faultlessly rounded throat, sparkled in her ears and glittered on her bare arms, depending with all the matchless repose and symmetry of sculpture.
               In nothing does self-possession more conspicuously manifest itself, and thorough high-bred case, than in that particular ticular, though possibly criticism may have generally taken cognizance of the fact. A beautiful arm may lose much of its grace by the nervous play of its muscles cognizant upon the mind's non-composure.
               Hers hung there white and motionless, marvels of purity of elegance—an accordant feature of the lady's perfect self, and not a restless, characterless adjunct.
               Her eyebrows swept in dark horizontal beauty over her forehead as her bright, clear eyes took in the assembled grace and chivalry of Pineville. Her nose was commanding yet perfectly elegant.
               Radiant, glowing, all entrancing as she appeared, there suddenly, strangely passed through my mind a quivering remembrance of the proudest name that has yet arisen among the sons of Eve.
               Julius Cæsar, standing at the Rubicon, beaming in the flush of peerless manly beauty, conscious himself of the wondrous divinity within him which could charm the wind and waves of ocean to respect the barque which bore the fortunes of Cæsar—Julius Cæsar, proud, ardent, intellectual, great in all things, almost a god, far more than man, yet a divinity only pagan, rose in some unaccountable manner to my imagination as I surveyed the statuesque perfection before me.
               I have often observed that the first view of a countenance will sometimes present to us a phase of thought, or a cast of expression, or a mould of resemblance belonging to some other individual, so striking as to impress for all future time the memory, yet so subtle as ever afterward to escape the closest scrutiny.
               Whether it was that there was some stray approximation in the lines of her physiognomy to those of the bust of Cæsar in the library, or something in the self-possessed attitude of that brilliant woman which seemed to portray the conscious powers of a ruler, I cannot tell. I only know that when I saw her I remembered some striking picture I had somewhere seen or read of the crossing of the Rubicon.
               Uncle was presenting her to some of his friends.
               "It is Cousin Hermione!" I divined, and plunged through the crowd to gain her side.
               Dr. Sims and Mr. Stafford, and several other old friends of the family, were shaking hands, one after another, with her, but as I neared her side some one mentioned my name to her.
               She put out her hand, covered with jewels, which I raised to my month with one of my fervent kisses.
               Gracefully she reached out the other, and, yet half coldly, it seemed to me, she laid it among my thick masses of hair.
               "My little cousin Mona, is it?" She parted her lips round her snowy teeth in a radiant yet some way mechanical smile. "Not so very little either; but I have come to bear you away, little one?"
               At that moment I felt that I could willingly accompany her to the ends of the earth.
               I realized how immensely superior to all our surroundings was her unruffled city-bred serenity, and my impulsive village ways began very sensibly to subside into something like petrifaction.
               Mabel and Philip had greeted her warmly. Philip, crowned with that kingliness of nature which rendered him an ornament to any circle, and Mabel with her heaven-born serenity, which no combination of circumstances could disarray, presented, doubtless, even to her practised eye, very little margin for criticism, even though sweeping along the limited eddy of village life
               Hubert came dashing up, unawed as usual, in his joyous self-satisfaction:
               "Our fair cousin, Hermione! A happy welcome to Callamura! You have truly stolen a march upon us, coming in at the eleventh hour; but, as the poet has justly remarked, 'Time's noblest offspring is his last.'"
               Cousin Hermione glanced quietly up at the handsome youth who thus offered tribute at her shrine—gracefully and readily as any city Lothario. She doubtless drew the inference that the metal rang pure enough for her acceptance.
               But Hubert was just then swimming, to use his own expression, in a "sea of golden syrup," and scaling the gates of that seventh heaven where his blue-eyed Adaline beamed in her angelic loveliness.
               Hermione had quietly but graciously accepted his gallant cousinly civilities as the righteous die to one accustomed to adoration; but if she had founded thereon any expectation of their continuance, she was destined to disappointment, for his charmed spirit was soon hovering again around those bewitching novelties of soul and feeling he had discovered in Adaline.
               I lingered at her side, listening to her plans for our departure, which she wished to take place to-morrow, or at least the day after. Madame Sévigne was her acme of all that was excellent or sublime in a teacher, and as she dazzled my fancy with delineations of the splendid and happy times her pupils enjoyed, I felt my spirit's wings unfolding for a gorgeous flight from Callamura.
               A pale, weakly little woman had glided in almost unnoted in her train, clad in a nondescript style of some uncertain hue, to whom I had been introduced as M'lle de Boisseau, Mr. Sterne's new assistant. They had traveled from the city together, and, arriving after the ceremony, had unobserved had their trunks carried up the back way to a spare chamber, whence, after a rapid toilet, they had issued upon our astonished vision.
               M'lle do Boisseau, on appeal, corroborated all of Hermione's mione's glowing accounts of Madame Sévigne's institute, enacting very beautifully, I thought, the character of Echo. Occasionally she contrived, by way of variety to cite Miss Hermione as a fair specimen of the wonderful advantages enjoyed there.
               Mr. Sterne, finding his new colleague arrived, came forward to welcome her, and some one prevailed on Hermione to preside at the piano.
               In the course of conversation it leaked out some way that I belonged to the music-class, when the new teacher turned her faded little features toward me, reminding me of a line piece of flowered India muslin having been subjected to the influence of tremendously strong soap, and they seemed to have imbibed some sudden interest in me from that circumstance.
               Hermione's powerful voice swept through the apartment, her fingers mastering the instrument with such skill that I wondered how she could imagine any further instructions necessary, when in one of the interludes M'lle de Boisseau gently turned round and addressed me:
               "You see what a fine finish Miss Morant has received at Madame Sévigne's. You don't often see such a touch now-a-days. I was her music-teacher there—an advantage, of course, you will lose, my dear, if you leave Pineville."
               I suppose she thought by my silence I was duly impressed with the significance of that fact, for she continued:
               "Miss Morant was an especial favorite with Madame Sévigne; all of her scholars do not speak so rapturously of the establishment. The discipline is very severe—especially to the friendless. I must say there is partiality and dissatisfaction."
               Her lips closed down like a pair of scissors and left me bewildered.
               Alfred Sims, with whom I was acquainted, came seeking me for supper. Mr. Sterne carried in M'lle de Boisseau, and I saw that James Conway had succeeded in escaping from his Maypole partner and was leading in our brilliant cousin.
               They formed the cynosure of the evening, he being, I thought, even handsomer than Philip—not so much inclined to embonpoint and a trifle taller.
               Hubert dashed by me with Adaline, throwing me one of his mocking looks.
               "Take care! The gyascutus are loose. Zaccheus and the sycamore tree—have you seen them?" he half whispered.
               Turning in the direction of his glance, I saw rising in superhuman proportions at my side the civilized giantess, Miss Britt, and, dangling on one of her arms, little Mr. Ware, struggling to keep on his feet as he shuffled his way through the "unfeeling crowd."
               I could but smile at the strange figure they cut; but my attention was soon attracted to the demands of M'lle de Boisseau's extraordinary appetite. She had evidently been keeping fast some time, for Mr. Sterne, a large man, not very dextrous on such occasions, had the misfortune of knocking down several pyramids of confections and smashing various salvers of jellies and Charlotte Russes before all the requirements of the pressing exigencies could be met.
               I was busied myself in thrusting her divers platters of oysters and pickles and cold turnkey, which she seemed to accommodate on one side of her mouth, while the other was dedicated especially to Mr. Sterne and his sweetmeats. Mrs. Burns was standing opposite to us dishing out coffee, and seeming to enjoy her progress with a genuine delight, thinking it all doubtless a disinterested tribute to her matchless accomplishments.
               Every few minutes she would pass Mr. Sterne across the table a sandwich on a tray, or a something that would necessitate the knocking down of another confection or the upsetting of a decanter at least.
               Alfred Sims, finding that the services of the trio already engaged were not sufficient to accomplish the grand sum-total required, benevolently started off in pursuit of slices of bridal-cake, which had been assaulted for the fateful ring.
               Mr. Sterne and myself and Mrs. Burns continued, however, our most strenous exertions in M'lle de Boisseau's behalf during his absence, Mrs. Burns generously throwing in, by way of condiment, some very inapproprate proverbs.
               We had the satisfaction of perceiving at last that our unremitting effort in the cause of suffering humanity were crowned with at least a partial success. I could perceive a slight cold perspiration beginning to gather around the woman's nostrils, which she wiped away with her handkerchief, and the movements of the muscles of mastication and deglutition became decidedly more leisurely and relaxed.
               Alfred returned armed with several huge slices of the bridal-cake, which, being three feet in diameter, afforded a very large hiding-place for the ring.
               Amid the usual jests on such occasions, the rest of us began breaking up our pieces into fragments, to discover if we might be the favorites—or the victims, as one may construe it—of Fortune.
               "No ring for me," I cried.
               There was a buzz up at the other end of the table. It came buzzing down: some one said that Adaline had found it.
               But in the midst of it all there rose a sudden shriek, a cry of alarm from M'lle de Boisseau.
               
               Her head was thrown back—the woman was choking!
               Unfortunate Alfred!
               The slice of cake she had taken contained the "Old Maid's Dime," and she had attempted to bolt it.
               Fortunately, however, for all parties concerned, it soon came spluttering back, accompanied by a very handsome set of vulcanite teeth.
               Alfred and myself were both convulsed with laughter, as any young persons would have been, at the incident; even Mr. Sterne's grave countenance, I thought, bore a twinkle of merriment, though of course we were all too polite to allow her to observe it.
               The look of concentrated rage and mortified vanity she cast at Alfred would certainly have annihilated him had he not been panoplied with laughter. I think she made the discovery that moment that he was the "triflingest young man in all Pineville."
               He made the humblest apologies imaginable, and soon slunk away to the farther end of the table, where the gayety of the house seemed concentrated.
               From the bursts of laughter from a dozen young voices, Hubert's predominating, which soon assailed our ears, I knew he was relating the joke of the occasion to appreciative listeners.
               He returned with some of his young friends, to whom he introduced me, and we made our escape from M'lle de Boisseau's wrathful visage.
               I had a full view of that young lady's appearance two or three times afterward during the evening, and any apprehensions I might have entertained as to the damaging effects of her inconceivable supper were entirely laid to rest by the restored placidity of her countenance and the remarkable agility of her movements.
               I had anticipated something of a dropsical tendency, in show, at least; but, to my great relief and astonishment, this woman, who had only struck me at her arrival as rather thin and lank, presented the appearance after her remarkable supper of being absolutely cavernous and gaunt!
               When the guests were beginning to disperse, I found myself near the door, Mr. Sterne standing near me with his hat in his hand.
               "You have forgotten my flowers."
               I thought his smile was tinged with sadness. He was passing through the door:
               "Good-bye, Mona."
               "Oh wait, Mr. Sterne," I cried; "you must have them. Don't go!"
               Quick as thought I flew to my room and soon returned with the geraniums and rosebuds.
               They were half frozen.
               "As they are your last gift," he said, turning them over in his hand, 'I shall prize them. M'lle de Boisseau tells me you will probably leave in the morning."
               A great sense of sorrow swept over me as I suddenly realized all that I lost. To go comprised the loss of Mr. Sterne: this I had not calculated. Oh I could not, I could not leave Mr. Sterne!
               "No, no," I cried; "I cannot, cannot go!"
               "Stay, Mona," he answered, huskily, wringing my hand a moment and passing down the colonnade; and all the bright visions that Hermione had conjured up of my future happiness in the Crescent City vanished on ephemeral wings.
               I was resolved to control my fate and break through all the arrangements I had suffered Mabel and uncle and Hermione to make, with my tacit approval. Although it was at the last moment, I had some confidence in my determination and will, and a hope, as the last resort, of gaining Hubert as my ally.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               M'LLE DE BOISSEAU became at once domesticated at Callamura, having that facility of adapting herself to a house which all the feline tribe seem to possess in a remarkable degree.
               Hermione was so pleased that she determined to lengthen her stay a while and mingle among the wedding and Christmas festivities, for Pineville now wore her most attractive appearance, and was not without charms even to a city habitue.
               
               For my part, I rejoiced at this prospect of a few days, respite, in which to exert myself to avert my fate.
               Hermione continued her eulogiums on Madame Sévigne's establishment, to all of which M'lle do Boisseau dutifully responded; but I observed that when Hermione's attention was diverted elsewhere, the latter gently insinuated some very grave faults which "some people" had imagined existed there.
               Miss Adaline was to honor the newly-married couple with an entertainment, or rather Mrs. Bell was. Mrs. Bell was Dr. Sims' widowed sister, who had lived with him since the death of his wife, and relieved Adaline of all the burden of housekeeping.
               As Mr. Britt was to have stood on the floor with Hermione, he offered his services to escort her there. He and his sister were stopping at Hawthorne Hill, Philip's residence, occupied now by his mother. Hubert had insisted as acting ing as my protector on the occasion, so as to remain free to devote himself to his new lady-love, the fair hostess. I had not been anxious to attend, but he had no idea, as he expressed it, of being "saddled with such a giraffe" as Miss Britt; so that he in a manner compelled me into the arrangement. Mr. James Conway was unavoidably absent, so that Miss Britt and M'lle de Boisseau occupied out carriage with the bridal couple, and the rest of us filled another.
               Hermione glittered as she had at the wedding, her diamonds flashing even in the dim lamplight of the carriage. Mr. Britt sat silent, awed without doubt by their splendor, and seemingly afraid of the sound of his own voice. Hubert, although not a fool, had a fair share of that audacity which would "rush in where angels fear to tread;" and he began to lavish on her the compliments which seemed native to his lips. Hermione appropriated them very coolly, but apparently without nauseating. After I had heard him insinuate she was a rose and a diamond and a nightingale, and several other very dissimilar things, I endeavored to engage Mr. Britt by some observations on the constellations which were sparkling around us. He seemed to have a very fair acquaintance with them, and we were getting along as moderately well as could have been expected, when, I suppose, Hubert's bank of compliments must have broken, from his incessant run upon it. The conversation became general by Hermione's unexpectedly observing,
               "How brilliant Venus appears to-night! Old Vulcan must regard her good looks with considerable pride."
               Hubert quickly caught the position of the planet she was observing. It was considerably more than forty-five degrees above the horizon, and also east of the zenith.
               "You are facing the east, Cousin Hermione," he objected. "That cannot be Venus."
               
               "I do not see what difference that can make," she retorted. "It is Venus—I know it is."
               I saw her blunder, and tried to divert the conversation, but irreverent Hubert, who chafed at contradiction, blurted out,
               "But I tell you it is impossible—Venus never appears there as evening star."
               I judge that Hermione bit her lip, for she was silent, when he in his rollicking way made some reparation by a wretched pun, which, followed by his infections laugh, covered up in some measure his abruptness:
               "No, that is the star that denied Christ. It is Jew-Peter (Jupiter). You know I am just from college, and acquainted with all these things."
               We joined in his laugh, for he was one of the few persons on record who could laugh at his own sayings and not spoil the effect. In fact, if he said anything poor, as he frequently did, his laughter possessed the happy faculty of making the amende honorable.
               
               Hermione, anxious to recover her reputation among the stars, continued the astronomical conversation, and pointed out several constellations with which she was acquainted, when Hubert descried another pure little planet gleaming upon the horizon.
               "There," he exclaimed, "I perceive the recreant's father, and if the almanac be correct and I had a telescope, I should see not far from it a mermaid's shell."
               "What on earth are you driving at, Hubert?" I exclaimed, puzzling over his far-fetched allusions.
               "Was not Saturn the father of Jupiter?"
               "But what has Uranus—for I suppose you allude to that planet—what has Uranus to do with a mermaid's shell?"
               "Is not a mermaid's shell her shell (Herschel)? But I believe the Gentiles have changed the name to Uranus. Better a heathen god, I suppose they thought, roaming among the stars, than a wandering Jew." Hermione sat silent, fearful doubtless of displaying any further ignorance. Mr. Britt, however, remarked,
               "I was not aware that Herschel was a Jew."
               "I think it was a shame," I declared, "to rob Sir William Herschel of his hard-won fame. The world he discovered should have gone singing his name down all the vistas of future time."
               "Mona is becoming enthusiastic," jeered Hubert. "I am glad the doctor's house is in view. I am afraid we are rather late, Cousin Hermione."
               I was rejoiced that Hubert had had an opportunity of observing some of the deficiencies of Madame Sévigne's style of education. My magnificent cousin, who looked so brilliant that the splendid talents and striking beauty of Julius Cæsar rushed to my mind on my first view of her, had certainly not enjoyed as faithful instruction as I had in humble little Pineville.
               As we were standing together, my brother and I, in the reception-room, unobserved, waiting Hermione's delay at the toilette, where there was a tempting supply of lily-white, I seized the fair opportunity.
               "Oh, Hubert!" I cried, holding on to his arm, "I do not wish to go with Cousin Hermione. I am sure Mr. Sterne is a better teacher than Madama Sévigne."
               "So am I," he admitted. "Not to know Jupiter from Venus!—though in truth she eclipses her so, I don't wonder. By the gods!" he started, "why didn't I pay her that beautiful compliment? But I'll do it to-night—I was too provoked then."
               "Hubert, beg uncle to let me stay. Besides, M'lle de Boisseau was at Madame Sévigne's—I will have one of Hermione's teachers here."
               
               I looked so miserable that Hubert broke into a laugh.
               "Poor little woe-begone! a mourner for ever!" patting me on the hear. "You shall stay if I can accomplish it. There now!"
               We entered the drawing-room, where Adaline was gracefully gliding about, and soon glided near Hubert with one of her sweetest smiles. She had canaries to show and some prints and photographs, and I think Hubert accomplished the future existence of his gold-haired watch-chain that night; for I noticed during the evening that her curls were all looped back. The arrangement, too, I thought lent more character to her face, or possibly it was the exaltation of the sacrifice, casting a loftier, holier expression on her countenance.
               Old Mrs. Bell was anxiously attending to the wants of her guests, seemingly in great apprehension on their account, calling the servants for wood and water, running at the books on the table that had criminally possessed themselves of indecorous position, slapping the tongs over to the side of the shovel, and the shovel over to the side of the tongs; in short, thinking of every imaginable inconvenience that could possibly interfere with their comfort. But I did not observe anybody thank her.
               I was myself still brooding over the horror of my approaching departure, ignorant that I possessed a far more efficient and faithful ally than Hubert in the little faded bit of India musli—M'lle de Boisseau.
               She crept up to me noiselessly—you could never hear the tread of her feet—with one of her weak looks, her thin lips clipping away on her words. "Miss Mona," she piped, "I am in hopes you will remain here as one of my pupils. Mrs. Conway and your uncle, I think, have very nearly relinquished the idea of parting with you."
               What terrible accounts she had given Mabel of how the school had gone down in the last few months—confidentially, of course, to be kept from Hermione, lest it might reach Madame Sévigne, and she take it unkindly! The music and ornamental branches were still good, so that hermione could still complete them as she wished; she did not dare trench upon her calculations. All this was unknown to me.
               "I am so glad!" I burst forth in my innocence; "I did not wish to go.
               "I imagined so, and I did all I could," she emphatically replied.
               "I thank you so much." I responded, gazing up at her with all the grateful frankness of youth; but not an emotion did I read in her dry, feeble countenance—'I thank you so much, and I will study my music so hard in return."
               Julius Sims, a lad younger than myself, came running up to beg me dance, but I did not dance; I did not know how.
               M'lle de Boisseau said I must learn; it was so astonishing that young ladies could arrive at my age without learning that necessary accomplishment.
               I said I had never had an opportunity.
               "No dancing-schools in Pineville?" Some expression flashed now like a glow of metal over her face—the metal of ringing dollars. "Oh I must form a class immediately. I teach dancing. Go now, my dear, and walk through the figures."
               But I did not incline to go.
               "It will assist you in learning more rapidly, my dear. Go!"
               Accustomed to obey my teachers, I reluctantly joined the set, where I made such a wretched figure, contrasted with others, especially with Hermione's graceful and well-trained trained evolutions, that I was delighted when I regained my seat.
               Hubert seemed actually enamored of Adaline. They wandered through the room like a pair of doves—she blushing beautifully, he all ardent and impetuous.
               I liked Miss Adaline. She had the most endearing little ways, and then, though not gifted, she was companionable; and if what she said was not striking or brilliant, it was uttered so sweetly that you could but relish it. The prospect of a nearer relationship was agreeable enough.
               Hermione, moving magnificently about, seemed to have swept all of Pineville in her train.
               Dr. Sims, by no means past the prime of life, being an Eclectic, paid her such distinguished attention that one might have been warranted in supposing he might make a selection of her at some future time as the acme of his ideas of excellence. But Alfred was doubtless an Eclectic too, and was apparently of the same way of thinking. Then the doctor had a young medical student boarding in the house, who had been said to look sweetly on Miss Adaline. All of them Eclectics—all of them round Hermione. Mr. Britt remained at his post dutifully, though he looked very much like a moth singed by a candle.
               James Conway arrived late in the evening, the crowning feather in her cap. With all these, and several more beside, Hermione was swimming famously on the tide of popular favor.
               I observed that at supper-time Mr. Sterne was adroit enough to find himself at a distance from M'lle de Boisseau, having sheltered himself under the grateful shade of Miss Carrie Horn's green plumes, while Alfred had taken refuge in the dignified patronage of Miss Mary Ballard, the reigning spinster of Pineville.
               Julius and Mrs. Bell together had the honor of filling her leathern bag—an opportunity which offered fair scope to Mrs. Bell's administrative talents. I was accompanied by Mr. Jerkins, a very young man of a glassy appearance. His eyes were still fluid (not having hardened), weak and watery—his hair almost hueless, sparkling and brittle. The lightest blow would have shivered him to fragments. He was a package on which Nature had visibly labeled, "This side up. To be handled with care." I was so much in fear lest he might come to some damage through my instrumentality that I could not eat my supper.
               "You don't want any coffee, do you, Miss Mona?" he imploringly asked.
               Of course I didn't: he would have had to encounter Mr. Ballard to secure it, and the Ballards were a very athletic family.
               "You said you wouldn't choose any turkey and oysters?" He writhed in such visible trepidation of his doom that of course I was merciful enough to have said so.
               "Never mind me, Mr. Jerkins," I said; "I am doing very well on this blancmange. There is sufficient here within reach."
               "Young ladies have so little appetite," he apologetically remarked. "But here are some pickles; I know that is what you all like."
               He reached out his hand, in spite of my remonstrance, and secured the dish without any ill consequences, for I had been in anguish lest I should hear his fingers crack from the collision, and all his broken pails fly off into fragments.
               Hubert tipped me one of his curious looks at the supper and shouted out "zaccheus" again, which caused several to look round to discover if possible his meaning.
               But it was a secret confined to us two. After a while I stole round with my eye to find Mr. Ware looking solemnly up at the bottom of the saucer Miss Britt was holding between her hands, and whence she was dipping up ice cream with a small teaspoon. Hubert was watching me to see if I smiled.
               It was the strongest proof I had of my brother's love. He seemed always anxious that I should share his merriment, and when he succeeded in eliciting what he called one of my "ghost-smiles," his own seemed doubled.
               I had the satisfaction of escaping from the supper without Mr. Jerkins having received any visible fracture; but as we entered the parlor, and he glittered under the bright kerosene lamps, with his fine, spun-glass hair rising straight up over his forehead, and his watery eyes roaming about in the incertitude of timidity, I was reminded of the blancmange I had eaten, or I felt very much as if I had brought from the supper-table one of its sparkling glass salvers of calf's-foot jelly.
               I found myself after a while near Mr. Sterne. He had been mingled up most of the evening with M'lle de Boiseau and Mabel; party with Miss Britt, whose long upper lip, lapping over the lower, proclaimed at least one quality which I knew would prove a recommendation to him—goodness.
               My countenance brightened with pleasure as I saw him.
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," I exclaimed, "I am not going at last. I am so delighted!"
               "Yes: you said stay, and stay I think I will. I did not know how much I would dislike going till the time came."
               He did not reply, and rather to my surprise, after looking dreamily at me a while, walked off. I did not reflect that possibly through M'lle de Boisseau he might be better acquainted with may affairs than I was myself.
               I sat down on a sociable, where I fell into a conversation with Mr. Stafford about Charlotte Elizabeth, and Hannah More, and Baxter, et id omne genus, which I thought would accord with his taste, when I observed Hubert had relinquished Miss Adaline, probably thinking he was attracting too much attention. He was dancing with Miss Carrie Horn, tricked out in green plumes as usual. As soon as he observed me he rushed up in one of the changes of the dance and solemnly announced—
               "Poor Ware! he has just lost his nationality," flying immediately to his post again.
               "What is it?" queried Mr. Stafford, struck by Hubert's melancholy aspect, and peering over his spectacles at the unfortunate Ware. "What misfortune has happened to our young friend?'
               "Hubert says," I replied, "that he has just lost his nationality. I do not know what he means by that."
               "If he has lost his nationality," repeated our burly old pastor, puffing under the weight of the information, "he must have ceased to be an American citizen. I cannot imagine a heavier calamity than that. Probably he has been maligned, outlawed: I must see to that," he said, learning his hand on his cane, and throwing his heavy features forward, resting his chin on his hands in an attiude of intense astonishment and sympathy—"I must see to that."
               Mr. Ware was standing facing Miss Britt, his hands folded behind under his coat, and his countenance, which had been originally constructed without the aid of muscles, bent fixedly upon her. There was enough of the tragic about his general appearance to confirm the belief that he always supported some uncommon affliction.
               Mr. Ware was nevertheless the "beauty of Pineville"—the silent female character in all the histrionic entertainments. Except that I never could divest myself of the idea that he carried little marbles in his shining rosy cheeks, and that he never had the power of removing his eyes from an object when once fastened there, no waxen doll in the toyshops displayed, with its raven curls and dark, beaming eyes, more striking beauty. But he never stood near one—for I never heard that he had the faculty of speech—that one did not feel tempted to fumble in his side for the convenient little wire that could shut up his eyes. He had a great passion for standing and looking at tall women; and Miss Britt being several inches ahead of anything in that line that had hitherto appeared in Pineville, the summit of his ambition seemed at last to have been reached.
               Still, I was unwilling for Mr. Stafford to expend his sympathies on any contingency based upon Hubert's information.
               "Do not heed Hubert, Mr. Stafford," I remarked; "he is full of jokes and pranks. I dare say Mr. Ware is doing very well."
               "That is too serious a thing to joke on," replied the old man, without moving his position. "No joke there."
               Hubert came dashing up, throwing his eye at me again, which he knew would make me smile.
               "Wouldn't it make a fine study, Mona, for the Madonna and Child? Observe that position—what grace!"
               I gave him an admonitory look as to the reverend character of my companion: "Mr. Stafford—Hubert; probably you are not acquainted."
               "My young friend," said the reverend gentleman, deliberately lifting his head from his hands, "will you be so good as to inform me of the nature of the accident which has befallen young Mr. Ware? He is one of the sheep of my flock—one of the lambs confided to my care. Any serious misfortune befalling him—
               "There is no danger threatening him that I am aware of," Hubert promptly returned, throwing back his curls and looking from Mr. Stafford to Mr. Ware in genuine amazement.
               "I understood you to say he was no longer an American citizen," Mr. Stafford solemnly replied. "I should judge that a very serious misfortune."
               "Lord! Lord! Mr. Stafford!" cried Hubert, between a succession of roars, "is that all?"
               "All?" echoed the clerical individual, looking, I thought, very indignant at him now; "I am sure that is sufficient."
               "I had forgotten it," said Hubert, still laughing heartily; "but you see, as well as I do, that he has become a Britt'un (Briton)."
               But Mr. Stafford didn't see any such thing, and I had some difficulty in explaining that it was one of Hubert's villainous puns. He wiped the perspiration from his massive, lumber-like brow, caused doubtless by his anxiety and perplexity, as some glimmering of the truth dawned upon him. "Ah yes," he concluded, "I see now—you merely meant that he had become captivated by Miss Anna. It does look a little that way."
               "Certainly," replied Hubert, hearing Miss Britt's given name now for the first time. "You see too that he is further in danger of being converted into Britt-annia Ware."
               He twisted his eyes round at the cumbrous old clerical, and left him in a greater state of perplexity than before.
               Alfred came persuading me to games of euchre and bagatelle, where Adaline and Miss Jerkins, and the doctor's young student, Dr. Turner, were awaiting me.
               The evening finally passed, the last thing I saw being old Mrs. Bell striving to place the lamps so that their rays might not strike too forcibly the eyes of her parting guests.
               The following morning uncle and Mabel received my heartfelt thanks I was to be permitted to remain at Callamura. They looked surprised, and said the idea was only entertained because it was supposed to be agreeable to me. Hermione, not wishing to leave the city for several months yet, and Mabel wishing to remove to her own home, they had imagined that I would be lonely there, with no companion but Mrs. Burns; but M'lle de Boisseau having consented to remain with us, that difficulty was now entirely obviated.
               I thought the old man seemed rather pleased than disappointed, as he liked to have young people enlivening his stately mansion, and would have been left very lonely with all of us gone.
               Hermione came down from her room after the question was decided, and somewhat to my mortification, expressed very little disappointment or interest in the matter. Although I wished to remain, I think I would rather that she had some feeling about it. But I believe she merely thought I was a very silly child to lose such advantages, and then thought no more of it.
               She was beautiful dressed in a blue cashmere, fitting her figure to a miracle and admirably displaying her perfect proportions. White ermine rose round her throat and wrists. Her walk was queenly; and as she looked better moving than in repose, she seemed ever on her feet.
               She had just emerged from the conservatory with some curious-looking specimens in her hand, and entered the dining-room, where we were all sitting.
               "What is this, Mona?" she asked.
               "That is Venus' fly-trap," I answered. "Did you never see one? They are indigenous to this country."
               "How could I know what is indigenous to this country?" she languidly asked. "I scarcely ever put foot on the ground in my life, unless it was paved."
               "They grow all over the Southern States," I began.
               "What did you say?" eagerly put in hubert, throwing down his book and joining us. "Venus' fly-trap, and very appropriately borne by Venus herself. By the way, my handsome cousin, Venus was among the stars last night, but was unfortunately eclipsed by a much fairer orb." He bowed gracefully, and seemed delighted that such a fair opportunity had offered for redeeming his faux pas of the evening previous. "It is not astonishing that I could see no Venus among the stars."
               "Hubert," said Hermione, calmly raising her beautiful eyes to him, "you have the same unvarying tone of compliment for all country maidens. I overheard some of your fulsome flattery last night. You will oblige me if you will exclude me in the future from you list of Phillises and Aurillas."
               "Of course from the list of gorillas," he mockingly replied, "since you desire it."
               She only regarded him, without moving a muscle of her face, with a passionless, determined look, which I remembered in after years.
               O brilliant, reckless Hubert!
               Philip had joined as likewise, and was giving her the history of the other plant she held in her hand. It was one he had found on the banks of the Nile, and he was so struck with the beauty of the tree that he had gathered some of its seeds and brought them to Mabel. They had germinated and were now large shrubs, bearing blossoms and fruit in the conservatory.
               
               "I dare say," concluded Philip, "it is the only specimen of the plant that ever bloomed in America.
               It was a branch of the kaura (Erythrina Abyssinica), cover with large, broad pinnated leaves, somewhat after the fashion of those of a rose-bush, and a profusion of papilionaceous flower, some of which had already given place to beautiful pods, containing each three perfectly similar beans of a bright, scarlet color, marked with a round black spot in the middle.
               Mr. Sterne had related to me further particulars of the celebrated plant, which, as I thought them curious, I imparted on this occasion.
               "Those beans, Cousin hermione, "I proceeded, "are said never to vary in weight, no matter where the tree may be found growing in Africa. From that circumstance they are universally used among the Shangalla, and indeed all throught Africa by the traders in gold, as the standard of weight for that metal. They were carried from Africa to India, where they are also used for weighing precious stones, especially diamonds. It is the kaura, from which, you perceive, we obtain the word carat, meaning a kaura's weight in gold or in diamonds."
               "Indeed! that is very learned and surprising," commented Hubert. "Where did you gain all that erudition?"
               "From Mr. Sterne," I replied, "of course."
               "I had no idea," remarked Philip, "that the plant had such an interesting history as that; or if I have heard it, I had forgotten it. I was more attracted by its surpassing beauty than anything else."
               Hermione began twisting the flowers of the Orient in her hair, Hubert gazing admiringly on the beauty they heightened.
               "I think, Cousin Hermione," he cried, "the beans outweigh your diamonds. They are certainly more becoming."
               "Diamonds are trying," she languidly replied. "Very few can afford to wear them; none but the most faultless beauty ought ever to—"
               She stopped short, conscious of the obvious inference of the remark.
               "But you can," completed Hubert; and the ringing of the door-bell announced company and terminated the conversation.
               the visitors were Mr. and Mrs. Stafford and Miss Hemmingway. I was somewhat occupied assisting Mrs. Burns in the housekeeping department, and did not make my appearance in the parlor; besides, I was decidedly not in society. The house was thronged all the morning, Hermione's loud, thrilling tones frequently soaring over the piano for their entertainment.
               Hubert loving, like myself, exercise in the open air, and besides having caught sight of Miss Britt threatening the middle arch of the gateway this time, had precipitately caught his gun and left the house.
               I consoled myself with Mrs. Burns in the kitchen, helping Venus and Sarah to dress off salvers of float and ice-cream to send in the parlor as an addition to the cakes and wines already, provided there, and in baking transparencies and pudings for dinner. It was not half as fatiguing an occupation as answering all the old lady's queries about the party at Adaline's. She insisted on knowing how everybody was dressed, especially Carrie Horn, and wanted to know everything on the supper-table, and I had a pain in my lungs before her curiosity was gratified.
               The kitchens at Callamura were a wing running from the house, fronting the road, giving a clear view of the entrance of visitors; and among them I had the satisfaction of seeing Dr. Turner and Mr. Sterne arrive.
               I was glad, soon after, to hear Hermione's voice thrilling in some of her most beautiful songs. How every one must admire her! There had never been anything in Pineville, I knew, half so splendid as Hermione. I think I had as much pride in her accomplishments and beauty as any showman ever had in a beautiful bird of Paradise or a learned pig or a Jenny Lind.
               Hubert did not return to dinner, but M'lle de Boisseau possessed an India-rubber appetite, that could always stretch to the emergencies of any occasion. If a dinner had been prepared for a dozen, and only six guests could unfortunately attend, M'lle de Boisseau would have been the one to call on to represent the absentees.
               It was all holiday-time and good things abundant, so that Mrs. Burns seemed to enjoy her healthy appetite; but I noticed that the old lady's proverbs appeared rather inadequate; in fact, I believe her mental powers, never very vigorous, were somewhat stunned by the arrival of a diminutive person who could certainly have devoured the moon if it had been green cheese, and drunk all the rivers dry if they had been sweetened wine.
               Hubert came in during the evening, dashing down his gun and seeking Mabel immediately, his handsome face glowing with exercise, evidently full of some of his frolic.
               "Mabel, Mabel," he cried; "bad news!"
               Old Armstead was hurrying gloomily up the passage behind him.
               "What is it?" She mildly lifted up her, eyes, seeing he was burdened with some great glee.
               "Tell me the difference between weathering a storm and storming a wether?"
               Mabel not seeing the point and Armstead's "drot Doras," becoming approximately audible, Hubert explained:
               "Well, our friend Armstead's drot little Dora has weathered many a storm, but this time she has actually stormed the wether!"
               armstead's grizzly, old head came shaking in the door in such ludicrous wrath that he convulsed with mirth and could say no more.
               Old Armstead in a rage was an amusing sight, for he could never find anything to say for some time but a succession of stuttering "drots," while his eyes snapped from one side of the room to another as though they would start out of his copper head. He managed, however, to complete his accusations of Mabel's terrible little brute; she had killed one of the finest wethers of his flock, and Philip joining him in his honest indignation, her doom was finally sealed.
               "She is the most vicious deer I ever heard of," decided the latter; "she becomes worse and worse. She wished to attack me the other day. Kill her, Armstead—kill her immediately, and let us feast on venison roast."
               Armstead's happiness was supreme, bowing and rubbing his hands for joy, and the sight of it seemed to renew Hubert's mirth.
               "Go it, old boy!" he cried, jumping up and seizing his gun. "I'll come out and help you. I never have killed a deer, but I'm sure of one this time."
               Hermione had been sitting quietly by, stringing some coral beads, not deigning to bestow any notice on Hubert's mirth. Whether it was that she had discovered at Adaline's party that Hubert was already what is called "mortgaged property," or that he had offended her by some of his abruptness or been too lavish of his compliments, I cannot say. I never can say anything of hermione's motives about any matter with the slightest certainty of its being more than conjecture.
               But she quietly raised her head as he was leaving, and remarked, "Take care, Hubert, that you do not get any of the blood on your golden-haired watch-chain."
               Hubert started and looked back at her a moment, but he was too much interested in the prospect of becoming a deer-slayer to give it more than a passing thought. Probably, too, open as the day as he was, he was indifferent to the discovery, for he passed out whistling.
               He certainly was making no effort to conceal his devotion to Miss Adaline; but how Hermione had gained that knowledge before I had, gave me food for speculation.
               I remembered the night before I had seen Hubert and Adaline passing down toward the back part of the house, and that M'lle de Boisseau, suddenly seized with immense thirst, had rejected all Mrs. Bell's anxious offers of attention, and rushed down in that direction to find water. She was, like all her race, intuitively acquainted with all the drinking-places and rat-holes of the house, although she had never been in it before; and as Adaline entered with her locks looped back, I saw the little maiden treading velvety behind them.
               This was the nearest solution at which I could arrive.
               Huberd did have the golden ringlet; and before he left Callamura he had added a photograph and a golden ring and geranium leaves by the score, and I don't know what else besides.
               But the venison roast was all devoured and the Christmas holidays and festivities were all over, and I could see that Hermione was wearying of Pineville.
               Mr. James Conway had called out once or twice, but he had taken leave and returned to South Carolina. Mr. Britt had returned also, carrying his sister—"at each remove a lengthening chain."
               Mabel and Philip had left us for Hawthorne Hill, about a half mile distant, where his invalid mother was awaiting them. Philip had a younger brother, a lad about fourteen years of age, named Meredith, but as he was at school at Columbia, S. C., I had never seen him.
               Philip's mother was a very handsome, dignified old lady, apparently in the enjoyment of the finest health and preservation; but she insisted on being termed an invalid, and enjoyed all the immunities of that class of individuals. She had had the charge of Mabel until she was ten years of age, when uncle succeeded in gaining, in the person of old Mrs. Burns, a suitable substitute for her care, and transplanted her to his own fireside.
               Thus Mable only exchanged one home of her childhood for another, and Callamura was sinking into loneliness and desolation as one by one they were all departing, Hubert and Hermione last.
               I stood at the gate, watching them fading down the polar-lined lane in the fair morning sunlight, the pigeons darting away down the sky after them, and the tears gathering in my melancholy eyes. M'lle de Boisseau waved a little piece of pocket handkerchief, and we walked back to the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               I HAD hitherto ridden to school, mounted on my little riding mare, with Juno, Sarah's younger sister, behind me; but M'lle Boisseau, having become an inmate of our home, I could now walk, as I much preferred to do, having a companion.
               The path was a good one, and it was a very short mile; indeed the trouble of having the horse saddled was not worth the while. When the weather was bad, we had the buggy harnessed, and I was a very respectable Jehu.
               Back once more in the school, I found I seldom had a spare moment of time. M'lle de Boisseau organized her music and dancing classes and various other ornamental branches, into all of which I found myself precipitated with such a furore that I was surprised myself. Many of the occupations were such as I had always avoided, but I suddenly became addicted to crewel and zephyr wool, canvas and perforated paper, jars of potichomania, paper flowers, hair-work, and all of those tedious feminine employments which consumed all of my Saturdays and spare evenings, and, I expect, a good deal of uncle's loose change.
               I know I spent a long time accomplishing a pair of grimalkins, finely portrayed as disputing over a bleeding rat. They were scrambling over a groundwork more like broken brickbats than anything else, under a very threatening-looking sky, that, owing to some irregular stitches, looked as if it was about to fall to fragments. But M'lle de Boisseau seemed to think it was a fine triumph of art, and, in gratitude for her commendation, I carried it to the cabinet maker's and had it handsomely set in a mahogany footstool for her acceptance as a birth-day gift. She had in confidence informed me that it was her twenty-fourth birth-day!
               "You needn't look surprised," she had said. "I am really that old, but people bear their age so well now-a-days I ought not to tell it. Mr. Jerkins told me that I might render myself liable to be accused of deception; he knew I could not be over twenty."
               I was very much surprised myself at these facts, but I kept my own counsel. I had imagined her about forty.
               I accomplished, in this branch of female science, a great number of bur baskets and alum baskets and Grecian paintings and monochromatic drawings, each of which constituted stituted a distinct and peculiar branch of art, at ten or twelve dollars a branch; and, some way, the materials, which M'lle de Boisseau furnished with great benevolence, were more expensive than the instruction.
               But M'lle de Boisseau was a great godsend to Pineville. None of these beautiful little ingenuities had ever before penetrated those sequestered shades, and everybody was anxious for a bunch of feather flowers to put under the shade on the mantel, or a card basket, or a potichomania vase, or at least a picture or two. I had the glory of seeing my triumphs of handiwork displayed in almost every parlor in town; they were particularly lavish in Miss Ballard's plain little apartment, with which M'lle de Boisseau was very intimate.
               How they escaped my possession I could hardly ever tell; for I never commenced anything of the kind without a determination to appropriate it in some manner according to my preference; but I would sit by and hear M'lle de Boisseau inform Miss Hemmingway or Miss Mary or Miss Somebody Else that she guessed Miss Mona was finishing that for her. Miss Mona took such delight in pleasing her friends, and Miss Mona had given one to so-and-so—she reckoned it was her time now.
               If the lady made any demur in accepting such left-handed presents, she would assure her she would mortify Miss Mona by refusing: besides, Miss Mona accomplished them so rapidly she could soon finish another; and so my wares were nearly always disposed of before they were completed.
               I know I worked twenty-seven elaborate book-marks, nearly all of which she disposed of for me in his manner; and the few that I had managed to retain to send Hubert she thoughtlessly borrowed and never returned. I saw them afterward in some of Mr. Jerkins' books in Miss Ballard's parlor. Miss Adaline did not return as a regular pupil to the Institute; but, like everybody else, M'lle de Boisseau had succeeded in enthusing her with these artrecreations, and she came there to finish off with the various accomplishments she could impart.
               I missed her very much, but there were two very intelligent girls in my class now, strangers from a neighboring State, who were becoming companionable to me; and besides they were straining my powers to distance them in my classes.
               I had always been in the habit of dusting off the master's desk myself every morning, and arranging the flowers I brought in his little gilt-china vase, so that he might have as agreeable and home-like surroundings as the air of a school-room would permit. It was an office in which some of the other pupils would sometimes fitfully join me, but I only remained faithful. M'lle de Boisseau was always engaged at this time giving a music lesson, but I was thus employed one morning when she crept in upon me.
               "Sweeping, Miss Buccleugh?" she exclaimed. "You might leave that to the servant."
               "I am only dusting off the rostrum and arranging Mr. Sterne's desk," I replied.
               "Never let me see you thus employed again," she sharply commanded. "Your hands are coarse enough now."
               I knew how much he prized these little attentions, for his sweet smile of thanks had often rewarded me for an unusually beautiful floral saucer. I wore on my finger now a little gold band I had picked up in this occupation when I first came to the Institute. I had found it under his chair, and when I had handed it to him he had said, patting me on the head, it was too small for him: "It was a little girl's ring—I must keep it." To arrange his desk had become such a habit with me that I could not yield her the obedience she seemed to expect, so I continued my occupation.
               I had no fear in my nature and some of Hubert's resistance; and, as, I did not recognize her authority in this instance, I coolly replied:
               "It pleases Mr. Sterne, and I do not care for coarse hands."
               She pinched up her bloodless lips, but made no reply, for the master was approaching and had overheard our remarks.
               Afterward, I would sometimes catch her looking at me in the mornings, as she passed through the room, with a cold kind of wondering sneer that I could so forget myself; but I persevered in adorning his desk, ignorant that M'lle de Boisseau never forgot.
               There was another teacher in the school, a Miss Burton, who had charge of the infantry, but she seldom came in our midst. During recess, M'lle de Boisseau might always be seen floating, like a little neutral-tinted speck of a cloud, around Mr. Sterne's chair, having, apparently, some important matter on hand for consultation; and the next morning I would find she had picked all his flowers to pieces, and I had them to sweep up.
               The scholars never now accused Mr. Sterne of partiality toward me. Our intercourse was limited entirely to recitations, but I caught the same precious light in his deep, generous blue eye, encouraging me to perseverance in the paths of intellectual progress.
               Sometimes he came out to Callamura, walking out with M'lle de Boisseau and myself, and spent the evening. His singularly-shaped head had at once attracted uncle's phrenological propensities; in which, by the way, M'lle de Boisseau sympathized very extensively, numbering phrenology among her other accomplishments.
               "He has a remarkable head," uncle had observed.
               
               "Benevolence, large, extreme; comprehensiveness, immense, almost amounting to statesmanship; caution, rather too great; it borders on secretiveness—might degenerate into fear, if it were not overbalanced by combativeness and courage, and the grandeur of the noble mental faculties. He is a remarkable man—one I should call handsome—very handsome."
               I reminded uncle that he had seen him before, when he first carried me to the Institute, and that he had been at the wedding. On the latter occasion, in such a crowd, he had scarcely observed him; and Mr. Sterne had altered so that he was hardly the same individual that I first saw. He was then in very poor health, and lank and thin; now, as uncle had said, he was really a very fine-looking person.
               He made such progress in uncle's estimation that he presented him with a handsome bust of Cicero, which he placed on his rostrum in the Institute.
               Altthough he was a very good listener to uncle's scientific investigations and dissertations on the peculiarities of the human frame, there was another subject on which they both equally sympathized, which was the vital question then agitating the unfortunate republic of America.
               Mr. Sterne, having dwelt in both sections, was peculiarly calculated to interest one; and I would sit myself, fascinated with dilating eyes to his lips, trembling with terror at the prophetic word-pictures which sometimes fell from them.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE approaching May Queen absorbed all Pineville, and for a period threw a considerable damper upon M'lle de Boisseau's success in the broad and elevated sphere of the fine arts.
               The little May-Queen opera, composed, I think, by George F. Root, the prettiest thing that ever has been or will be said on that subject, was to be introduced there for the first time, and there was intense excitement for several miles around.
               The crowning was to be in a large grove back of Dr. Sims' residence, convenient to the church; the melodeon of which Mr. Stafford had offered us for the occasion. Dr. Turner was chosen for the discontented young man, and Adaline, of course, our Queen being still nominally attached to the Institute, and nothing there yet which could rival her beauty.
               I was to represent the Violet, and Virginia Sturgess enacted the character of the Lily.
               There were crowds on crowds of carriages dashing into Pineville—people that I had never seen or heard of before, and a tremendous popular outpouring. M'lle de Boisseau and I went in the carriage together, old Mrs. Burns accompanying us, dressed in a glossy brown silk and a starchy white cap, streaming with purple ribbons. This was Mrs. Burns' court costume, and she always sat up in it like a fat old porcupine, raising her quills for fear of the slightest approach of dirt.
               As we reached the enclosure, Mr. Jerkins stepped forward to assist us in alighting. I do not know why it was that this young man always persisted in raising my apprehensions hensions on his account, for I do not remember ever to have giving him the slightest grounds for ill-will.
               I took his fingers, however, cold and slippery as chandelier pendants, and succeeded in reaching the ground without damaging them.
               "You are not going to the May Queen, Miss Buccleugh, are you?"
               I was very sorry to discompose the young gentleman, but truth compelled me to state that I was, and very nearly there.
               "You are not going to be the May Queen, Miss Mona?" I was happy to relieve his fears on this score, which I did by informing him that I was assigned to the character of the Violet.
               "You are not going to be the Lily then? I was so much afraid you would be chosen for the Lily." He seemed to be shivering with fear on that account.
               "I do not know why you should be so uneasy about that, Mr. Jerkins, or why it should concern you," I replied.
               "Oh! because, you know, I wished you for the Queen—you are a brunette, you know." He glanced tremblingly up at me as if he dreaded I should break him to pieces for saying so. "Some people might have said you were not white enough for a Lily."
               Dr. Sims had a splendid, noble-looking dog, the finest animal of his species I ever saw. M'lle de Boisseau and Mrs. Burns were walking just ahead of us, the former with one of the pockets of her feline ears laid gently back at us; and, while Mr. Jerkins was still regarding me with that agonizing expression of apprehension on his features, this dog came trotting quietly to meet me, recognizing an old acquaintance.
               Quicker than I had ever thought any human being could have changed his position, never having attended a circus, the young man translated himself immediately to my rear, without even so much as a jingle.
               "Oh, Miss Mona," he commenced groaning, pinioning both of my arms behind me in his fright, "for God's sake! you are not going—no, not going—to let that dog bite you?"
               The chattering of his china teeth was so shocking as he shrieked out the word "bite" that I expected they would be splintered to fragments; but the dog commenced growling, finding me so vigorously and feloniously assaulted from the rear, and I was really uneasy lest he should attack my assailant. Besides, too, it was in the view of a numerous concourse of spectators, and the ridiculous figure we presented was causing no little confusion.
               "Do, Mr. Jerkins, let me go. I am astonished at you. Go away, Turk," I cried, seeing the dog about to spring at him, and hearing his knees shake with terror. "Begone, sir."
               I succeeded in banishing his canine enemy and in releasing myself from his desperate clutch with only the loss of a few of my ribbons and the total destruction of my lace bertha. Mr. Jerkins slipped adroitly on the side of me opposite to the retreating animal, and gasped out,
               "I was so much afraid that that dog would bite you, Miss Mona. I was afraid to irritate him. He's a dangerous dog. There's danger in him."
               I had very little more to say, being busy trying to repair the injuries my toilette had sustained, for I saw that everybody had assembled and the ceremonies were awaiting my arrival.
               Adaline was trimmed with roses, wearing a pink spencer, that was cut and painted in shades, some curious and ingenious way, to represent large rose petals and green leaves. Dr. Turner had painted it, and it showed considerable taste and invention. She looked very beautiful and captivating. Miss Sturgess looked pale enough to represent a dozen lilies. She had a poor figure but a sweet enough face.
               Mr. Sterne and Miss Burton were among the scholars, directing and supervising everything, while I noticed M'lle de Boisseau stationed herself where she could keep one eye on the voluminous preparations that been made for the collation.
               Finally, everything got under way, and the disconsolate young man appeared on the carpeted scaffold, raised in sight of a thousand people, and imagined he was roaming in the solitude of Nature and desperately ennuied. Everybody seemed charmed with the melodeon, especially; and it all promised to be as respectable a May Queen as any little village ever produced, till Miss Virginia Sturgess was called on to personate a Lily.
               She was a timid girl, and, I thought, gave a sort of a shuffle as she stood in full view of the crowd, although I caught Miss Burton giving her encouraging smile.
               What possessed the girl to continue those aimless exercises with her foot I have never been able to determine accurately. We had all been warned to avoid the centre of the platform. Just in the middle of it two wide planks had refused to meet very sociably; but the chasm formed thereby had been remedied by a piece of wide plank, and the carpet met very neatly just over the abyss below.
               But Virginia Sturgess continued to cut pigeon-wings and take old Virginia back-steps until she kicked away that piece of plank, and the first thing she knew she followed it peremptorily herself.
               I could never describe the remarkable effect of that sudden disappearance, nor that blank feeling of desertion we all felt as she unaccountably sunk from our straining sight. It more resembled a magic lantern exhibition, which had lately electrified Pineville, when a large rat went wheeling down a man's gulping throat, than anything else. I had ever witnessed.
               I thought I should swoon myself, and I think I caught sight of Mr. Ballard vigorously supporting the fainting form of Mr. Jerkins by the shirt-collar. But before we could recover from our surprise, or fairly draw our breath, I saw Miss Virginia, surrounded by some sympathizing negresses, who were removing the dust and soil occasioned by the accident, and everything went on again as quietly as though no interruption had occurred. I think none of the crowd but those immediately surrounding were aware of the nature of the catastrophe. It was received by the majority as a part of the programme—a pathetic stroke of the genius of Geo. F. Root. The "Death of the Lily" had been admirably represented—the closing of its petals inimitable.
               With this exception, the May Queen passed off very creditably. M'lle de Boisseau appeared in her glory, presiding as one of the deities of the collation. She had the honor of helping herself mostly, the fame of her gastronomic powers having traveled so widely that few young men were self-sacrificing enough to attempt to supply them.
               She succeeded occasionally in pressing, Julius Sims and other unwary young lads into service; but she was enterprising enough on this occasion to act independently when necessary.
               Mr. Ware spent most of the day looking solemnly at the tallest Miss Hemmingway; only about an inch shorter than Miss Britt, not much more than double his own height.
               Alfred Sims stood with me at the table, M'lle de Boisseau frequently stopping to ask him "if his health was poor, he was looking so badly," and anything else disagreeable she could think of saying.
               Viginia Sturgess had very amiably recovered from her misfortune, and I saw her talking quite composedly with Mr. Ballard and Mr. Jerkins. Afterward I saw her sociably entertaining old Aunt Nancy Johnson, a very remarkable free negress about the town. She was a privileged old creature, who professed to have large bags of snakes for all bad children, and would sometimes chase crowds of them round the corners, they screaming in their agony and fright.
               Yet she would frequently have eggs and cakes to give good children, exacting always triple their value, however, in return. In fact, she made her livelihood in this manner. She was in the habit of thrusting herself in any company, where her striking talents and peculiarities always rendered her an object of amusement and diversion.
               I suppose she had been pressing her claims on Virginia, for I caught sight of her coming from the table, armed with a large steaming coffee-pot in one hand and a cup and saucer in the other.
               I had hoped the disasters of the day were over; but Virginia Sturgess, not satisfied with having shuffled herself down from the Queen's throne, must come shambling down our vicinity, brandishing those deadly implements of destruction in her hands. I was like Mr. Jerkins. I had a presentiment of danger when I spied her. I saw danger in her.
               The scaffolding and benches erected for the occasion were all of course of the most insecure character, and Miss Sturgess, without any of the grace or the agility of a ropedancer, attempted to convert them into gangways instead of adhering humbly to her mother earth.
               She had gained the terracing step that led to the Queen's throne, and was trying to balance herself with her two weights, when either her heels twisted or the planks flew up, or maybe, she shuffled again, but down she tumbled, with the most exact precision, right on old Mrs. Burn's head, scattering the boiling coffee far and wide, and smashing the china to fragments.
               The old lady went down, involved in the general ruin, not, however, without a vigorous resistance; and a scene of scramble and confusion ensued which defied description. I knew the old porcupine's first thought was her holiday dress; and she displayed a degree of pugilistic science in warding off her unexpected enemy and protecting it, which was astonishing in one of her years. Joined to it all, Dr. Sims' dog set up an unearthly howling, he having been unfortunately the recipient of most of the coffee.
               There was, of course, the usual simultaneous rush there is upon such occasions, but the contest was jammed up in such inextricable confusion that it was impossible to afford any relief.
               "An hour by Shrewsbury clock" they might have carried on their ground tumbling together, but the dog, being undermost, gave the first impulse toward perpendicularity.
               Old Mrs. Burns rose first, her cap smashed to giblets down into her eyes, the ribbons soaking. Her dress was embroidered with coffee grounds. The old lady was so furious she could hardly see, and so deaf that it was a long time before she could be made to understand it was entirely an accident. She cast the most indignant glances at Miss Sturgess, and muttered something about people's "looking before they leaped."
               Virginia Sturgess came up in a still more pitiable plight, decidedly second best. The old lady had pummeled her well. One of her eyes was bruised and her face cut by the broken china. Her hoops were riddled this time, the hooks bursted off her white dress, and it was bedraggled with muddy coffee and the blood from her cuts.
               Fortunately, however, the dog went howling away, the only one scalded to any extent. Mrs. Burns had a slight excoriation on her finger, but she was in such a passion she did not complain of it until after reached home.
               Mr. Sterne and Mrs. Burton came up to Miss Virginia's relief, and she was removed from the scene of action without committing any further indignity against the proprieties of the May Queen.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               IF you want a card-basket, Miss Dryweather, M'lle de Boisseau will get you one—Miss de Boisseau is so kind about such things."
               I heard Miss Ballard giving Miss Dryweather this important information to one of her country acquaintances, and as I felt an assurance that I was to be the victim and manufacturer of the aforesaid card-basket, and besides had gained her sufficient glory and popularity in that line, I gathered up all my fancy materials and made a bonfire of them in the back yard. I did'nt leave even so much as a piece of moulding or a tube of oil paint or a bit of zephyr wool. I was going entirely out of that line.
               I had noticed a grave expression sometimes in Mr. Sterne's blue eyes. I had not actually failed in my tasks, but my two Texas colleagues had not brought a great amount of means to fitter away upon rice-baskets and feather-flowers. If I wished the honor, I had to extricate myself from the fine arts.
               From this time forward I was so immersed in my books that M'lle de Boisseau's blandishments failed in seducing me back to her pursuits.
               I gave her up the room which opened into hers, and took refuge in a little closet that adjoined Mrs. Burns', generally used for storage purposes. There I brought my books, piling them on the shelves that were placed across its sole window, and my life returned to its original satisfaction.
               Hubert was a very unpunctual correspondent. I heard from him more frequently through Adaline than otherwise. She had had her photograph taken in her May-Queen attire: I knew from her sweet blush, when she showed it to me to ask my opinion of it, for whom it was designed. M'lle de Boisseau received letters from Hermione frequently, and in that way we were kept informed of her welfare.
               Both of them would have finished their course of study before our commencement, and return to Callamura.
               The story of my marvelous escape from Dr. Sims' dog had of course got abroad and afforded much amusement to Pineville. Julius Sims, in particular, had fallen into the habit of jumping behind some lady, whenever a dog trotted in sight, and shrieking out in Mr. Jerkins' manner,
               "Oh, for God's sake, don't let that dog bite you!"
               I began to experience greater timidity myself in Mr. Jerkins' company than heretofore, and found that I was thrown into his company much more frequently than I ever had had any reason to suppose I would be.
               He rejoiced in a distant relationship to the athletic Ballards, and seemed always rushing to their house for shelter. As this house was opposite to the Institute, he was generally found seeking the protection of his powerful friends about the time that I would be either arriving at school or departing for home.
               In this way I would frequently encounter him in the hot summer days, the perspiration dripping like drops of molten glass from his transparent eyebrows, and his eye glancing round the street timidly, for the purpose of discovering if the coast was clear of dogs.
               "You don't want me to carry your books, do you, Miss Mona? Your slate is not too heavy, is it?" he would fear fully suggest; but when I would relieve his fears as far as lay in my power, I noticed that the poor creature would immediately suggest some other bugbear: "You wouldn't like to read 'The Pirate's Bride,' would you? You surely do not dislike books, Miss Mona?" All that I possibly could, I endeavored to evade these unfortunate collisions with Mr. Jerkins; but M'lle de Boisseau would stop in at Miss Ballard's house every few days, and as I could not go home by myself, I was compelled to wait for her somewhere, and then to call and wait for her.
               I began to be conscious that I had a glass shade following me everywhere, even at church. No matter where I might be, it was always in sight, unless Dr. Sims' dog benignly appeared, when it would disappear. I knew people were smiling at the discovery; Adaline had joked me about Mr. Jerkins, and I was completely wretched.
               But to do M'lle de Boisseau justice, she relieved me of his persecutions as far as lay in her power, and I meditated applying to the doctor to give me Turk for further protection.
               M'lle de Bosseau and Turk were, however, both ignorant of my peril, and I was myself. I was seated on the stile with my sun-bonnet drawn over my face, poring over Kames' "Elements of Criticism."
               You are not studying your lesson, Miss Mona," remarked this enterprising young man. I had slipped through his fingers in town, and he had followed me out home.
               I was startled, but I had the cruelty to inform him that Iwas studying my lesson, and not only that, but that I had no time to lose, and that I should continue to study it. I bent my head down over my book, hopping that he would have the kindness to leave.
               But he sat patiently down at my feet, exactly before me, reversing the positions we had occupied toward each other when he had "saved my life from Dr. Sims' dangerous dog."
               I supposed I had studied, or tried to study, probably a quarter of an hour, when I became convinced that I was on the wrong tack. Miss Hemmingway and all the Hemmingway gossiped about everybody, and I did not know at what moment one of them might pass and discover us occupying such singular postures.
               Mr. Jerkins was seated bolt upright, his yellow, glazed hair sparkling in the rays of the setting sun, and a large club-shaped walking stick lying across his knees, one hand firmly clutching it. I was just behind him, and I never felt such a temptation to anything in my life as I did to pull out a handful of his brittle hair.
               I shut up my book.
               "It is getting late, Mr. Jerkins," I remarked: "I think I had better be going to the house." I attempted to rise, but I found that his back pinned my skirt to the step. He remained motionless.
               "Oh no, Miss Mona," he cried, "not yet; the sun is not down."
               I tugged desperately at my skirt, determined to escape.
               "Miss Mona," he gasped, "you wouldn't like to marry me? Oh, Miss Mona, for God's sake! you are not going to discard me!"
               What I said and did I do not know. The man never moved a muscle himself, nor showed me a glimpse of his face. I know I tore off the hem of my dress and left it under the stile, for I saw it there the next day on my way to school. I know all the pride and the passion of the Morants came surging through my veins, and I felt that I had the strength of ten thousand furies in my limbs. I know I felt the most intense temptation to kick him down the steps, as he sat so conveniently shivering there before me. I know that I succeeded in reaching the house with the impression that I would not be annoyed much more in the future by Mr. Jerkins.
               My first courtship was certainly untinged with any striking degree of romance.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               JUNE came smiling down the heavens, flushing the world with roses and innumerable song-birds, deepening with every day the tropical blue of her cloudless skies.
               Our commencement day had dawned. Hubert and Hermione had arrived, but I was too absorbed in the Institute to cast more than a glance on the outward world.
               Ihad reached the summit for which I had toiled. The honors were mine, though my Texas friends were honorably mentioned, and shared in some of them. Miss Virginia Sturgess had the delivering of the Salutatory, which I was pleased to see she accomplished very creditably.
               My Valedictory, I knew, was well written, for Mr. Sterne had made me re-write it several times, and then, having revised it, pronounced an eulogium which had caused my heart to bound with pleasure.
               Hermione was seated near the Conways, including Mr. James; Hubert and uncle near Miss Adaline, down among a large audience.
               The whole world seemed there; indeed, it was astonishing how on the slightest occasion such a small town as Pineville could drum up such monstrous crowds. Old Mrs. Burns was by M'lle de Boisseau. She had made the raise of another silk dress, which I saw her holding up, and putting herself in an attitude of defence, all the time Miss Sturgess was speaking.
               I have very little idea how I looked. I suppose I was beautifully dressed, for Mabel—sweet, good, thoughtful Mabel!—had insisted on having all the management of that. She had always told me I knew nothing of toilette effect, and as her own taste was perfect, I gladly submitted to her jurisdiction, conscious that it could not be in better hands.
               I was thrilling with excitement, having just laid down the diploma so ardently struggled for, and when my classmate's Salutatory died away, I found myself braving a sea of spectators, and saying I scarcely knew what. A confused murmur of approbation greeted me as I closed, and I turned to behold the tears standing in Mr. Sterne's fine, large eyes, bent upon me with an expression that shot the fire of heaven through my soul.
               Pride, exultation—pride as a teacher, exultation at my success—mingled with heartfelt sympathy and admiration, to which my look of reverence replied, "It is all due to you.'
               Hubert sought me with genuine gratification, mingling his praises with the thousands that greeted my cars.
               "You have finally solved the problem," he affectionately remarked. "You were born for an actress, Mona: Mrs. Siddons could not have surpassed you."
               I saw uncle wiping his spectacles, and Hermione came mingling her elegant approval, until so many compliments overpowered me that I sought the music-room to gather up my books, some of which were lying on the shelves there.
               There was to be a party at the Institute that night, and I did not intend to return to Callamura, Hubert and myself having arranged to spend the interim with Adaline.
               The crowd gradually dispersed before I found all my books, and silence settled on the surroundings.
               As I sprang upon a chair to reach after a pile of music, my heavy hair, so straight and devoid of curl that it was difficult to persuade it into a quiescent coil, fell into its natural stream down to my waist.
               At that moment the door opened and Mr. Sterne entered,
               As he approached me I saw that he was powerfully agitated. His whole frame trembled, his face flushed, while his heavy brows were uplifted to me with a tension that gave clear egress to the strange, stone-blue beauty of his eyes. The soul so illumined the face that he seemed superlatively handsome.
               I was endeavoring to secure my wayward hair, but he eagerly caught my arm. "Let it be," he cried; "let me revel in the bright picture a moment—'purpurea crinea.' May God forgive me, Mona!" he rushed on, "but my self-denial cannot last for ever. You only, among a land of strangers, have given me the sweet semblance of affection. It is not strange that I—"
               Before I could realize it, he had seized me in his arms, folded me in his giant grasp, and held me to his throbbing heart.
               I have a thousand times felt my restless fingers aching to smooth down the disordered masses of his hair, which ever seemed unacquainted with the process of shampooing, and as he relinquished me I let them follow their nervous impulse and wander among his locks, as they were accustomed to do among Hubert's.
               "Why do you keep your hair so unkempt, Mr. Sterne?"
               He had seated himself on the piano-stool, and was gazing up into my face, eager, excited, trembling with passion, while I calmly pursued the occupation for which I had so often yearned. I took out one of my side-combs and arranged his hair to suit my fancy.
               "There now," I exclaimed, "it is combed like Hubert's."
               But Mr. Sterne looked annoyed. I feared I had offended him. He threw my hands from him in a burst of passion, which I silently observed, without the slightest comprehension of its nature.
               "Mona, Mona, child, for God's sake! Thinking of my hair when I am enduring the tortures of Ixion! your presence is the wheel that continually crushes me. Oh, Mona! what have I not endured, waiting till the affections of womanhood should arrive at the maturity of your mental powers and womanly attractions! How carefully have I moulded your mind, coveting the precious treasure, trembling lest some daring and more fortunate discoverer should appropriate my priceless masterpiece! Oh, Mona!"
               He buried his face in his hands while I bound up my truant tresses.
               That I was the cause of some great to Mr. Sterne I was thoroughly conscious, but my brain would have turned at the idea that he wished me for his wife.
               I think a faint suspicion of something of this kind did for a moment present itself. but I banished was far too grave, too elderly, too superior to think of such a child as I was.
               I supposed he caught me to him in his delight at my triumph, which of course reflected on him and the Institute.
               He had once before held me in his arms when I had met with a severe fall, and had frequently placed his had on my head. There was nothing so strange in that.
               But I was touched to the heart to perceive his grief. I endeavored to remove what I thought the most probable cause of it.
               
               "What ridiculous fears, Mr. Sterne!" I said cheerfully, taking hold of his hands and tearing them away from his face. I looked kindly down into his eyes. "Mr. Sterne, you know I am not going to leave the Institute; I will be here a long while yet."
               "When I thought you were going to the Crescent City—when I was on the brink of losing you before—"
               "But I am not going anywhere, Mr. Sterne," I impatiently interrupted him; "and if I meet that fortunate discoverer who is to bear off your pupil—flattered by all your praises, Mr. Sterne—you shall be my confidant; you shall sympathize in all our happiness, Mr. Sterne."
               He looked up at me with an agonized, hopeless expression.
               "How culpable I have been!" he said. "Already I feel the agonies of remorse. Forget this scene, Mona, and so will I—when memory dies."
               He was gone.
               As I issued from the music-room, I encountered M'lle de Boisseau flitting like a formless shadow through the passage.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               FROM Adaline's we attended the party, Hubert and I. Alfred acted as my escort. He was a rather handsome young man, with a melancholy aspect—not at all like Adaline—with black hair and eyes and a cream-like complexion. He was not so agreeable and companionable as Julius, but he was a splendid listener, and sometimes had a stray streak of fun.
               I remember I entertained him nearly all night, dwelling on the perfections of Hermione's marvelous beauty. I thought everybody else must be as passionate admirers of beauty as I was, and that the world must see that she was perfect. I remember particularly comparing her to a magnolia bloom, and he was kind enough to assent to everything I said. He always showed Hermione great civility. But Dr. Sims, being one of the grand old gentlemen of the olden time, had a much more stately way of offering her the honors of Pineville.
               Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau, who was now become her vade mecum, came from home in the carriage, accompanied by James Conway.
               This gentleman had concluded to make our country his future residence. He had large possessions adjoining Philip's; and, being handsome and agreeable, he was a very important acquisition to our society.
               He resembled Philip, but to my taste he was handsomer. He seemed to be of harder metal. He had not so much of the suaviter in modo, but all of Philip's hauteur, which indeed sometimes rendered him rather overbearing, or, to say the least, unbending, especially when influenced by prejudice. Hermione seemed quietly falling heiress to his attentions: and as the match would have been a very suitable one, I could not perceive that opposition was likely to arise from any quarter.
               But Hermione herself had a singular way at parties of gliding about from any position or partner, and unabashed and unexpectedly joining any conversation she happened to fancy. She moved so magnificently I always attributed it to that circumstance. Certainly the most vivid remembrance with every one of such occasions must always have been her commanding presence, moving about glittering with jewels. She sailed up to where Hubert and Adaline were renewing all their old-time relations, gracefully fully offering Adaline some sweet greeting and admiring her rosy looks.
               "My compliments are worth something," she added, "for, like the aloe, they bloom but once in a century. Hubert's are so generally bestowed they are worthless. I wonder you do not grow fatigued with their weight. I wonder you do not grow fatigued with their weight." She threw up her lovely eyes as though she sympathized deeply with her under their infliction.
               Miss Adaline, in her innocent, pretty way, declared that he never paid her any. She had never received but one compliment in her life, and that was from good old Mr. Stafford.
               Hubert asserted that she was worthy of a thousand.
               Hermione culminated: "If you had heard him assure Miss Carrie Horn that her locks were more valuable than the gold of California, you would be surprised. You know, too, how shockingly derelict he has been in not paying you any compliments."
               Unfortunately, Hubert had used this simile in reference to Adaline's soft, flowing curls, and Hermione glided majestically away, leaving them to chew the cud as best they might.
               Hubert however was not deficient in management, and though he did not dread any evil consequences, he launched at Hermione an angry look of resentment at her interference. She returned it with a cool, mocking stare, which seemed to transfix him, so cold was it with the wondrous beauty of her eyes.
               Once I saw her affectionately leaning on M'lle de Boisseau, attracting Mr. Sterne's attention to a singular ring she wore. She was explaining to him the mysteries of unlocking it, and displaying its significant motto, "Pulcherrima me habeto."
               "I fear it has fallen into unworthy hands," she languidly remarked.
               Mr. Sterne, with his classic recollections, could not avoid saying something about the impossibility of its proving an apple of discord in Pineville. He assured her that it was his belief that Pineville universally acknowledged her claimes to supremacy in the matter of personal appearance.
               Mr. Sterne was not given to light compliments, though he passed them easily and gracefully; but Hermione had the rare art of extracting them from the most zealously guarded sources.
               'Yes, but Pineville's verdict is comparatively worthless. Your opinion might be valuable—you are a connoisseur. I shall never wear the ring," she added, with sudden energy, "unless you declare that you think me entitled to it."
               She fixed her wondrous, magnetic eyes upon him, till he laughingly replied:
               "Tastes are various, you know, Miss Morant; nor do I claim to be a connoisseur. I doubt not you are 'pulcherrima' to the donor of that ring, which gives you a right to consider yourself so."
               "Wear the ring, M'lle de Boisseau," said Hermione, turning to her with the air of a queen abdicating a throne. "Wear it; Mr. Sterne withholds his sublime decree."
               "No I do not" said Mr. Sterne, hesitating, half smiling, "for I have no right either to issue or to withhold it."
               But Hermione had regained the ring with a thrilling 'I thank you," and passed on to other groups.
               Mrs. Burton and Mr. Sterne had made great efforts to prepare a pleasant entertainment for their pupils, but some way it had not proved a success. There wan an unacknowledged air of restraint hovering over the festivity, and a want a cordiality existing, one scarce knew where.
               Mr. Sterne seemed harassed, and seated himself near me. A group of men were carrying on an excited conversation within our hearing.
               "It is time," said one, "that this thing was stopped. With our impulsive Southern hospitality we open our doors to our enemies, and the consequence is we are traduced and vilified."
               "Let us erect our own factories, employ our own teachers and keep our own money," said another.
               "This—De Boisseau is a Yankee emissary in disguise," a third suggested. At this moment the group moved away.
               A bitter smile passed over Mr. Sterne's countenance.
               "But for you, Mona," he said, "how could I endure these things? I was born in New Hampshire, it is true, but I am neither Yankee nor Southron. But I am both. I admire this splendid Union—God grant it may not be shivered to fragments!"
               "You look fatigued, Mr. Sterne," I commiserated.
               "So I am—fatigued by the heartless world, sad and sick at heart."
               Just then, James Conway approached: "Come, Miss Mona, let me have the pleasure of your hand for the next set."
               Mr. Sterne had bowed, but the haughty South Carolinian scarcely noticed his existence, and we were soon mingling in the mazes of the mazourka.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV
               THE long summer holidays passed at Callamura pleasantly enough. Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau planned and executed numerous visits to their acquaintances, old pupils of Madama Sévigne, who resided in neighboring towns more city-like in pretensions.
               Hermione seemed the actual mistress of Callamura, having always at command uncle's splendid cream-colored horses and silver-mounted carriage. I seldom joined her in its occupancy; not that I was not free to use any of uncle's possessions, but I preferred cantering about with Hubert through the woods on my glossy black mare.
               M'lle de Boisseau possessed considerable finesse in drawing out uncle on his favorite themes, and indeed he seemed to think her a wonderfully accomplished woman. She too possessed, among her multifarious treasures, phrenological maps and charts, and was evidently quite a proficient in the science. She was likewise the recipient of spiritualistic journals, papers advocating woman's rights, homœopathy, hydropathy, and so forth, and apparently keeping pace with all the modern advancements of the age.
               She had seduced the old man to draw off a chart of her head; but, to give her due, she had been grateful enough to return the favor by a very elaborate examination of his own.
               Old Mrs. Burns kept her dim old eyes fastened on her, I thought, with a steadiness that seemed somewat prompted by the distrust and suspiciousness of old age.
               One of M'lle de Boisseau's articles of clothing was brought in her room by mistake one day, while I happened to be seated there. The old lady turned it over and over again, examining it as if she had never seen such an object before.
               "Read this name, Mona," she said; "I can't see well."
               She handed it to me, and in bold characters on the binding I saw "D. Boyce."
               The garment was very old.
               "De Boise?" she echoed; "spell it, child."
               "Umph," sneered the old lady, "she's about as much French as I am. It's a wise child, Mona, that knows its father."
               The lady herself suddenly appeared before us. She was in the habit of doing this whenever her name was mentioned. It seemed like magic. I had heard Mrs. Burns' remark of it a hundred times, using one of her original sayings, that "speak of the —— and his imps appear."
               She wanted to know, this time, if she could get any wax. She was going to organize classes next term in wax flowers, and laid Callamura under contribution for a large amount of the material, which Mrs. Burns very grudgingly, I though, allowed.
               After she had left the room, and had time to get down the stairs, Mrs. Burns growled after her:
               "Give an inch and take an ell; that's always the way, Mona. Something, something every day: what will it be next? She can eat more preserves than a 'possum; she wants more waiting on than a queen."
               The old lady was becoming so excited that she was sticking her knitting-needles after her through the door.
               "She'll never leave here on the face of the earth," she continued, steadily increasing in wrath. "'Where the pot boils strongest, there she stays the longest.' I'll tell you another thing, too," she added, rising now to her feet: "She'll never be satisfied till she gets all of Callamura." She threw down her knitting on the floor in a melodramatic style that quite astonished me. I think I had a din perception that she would have made a fair caricature of an ancient Pythoness.
               I was very much astonished at her newly-developed astonished, though, to think I heard a soft step just slipping down the stairs as the old lady concluded her climax.
               Whether it was that great occasions manufacture greatness, and that Mrs. Burns was only rising equal to the emergency, or that the old lady had been carefully hoarding her resources all this time, I cannot say, but I certainly had never given her credit for so, much shrewdness or vim, although I had seen her powers on the occasion of her triumph over Miss Sturgess.
               But doubtless her deafness rendered her a more patient and acute observer of the expression of the countenance. Old age naturally rendered her cautions, and she was not insensible to the creature-comforts of Callamura. On that score she was quick to take the alarm, dreading the faintest possibility of their withdrawal, consequent upon her own future dislodgment.
               All of the phrenological developments with uncle struck the old woman's eye at once: indeed, I have since pondered over her remarkable attack upon Mr. Sterne at Mabel's wedding, and imagined it probable that she had read in his countenance on that occasion possibly what failed to escape my own observation, less astute.
               He was observing me with the intent of discovering if I were mature enough to receive his devoirs, haunted by the idea of my threatened departure. She read it all in his face, and, as I had told him, daringly coined her replies accordingly.
               She was the first person who suggested that possibility to me. She poked me in the side with her knitting-needles one day and eagerly remarked,
               "You get along! Don't he know which side of his bread is buttered? I can see through a millstone as far as the next one."
               It did not require her Argus eyes, however, to discover for me what the scene in the music-room was gradually revealing. A thousand times I had pondered over every word and every syllable that he had uttered then, and asked myself the sweet solution of his conduct. It was strange that Mr. Sterne, so serious, so intellectual, so almost divine in his sacred perfection, should have cast his eye on a mere child, immature and unequal as I was; but then, indeed, on whom else? Except Hermione, I knew of no one sufficiently elegant and accomplished to satisfy the exactions of a taste I knew must be fastidious. He was invariably civil to all ladies. I had seen him sometimes in company with the Dryweathers and several other country maidens, but I never had seen him when I thought he was mated. It might seem like vanity in me, but I became conscious that there was some such possibility in the future, if indeed I might in any manner become worthy of so great a happiness. The idea was becoming at least familiar wild and extravagant as such a hope might seem. He came out to Callamura several times during the vacation. I was pursuing a course of reading of his selection. He would bring out the books, such as our own library did not contain, and encourage my progress with his critical approval; but there seemed to be a spell around that free, untrammeled consciousness of similar tastes, which had flowed in a silent stream even though the clockwork regularities of a shcool-room.
               M'lle de Boisseau never failed to know, by intuition, when he was coming, and would meet him arrayed in her "best bib and tucker." Before I had any idea he was in the house, she would be entertaining him with some scheme of active benevolence pertaining to the Sunday-school, or missionary fund, or the Bible repository, or some of the numerous colporteur schemes, which I always thought must have been of her original projection.
               Uncle, too, was always glad to see him, and they had long conjectures about the tendencies of political signs. Hubert was becoming fascinated by the man, and would pause in some of his madcap moods to join us in the parlor when he called. Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau were Leda's swans; of course, M'lle de Boisseau remembered some new song; she wished Mr. Sterne to hear Hermione's latest music; or called on him to admire a new print Hermione had just received from the city, or a new hat.
               I occupied, in reality, a very small space at Callamura just then; possibly, after all, I was mistaken in the inference I had drawn.
               Mr. Sterne himself, as far as I could judge, looked careworn and sad. He was too critical a judge of beauty not to admire Hermione. I caught him frequently gazing on her, as I had often observed him smiling on Adaline's fair face in days gone by, but I could not see that it was with any deeper emotion.
               Our eyes did not very frequently meet; I was filled myself with the consciousness of what had occurred, but I could not see that he remembered it.
               Mabel's upright piano had been removed to a little landing back of the conservatory, or rather a division of the conservatory, filled with broken terra-cotta vases and odds and ends, where it was completely out of sight. I sometimes strayed there to practice, as its weak volume could scarcely penetrate the parlors. I had no proficiency in music, but I loved to let my fingers wander over the keys in what seemed to me tunes, or variations of tunes, of my own composition.
               I was thus engaged one evening when Mr. Sterne stood suddenly by me. How he got there, or how he managed to escape so many steel-spring traps, I could not divine.
               "Mona," he abruptly questioned, "are you sure you will come back to the Institute next term?"
               "Perfectly sure, Mr. Sterne," I replied, letting my hands drop from the keys and gazing bewildered at his sudden appearance.
               "You will not disappoint me? Oh, Mona, I cannot lose you!"
               "Mr. Sterne, I will be certain to return."
               "I must go—I will be missed. I can rely upon you?"
               He looked so eager at me.
               "With all confidence." I said.
               I turned away, and as I struck a chord upon the piano, I thought I felt a kiss upon my brow—I thought I heard a sweet, deep-toned voice, like the sound of the wind through the pines, whisper in my ear,
               "Oh love me, Mona!"
               I was not sure of it at all. It was like the kiss and the voice of a dream, for I heard Mr. Sterne say, carelessly,
               "Practising, Miss Mona? I did not know you were so fond of music."
               "Oh yes," piped a shrill treble tone, "Miss Mona has become quite enthused with music of late days. All of my pupils become fond of music after a while. Miss Mona will never become such a splendid pianist as Miss Hermione, of course—very few have such superior talents as Miss Morant; but then Miss Morant is such a genius, so brilliant, so superior!"
               I turned round my face, dyed, I fear, with tell-tale blushes.
               Mr. Sterne was leaning quietly against the door, his feet crossed, and one hand supporting his weight against the lintel. I thought he must have arrived at Mr. Jerkins' facility in changing position, for one would never have supposed he had entered the room. His position was as well defined as if he had been standing there an hour.
               Old M'lle de Boisseau's head was peeing in under his arm, her body raised on tiptoe. At that distance her weak, insignificant features were totally undistinguishable, it being nearly three paces, but her whole attitude betrayed intense curiosity and malicious anxiety.
               I said something about "General Bem's Grand March," and commenced thundering away on it for life and death.
               The last thing I heard as they retreated was something about "Hermione's superior touch," from M'lle de Boisseau—"her splendid talents."
               It was the last visit Mr. Sterne paid us during the holidays.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               ONE of the privileges of valetudinarianism, on which the elder Mrs. Conway insisted, was especial attention from young people. Hubert and myself were in the habit of frequently cantering over to Hawthorne Hill to pay her our respects. Hermione always called when she had just received a new dress from the city and was arrayed in a toilette particularly blinding.
               The old lady herself seemed to have a passion for handsome dresses, though hers were only destined for a peg in her wardrobe.
               James Conway was now living at Hawthorne Hill: possibly that fact rendered Hermione somewhat chary of her visits. Having nothing of that kind to intimidate me, and, besides, loving Mabel so devotedly, I could not prefer the companionship of Callamura to hers.
               There had always been very little cousinly intercourse between them; not, I am assured, from any failure or insensibility on Mabel's part; but I do not remember that I ever saw Hermione cordial toward any lady, unless the compact between herself and M'lle de Boisseau possessed that ingredient.
               She was a great friend of Philip's, and would sing songs for him by the hour, showing him sometimes her diamond rings and her album of photographs by way of variety, but her countenance always wore a cold, inexpressive look when Mabel was present, while her manners toward Philip would redouble in kindness and sympathy.
               A stranger would have imagined Philip her cousin, and Mabel the relation by marriage. A stranger too would doubtless have sympathized with her in the unfortunate fact that her cousin had married such an insipid piece of yea-nayness as Mabel. Yet Mabel always had serene, sweet smiles for her, and I question not bore her name on high in many a fervent petition.
               Philip, like all the gentlemen, admired her extravagantly.
               I could not even perceive any approach to intimacy between herself and the friends who returned her visits from neighboring towns. One would have thought them M'lle de Boisseau's guests.
               That lady was the most universally useful and popular person I had ever known. Except that Mrs. Burns and myself had all the trouble of attending to the corporeal wants of these visitors, assisted in the main by Venus, she gained great eclat among éclat among them by the magnificent manner in which she entertained company. Hermione, naturally indolent, was scarcely less grateful than the guests.
               And as a matter of course M'lle de Boisseau accompanied Hermione to return all the visits. Some gentlemen, generally relatives of their young friends, always visited Pineville soon after they came home.
               They had gone to H——. They had been gone several days, returning the compliments of two young ladies, who had sojourned at Callamura several weeks, when one evening they drove up very unexpectedly at the arched gateway, accompanied by a couple of gentlemen.
               It was unexpected, because, either that Hermione was always swayed by the whim of the moment, or that she loved to veil her movements by the appearance of mystery, no one ever knew when she would leave or when she would return.
               The gentlemen were in a handsome open buggy—two dust-laden chevaliers. Hubert met them at the gateway, and, as was his privilege and duty, offered them the hospitalities. He was calling servants to drive round their horse, and shaking hands after what seemed an introduction from Hermione.
               They looked like strangers, and I dashed into Mrs. Burns with the startling information. I flew to the kitchen to enthuse old Aunt Viney with the idea of flannel cakes and muffins and a waffles for supper.
               Oh what a belle and what a beauty Hermione was! She never went anywhere that somebody did not come back sighing in her train. It looked as if the whole world was coming to Callamura to court Hermione.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE captives which Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau had brought in from their raid on H—— proved to be a Mr. Wintersoll and a Mr. Pearson. They were both old friends of M'lle de Boisseau, and Northerners by birth. The former, however, was at present engaged in New Orleans in the banking business. He was a gentlemanly person, albeit rather advanced in years, but completely carried away, I judged, by the magnificence of Hermione's personal attractions.
               Mr. Person's pink-and-white cheeks, blooming in striking contrast to the cream-colored denizens of the malarious land of the South, came over the landscape at once like a breeze from the Green Mountains or a breath from a Bostonian block of ice.
               His broad "keows" and constant "guesses' grated so upon uncle's sensitive prejudices that, in spite of M'lle de Boisseau's finesse and blandishments, he fell into his general resort of musing, and seldom peered out of his shell more than sufficient to lend a general appearance of welcome. Even Hermione herself, wrapped up as she generally was in her own calculations, must have perceived that the influx of such visitors was not peculiarly agreeable.
               Indeed, just then the long-accumulated wrongs and insults which had been thoughtlessly heaped by unreflecting and misguided people upon a misrepresented section had finally aroused a bitter sense of injury, and very few persons had sufficient equanimity left to refrain from confounding the whole with a part.
               Hermione's graciousness, however, M'lle de Boisseau's old friendship, together with Mr. Wintersoll's blind infatuation, contributed, I suppose, to render their stay very delightful.
               Hubert's natural joyousness, too, although he shared his uncle's sentiments, rendered it impossible for him to be disagreeable or uncivil.
               They had been with us probably a day and a half, when Hubert and I bethought us of calling over at Hawthorne Hill. They had doubtless not heard of our new visitors, or James Conway would, I know, have been over to greet Hermione.
               I remember we encountered Mr. Jerkins on the road, trembling under the weight of an enormous walking bludgeon; Callamura had a very bad reputation, as regarded dogs. But he enjoyed the satisfaction of having the countenance of Miss Hemmingway during his stroll. Her figure bore a remarkable resemblance to a goose egg clapped upon a fishing pole.
               He looked very much frightened when he saw me, and I made Black Bess kick up her heels to the extent of her capacity, for I was determined not to bow to him, if I had to fall off of my horse.
               We found the Conways, as I had surmised, in total ignorance of the changes over our way, and Mr. James in particular not only interested in asking questions about the new arrivals, but somewhat nonplussed, if not astonished, at all I had to relate.
               We stayed to dinner, but I felt compelled to return immediately it was over. Hubert had promised Adaline to take tea with her in the evening, and he, I knew, wished to be at home for his accustomed siesta.
               But Mr. James insisted on our waiting a while and he would accompany us home. It was some time before his steed was brought round, and meanwhile, as we had mentioned tioned our destination to be Adaline's, Mr. James had suggested an evening ride with Miss Adaline before tea.
               As she was well supplied for riding excursions, owing a beautiful little fawn-colored ambler, the arrangement was decided on, and we went sweeping back to Callamura.
               As we entered the circular colonnade I caught the powerful odor of magnolias, which ever betrayed Hermione's vicinity. She was in the parlor, bowing over her guitar, which she had been sweeping, Mr. Wintersoll seated at her feet, all adoration and transfixion—M'lle de Boisseau and her verdant young friend playing at backgammon.
               Hermione's face grew white as I entered with James Conway. Dashing, haughty and handsome, the glowing impersonation of that aristrocratic cavalier stock which has since then rendered the fields of Southern battle for ever memorable tin the annals of chivalry, he stood there proudly before her, all that might be supposed to realize a maiden's fairest dream—an Hyperion to a satyr compared with the lifeless, precise, elderly suitor at her feet.
               But Hermione said with careless ease, moving not a muscle of her matchless form—
               "Good-day, Mr. Conway; be seated on the divan. I am know from experience she will be in good hands. Allow me to make you acquainted, Mr. Conway, with Mr. Wintersoll and Mr. Pearson."
               The nationality of the pink man was too vividly stamped upon his cheeks to ensure him anything beyond the stateliest recognition from Mr. Conway, and I hied me up stairs to make some changes in my wardrobe.
               I had scarcely completed them before Hermione entered.
               "Mona," she announced, "I wish to use the black mare this evening. The gentlemen wish to ride with M'lle de Boisseau and myself."
               "Indded, cousin," I, answered, respectfully, "I am very sorry, but Mr. Conway has asked me to ride with him, and Hubert will accompany Adaline."
               "So Mr. Conway has just informed me," she coolly rejoined, "which made me hasten to let you know in time."
               She did not seem to have the least idea that here could exist any impediment after this.
               "It is unfortunate, cousin," I returned, "that our engagements should have fallen together. So far as I am concerned, I should not care, but Hubert and Adaline would be disappointed, I know."
               "That doesn't signify," she answered. "Make Mr. Conway some sufficient excuse." She turned majestically away, as if the matter was decided.
               All of the indignant fearlessness of my nature broke forth, battling with the wild spell which her beauty for ever wrought around me.
               "I shall do no such thing," I retorted. "I promised to ride with Mr. Conway, and I shall do it."
               She turned, looking at me quietly but determinedly. I added, somewhat sullenly: "You can ride uncle's horse, cousin; he is a handsome beast, and perfectly gentle; and let M'lle de Boisseau take one of the plough-horses."
               "You talk as if you had the control of Callamura," she coolly replied. "I suppose Mr. Conway would be very much gratified if he knew you anxiety of his account."
               "I have ridden frequently with Mr. Conway," I returned; 'I do not consider it an unusual or an unattainable honor."
               "You will not have the honor this evening," she maintained. "I have already informed him it will be an impossibility—that I intended using the mare myself. He has just gone."
               
               The audacity of the woman roused all the fury of my nature.
               "I will ride Black Bess," I persisted, flashing my eyes at her as she stood there mocking me in her superhuman beauty. Furious as I was, I felt its power. "I would have relinquished the mare to you had you requested me civilly, Cousin Hermione." I knew she had just purchased an elegant blue riding-habit studded with solid silver buttons, and was anxious to exhibit her superior horsemanship to her new admirers. "You shall see," I firmly concluded—"you shall see, Cousin Hermione, that you shall not order and control me."
               "Neither shall you control this establishment."
               I replied that I had no such disposition.
               "Then you had best learn that I am to have my way here. I order what horses I choose, and as you know Black Bess is the only lady's horse in the stables, you must be reconciled to relinquish her."
               "I am sure I shall not," I replied in a reckless rage. "She is my own property—she was my mother's riding mare, and it would be a profanation for you to mount her!"
               I dashed out of the room, lest in my wrath I might utter still bitterer words. Clearly conscious, likewise, of the steady, powerful will I had encountered, I felt an insecurity and uncertainty hovering around the future.
               Hubert informed me that Mr. Conway had only ridden off to the quarters to send a boy over to Hawthorne Hill after Mabel's white pony. It soon arrived. He had ordered it for my acceptance, probably supposing the animal in dispute to be Hermione's property; and I think he was much more interested in our ride than I was myself. He was determined that nothing should frustrate it.
               But I surprised Hermione very much by informing her that she could appropriate Mabel's pony herself.
               Hermione was not litigious; that is, she was too much collected to engage in controversies of word-bandying; she was only determined in accomplishing her ends. This was the first and the last altercation which ever occurred between us. I do not know how much immunity I may have owed to her discovery on that occasion that I possessed at least a sufficiency of the family fortiter in re myself. At any rate, she dared not show any of her willfulness of resentment in the presence of her admirers. Doubtless, too, she had concluded that my statement in regard to my ownership of the riding animal was correct; for she gave me one of her cool, deliberate, imperturbable stares as she heard me assert my intention—or preference as I expressed it—to use the animal to which I was accustomed.
               The gentlemen did not seem to attach any importance to our arrangements, and Hermione had had such a specimen of my temper she did not gainsay me.
               I sprang up into the saddle; Hermione, with her long trailing skirts thrown over her arm, took hold of mabel's crimson bridle rein.
               "I am to be indebted to Mr. Conway's charity, I presume," she said, giving him one of her clear beautiful looks, martyrizing his proud, unbending nature with its very excess of loveliness. "Pray who is the owner of this handsome animal? I suppose I must accept it pro tempore, even though the compliment was designed for my fairer cousin."
               "It is Cousin Mabel's" I said: "and I am too sure of her generous nature, Cousin Hermione, not to know that you need not feel under indebtedness to any one in its use."
               I made this answer more to relieve the choking sensation I perceived overcoming James Conway than from any amiable feeling toward her, for I was still incensed at her overbearing proceedings.
               
               He made no audible reply—none that reached me—but his eyes were fixed on her with an expression that spoke more than words—the uptearing of a proud soul in the merited language of reproach.
               She gleams in my memory yet as she stood there carelessly leaning on her snowy steed, clad in her deep blue riding-habit, thickly sown with its star-like silver studs, her black plumes waving back, with her long chestnut hair, from a brow that preached of the glories of heaven, as the fairest picture that Time had yet unfolded to my view.
               There are some attitudes of grace, some striking exhibitions of beauty, which we recognize at the time as brilliant eras in our history, not often to be won or expected in the shifting uncertainties of the future; and so I think we all gazed, lingering a while around the gateway, intoxicating our senses with the dangerous Circean draught emanating from the radiant woman before us.
               If I recognized its influence myself, burning as I had just been with anger toward her, what must not have been its effect upon others?
               Mr. Wintersoll had the honor of lifting her to her saddle, which James Conway stood scornfully and somewhat wrathfully observing.
               Even Hubert's joyous, volatile nature seemed unusually dazzled, and as she had never succeeded in entirely quelling his effervescence of compliment, he gallantly observed:
               "You carry me back, my splendid cousin, to the days of yore, when the beautiful Queen of the Desert led forth her train from the City of the Palms; only you have not however," he wickedly continued, throwing one of his queer looks at that gentleman, who was so busy fumbling away at his stirrup that he was not in any danger of hearing ing or seeing him—"Mr. Wintersoll, however, would suffice for a very respectable Longinus."
               Hermione, who had a fair acquaintance with literature, although nothing of a student, was not devoid of quickness. She turned upon him the unclouded beauty of her countenance and retorted,
               "Of one thin he assured, my splendid cousin, you will never enact the character of a Roman emperor. Mr. Conway, lend me your riding-whip."
               She bent forward her small hand cased in handsome gauntlets, and as it came in contact with his, while he was thrilling with agitation, I heard her say, sotto voce, "You look as if you would like to become on of Longinus' executioners."
               A few moments afterward her gay tones were floating on the wind as she dashed up the lane on her spirited white palfrey. The venerable M'lle de Boisseau faithfully brought up the rear with her Green Mountain boy, struggling hard to keep her seat on uncle's charger by holding on to the pommel of the saddle. She melted out of sight in a flippity-flop manner that reminded me very much of a dab of butter rising on the top of a churn.
               She was a judicious foil to strange, incomprehensible, brilliant Hermione.
               Adaline joined our party willingly, and after the vision, we had just enjoyed of my matchless cousin, her seraphic, unruffled loveliness was refreshing and delightful. Her riding-habit was also blue, and contrasted finely with her sunny brow and hair. The bright look of pleasure with which she greeted Hubert was sufficient happiness for any one; and as they ambled slowly along ahead of us, in a quiet, lover-like way, I rejoiced in the placid future which was opening so kindly over them.
               Adaline was a thorough lady. I had once thought her a trifle too fond of admiration, having little innocent arts to attract attention; but she was too fully alive to the importance of the acquisition she had made in Hubert to endanger her good fortune by the exhibition of any triviality elsewhere. She was refined, cultivated to the extent of her powers, though they were not naturally strong, and truthful and affectionate. All of her outshadowings proved her delicate and high-bred. Such white little hands were flashed before one—such a splendidly arched foot!
               Surely I had good cause to felicitate myself on Hubert's happy choice, although I would never have selected her myself for him, fearing that she had not sufficient variety to mate with an intellect so dazzling a mind so volatile. But I saw that in one respect no other person could have so perfectly accorded with him. Adaline seemed totally deficient in temper; and although Hubert was all gayety and sunshine as long as any food for mirth presented itself, there were times when his furious passions were roused into a perfect storm. It did not require, either, and uncommon amount of contradiction to rouse them, and, like the blast of the Euroclydon, each gust seemed to rush in transverse directions and wrack the elements with convulsions.
               Adaline possessed the sweet power of averting these half-periodic outbreaks, and I felt assured that nothing could ever induce him to cause her one moment's suffering, or allow unkindness to bring shadows on her brow.
               Mr. Conway wore a thoughtful look, but he was of too stern a stuff to show any puling melancholy on Hermione's stern a stuff to show any puling melancholy on Hermione's account. He was a tree which might possibly break, but never bend unworthily. He rendered our ride agreeable; besides, too, our intercourse had the freedom and ease of connexions, and as I did not doubt that he was drawn into his attentions to me by a wish undefined perhaps, of hearing ing more of her, I spoke freely when she was the subject of our conversation.
               He had inquired who was this Mr. Wintersoll.
               I knew very little concerning him. M'lle de Boisseau had known him in the city.
               "Had Miss Hermione known him there?"
               I had an impression that she had met him there, but on reflection I found that it was only an impression. I think Hermione had rather avoided that point; in fact, Hermione never conversed much about her past history. But M'lle de Boisseau had talked a great deal about having known Mr. Wintersoll in the North. She had seen his splendid residence in Tarrytown, and knew that he was as wealthy as Crœsus.
               "She is always expatiating," I continued, "on the superior advantages to be enjoyed living in that country, compared to this. I heard her say one could not desire a brighter destiny than to spend Mr. Wintersoll's wealth in Tarrytown."
               I was purposely giving him this information, for I liked James Conway, and I wished him to understand all the influences I thought were arrayed against him.
               "How comes it," he asked suddenly, "that I see M'lle de Boisseau so much more with your cousin than yourself: do you not like her?"
               "M'lle de Boisseau has known Hermione so much longer," I replied. "She was her teacher in the city, you know; and, besides, old acquaintanceship has that influence which a teacher always acquires over the mind of a pupil."
               "You don't answer my last question," he remarked; "but possibly was presuming in asking it."
               "No, not at all," I returned slowly. I was hesitating for a truthful reply. "I would—yes, I would—like Hermione one, if she would let me. I admire her beauty. I think it is unequaled. I could love her for that alone. But it has never seemed to me that she cared I should love her. She has a fine mind too, and many fine traits: she is liberal and unenvious. I think, Mr. Conway, Hermione would have made a perfect woman, nobly planned, but the edifice has been ruined in the finishing."
               "I do not understand her," said he.
               'Neither do I," I enchoed, "and I ought not to have pronounced any judgment on her."
               "Do you think M'lle de Boisseau possesses much influence over her?"
               "More than any one else, as far as I can judge."
               "That is strange; she looks like a weak little woman. I should have thought her merely a little shadow flitting after wealth and fame, never presuming to influence any one. I have heard it whispered she was an abolition emissary, but I suppose that is all nonsense."
               "It is through that very weakness," I returned, "or appearance of weakness, I think—that she influences Hermione. Some influences, you know, may be very strong, yet subtle and almost imperceptible."
               "Would you advise me," Miss Mona, he said, turning suddenly and frankly to—a frankness very charming in haughty natures—"would you advise me to address Miss Hermione now? I have not yet actually done so, though I have been seriously meditating it, and I know she is quick enough to read the language of love."
               "Mr. Conway, my advice would be worth nothing to you," I replied. "I have had no experience in matters of this kind, and, though I am sure I wish you success with all my heart, I believe I would prefer not giving it."
               "But you have the judgment of a woman, and indeed you are a very sensible one. I have such confidence in your goodness and sagacity that I would value it very highly."
               It was the old story; every lover must needs have a confidant and adviser, so I acted my part to the best of my ability.
               "Then I will candidly give you my opinion, Mr. Conway," I replied, "though i may seem somewhat sphynxical in its nature. If you think you have already awakened any interest in Hermione, I would boldly dash in at once and plead undeterred my cause, trusting to her womanly affection and your own sword for success; for I believe, from the little that has already transpired, that the crisis is imminent. If not, and she has given you no encouragement thus far, I think I would quietly withdraw, for I fear there are too many influences possessed by a more fortunate, and, I am convinced, a less worthy rival."
               "Thank you," he said; "I have already trespassed on your good-natured sympathy, but there is one more question I would like to ask. But possibly it is not admissible?"
               "Rest assured, Mr. Conway, it has been no trespass at all. I would prefer Hermione should marry you to any person in the world. I would that I possessed some influence with her!"
               My looks conveyed confirmation of my sincerity, for he thanked me.
               "Tell me, then, one thing," he continued: "have you ever thought me so fortunate as to have awakened any interest there?"
               "Ah, indeed," I replied, "that is beyond my ken. To save my life, I could not tell you as to Hermione's preference."
               I remembered times when I had seen her furtively bending her beautiful eyes upon Hubert, then withdrawing them with an expression of the deepest melancholy and regret. I had seen her listening to the deep melody of Mr. Sterne's voice when it rolled through our parlor like the mighty Mississippi, bearing the varied tribute of a hundred chimes upon its wave, drawing a heavy sigh with its falling cadence, as though, like my ill-starred namesake, she repined that Heaven had not made her such a man. I had seen her part with Mr. Britt with adieu on her lip and a tear in her eye. I had seen a white glow freezing her features as the handsome, striking form of James Conway presented her the beau-ideal of manly bearing. I had seen her bending over her guitar with her eye glued in the intensity of feeling to Mr. Wintersoll; and yet I had seen her mocking and deriding them all.
               Who could know her preference?
               "To use a homely adage, Mr. Conway, 'A new broom sweeps clean' with Hermione. Mr. Wintersoll seems high in her favor to-day, and, judging from the past, one might expect the first new face to eclipse his memory. She never goes anywhere but that some one does not come sighing after her as the natural spoils of her expeditions; but the feature that looks so ominous to me in this case is M'lle de Boisseau's unqualified praises. It is her influence I dread."
               Mr. Conway kept his own counsel; he fell into musing.
               As we returned into town we met Mr. Sterne: I had not seen him for some time. In fact, the holidays were nearly past, and only a few days would see the opening of our session. Although I had graduated, I had several studies that Mr. Sterne thought it advisable for me to review; and besides I was pursuing the languages, being backward in those branches.
               Filled with the thought of renewing my old pursuits, I bent forward as I recognized him with a glad, happy bow. In return I caught even from a distance the valued sympathy of his generous blue eye.
               Mr. Conway remarked, "You like this cold-blooded Yankee?"
               "He is not a Yankee,' 'I replied. "But if he were, I like him."
               "What then?"
               "He is, properly speaking, an Anglo-American," I said. "He is a Unionist."
               We reached Dr. Sims' residence, where we were to take tea, and thence afterward ride home, as the nights were fair, crowned with moonlight.
               Hubert had fallen into a grave way of looking at Adaline, which struck me very forcibly this evening. I remember the thought flashed upon me that it was the first time I had ever seen any resemblance in him to uncle.
               "Take care of Hubert, Adaline," I laughed: 'he is growing like uncle. I see he forgets to turn over your music leaves. Brown studies are dangerous things.
               Adaline admitted she was opposed to brown studies, and black studies too; in fact, to studies of all kinds; she could not see what carried me back to Pineville Institute.
               "Merely to keep out of more dangerous studies," I replied. "I am only sixteen, and I think that is hardly old enough to enter upon the studies you are examining."
               She couldn't imagine what studies I referred to—she studied very little now of anything.
               "Only the human heart," I explained, which seemed to relieve the puzzled look on her sweet brow.
               On our return we had a delightful stretch of moonlight before us—down the tall poplars which reared their fanciful shapes around us.
               James Conway alighted and walked with me within the lighted parlor.
               There, stretched upon a sofa, the first object that greeted our sight, was our reverend friend M'lle de Boisseau, her arm in a sling and her temples bandaged. Uncle's gallant charger had proved too much for her antiquated muscles, attenuated by forty years of friction. The enterprising young spinster had met the usual fate of inexperienced riders and tumbled from her horse.
               Mr. Wintersoll, who seemed really to be a clever gentleman, was condoling with her and assisting to relieve her sufferings to the best of his power. Old Mrs. Burs preserved on the occasion a dignified distance, muttering to herself, doubtless as she did afterward to me—
               "'Ride a borrowed horse to the ——', and so she has."
               The scent of magnolias pervaded the apartment. Hermione always bathed her face in extract of magnolias; the pomades she used on her luxuriant chestnut tresses were oils of magnolia blooms; her soaps, her pocket handkerchiefs, were all steeped in the essence of that queen among the trees and flowers; and one could never see her without inhaling the fragrance and bearing away the remembrance of those perfume-haunted, cream-like petals.
               James Conway seated himself near her, where the full sweep of this fragrance could intoxicate his senses. I think from his conduct he must have imagined she had given him some precious encouragement, if he was shaping his course in accordance with my advice; for during the short space he remained he maintained his position at her side, ignoring entirely her new friends, pouring out unrestrainedly by his demeanor the admiration he entertained.
               Nevertheless, Hermione was too astute a general to use the offering otherwise than as an occasion for enhancing her own value in the estimation of her new recruits.
               Besides, his recent ride with me served as fair grounds for any coyness or capriciousness she might choose to display.
            
            
               CHPATER XVIII.
               NOT very many days after this saw the termination of Mr. Wintersoll's and Mr. Pearson's happiness, and with the termination of their visit, I suppose, returned Mr. James Conway's serenity of mind, for it was some time thereafter before I was called into his counsels again.
               Their departure was brought about by the following circumstances, with which I became afterward acquainted through Mabel. She was more familiar with our uncle than myself, and I suppose heard it from him.
               We were all seated in the parlor one morning when Armstead entered with an important air, informing Hermione that uncle desired her presence in the library. She swept in where the old man stood before her, roused into everyday life.
               "Hermione," he began, "when I brought you here, I installed you as the future mistress of Callamura. But I am still its master—still its master. There are certain duties and privileges universally recognized as devolving upon the host, and never to be exercised by a hostess—never. You have overstepped your promise in inviting these gentlemen to the house, and I desire that they leave—leave!"
               Hermione read in those silken brows, educated now into horizontal firmness by the sudden assertion of mental domination, the beautiful stereotype plates of her own, that lion-like energy with which she dared not cope, powerful and imperious as was her own will.
               "Uncle," she exculpated, "it is true that I invited these gentleman here—rather accidentally, though. They were old acquintances of M'lle de Boisseau, but I did not expect they would remain so long. It is not my fault that I—am beautiful."
               "No," said the old man, gazing dreamily at her, while the faded memories of youth came clustering round his heart, dead rose leaves flushing back into fragrance and bloom. "No, certainly not yours."
               "Mr. Wintersoll," began Hermione, hesitatingly, narrowly observing the effect of every word—"Mr. Wintersoll is a very gentlemanly and agreeable person. I think—I think he is detained here by the intention of addressing me."
               "What do you know of that person?" uncle bluntly questioned.
               "You know yourself, uncle, his name is one of the pillars of Wall street," Hermione proudly answered. "His wealth glides from him like the Gulf-stream from the Crescent City to the Battery."
               "Do you love him?" uncle pointed like a dagger at her heart, for her face grew white and no sound issued from her lips.
               "Look at the broad fields of Callamura!" He pointed with pardonable pride through the open windows, where, without, beyond the stately magnolias, more than a thousand fertile acres were waving with the white plume-like cotton or bursting with the luscious juice of sugar-canes. "Shall the mistress of Callamura become the sordid slave of wealth?" he asked. "Shall the diamond-crowned child of my boundless possessions speak to me of a pillar of Wall street? Every wish of you heart has been gratified; you have but to speak the word and my coffers are at your feet. There is all here for which the heart could pine—all. A prince—a prince might covet my estates. No, no," he continued, is emotions deepening in intensity, "let his wealth go to the Battery, and himself with it. He is one of our enemies—one of our enemies—one of those fanatical beings who are endeavoring to sap the foundations of liberty, and crush and republic of America with a thick-skulled negro."
               "Uncle," Hermione ventured to propitiate, "Mr. Wintersoll is a Unionist it is true, but he has been Southernized by a long residence among us."
               "He has only resided among Southern dollars," the old man bitterly rejoined. "They are all alike, and why does he travel the country in company with that raw Yankee? If he has lived here so long, he ought to know the times are too excited to brook the presence of strange enemies—strange enemies."
               "They are not old acquaintance," pleaded Hermione; "I knew Mr. Wintersoll in the city."
               "Pshaw! they are confederates—so much the worse."
               Only that morning had come rumors of incendiarism and distant burning towns, and not only uncle but the whole country was roused. Mr. Sturgess could pass anywhere without being liable to suspicion. "They are confederates, and our enemies. I tell you, Hermione," he continued with concentrated energy and passion, "blood of mine shall never blend with a Yankee's—never, no, never, blend with a Yankee's. So help me God! Mark that, Hermione, and let them go!"
               Hermione gazed on the old man, restored by his passions from his dreamy frame of mind to a temporary assumption of the powers of youth; reminding one of Ulysses, after his twenty years of exile and wandering, resuming once more his sway over his beloved Ithaca.
               She looked upon him, reflecting back his determined brow, his splendid eyes, his tall, majestic figure.
               She bowed her stately head and simply returned,
               "They shall go."
               And she came sweeping back to the parlor, her long train rustling over the tapestried floor; but none of us imagined anything had occurred to ruffle her composure.
               It was unfortunate for Mr. Wintersoll that his star had fallen in conjunction with Mr. Pearson's at this particular time. The latter was simply a drummer sent out by some far-seeing house in the North in the hope of gathering in some dues before the accumulated clouds of conflict should burst over a devoted land. Mr. Wintersoll himself might alone have navigated the blazing atmosphere of Southern excitement, but the waxen wings of his inexperienced Icarus were ill calculated for such tropic regions, and he became irretrievably implicated in his companion's fate.
               They both left in a short time, though the proprieties of hospitality were observed to the last—Hubert assiduously polite, and uncle benignly and cheerfully bestowing his parting benediction.
               I had begun to like Mr. Wintersoll, and I would fain have spared him the fate of Longinus, which I was sure he was destined to meet—which he finally did meet—at the perfidious hands of Hermione. She executed him.
               He was a plain business man, with no graces of person or manner, yet not anyways disagreeable or repulsive. Practical and straightforward, he pursued his wooing in the same straight, methodical manner he cast up the accounts of his ledger; and though beyond that period of life when the fire of youth leaps through the veins, lending wings to the ardor of pursuit, he possessed in an eminent degree that benignant compensation of heaven which has doubtless been universally observed—the amiable long-suffering and invincible determination of an elderly widower.
               I flattered myself that he returned my good opinion with a favorable consideration, for during his stay he presented me with an elegant annual in two volumes, "The Flowers Personified." It was filled with handsome colored plates, and as he gave it in a cousinly way, of course I accepted it.
               "You will come to Tarrytown some of these times, Miss Mona, I hope," he remarked;" and I know you will like it. You will find friends among our people, and lose all your prejudices."
               I replied that I had none; I thought I estimated the Northern people very justly. I knew they were a great people, but they were not devoid of great faults.
               "That is true," he admitted; "they are human, therefore liable to err."
               "Nor," I smiled in reply—"nor are we faultless."
               But the gentleman departed, leaving not a wrack behind.
               Their names were never mentioned, and they gradually faded entirely from memory, and Callamura regained its accustomed placidity.
               We were losing, too, from our limited circle one of our friends whose departure more nearly concerned us.
               Alfred Sims was going to transplant his eclectic principles to a village some seventy-five miles distant, and practise his profession independently.
               He was so gentlemanly and refined, so clever and amiable, that there was a universal regret at his departure. He seemed to dislike his removal himself as much as we did, for I observed that he called out to Callamura two or three times to bid us all adieu; but Alfred was twenty-six years old, Dr. Sims was not very wealthy, and it was time he was doing something for himself.
               I noticed, whenever he came to bid us adieu, M'lle de Boisseau said over the same unpleasant things, scorning young men who lived on their fathers, and wondering what was to become of the world now-a-day, the young men had so little energy; and then when Alfred meekly informed her that he was going now to make a strike in the right direction, she insinuated a prediction of his failure. As he passed out of the door, she sagely lamented—
               "Oh what little energy the rising generation possess these latter days! what a great misfortune it must be to have such a drone of a son! That's the most trifling young man in all Pineville."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               FOR my own part, I was back in the Institute.
               It may well be imagined with how sweet a smile I was greeted; it may well be imagined how I returned that sweet smile; how many dear looks I bore home with me at night; how happily my days glided on in the presence of one I had worshiped all my life. Yet I had not sought his Institute to weld the golden links of love's bright chain; my studies were severe and required all the activity of my powers; they could not sink into sloth nor idly wear base earth's corroding fetters.
               Neither was it the wish of my judicious tutor that any absorbing passion should come between me and the fair height of intellectual achievement he had placed before my view. I had toiled in Greek hiereoglyphics from the ό έ τ ό till the coveted mines of Xenophon and Homer trembled in my miser grasp.
               "Now," said Mr. Sterne, opening my Homer and bending on me one of those burning looks of delight which were now becoming to my soul like the arch of Shiraz leading to heaven—"Now we will go treading together the divinest path of song that winds upon the plain of Time—Homer, the blind old bard wandering through Greece, the proudest maritime nation of Europe, till England bore off the trident and reproduced her blind old epic minstrel."
               I read with ease the opening passage, enjoying my teacher's unqualified approbation.
               "My measure of ambition for you, Mona," Mr. Sterne observed, "will be full when you shall have completed this and my pupil will occupy my own stand-point; or, more likely,: he musingly added, "she will glide off before me and soar from cliffs that I but dimly view."
               I was the only pupil in Greek, and no regular hour was assigned for my recitation. It came up whenever Mr. Sterne had time, and frequently not till after the close of the exercises, when the scholars were generally dismissed.
               M'lle de Boisseau always patiently awaited me in the music-room, sometimes giving a lesson, and sometimes managing to flit out unexpectedly upon us, upon a reconnoissance on general principles; but the intricacies of Greek requiring my most laborious attention, and her curiosity meeting with no gratification, she sometimes strolled over to Miss Ballard's, where gossip flourished in its most luxuriant growth.
               I seldom met Mr. Jerkins now. If I chanced to catch a glimpse of him anywhere, he was seized with a sudden absence; but having had an acquaintance with the celerity of that young man's movements before, I was never surprised to see him vanish from sight before my eyes in the most magical manner. I could now understand the incredible story of Curtius. I knew from actual experience that the earth could open and swallow up people, and that in a very quiet and noiseless way. But I had a dim suspicion that Mr. Jerkins was harbored most of the time by the powerful and redoubtable Ballards. The house looked as if he was in it. In began to have a shaky, tremulous appearance pearance, as if it was afraid of something—afraid it would fall down. Once I caught, as I was passing, a small breakfast plate sticking up at one of the window-panes inside, which I thought bore a resemblance to Mr. Jerkins' face.
               After he turned out his whiskers and surrounded his face with a profusion of that pale yellowish hair, I saw what the confectioners used to call a "hen's nest" sticking up against the window-pane, and I thought that that looked like Mr. Jerkins' face.
               But with these exceptions, I was now happy in the belief that he avoided me as much as he did the town dogs.
               As I walked in to school one morning, accompanied as usual by M'lle de Boisseau, I met James Conway just within the village, probably on his way to Callamura, as his business sometimes seemed in that quarter.
               He seemed excited:
               "Miss Mona, let me speak with you, if you please."
               He alighted from his horse, and I walked off a few steps from my teacher.
               "I am compelled to leave this morning for South Caroline I have not a moment to bid Hermione adieu. She expressed a wish for my photograph; I only had time to have it taken; give it to her, will you?"
               "Certainly," I replied, receiving it and giving it a rapid inspection; "but you ought to have sent it by that old Spanish inquisitor there," glancing over my shoulder to where she stood picking up specimens of grasses to carry to Mr. Sterne. "She would have proved a much more influential Mercury than I."
               "Yes, but I cannot overcome my repugnance to he insignificant little thing. Falstaff says something about in stinct knowing the true prince; I have a very decided instinct that warns me of her."
               "It is a good photograph," I observed, putting it within the leaves of my book, "and you make a handsome picture—such a one as a maiden ought to prize, it seems to me."
               I had no hesitation in thus passing this relation-like compliment, for I really loved James Conway with something like the tie of kindred. I sincerely hoped that he would marry Hermionoe, and that through him, and my sympathy for him, I would gain some place in the closely-guarded heart of my beautiful cousin.
               "Thank you," he gratefully acknowledged. "Another thing: will you write to me if any thing transpires—anything which might affect me? Tell me everything about Hermione."
               I promised that I would.
               "The cars will soon leave," he concluded, mounting his hose. "Give her my undying, everlasting love," he said, half-whispering.
               "God bless you, James Conway," I thought, "for a true and gallant spirit!"
               But he was gone.
               Old M'lle de Boisseau had been patiently awaiting me. I did not think about her having the ears of a eat listening for the faintest motion of a mouse, and I hurried on to the Institute.
               My lesson that evening was delayed until school was over, refractory school-girls having detained our teacher beyond the usual time. M'lle de Boisseau glanced over to Miss Ballard's. I thought I had heard the Ballards' gate slam, and I thought I had seen a transparency hanging in one of the windows a little while before. I judged that in addition to the enormous amount of fiction which was usually prepared for the world at that publishing house, M'lle de Boisseau always sustaining a heavy share of the responsibility, that she would this evening, in addition to all her other onerous duties, be called on to quiet some of Mr. Jerkins' fears.
               We opened our Homer, we had but one lexicon—it was ginning of the recitations. We were poring over the celebrated description of Achilles dragging the body of Hector round the walls of Troy.
               Mr. Sterne looked unusually heavy, wearied, if not displeased. His brows locked in from my soul the blue beauty of his eyes. He corrected me frequently and petulantly, till I grew discouraged, and began to wish I had never attempted Greek.
               I learned my head upon my hands.
               "I am tired," I said.
               "So am I," he echoed.
               "I wish I had never tried to learn Greek," I broke out recklessly. "I don't see why women should learn the dead languages anyhow. If they try to make scholars and dabble in literature, men dash upon them with the fury of cannibals. I shall return to Callamura and milk the cows."
               "I don't see why women should always prove false," said Mr. Sterne, so gravely and sorrowfully that my anger died away. I looked up inquiringly at him.
               "See here," he said. He pulled out of the lexicon—my lexicon—James Conway's picture, redolent with health and manly bloom.
               "Give it to me," I cried, holding out my hand: 'It is a secret."
               I was his confidant, and although no special promise of secresy had been passed between Conway and myself, still I felt bound in honor not to betray him.
               "You are nearly seventeen now, Mona."
               I said I was quite seventeen.
               "And you said when you arrived at that age, and you found your happiness in such a bright and fascinating out-shadowing as this," pointing to the photograph, "that you would confide it all to your old preceptor."
               There was such a deep, despairing tone of soul-born melody vibrating through the wonderful chords of his voice, as it rung through my ears like the ravishing strain of a mournful harp, that it wrapped my senses in a trance of silence.
               "Was I unworthy, Mona, of my sweet pupil's confidence. Believe me, dear child, nothing is so sacred to me as your happiness. The bright flush of youth's daylight still lingers in my heart, pouring its last setting tide of golden beauty around your form, sweet Mona. But I was too far removed in years; the sympathy of a grave, isolated old tutor was not necessary to complete such fair prospects of happiness as yours. Ah, child! my sweet child! and you will leave me so lonely!"
               What deep sorrow tolled through his voice, and how it rung through my heart! I felt that my face was burning with blushes.
               "Do not blush, child; you must not before me; I shall keep your secret most faithfully."
               I stole my eyes timidly up to his face. Did he not know?
               "It is not my happiness," I faltered in a low tone.
               He drew nearer, closer to me, to hear my husky whispers.
               "It was intended for another," I scarcely articulated, for it seemed to me my heart had ceased to beat. "James Conway does not love me, Mr. Sterne."
               Relief, pleasure darted instantaneously over his countenance. My conscious eyes fell to the floor before his burning, eager gaze, for I felt his breath upon my brow; and in his eagerness to catch my faltering accents his face was closely pressing upon mine.
               
               He caught me in his pleading arms; he clasped me in his strong, powerful grasp. "And you, Mona, you? Oh, whom do you love? Bright star of my exile, where is your own sweet heart? Tell me tell me, sweet child of my soul! Tell me, oh tell me!"
               "You, you," I whispered in his ear, my tears gushing freely from their dark fountains.
               He imprinted a thousand kisses on my brow, and my fingers rushed with telegraphic attraction through the wild masses of his thick ambrosial locks.
               "Mona, Mona," he cried, passionately, "all my dark meanderings through the arid desert are forgotten. The brilliant Promised Land lies fair before me. For you sake I have endured Heaven alone knows what; but you were the pillar of cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. My own Mona!"
               He clasped me again and again in that intensity of passion which only once during lifetime darts the fire of Prometheus through the virgin veins of a marble maiden.
               "God help me!" he cried; "but the future lies hidden before me—only clouds and midnight blackness. Through the wild raving of that monster faction which craves as her only aliment the precious life-blood of her own children, I can only hear the sad beating of my own heart. Mona, Mona, my precious darling, our loves have fallen upon evil times."
               Thus the hideous shadow of the great rebellion flapped its raven wings over the very dawn of our happiness.
               "Where now lies the path of duty," mused Mr. Sterne, "I can scarcely divine. There are two diverging roads—in which should I tread?"
               I pressed closer to his side. I saw in his fearfully prophetic countenance, intensely wrought as some fabulous Psychometer, a wondrous foreshadowing of our ill-starred love stalking crownless down the war-stained future.
               "Only love me," I whispered, timidly kissing that great fluent mouth whence had rolled the mighty music that had gladdened so often the desolate years of my orphaned youth. "Love me!" I echoed the delusive song of Hope; youth. "Love me!" I echoed the delusive song of Hope;—"love me and all will be well."
               "Child, pupil, woman," he answered, "have you not entwined yourself into every fibre of my being since the first day I looked upon the strange glamour of your wonderful eyes? How then tell me to love you?"
               I pressed closer to his breast, folded in his sheltering arms, and the deep silence of a gratified hope fell soothingly around us.
               Love poised beautifully over us for a brief space, as a star that has patiently stretched up the long waste of heaven seems to hover stationary a while on the zenith, throbbing in the white glow of its meridian magnificence.
               But, O Time, thou robber of the young! 
                     "The shades of eve were falling fast."
                  
               
               M'lle de Boisseau—the dragon that guarded the apples of Hesperides!
               These thoughts came rushing through the minds of both, and through our eyes, so effectually married by the bond of years of sympathy that they scarcely needed now a spoken language.
               One long look, we whispered "to-morrow", and I called at Miss Ballard's for M'lle de Boisseau.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               I ENTREATED Mr. Sterne to delay a while before we confided to any one the knowledge of that precious store of happiness which had been revealed to us. I was so young there was no necessity for haste. I did not contemplate marriage for some time, and his strict sense of duty rendered him willing to complete his engagements for the term at the Institute.
               Such secresy begin usual at the South, and being in accordance with Mr. Sterne's natural reticence in all that regarded himself, it was not singular that I should prefer it. I had, too, an instinctive repugnance to conveying the knowledge to Callamura, where it would inevitably fall into M'lle de Boisseau's keeping, and through her be issued from the publishers in town. I did not care to supply that firm with several volumes of romance unconsulted and unpaid for. They were carrying on a very thriving business without any assistance from me. I found that Mr. Sterne, although he spoke charitably of M'lle de Boisseau, seemed also to regard our relations as something too sweet and sacred to be subjected to the curious inspection of her prying eye.
               We instinctively avoided any betrayal of our consciousness when she was present; and I doubt not she was satisfied that her infinite address and unceasing vigilance had prevented the declaration she was too taken not to have seen was always hovering in embryo.
               Indeed, I think there must have been an unusual amount of business transactions accumulated on their hands about that time, demanding M'lle de Boisseau's active assistance, or an opportunity never would have offered itself. I can truly say that since she had been at Callamura I had never been ten minutes in Mr. Sterne's presence that she did not drop down or spring up from somewhere. Had there been any understanding between us, we might have evaded her and succeeded in escaping her officiousness.
               But there was none. Mr. Sterne was in ignorance of my sentiments, and kept by his sense of duty and my own variableness in a constant puzzle. When he had learned from Adaline, before I informed him myself, or my design of leaving the Institute, when I pleaded with him so to attend the wedding, he had half resolved before I should leave to inform me of his love. It was my approaching departure which had revealed to him the decided nature of his own sentiments. Yet he was a stanger, comparatively, to the family, and he hesitated as to the strength of his claims. Then, too, the childishness that blent with my artless show of affection placed him in no little doubt as to his chances of success with me.
               But at the wedding, when he heard my departure canvassed and discussed as a settled thing should Hermione arrive, he resolved in that event to make known his sentiments at once. But I deliberately informed him in the conservatory before Hermione entered that I had never seen the person whom I was destined to worship with my whole heart.
               There was now nothing to do but to hope that I might not leave, and to secure M'lle de Boisseau as an ally in my detention. She needed no suggestion, as the reader has seen, and succeeded beyond his most sanguine expectations. No pupil ever slipped through her fingers.
               Added to all this, Mr. Sterne's sense of duty prevented him form wishing to distract the mind of a pupil committed to his charge for improvement with so powerful a distraction as love. His unselfishness drew a tight rein over his inclinations, and as long as he believed me free he was satisfied with directing my mind in the paths of learning. Only on rare occasions did the rein slacken—in the musicroom, where I so obtusely failed to understand him—at Callamura at the piano, where the old inquisitor crept up behind us, where he borrowed some of Mr. Jerkins' facility at transposition to protect me from her prying stealthiness.
               When I knew all this—when I realized how immeasurably I was beloved—all of my wild, secret worship, hidden away in my orphan spirit so long, returned at last by the purest, most gifted, cultivated and noble spirit I had ever known, it seemed to me that eternity would be too short to pass in so heavenly a planet.
               I had seen Mr. Sterne in so many trying positions, wearied with so many little vexations—for his vocation is the most tearing to the human conformation—I knew all the sublime perfections of the man. He was the highest style of the mortal race; Christianity hovered like a rainbow halo over his sterling gifts and beautified and adorned them with the colors of heaven.
               He had been educated for the ministry, but falling in ill health had been recommended to try a Southern climate. His means were ample, but he preferred teaching to idleness; and I never knew for years afterward how he succeeded in building up a large school so rapidly in Pineville. Many of his pupils were charity scholars. All these things and many more I learned during those stolen hours of intercourse, which we continued in spite of the veil of secresy we allowed to slumber a while over our relations, to render sufficiently frequent to fill with happiness our craving hearts. There were sometimes festive storms in Pineville—M'lle de Boisseau's singing-class—the choir or church—a thousand opportunities which love is neither slow to perceive nor improve; even through the dry duties of the school-room trembling tones and dear, furtive looks could glide.
               But Mr. Sterne seemed overshadowed and apprehensive, disturbed as to the condition of the country.
               "You, child," he would say, "do not know them as I do; the first shot that is fired at that cherished, star-studded flag will rouse the whole Northern people. The South will not have even a ragged regiment of friends. She will go down—down with all her royal chivalry and her unequaled charms."
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne! you do not think there will really be war, bloodshed?"
               "Yes, child, bitter, and I fear protracted."
               "Surely, Mr. Sterne, they cannot so falsify their own principles of self-government—they would not attempt coercion?"
               "Unfortunately, Mona, there never was a question dividing a people where both opposing parties were so sincerely convinced of the sacredness and justness of their cause. The Southern people have the memory and the principles of Washington to animate them, and they make the same struggle that the Colonists did. The North looks upon the magnificent continent that perpetuates the noble fame of Washington, and they regard Secession as an outrage upon his memory. They, too, have the song of Freedom upon their lips, which they would extend each other with the same battle-cry, what but the sword can decide the contest?"
               "And what future crimes," I continued, quoting the fair French martyr—"what future crimes may not again be perpetrated in the name of Liberty."
               "Yes," mused Mr. Sterne, "Moloch is not more stained with blood than she."
               We sat quiet a while; such thoughts as these were weighing the hearts of millions.
               
               We were in the school-room, the mute bust of Cicero, the orator of times as stormy, gazing down upon us.
               "But, Mr. Sterne," I resumed, "if the sword must be drawn, history affirms that a people determined to be free must succeed."
               "Not when their opponents are of the Anglo-Saxon race. That people must prevail over all others; and when at war with itself it becomes only a question of numbers and time."
               "Conquered, conquered, Mr. Sterne—the brave, the gallant, free-born sons of the South?'
               "Yes, yes, Mona, as surely as the strife begins. There are thousands there who speak now of sympathy with State rights—who believe in the right of a people to choose or change their government; but no sooner would the glittering glories of the flag of their souls strike the breeze than they would around it to do or to die. With them it will be, Perish slavery, perish States, but God save the Union.'"
               "And after we are conquered and the slaves free, Mr. Sterne"—I shuddered—"what then?"
               "God knows;" he shook his head. "St. Domingo or a political millennium."
               "The question of numbers," I returned, after a fit of musing,—"the question of numbers did not decide the Revolution, Mr. Sterne. The colonies were feeble and both contesting parties were the Anglo-Saxon race then."
               "No, but the colonies had the compensating advantage of position. Besides, the hearts of the English were not united. The thunder tones of Mr. Pitt were protesting against the outrage, and the nation was with him. Now you will see a united North—united by the best and the worst passions that can influence mankind—patriotism and plunder—pouring down upon a distracted and divided South, strong only in riches."
               "God help us!" I cried, as our weakness was thus portrayed by one whose broad comprehensions I well knew swept in whole subjects at a glance.
               "And where, Mr. Sterne, oh where will you be?"
               "Can you ask that question, sweet Mona?" he returned. "Probably, had I never known you, I had shouldered my musket and fought by my brother's side the battle of the Union—doubtless knowing little socially and caring less for the people I slaughtered. But now, now, I could never launch a missile which might lodge in the fair curls round your brother's brow,"
               "Oh never!" I cried, as the sudden apparition of Hubert's bright locks drenched in the rich thought-tide of his brain came, conjured up by his words, to the realms of posibility. "No, never, Mr. Sterne. Hubert is my idol. Much as I love you, I could never forgive you were you to harm even so much as a hair of his head."
               "Fear not, dear child. Your country is now my country and your gods are my gods." He bent a passionate kiss upon my brow. "Here I shall plant my foot and here I shall abide the issues of the future."
               "Your property will be confiscated," I suggested.
               "What is property?" he asked. "I have you."
               I fully recognized the vastness of the worship he offered, and my eyes glued themselves upon his face, tearful from the intensity of my emotion.
               "You see, Mona, or rather you never will realize, all the immensity of the sacrifice I make for you. Every purpose, every hope, every aspiration of my soul, is centred around you. Home, family, friends, country, all are laid at your feet."
               A fervent look of devotion was all the response I could give him.
               "And may God grant" he concluded, "that I may never be forced to meet my own brother in the iron ranks of battle!"
               It was an infinitude of devotion which I had never dreamed of eliciting from any human heart, far less from Mr. Sterne's.
               I knew well he was among the many thousands he had described, who, though they might think the South justified by the holiness of the cause, would nevertheless have marshaled under the Star-spangled Banner as soon as its gorgeous folds were spread upon the breeze. The Union was to him the embodiment of all that was grand and sublime in the history of the governments of Time.
               Had he been North, he would have mingled in the contest. His remarks, closely criticised, show that he merely designed neutrality in the South, yet he sympathized with the wrongs and injustice which she had received.
               Doubtless he supposed the ministerial sanctity which hung around his character would, at least for a long while, exclude him from any participation in a contest where, defying him, the standard of his adoration would wave over the friends of his childhood.
               At other times, Mr. Sterne would manifest more cheerfulness, and appeared to imagine, as indeed many other despairing hearts did, that some silver-tongued Henry Clay spairing godlike Daniel would arise to pour oil upon the troubled waters. The throes of the nation were come, and the Man of Destiny expected—the hero of the hour; but the red-handed monster was but a reproduction of the pagan past—the son of Juno and Jupiter.
               "It is one of those popular delusions," he would say, "one of those unaccountable insanities which sometimes sweep over the mind of a nation, of which Mackay has chronicled so many remarkable instances. It must have its culmination and it must eventually disappear."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               WE were indebted for this lengthened conversation to an attack of rheumatism on M'lle de Boisseau's failing members. It is possible, too, there was some dullness in the publication trade, for one of its best customers, Mr. Jerkins, had withdrawn his patronage. He had just purchased a large lot of hands and was opening a new plantation, and I did not see him back at the Ballards.
               The last romance issued there was a story about a scorpion stinging M'lle de Boisseau on the hand, and Miss Ballard coming in the parlor and finding Mr. Ballard trying to cure it by holding it very firmly in his grasp. He was applying several other remedies, too, which did not exactly accord with Miss Ballard's ideas of what should have been the proper treatment, and there had been a flare-up.
               It had been said that M'lle de Boisseau had fainted, but whether it was owing to the scorpion or to Miss Ballard's entrance did not clearly appear. But the partnership was certainly threatening dissolution.
               Hubert had caught the Secession inflammation. He was tearing the old flag of the Union into a thousand fragments, and raving and ranting in such a way as to astonish me, I never having observed a political proclivity in him before.
               He attended every Secession meeting possible, every excitement where thought could lose itself, and his face looked flushed and anxious. In the midst of it all he seldom found time to visit Adaline, but Adaline had been in the habit of occasionally visiting Callamura. Now Hermione patronized her with pieces of new music, braid-patterns and Godey's "Lady's Book."
               She was spending the evening with us; Hubert was present, and Hermione was thrilling even the leafy magnolias with her French songs and operatic flourishes. Adaline was busy crocheting, Hubert seated near her, pretending to carry on some conversation, but in reality listening to the thrilling tones of hermione's voice, which, like all her appertainings, was magnificent.
               She was arrayed in a delicate amber-colored tissue, with coral ornaments, which, through an unusual blending, was striking and becoming. One never knew which most to admire—the splendid and dazzling creations of her toilette genius or the woman who displayed it.
               Adaline herself, however, looked very lovely that evening in her pure white dress, with roses blushing in her hair. She always reminded me of some delicate princess in distress in some dimly-remembered fairy tale, but Hermione looked born for the throne of the British empire.
               She raised her eyes, quietly observing the lovers while she was singing, and when she had finished she joined them, leaning back in the rocker playing with her rings, and, as usual, diffusing the perfume of magnolias.
               Doubtless the great secret of Hermione's power was, that while she did not care to conceal that she studied effect, it was ever accompanied with the supreme consciouness that the means accomplished the ends.
               Life was a game, let win who could; and she assumed her successes in advance, well posted as to the strength of her hand.
               "Have you two not yet tired of talking love?" she carelessly asked. "Poor little doves!"
               Adaline said she didn't know how to talk love.
               "I don't think I ever saw too such indefatigable lovers in my life," Hermione persisted; "only you have loved too fast, and both look heartily sick of the occupation."
               Hubert admitted that he was sick, but of a headache.
               Adaline now modestly denied that Mr. Buccleugh had ever been in love with her; "at least, he had never told her so."
               Hermione laughed. Her wondrous thrilling laugh—I seem to hear it yet:
               "Ah, Adaline, he has told you so a thousand times. We all know you have been Hubert's 'angel in blue' for a long time; but poor little Dora has to come yet, and then, I suppose, of course some gifted Agnes. Alice Jerkins," she added, "might possibly personate Dora—I see Hubert goes there sometimes—but I fear poor little Pineville can supply no Agnes."
               Adaline smiled happily unconscious, ignorant of the allusion.
               I could not forbear crying out, from where I was playing chess with M'lle de Boisseau, "Oh, Hermione, do not compare Adaline to Miss Jerkins. Adaline, really I would resent that."
               "Nonsense, Mona! How quixotical you can be! Adaline has too much good sense not to know that all boys are alike. She knows very well that no sensible woman attaches any importance to the vows of such youths as Hubert. Adaline has some experience in love affairs."
               Adaline was compelled to appear gratified, so deferential was the smile which accompanied the compliment.
               I was astounded, but "Timeo Danaos et dona feretes."
               "I would like to know, Mona, how you could advise Adaline about anything," Hermione continued, looking at me as if I were a very small speck in the distance. "You know nothing about beaux. 'Manda Hemmingway could cut you out of even poor little Jerkins. You are no authority thority about anything. Adaline is a woman of the world; she knows how to take everything."
               Again she bestowed on Adaline one of those deferential and admiring looks.
               I glanced at any handsome brother, and the first expression of actual suffering I had ever seen upon his open brow was agonizing it then.
               "Hermione, do cease," he implore. "My head aches insufferably."
               "It ought to ache," she calmly replied. "How many years do you suppose Miss Carrie Horn has been watching over your wanderings. Oh, Hubert! you never knew your own mind two minutes at a time. Now it is Miss Jerkins you admire—you didn't know I had this."
               She fluttered before him an open paper she had drawn out of her pocket, and began reading a poem addressed to "The Fair Carrie Horn."
               It began: 
                     "Fair lady with the golden locks,"
                   and was a string of boyish nonsense from beginning to end.
               Huberet himself was astonished at this development, but he offered no defence; he seemed crushed.
               Hermione laughed lightly.
               "Ah, Adaline, it is well you know Hubert so well, or possibly, as he is a rather good-looking boy, you might have discarded Dr. Turner, trusting to his worthless compliments. But you were too keen to be taken in that way. I told Dr. Turner yesterday you had returned all of Hubert's presents and were dreadfully tired of his frothy, boyish love. Didn't you tell me, Mona—I think it was you—that Adaline had discarded Hubert?"
               I was so dismayed at the scene, so utterly confounded and stupefied, that I could only have presence of mind enough left to adhere to the truth.
               "No, Hermione, you must know I never told you anything of the kind."
               "It was me," chipped in M'lle de Boisseau. "When we found the piece of poetry, you remember I said I supposed Miss Adaline would return Mr. Hubert's tokens, or doubtless had already done so, she had such a strict sense of propriety. She was such a sensible young lady."
               Hubert's face was buried in his hands, nursing that unfortunate headache. The eyes of both ladies now bent respectfully upon Adaline, applauding the wisdom of the course she had pursued or would yet pursue.
               Adaline herself was uncertain whether she had discarded Hubert or still had it to do; but Hermione terminated her uncertainty:
               "True enough, M'lle de Boisseau. That was what was said. Of course, no one could expect Adaline to show Hubert any consideration after such a discovery as that. Much as we must all regret it, it is Adaline's duty—it is her right. No one can blame her—in fact all must admire her—for asserting her own self-respect. It is all she can do. Hubert himself knows it is richly merited. Adaline, I admire you for your decision of character."
               "Certainly," replied Adaline, with some show of dignity. "Appearances are so strong I do not see what other course is left."
               I think she had a faint perception that she was being cajoled out of a lover, but her countenance looked as serene and seraphic as ever. Only a slight little knot of puzzlement contracted her brow.
               "It was written a good many years ago," at last spoke Hubert, rising to his feet, and, strange to say, in a whirlwind of passion, "but I am willing to accept the consequences quences. I am willing to abide by my own acts. Miss Adaline," he bowed mockingly, "you shall your letters to-morrow. What you have of mine you may put in the fire."
               He stalked out of the room, giving Hermione a mingled blaze of anger and something else I could not well define.
               Hermione laughed good-humoredly:
               "Did any one ever see such a boy? But I suppose, Adaline, you and Hubert are constantly having such little childish quarrels. I dare say it will all blow over to-morrow. What a passionate temper Hubert has! I am so glad I had nothing to do with it!"
               "Oh, so am I," chimed in M'lle de Boisseau. "I wouldn't have been implicated for the world. What a pity it is that young people allow their tempers to carry them to such lengths! So much misery, so much unhappiness in this hard old world!"
               Adaline recovered somewhat from her puzzlement. She remarked that she "had always tried to exercise a great deal of patience with Mr. Buccleugh, knowing that he did not take contradiction well; however, she supposed it made no difference."
               M'lle de Boisseau considered that an additional proof of her amiability and good sense, still more surprising to her, since she had just learned that she had the opportunity of so splendid an establishment as Dr. Turner's. Miss Jerkins had been thought appreciative of Dr. Turner.
               This suggestion launched Hermione on one of her favorite themes. She always styled herself a "particular friend" of Dr. Turner.
               "Yes, indeed," she substantiated. "Miss Virginia Sturgess had an idea of setting her cap in that direction; and, Adaline, that is what brings Lucy Dryweather to your house so often. The girls are all dying for Dr. Turner, but poor little Adaline is so unsuspicious she never suspects them to trying to carry off her beau."
               Adaline looked duly impressed by this development.
               "I thought Dr. Turner was your admirer, Miss Hermione," she quietly said after a while.
               "Oh, Adaline!" laughed Hermione. "You can't play innocence off on me that way. You know very well the doctor has only been making a blind and a confidant of me. I might have gone crazy like the other girls too, for beyond question he is the catch of all the village beaux; but I knew it was useless for me to make any effort where you are concerned. Oh, Adaline, if I only had your beauty! I don't think I am envious, but, Adaline, you are so beautiful."
               Adaline seemed overwhelmed, while Hermione gazed admiringly on her sweet, angel-like face, and M'lle de Boisseau fired off a dozen echoes of confirmation.
               "Hubert thinks so too," Hermione concluded, rising to her feet, "and I have no doubt will be back to-morrow, sighing and sueing at you feet. But of course, Adaline," Hermione now drew herself up, representing in her majestic person the dignity of the Morants—"of course, Adaline, we cannot expect you to show any further consideration for the family. We cannot expect you to sacrifice your dignity for us."
               M'lle de Boisseau now became vociferous in defending Adaline from the least shadow of blame, but she did not agree with Hermione as to the prospect of Mr. Hubert's return. Mr. Hubert had long been very jealous of Dr. Turner. Mr. Hubert, too, was conscious of his being to blame himself—she had no doubt he expected his fate.
               I sat there myself in blank astonishment, without a word a say.
               I had taken a book and retreated to the centre-table, where I sat, shading my eyes with my hands, pretending to read. My heart smote me for leaving my gentle friend unsupported to the manipulation of such scientific and merciless hands.
               No harmless dove was ever more completely plucked, but I felt myself powerless to avert her fate. I had the sensation of wading in deep water, utterly at a a loss to account for Hubert's singular conduct, and knowing he must have meant the little he did say.
               One thing was very clear: the engagement was broken off, and it was the most rapid generalship I ever witnessed in my life, though since then the armies of two nations have manœuvred over the soil of America in a thousand battles.
               As I lay awake in bed, finding it impossible to sleep that night after all I had witnessed, the child-like sighs of Adaline, breaking, however, through a pretty fair night's rest, smote upon my own sad speculations and sincere sympathy.
               Then I mused wonderingly upon the unequaled talents of Hermione, and thought of the proudest, most gifted Roman of them all.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               I HAD received two or three letters from Mr. James Conway, and had duly delivered all of his messages, handing Hermione the letters to read when I could find opportunity, since I knew they were principally designed for her eye.
               This opportunity was, however, sometimes several days in arriving. Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau occupied the apartments up the spiral stairs which had been used for the bridal occasion, and their habits were very seclusive and exclusive. They generally kept their doors locked, and I seldom intruded on their privacy.
               Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau both had a considerable correspondence, being always attentive to the arrival of mails; the latter herself generally trudging to the post-office, to come back loaded down with pamphlets and documents. Indeed, Mrs. Skillem, the post-mistress, seemed to regard Miss de Boisseau as the most distinguished individual under her jurisdiction, valued in reference to the amount of mail-matter she imposed upon the mail-carriers of Uncle Sam.
               When I by chance entered their apartments, all these documents would be hurried out of sight by both parties; Hermione throwing hers—"her foreign correspondence," as she laughingly termed it—into her escritoire and turning the key; M'lle de Boisseau dashing hers, generally pamphlets and circulars, into any convenient work-basket or receptacle that could be thrust under the bed. The latter, with a light pair of spectacles, which she was compelled to use for "near-sightedness," bridged across her nose, and a pen stuck behind her ear, would sometimes meet me at the door and inform me she was too bush just then to attend to me; she would be at leisure after a while and be down stairs.
               I would go away under the impression that I had been refused an application by Mr. Seward or one of his scribbling attachés for some important post, and trip crestfallen down the steps.
               But I would persevere through all these obstructions until Mr. Conway's letters were landed into Hermione's hands. She would read them carelessly, and no human ken could have fathomed with how much interest.
               
               Sometimes she would add a little postscript to my replies, just sufficiently encouraging to keep alive a dying flame.
               "Pshaw, Mona!" she said one day, when I had succeeded in penetrating her sanctum and securing her attention, "how ridiculous all this is! When I am wearing a coronet in England or France or Spain somewhere, you will be James Conway's wife, and you will both then laugh at your present blindness."
               "I can but smile at yours now, Hermione," I replied; "you will never have such a prospect of happiness as James Conway offers you."
               "Then how much obliged you will be to me if I should relinquish it in your favor!" she returned. "That will be one thing you will have to thank Hermione for."
               "I have many things now," I could not refrain from saying. She was lavish of presents, ever purchasing costly articles of bijouterie, of which she would weary in a few days and press them upon her friends, generally M'lle de Boisseau humbly relieving her of the incumbrance.
               I possessed a fair competency and did not need anything, but sometimes could not avoid accepting her donations without giving offence.
               "I have many things now, dear Hermoine, for which to thank you; but that I shall never have."
               "Yes, you will;" but her face grew white as she spoke. "Mark what I tell you now: you will marry James Conway: never Mr. Sterne!"
               I was startled.
               The sweet secret I had so carefully guarded to be blazoned from those dangerous lips! I had learned to dread Hermione; I had learned her power, but I was too wary to betray what she sought.
               I carelessly answered, "I agree with you there, Hermione one, for I think my marriage with Mr. Sterne or anybody else a very doubtful and distant thing."
               "Uncle is too bitterly prejudiced against the Federals," she continued. "Banish that idea at once; he will never consent."
               "Is Mr. Sterne a Federal, Hermione?" I asked, offering to her calm tactics as characterless a field of observation as my countenance could well display.
               "Of course he is. Do you not see in the papers the names of his family taking active part against us? Major Sterne, his brother, has taken to speechifying. Of course he is a Fedral."
               "I had not thought about it," I remarked vaguely. "Our conversations are generally on literary topics. By the way, I heard him say you wished 'Undine,' and he would send it to you. But I have completed my letter to Mr. Conway," I branched off, "and it waits for your reply. Write it yourself, Hermione; insert a postscript."
               "Well," she complied, "hand it over to me,"
               She wrote off rapidly, in bold, rounded characters, the following reply to his query. It seems that James had heard a rumor manufactured by the Hemmingways and Ballards that she was to marry Alfred Sims, owing possibly to Miss Hemmingway having seen him call out to bid us adieu so often:
               "Certainly, Mr. Conway, you have been correctly informed. I am to be married, but when, the string of pearls from 'Oman's green waters,' several hundred yards of blonde and white satin, and when I stand on the floor conscious of looking my very best, I will offer my hand to the gentleman present who appears to be the most impressed with my magnificence. Should any one be so devoid of taste as to find fault with it, he may have the honor of giving me away; and I think I will stand as fair a chance for happiness as most venturers in that uncertain lottery. By the way, be sure and attend the wedding yourself. I give you carte blanche now."
               What subtle encouragement! for who gave more admiring homage to her beauty than James Conway?
               "Certainly, Hermione," I cried, pleadingly, "you will offer your hand to him. Who admires you more?"
               I was so convinced that her happiness lay in that direction, so certain of his many, elevated tone of character, and so confident of the happy influence it would exert over hers, that I never failed to exercise what little influence I possessed.
               "Mr. Conway is so talented," I urged; "much more so than Philip, and equally as handsome. Oh, Hermione, what a handsome, happy couple you would make!"
               She shut her eyes; the white heat glowed round her lips. It was the only emotion her countenance ever revealed, for she was as pallid as marble itself. None of the bursting bloom of Southern skies ever strayed through the veins of her rounded cheek; only a faint flesh-colored hue, sufficiently visible to indicate health.
               What tempting visions swept around her woman's heart of James Conway as her own bright counterpart down the rosy path of Love, I could only speculate.
               "Hush, Mona," she said while a faint drawn breath, bordering on a sigh, caught my quick ear. "Wretched little temptress! No marriages," she proceeded, "are so miserable as those for love. There are a few months of delight and blind infatuation; then comes the sad awakening, and a long life of weary disappointment. Reason must be the guide in marriage, Mona—a clear and unclouded judgement."
               "Reason and judgement could both certainly sanctify love," I argued, "in the choice of such a partner as Mr. Conway."
               "No woman true to herself and her sex allows love to act before reason and judgement have decided," persisted Hermione.
               I have grappled in my life with many subtle intellects, but I never met one so difficult to encounter as Hermione's, from the fact that false principles were so deeply engrafted in the nature by the hand of education that it was impossible for them to bear any but alien and artificial blossoms. She was a fair bough of the tree of heaven early bent earthward, and no ray of sunshine could penetrate through its drooping foliage. Strive as I had often done, I could never unbend its crooked branches or erect them into the broader atmosphere of truth.
               I therefore avoided discussions with her, having learned that her arguments, while they did not convince me, only served to deepen her own convictions.
               "First, Mona," she continued, "be sure that the future surroundings of your married life will be such as will satisfy all the cravings of your nature and complete all your ambitions and aspirations. Do not imagine that love alone will gratify every wish of your heart."
               "It is the only thing my heart has ever craved," I sighed—"to be loved. If you only knew how much I have loved you, Hermione, and longed for a return on your part, you would doubtless be surprised."
               "I do love you, Mona," she replied, coldly, calmly surveying me, "and I have often wished I was more like you."
               Possibly she was sincere.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THOSE dim, desolate chambers up the spiral stairs, which had so appalled my youthful terrors of imagination on my first acquaintance with Callamura, as I have intimated, were now splendidly carpeted and curtained, luxuriously furnished, and appropriated to the uses of Hermione and M'lle de Boisseau. Hubert had also his apartments in that quarter of the buildings.
               His were the chambers cut off from the saloon, the fire-places resting on the pillars that rose up below, while the ladies' were more commodious and airy, rising over the drawing-rooms. The landing would have been darkened by the obstruction caused by Hubert's rooms blocking up the front part of the floor, but for a narrow gangway running between them and the ladies' apartments, not, however, affording entrances; they opened diversely on the landing. It was only for the purpose of communicating with a front window. But still more light was afforded upon the landing by a large trap-door just in the centre of the ceiling, through which poured down the meridian rays of the sun from the skylight of the platform which surmounted the roof of the house, called by the negroes a fish-pond.
               I had never known this trap-door used, however, and had often surmised as to what flitting shadows might inhabit that immense attic apartment silently stretching, unexplored, over out heads. From the size of the house, it must be commodious, and the negroes peopled it with ghosts of the old marquis and Uncle Hugh's little brothers and sisters. There had been a self-murder at Callamura, once, too, by an overseer, and otherwise plenty of material for them to work upon.
               My room had always adjoined old Mrs. Burns' in the opposite part of the establishment, but as I had charge of Hubert's clothing, I would be sometimes necessitated to enter his room; and as he was careless and negligent, like all motherless boys, I would arrange his various accoutrements for him.
               Dr. Turner was one of Hermione's protégé's, and she lost no time in informing him of Adaline's "happy release" from Hubert—of her decided "rejection" (?) of his devoirs.
               M'lle de Boisseau had taken charge of Hubert's rings and ringlets and letters, and delivered them to Hubert the morning after the dénouement in our parlor.
               The old lady, being a very fluent personage in her way, had rushed to Miss Ballard's immediately after having performed so important a part in the affairs of such very young people, and the two old spinsters had immediately clipped out a very fine piece of morning's work from the new position.
               It was all braided with Hubert's jealousy of Dr. Turner and Adaline's fastidiousness about Hubert's attentions to Miss Jerkins and Miss Carrie Horn; and altogether they embroidered so generally and so generously that Pineville had quite a festive raiment out of it all.
               Hubert himself had departed before breakfast on that eventful morning, without seeing any of us, no one knew where. But so many political meetings were being held, and so many Secession resolutions were being passed, one could well conjecture what had attracted him.
               From the continual dropping off of scholars, Pineville Institute had virtually closed, and the venerable soul of music that had presided there, finding her occupation, like Othello's, gone, was left to hop about like a one-legged sparrow and pick up crumbs of comfort wherever they might be found.
               
               Although complaining bitterly of rheumatism, I had seen her tripping down the lane to spend the day with Miss Ballard. There had evidently been a truce to hostilities in that quarter; she was too indispensable to the success of the publication trade.
               She was loaded with recipes for Miss Ballard for marble cake and silver pudding and independence waffles, and other new-fashioned notions; and she bore a beautiful lamb's-wool comforter she had just received from old Mrs. Burns—a gift for young Mr. Jerkins.
               She was a woman of universal benevolence.
               We were all going to take tea that evening wit Mabel having long been good friends, and besides having many quiet sympathies in common, boasting the same nationality.
               Hermione's mocking-birds were hanging from her window, pouring their matchless medleys on the clear sunshine, and my heart bounded light and free as my ear, finely attuned to harmony, reveled a while in their clear excelling imitations.
               A wretched old hen went darting in search of her chicks as the gay deceivers mimicked perfectly the cry of little ones in danger. A blue jay came fluttering up the circular colonnade attracted by the voice of her mate, a cat-bird. So they come, I thought—the mocking-bird for Hermione, the canary for Adaline, as appropriately as the peacock for Juno.
               I had finished assorting my ribbons and skirts for Mabel's party, and I dashed up the spiral steps, seeking Hubert's rooms, where shirts were lying innocent of buttons. I did not know he had returned, but I heard him speaking in Hermione's room. he was excited.
               "Had you not made me appear such a wretched simpleton," he was saying, "such a yea-nay Freshman—"
               "Oh, Hubert," she interrupted, "you must admit that was a case where the ends completely justified the means. You must admit that I extricated you in an admirable manner."
               "How did you know that I wished you to extricate me?" petulantly asked he.
               "Hubert," she reproached," you know I knew."
               "I did wish to be extricated," he admitted, "but I did not care for you to do it. I wished to act in a straight-forward, manly way."
               "the do not quarrel about the manner of it now," she pleaded.
               "How did you know so well, Hermione?" Hubert questioned.
               "How absurd!" replied she. "Could not any one see that such a piece of pasteboard beauty as Adaline could not suffice for you, Hubert—you, with your splendid gifts and brilliant graces—you, Hubert?"
               Her tones had that dangerous thrill in them that made me tremble for my brother.
               "Besides, too," she went on, "I was not uninterested. Did you think, Hubert, I could dwell in the same house with you and prove insensible to your infectious influence? Did you think Hermione would permit Adaline to bear off such a prize from under her own roof? Hubert, Hubert," she repeated, her voice quivering with emotion, "think how our uncle would rejoice to see Callamura pass into our hands. Mona and Mabel are nothing to him."
               "Hermione," said Hubert, his voice trembling under the weight of the bursting passion of manhood, "I swear to my Creator you are the divinest specimen of His splendid work-manship I ever beheld. I have been reared with an antipathy to marrying cousin. It is inwrought with every fibre of my being; but I tell you I have mouths thought of nothing but the maddening dream of clasping you in my arms."
               "I knew it," said Hermione, softly.
               "And you love me—love me?" concluded Hubert.
               I could hear no more. But from the deep silence that ensued, broken by trembling tones and heavy sighs, I could infer nothing but that at last the mystery of all Hermione's incomprehensible conduct was satisfactorily explained.
               "She loved my brother!
               Hubert! thou splendid star-like boy, radiating now across my memory as the quickest, most flashing intellect I have ever known, supremacy hanging like a rainbow around thy wondrous beauty and the joyousness of heaven beaming from thy brow, what wonder that Hermione drank from the diamond waters and refreshed the weary soul of a wandering Peri!
               I stole softly down the steps, fearful of begin detected, for lovers, however near the relationship, care not to know of a listener.
               As I passed the door, only partially closed, I heard Hubert say in his deep, manly tones, flooded with insatiable passion,
               "One more kiss, divine Hermione!"
               I escaped without rousing their attention.
               Indeed, the spiral stairs were so firmly believed to e ghost-haunted by the servants that none of them ever penetrated there except when imperatively required by their duties, and the lovers doubtless believed themselves as secluded as they would have been in the desert of Sahara.
               When I met them afterward during the day, I guarded my countenance closely, lest their delicacy might take alarm, and they possibly enjoyed my ignorance.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               WE attended the party at Mabel's Mrs. Burns taking a fancy to chaperone M'lle de Boisseau and myself. Hubert drove over his cousin in uncle's buggy, a clear, moon-haunted night doubtless shedding a benign influence on their budding blossom of love.
               My own heart-hunger was appeased by the delight of meeting Mr. Sterne; and I took this occasion of confiding to Mabel our happiness. I seemed to gain a deeper tone from the sweet chorus of congratulation she poured in. I knew she was secretive, and had no fears that even Philip would share the knowledge I had imparted.
               Mabel was so good, so religiously conscientious, she seemed to move for ever in that unclouded atmosphere which so few mortals on this sorrow-stricken planet are ever so fortunate or so assiduous as to attain.
               We were all three—Mabel, Hermione and myself—seated together round the centre-table, when Mr. Sterne, observing this heaven-possessed expression of Mabel's countenance, was induced to a very obvious comparison of the cousins.
               "I do not think," he observed, "I ever saw three so variously yet remarkably gifted cousins," smiling kindly on the family group he was destined to join.
               "In what respects, Mr. Sterne?" queried Hermione, expecting and still voracious of compliment.
               "It would look," he replied, "as if Jupiter—reviving the old fable—had assigned to you three very separate gifts and provinces. To you, Miss Hermione, with your unquestioned beauty, certainly the earth has been assigned. All these must bow before the 'might, the majesty of loveliness.' Mrs. Conway, with her expression of beatitude, dwells in a purer sphere and controls the clouds; while Miss Mona has the patience of a superhuman intellect, and must be content to delve in the mines of knowledge hidden from the reach of every-day mortals."
               "Three beautiful tributes, ladies, to your perfections," Hubert laughingly acknowledged. "In other words, Miss Hermione is the impersonation of Beauty, Mrs. Conway of Goodness and my sister of Intellect. That is surely enough to immortalize one family. Mr. Sterne, the house moves you a resolution of thanks."
               Adaline and Dr. Turner were present, and Hubert gracefully loaded them with scores of complimentary expressions:
               "Miss Adaline, your roses have gained a fresher bloom. Ah doctor, I was the victim of misplaced confidence! When the horn of the hunter was heard on the hills, I was forced to wind my horn and desist from pursuit. I was seized with unaccountable jerkings (Jerkins)."
               These good-humored laments over his disaster with Miss Adaline only pleased the doctor, since they insinuated his superior good-fortune.
               He then devoted himself to Miss Jerkins, a pale, mild-eyed little creature, somewhat of an improvements on her brother, and crowned her with a wreath of flowers improvised for the occasion.
               Pineville was very much addicted to games on festive occasions, Miss Ballard in her athletic temperament being partial to "Grind the Bottle." Some one succeeded, however, at this juncture in warding off her rude proclivities by suggesting the more sedentary amusement of "Ragged Poetry."
               "Not I," demurely objected Hubert, referring to his effusion sion on Miss Horn's flaming tresses. "Not I. I have had enough of poetry: it has been my heart's undoing, doctor. I hope you will steer clear of that rock; in fact, I wish you all success with all my heart, and I assure you I do not simulate."
               But the game of Ragged Poetry met with warm suporters, among them Adaline herself.
               "Oh yes! Let us play it, Mr. Buccleugh," she gayly insisted.
               "Certainly, then," Hubert gallantly compiled. "I will commence writing if you will add a line (Adaline)."
               This impromptu pun, accompanied by his infectious laugh, convulsed every one.
               The game was entered on, however, and finished, followed by some other amusement, in which forfeits were accumulated and offered at auction for redemption.
               Hubert was not the culprit, and his penalty was to confess the name of a lady-love.
               "Me?" he cried. "I have none—all the world knows I have just been obliged to turn her over to Dr. Turner."
               Roars of merriment greeted this sally but still the demands of the game were imperative—he could not be excused.
               "Then, if I must tell my sweetheart," he laughingly acquiesced, "I shall have to look for her."
               He sauntered nonchalantly round the bevy of maidens watching him doing penance, and, thrilling with passion, stopped before the splendid presence of Hermione.
               "Charity begins always at home," he said. "If I must have a lady-love, I do not see why I may not call her my own love (Hermione, love)."
               Although such plays upon words are not any proof, generally considered, of profundity of intellect, still I venture the opinion that in a parlor circle unstudied impromptus, called forth by the exigencies of the occasion, evidence rare activity of the mental powers, and serve to indicate what they might accomplish in a wider sphere.
               At any rate, they electrified our village revelers, and contributed toward the enjoyment of one of the happiest of evenings.
               They fell so rapidly and unpremeditatedly from his lips, and he looked so winsome and irresistible in his sparkling happiness, that I was not surprise to observe Hermione gazing dreamily upon him, her transcendent beauty having won at last the undefined yet imperatively requisite shadowing it had lacked—the soft, womanly grace of a genuine love.
               There was a softness, a yielding delicacy, pervading her movements I had never observed before; a melting languor floating from her soulful eyes as they bent with devouring earnestness upon the faultless lover she had won, whose unequaled beauty, like her own, was penciled in light and was the combination of every beautiful tint of creation.
               I longed to whisper the sweet discovery of their relations to Mabel, to Mr. Sterne, but I dreaded lest the curious breeze of observation should break the little bud of love ere it were fairly blown.
               "Mona, child," Mr. Sterne half whispered to me as we were at tea, while he piled the luscious strawberries on my saucer, "I must come soon and see your uncle. We have had out play-time long enough. You know what these things always result in?"
               I expected I blushed.
               "I am too old a man to spend much more time in sueing and sighing," he continued. How old, Mona, do you think?"
               "Thirty?" I questioned.
               "Thirty-two, child; a good age for a mentor, isn't it?" He smiled gravely on me. "Rather old for your bright youth; but if you do not object it concerns no one else."
               After tea, Hubert came, seizing me by the arm, where I stood out in the hall, dragging me to the parlor door.
               "Come in, Mona," he laughed; "you'll miss all the show. There is a grand panorama on hand. Splendid dissolving scenes. Positively the last night's entertainment of The Serious Family, including the pathetic representation of Daniel in the Lion's Den; the whole to conclude with the inimitable farce of Zaccheus and the Sycamore Tree."
               Hubert seemed inexhaustible on the score of Miss Britt; but as he reached the door and looked in, I could but smile myself. She had contrived to encircle her hands around a guitar in some miraculous manner, and flanked by two of the formidable Mr. Ballards, they were solemnly singing Twenty Years ago—a very serious-looking assemblage indeed.
               Little Mr. Ware was standing with his hands folded behind him, as usual, under his coat, personating Daniel, I suppose; presenting a much more heaven-abandoned look than I imagine that persecuted saint ever did. He still had the marbles in his checks and had his eyes glued upon Miss Britt, till some passer-by should jostle the wire in his side.
               My attention, however, was soon diverted to M'lle de Boisseau nibbling away at Mr. Sterne, trying to interest him with her pincer-like powers. Once or twice I thought they looked over my way, as if I might be the subject of their conversation; but Philip joined me and we sat down, Secession springing to his lips, of course.
               Mr. Sterne passed by at the close of our conversation, when we had glanced off to other topics.
               "James has marrying on the brain, at present," Philip happened to be remarking to me. "Somebody in Pineville is accountable. It is time he was coming back."
               "My last letter was dated the 30th," I replied. "He said he would leave in a week."
               I thought Mr. Sterne gave me a strange look as I said this, and he immediately left. It seemed to be accidental, however, and I went into the back part of the house. When I returned the company were dispersing, he having already left.
               I did not return to Callamura, spending the night with Mabel, in order to bestow more my confidence upon her sympathizing nature.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               WHEN I returned to Callamura the following morning, I met Hubert and Hermione dashing up the wood, seeking the quiet glades that stretched beyond the plantation, where love could soar untrammeled, and free restraint shake her "sparkling plumes, self-balanced on the wind."
               They threw me a gay good-morning, but as their happy faces flitted by me, and even as my heart leaped in praise and thankfulness to that wise Providence which had so wondrously mated them, there came a great throb of sorrow over me as I thought of James Conway's fearful disappointment. How blind, too, had we all been! A thousand things now flashed upon me in an entirely new light.
               Her own arguments to me that one must be sure of one's lot being cast in agreeable surroundings before contemplating marriage, it seemed to me, now bore reference to Callamura. With Hubert as her spouse, she would assuredly inherit the family seat from our uncle. Her intimacy with Dr. Turner, who was known to be a suitor of Adaline's—the messages she had always been bringing her from him—her ill-concealed contempt for Adaline's capacity, and above all her capricious, tantalizing treatment of Hubert, affecting sometimes to treat him as a boy, then insulting him with angry petulance—all, all was clear now; and though I feared their indomitable wills might some time in the future clash into stormy collisions, yet I hoped that such love as theirs would be sufficient to harmonize all contrarieties and insure their repose.
               I entered Mrs. Burns' sitting-room, throwing down my hat.
               The old lady seemed to have lost entirely of late her usual serenity of temper.
               She was always complaining that there was a "screw loose somewhere;" that "when the cat's away the mice would play," and throwing out dark hints about there being "something rotten in Denmark," "bought wit was best wit," and "an ounce of prevention was worth a pound of cure;" while her dim old eyes grew dimmer and her deaf old ears grew deafer, both, however, always on the alert for something to confirm the natural suspicions of old age.
               "That's a shocking-looking skirt you have on, Mona," she remarked as I entered. "I wonder you spoil Sarah so. Idleness is the mother of vice: she don't earn her salt."
               "You know, Mrs. Burns, I can't do anything with Sarah."
               "Why don't you stop her combing Miss de Boyse's hair and rubbing her feet? She half her time at that."
               This was really the fact; Sarah was most of her time employed in M'lle de Boisseau's service, but as Juno was very nearly as useful, with the careless case of Southerners I had never gainsaid it.
               
               Armstead came in at this moment wanting camphor and turpentine.
               "Did you know," whispered the old lady, mysteriously, "that she was teaching Sarah to read.?"
               "I sincerely hope she will succeed," I hallooed. "I have been trying to teach her myself for four or five years."
               "Why, what is the matter, Armstead?"
               The old negro was in such a rage he could not speak.
               "Why, your head is bleeding."
               "That drot Commodore," he stuttered out at last, "and that drot De Boysole?"
               An African seems to derive intense pleasure in perverting proper names.
               I sprang up to bandage his wounds, full of sympathy, for Armstead was one of our dearly beloved friends, and Comodore a brutal African scarce civilized.
               "The wretch!" I cried; "how did he do it?"
               "Why, he tried to kill me." replied Armstead. "That drot De Boysoul had better go away from here. She had better leave—leave, Miss Mona."
               I continued my occupation while Armstead poured out his complaints.
               Like all body-servants, he had either so constantly imitated his master, or, from the force of association, caught so identically his manners and expressions, that he frequently impressed even unobservant strangers with the fact.
               Uncle had a way of sometimes reiterating a phrase, which was ludicrously copied by Armstead.
               I've been wanting a long time to tell you all about it, Miss Mona—to tell you all about it. There's too much drot projeckin' goin' on 'mong these ignyant niggers. Their heads will git turned—git turned. This here drot De Boilsore is an ebullition! an ebullition! ebullition!"
               I could not help smiling at the queer figure Armstead cut in his fury. Indeed, with his mulatto face smeared with blood, he looked not unlike an Indian war-chief arrayed in paint for the battle.
               "Armstead, why will you be so profane and wicked?" I reproved. "You are too old to do so. You mean an Abolitionist, I suppose."
               "You needn't smile, Miss Mona. It's a fact. She's one of them Nancy Paytons*
                  
                     *
                     Emancipators.
                   in the North, in the North, wanting to free all the low-down niggers and turn them loose like so many bloodhounds—so many bloodhounds."
               "Armstead, I do wish you would talk sensibly. You are in such a rage you do not know what you are saying. What has that got to do with Commodore?"
               "I didn't know who to tell," he went on. "Miss Burns is so deaf, and master is in such a curious way, and Mass' Hubert, I was 'fraid to tell him—God bless the boy! I was 'fraid to tell him, he is so onspeerenced.'
               Old Mrs. Burns sat there, hearing very distinctly now, the old man raised his voice so high, smiling and looking as happy as a queen that it was all turning out as she had so often prophesied.
               Armstead went on:
               "This here Miss De Boilsore has been giving spelling-books to the field-hands, and reading 'em hellibulition tracts, and talking to 'em 'bout being free—being free! She's been asking all sorts of questions 'bout didn't they hate master and why didn't they run off, and all sorts of stuff. She ought to be hung—hung!"
               "There is no harm, Armstead, in giving them spelling-books," I answered, quietly; "I wish they could all read. It would not interfere with their being good servants, But go on."
               "I saw Commodore with one in his hand, holding it upside-down down—upside down. I knowed that, for the lady was tilted down on her head, foot foremost. I told him he had better put down that book and pick up his hoe. What did such a drotted numskull want with a book?"
               "And he picked up his hoe and knocked you in the head?" I concluded.
               "That's just what he done."
               "And just what you might have expected," I remarked; "you know he is little better than an idiot."
               "But this old De Boysore. I'm tired of handing her biscuits. She's low-down stock. She's poor white folks, Miss Mona, the drottedest sort."
               "Armstead, don't speak of M'lle de Boisseau that way. She is a friendless poor thing. Don't say anything about her to anybody. Mischief might come of it."
               "Follow my advice," I said, impressively, and left the room.
               But Armstead followed me down stairs into the dining-room, where I had thrown myself in a large willow rocker.
               Armstead's head was now relieved, bandaged up in a manner that I flattered myself was quite scientific.
               The old man, doubtless grateful for my attentions, was bustling about, insisting on providing me with an unusually tempting bunch.
               Sandwiches and sangaree, cheese and oysters and crackers, he munificently provided me, insisting on my participation.
               But I noticed while I was employed in their discussion the old man's volubility was excessive.
               His mind had been burdened a long time with such weighty and unusual State secrets, and he seemed to experience great relief in imparting them to my callous ears.
               I had known that M'lle de Boisseau possessed ubiquity, but I confess some of his developments convinced me that I had vastly underrated her powers, and satisfied me, from his descriptions of her midnight conclaves with the negroes, that se traveled about in baskets and rode brooms and bats.
               I consoled Armstead, however, by my appearance of equanimity, enjoyed on him that it was best to let these things blow over, little imagining that I would so soon be called on to use for important purpose the valuable information he had given me.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE house was silent and deserted. Hermione and Hubert had not returned from their ride. Doubtless they had stopped at Hawthorne Hill or dropped in at the Hemmingways. M'lle de Boisseau had flown in to the assistance of Miss Ballard. Schemes of active benevolence were now in inception, and a full scope offered for the sweep of her extraordinary sympathies.
               War had not been declared, but volunteers were mustering for the seizure of arsenals and to serve as the vanguard of liberty. There was really no necessity as yet for woman's being called on to mingle in the conflict, but M'lle de Boisseau had put on her specs and called the roll in Pineville.
               A sewing society had been organized under her auspices there in Mr. Stafford's church, and she had clipped out an astonishing quantity of gray jeans for other less benevolent women to stitch up. If she ever threaded a needle while she lived at Callamura, it must have been in the dark, or if she owned a thimble, I never saw it.
               But her society was in a thriving condition. In addition to Pineville, she could draw upon the vast resources of Callamura, and it was the universal remark that she was the best rebel in the parish; if all the women had her public spirit, we would go through with flying colors. All whispers of her abolition proclivities seemed lulled to silence for the present by her undoubted zeal in the good cause.
               After I had finished my lunch I sauntered into the library, and securing a book seated myself in the bay-window, more to be alone than to read. Uncle, too, was out in the fine tempting weather, and I drew the green curtains of the alcove formed by the bows of the window behind me, and stretched myself upon the padded cushions lining the circumference.
               The dull pages of Josephus were having their effect; Armstead's generous oblation of sangaree was quieting my nerves, and feeling unusually wearied, for once in many months I became vanquished by slumber and sank into unconsciousness.
               How long I might have remained there it would be difficult to conjecture: my mind had been upon a stretch of excitement for several weeks, and my sense thoroughly locked in obliviousness.
               But I was awakened by the sound of voices. The sun was far down the sky, and rubbing my eyes I was just about to lift the curtain and emerge from my temporary couch, when a peculiar clanking sound ardently and frequently repeated caused me to hesitate.
               They were kisses, and I feared to rush upon the young lovers. It seemed as if I was compelled to play eavesdropper again, for the window too high from the ground for me to escape in that direction.
               It was Hermione I dreaded to confront. Always reticent and mysterious, shrouding her motives and motions in secresy, I knew not but that immediately on discovering my acquaintance with what had transpired, she might capriciously withdraw her affection from Hubert.
               Bitterly lamenting my own threatened destiny as a marplot, I crouched down under the velvet cushions, almost fearing to breathe.
               "Does not that relieve your head?" inquired a sharp, hammer-like voice.
               "Not particularly; I can't say that it does," was the blunt reply.
               My brain reeled. Was Callamura become the labyrinth of Crete?
               The speakers were uncle and M'lle de Boisseau!
               "Then let me try once more the manipulative energy," she suggested. "A few sharp strokes down the electric wires of the human frame are sometimes wonderfully alleviative, especially where the spiritual affinities exist in such a remarkable manner as experience proves they do between us. The great focus sometimes culminates in one centre of the vital nervous temperament—sometimes in another."
               "These singular affections of my head, I think," speculated the old man, have always been followed by the loss of some portion of memory. Paracelsus affirms—"
               "Paracelsus was an enthusiast," impatiently interrupted the wise old spinster—"an astrological enthusiast. His opinions are worthless."
               "Divine science," argued the old man, "ought to explain the peculiarities of my case. I have the horizontal eyebrow, indicating will and determination; but unluckily broken wrinkles always traverse the forehead, evidencing extreme negligence, and memory is an absolute cavity, fearfully indented."
               
               "Still, you have comprehensiveness sufficient to balance that," complimented his companion, "and penetrativeness like an angel's.'
               "Mona," mused the old man, perfectly innocuous to this soft blandishment—"Mona has an unequaled brow. Though her complexion is dark, the brow is much fairer than the rest of the face—a certain proof of the preponderance of the mind over materiality. The splendid blue vena frontalis, describing the shape of a Y on her clear, well-arched forehead, is remarkably apparent. Lavater affirms that this is never found but with minds of extraordinary talents—and with an ardent and generous soul."
               "Miss Mona has indeed an extraordinary mind," echoed his listener, "but all the family have that.'
               "Sterne's head is a remarkable one too. No one could see it without being convinced that it belonged to greatness, His face, too, establishes the truth of physiognomy. When some long-buried skulls were found in the catacombs at Rome, and worshiped by religious enthusiasts as the relies of martyred saints, you remember some anti-physiognomist ironically suggested that Lavater should be sent for to decide whether they were the skulls of saints or scoundrels. And so exact is the science that it would have been determined—it would have been determined."
               "Certainly, certainly," endorsed his echo. "Physiognomy is the most exact of the sciences."
               "A man of the commonest understanding, accustomed to a charnel-house, will soon learn to distinguish the skulls of the great and good from those of villains and idiots—the cranium of the Indian or the negro from that of the white man. Sterne's eyebrows run so near the eye that they must evidence a deep, earnest firm and decided character—a decided character. Zimmerman, in his excellent treatise on Experience—"
               "Pathognomy,' desperately interrupted M'lle de Boisseau—"pathognomy is the beautiful daughter of physiognomy—as wonderfully exact. It is the science of the passions—of character in motion; and she certainly ought to reval the secret of all your idiosyncrasies."
               "Hermione's brow," pursued the old man, unconscious of her interruption, "is also a fine one, but too little diversified. It does not divide into the four beautiful equalizations of curvature adorning both Mona's and Hubert's. It indicates too much coldness in the mental conformation. It is the brow of a statue—the brow of a statue—and not of a woman. Winkelried remarks that the character of nations—"
               "Pathognomy," again interrupted his impatient listener, doubtless fearing he was going wandering down the mazes of Winkelried, where she could never overtake him—"I tell you, Mr. Morant, she is the science for your inspection—she holds the clue to your peculiarities.'
               "Yes, Yes," admitted the old man, startled by the shriek-like creak in her shrill treble voice to bestowing some attention on her scientific propositions; "I know very well pathognomy arrives at the dignity of a science. The records of all ages and of all nations are replete with pathognomical remarks. Theatrical representations would be worthless without it.'
               "Life is twofold," now oracularly began M'lle de Boisseau, having succeeded in gaining the floor, and probably uncle's wandering attention. "The great balance of vitality must be preserved; so the great crown of civilization was not completed until Columbus landed his ships at Hispaniola. The New World placed the brightest half in the broad tiara of Time. You will never complete the whole sum of your existence till you clasp that other undiscovered hemisphere.'
               "Yes," admitted uncle, dreamily, the ruling passion strong in death, "but after discovery, unfortunately that newly-discovered hemisphere lapsed into the hands of Yankees.'
               "'This absentness of mind of which you complain," she continued, "as having always interfered so much with your usefulness, is only to be obviated in one way. You must clasp that other half of your being—clasp it in marriage. Marriage only will restore you the clear grandeur of your faculties; marriage only will restore you the clear grandeur of your faculties; marriage only will restore you the happiness of youth.'
               "Ah, it is too late—late now," lamented the dreary old man. "I might have married the splendid mother of Hermione; I would have married her, unworthy as she was, beneath me as she was, but she was treacherous—treacherous and false."
               The old man's tones had a wailing intonation of sorrow in them, that thrilled me with anguish, as he thus vagarized mournfully over the desolation of his life, and I heaved a sigh which I feared must have been audible.
               "It is not too late," despairingly shrieked M'lle de Boisseau, who did not care to listen to any of his sentimental reminiscences of the sorrows of his youth, and fearful lest this golden opportunity should slide. "It is not too late. Nothing else but a strongly established spiritual affinity could have driven me so constantly and devotedly to your side. Swedenborg himself admitted these spiritual marriages. They are destined to become the marriages of Time. I have been sealed to you—I have been sealed to you," the desperate old virgin energetically cried, "and principalities, nor powers, nor heights, nor depths shall divide me from my hearts husband."
               A fleeting shower of manufactured kisses resounded throughout the apartment, like the regular flips of a pair of button-scissors.
               I heard the poor old man groaning.
               "This treatment of cephalic affections has not entirely the sanction of my judgement,' I heard him say. "But where is your husband? Did you not say you had a husband somewhere?"
               The old man's mind was fortunately wandering, and it proved his present salvation.
               "You, you are my husband!" she cried impressively.
               "Idol of my soul! centre of all my heart's young dreams! you are my darling husband.'
               "No, that cannot be," replied her unconscious spirit-mate—"that cannot be. I have no recollection of it whatever, and I think I would have remembered that circumstance."
               "We are one—we are one," she persisted; "my possessions are all yours, from this time forward. I myself am thine, adored, adored hugh!"
               "Callamura belongs to Hermione—my river-lands to Hubert," said the old man, having now a vague conception of her meaning, and warding off his fate with the first weapon he could find.
               "No, no," objected the disinterested old maiden; "Callamura belongs to you, my precious, and consequently to me. We will spend many, many, happy days together here; and oh you will see what an Eden of Paradise it will become to you, revivified by my devotion and affection!"
               The supper-bell rang, calling them to supper and releasing me from my uncomfortable hiding-place.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               WHERE M'lle de Boisseau had learned all that jargon, or how correct her scientific statements might be, I am sure I could not tell, and I beg to be excused from standing sponsor to any of them. I know I very often picked up papers about the house containing sentences of bombastic phrenological and spiritualistic information in her handwriting, but whether they were her own composition or little isolated sentences she had gleaned from recognized authorities, and had written them off in order to impress them on her memory, I would not like to say. Buy I had ever had a dim impression that it must have required one of her feeble capacities to make great preparation to keep pace with one who, like uncle, had devoted all his life to the study of anatomy and such abstruse pursuits.
               But of the aim and object of these scientific conferences I was now fully satisfied, and old Mrs. Burns rose at once in my estimation, clad not only with the wise proverbial philosophy of Sancho Panza, but also invested with something of the sanctity of Cassandra.
               But I was so disturbed in mind as I sat at the suppertable that I could not swallow a morsel.
               Truly strange revelations had dawned upon me in the last few days.
               Hermione clasping to her side our uncle's darling boy, and dreaming of their radiant future in the princely halls of Callamura; M'lle de Boisseau gazing with cupidity on its hundred fields of tropical luxuriance, and nestling herself there as the darling of the old man to whom it had descended in a direct line from a distinguished nobleman of the ancien régime of the royal land of France.
               I knew Hermione and Hubert were both Sybarites by nature, and I trembled to think of them as craving the necessary appliances of wealth, while a mere adventuress reveled in their proud ancestral possessions.
               Then, too, I had for the first time suspected that Hermione was my uncle's daughter, and I felt the natural desire to protect her from the treachery of the friend on whom her bounteous hand had lavished such unceasing prodigality.
               A thousand plans revolved themselves in my bewildered brain, and were rejected as often as revolved. I sat moody and silent.
               "Mona," observed Hubert, "you have your old woebegone look again. What is the matter? You look disconcerted.'
               "I am a little so," I admitted, "but it's of no consequence.'
               I succeeded in evading his catechising.
               Hermione was wearing in her hair a superb blossom of the magnolia grandiflora, one of the spoils of their canter of the morning. It was past the season of their blooming, but these unrivaled queens of the forest very frequently surprise and delight the eye long after that season is past, by the occasional exhibition of a pure ivory vase dissemminating its intoxicating odor from their dark, glossy foliage.
               It hung from Hermione's shining braids, emulating the cream-colored hue of her almost colorless cheek. Indeed, there was nothing ever so nearly resembling the ivory purity of Hermione's peculiar complexion as one of those thick, dazzling petals adorning it.
               "Uncle," asked Hubert, "do you not think the flower in Hermione's hair is a fit type of herself? Should she not always wear the queen of the flowers?"
               The old man laid down his fork and gazed absently on Hermione. His face wore a troubled look, and his brows were twisted up into their dilemma knot, but I only possessed the key to the source of that vague uneasiness which was evidently haunting him.
               "Hermione looks well," he eagerly assented.
               "I shall call her my cousin Magnolia hereafter," the boy gayly remarked. "I never before saw a flower and a woman so perfectly alike, redolent, too, as she always is of its costly perfume.'
               But Hubert could not electrify and enchain as usual the old man's flagging attention; he was treading musingly and perplexed some very intricate paths, floundering in some very deep waters.
               Hubert turned to his cousin, carrying out with burning glances and thrilling tones his comparison to the splendid flower she bore on her queenly head. But M'lle de Boisseau made the movement for adjournment to the parlors.
               The old man retained his seat, fixing his troubled glance upon me where I sat revolving in my mind what course I should pursue.
               It was strange that though Hubert and Hermione were his idols, it was to Mabel and myself he seemed to turn mostly in his perplexities, as if he relied more upon our judgement and steadiness. This was to me sufficiently gratifying to overbalance the preponderating share it was evident they held in his affections.
               "Mona,' he said, "I had entirely forgotten it. It is strange that I should have forgotten such an important thing, but I have no recollection of it whatever."
               "Forgotten what, uncle?"
               His eyebrow fell painfully, and he drew himself up closer to me, as if he feared being overheard.
               "Forgotten that I was married, child," he said, dolefully. "When did it happen? Remind me all about it."
               I could scarcely keep from laughing at his simplicity, but I hastened to relieve evident distress.
               "Oh, uncle," I answered, "don't be so easily snared. You are not married. I never heard that you had a wife in my life. You are good old uncle and belong to us."
               "I fear I am married, Mona," was his reply, "and very unhappily. It is unmanly to make complaints—unmanly."
               I saw from the way his eye was raised to the ceiling that his mind was wandering from my vicinity, and I rose and left him, more determined than ever to release him from his thraldom.
               Certainly it was providential that I had been concealed in the bay-window on that eventful evening, or it is different to say how far M'lle de Boisseau's spiritual blandishments might have succeeded in imposing on a guileless, an unsuspecting being, generally too deeply immersed in theoretical disquisitions and speculations to be equal to the routine of every-day life. Besides, he was totally ignorant of the wiles of woman. I had never heard of his seeking one in my life.
               It was evidently the climactic occasion of all M'lle de Boisseau's previous preparations. I did not know, until after all the astonishing events of the future, now just impending, had occurred, why it was that she delayed so long reaping the fruit of her patient labors.
               The fullness of time had not arrived.
               I had seen M'lle de Boisseau through the parlor folding doors, seemingly very fidgetty and restless; and finally she came through the saloon, tripping up the spiral steps to her own apartment.
               "Now is my time to act," I thought; "one more interview and Callamura might be lost."
               
               I slowly followed her, pondering over my course, and knocked at her chamber door.
               "Come in," she said, doubtless mistaking me for a servant, I so seldom intruded. She hurried out of view a host of cosmetics, Emails de Paris, pomades, false ringlets and false bodies which were piled incongruously on her marbleslabbed bureau.
               She was evidently preparing for one of her most elaborate toilettes.
               "Oh, it is you?" she said. "How kind, Miss Mona! Young people don't often care to talk with their elders now-a-days. How kind you are! Do sit in this rocker.'
               "I prefer standing," I returned, gathering in my faculties for the death-struggle before me, while she continued to remove from my view, it seemed to me, about a bushed of the various imitations of humanity invented by the ingenuity of aspiring artists.
               "Miss Delia Boyce," I began, "I have some very unpleasant business with you. I wish it to be as briefly despatched as possible, so I do not care to be seated."
               "I wish then," she replied, angrily, "that you would address me properly."
               But she was startled. Under this appearance of audacity, I saw that she trembled with apprehension, which was the effect I had wished to produce.
               "I called you by your proper name," I firmly replied. "You were christened Delia boyce."
               "You have no proof of that assertion," she boldly denied. "My name is Florie de Mantelle de Boisseau. I know no Delia Boyce."
               She summoned to her lips with these words a pretty fair imitation of the French accent.
               "But I do," I coolly returned; "I know her very well. She left her home in an obscure Northern village, where her milliner's sign met the public eye as Miss Delia Boyce. She wandered over Georgia and South South Carolina, teaching infant schools a while. She landed in the city, where she dwelt long enough in a French family to learn the language; and finding a French and music teacher needed at Madame Sévigne's, she twisted her English patronymic into French to secure the position."
               Her little, thin razor-blades grated furiously together over her sharp, squirrel-like teeth, and her eyes flashed fire at me.
               "Miss Buccleugh, really you are insulting.'
               "I do not intend to be so," I calmly replied. "I only aim at stating facts."
               "Where is your proof for this improbable story?"
               "I have sufficient proof to establish all my assertions, nor can any insult be designed in making them," I repeated, fixing my eye steadily on her. "This knowledge has for months been confined to my own breast. Had I wished to injure you, I had blazoned it forth, with other facts, and delivered you up to the anathemas of an insulted populace."
               "Even were your accusation true, which I totally deny," she said, audaciously confronting my gaze, "I am sure there is nothing in that circumstance to inflame these people against me. A name is nothing: one may call themselves what they choose. I flatter myself my loyalty is beyond question.'
               "No, Miss Boyce; but a New Englander sails under a French alias through this unhappy country, blazing with incendiarism and bursting with volcanic fires, suspicion is very naturally excited by the dissemination of abolition tracts among its servile population."
               The woman looked aghast!
               "Who says that?" she gasped.
               "It has been said by your colored friends," I replied— "Armstead, Commodore, Sarah, Venus, Viney, all of them. They show you tracts!"
               "Treacherous wretches!" she gnashed. "But who listens to a negro! Our courts very wisely refuse their testimony."
               I was astonished at the desperate resistance the wiry little woman was making, but I continued:
               "There things, Miss Delia, are as yet unknown to my uncle. Were he acquainted with them, not an hour longer would you pass under his generously sheltering roof. Be assured of one thing: the knowledge that you were an Abolitionist would rouse him into a fury that you have little conception of, nor would he hesitate to send you adrift."
               Fear did seem to close upon her game little heart, but she only drew up her feet; folding her arms around her waist, and bridling up her screw-like neck, she clicked away me:
               "Go on, Miss Buccleugh. I suppose you may say what you please in your own house."
               I had wished to preserve my temper; I feared that I might fail to carry my point, but I could not help very quickly retorting:
               "Yes, it is mine. Rest assured of one thing: it shall never by yours. It is Hermione's house, where she has brought you with a generous, uncalculating spirit. You have enjoyed for nearly two years a prodigality of hospitality of which I dare say you never dreamed before in your life; and the return you would make would be to disaffects the servants and to rob your benefactress."
               "You're imagination is vivid, Miss 
                     Bnccleugh
                     Buccleugh
                  ," she dryly returned. "I have never been accused of stealing before.'
               "Miss Boyce," I returned, waving my hand at the hard little pine knot that sat screwed up there before me, "I came in here with the hope of awakening you to the dangers of your situation—in the hope that your own good sense would prompt you to retrace your steps; but I perceive that matters will have to take their course. I feel bound to acquaint my uncle and Hermione severally with all that I know."
               "You have given me no proof that you know anything," she sneeringly remarked. "Young people may say anything."
               I was nettled at this insinuation.
               "My uncle, at least, is persuaded of my truthfulness," I returned, as calmly as I could, "and he will add his own testimony as to the singular information I have to impart to Hermione."
               "I should not think I ought to stand in very great awe of one of my own pupils," she coolly replied. "Pray what strange accusation can you have to make to her?"
               "I shall tell her," I replied, flashing my eyes full upon her, "that you are plotting to deprive her of Callamura, and all of us of our uncle."
               "Another wild assertion!" she cachinnated, with an affected little sound, that reminded me more of the buckskin squeaks of a small plaster of Paris toy-cat than anything else I had ever heard. "Indeed, Miss Buccleugh, you seem to be demented to accuse me of such folly as that! this is a hard, hard old world. To think of my being accused of wanting to marry an old man—old enough for my father! What next, what next, I pray?"
               "I have heard your conversations with him,' I pursued, regardless of her sneers. "I heard you tell him this evening that nothing should separate you from your heart's husband, and that Callamura should certainly be yours."
               "Eavesdropping, I suppose—eavesdropping!" she repeated, with a scorn that deprived me of what little patience I had remaining.
               
               "Yes," I said, "my position was so awkward that it was impossible for me to retreat; and I was too respectful to my uncle to become a witness to what I knew he would blush for me to see. But I have acquainted you first with the fact—I have made you the first recipient of the information I have gained. I shall make Hermione the next. She will defeat your plans, if I cannot."
               "Hermione does not care the snap of her fingers for Callamura," she tauntingly replied.
               "You are mistaken," I cried, the vision of her brilliant, happy destiny there, with Hubert at her side, flashing before me; but I remembered to guard against any betrayal of the thought to the singular being I confronted.
               "It is you who are mistaken," pursing up her him thin, fleshless lips as if she knew everything. "How wise young people are now-a-days! Tell Hermione what you choose Hermione has some knowledge of me, and I expect I can do some telling too."
               "you know nothing of me, Miss Boyce, which I should dread to meet the light," I replied, turning away. "I did not seek you, Miss Delia, for the purpose of altercation. You are bent upon your fate, and must meet it. I go to inform my uncle that he is entertaining an abolition emissary in his house. I have it in my power to confirm the suspicions the public has long entertained to you, and I shall do it."
               I whirled from her room, baffled and despairing, for of course I shrank myself from putting in execution what I had threatened.
               Poor, friendless and forlorn, there were few other people who would so long have braved public indignation, murmuring sometimes loudly, then dying away, as ourselves. Indeed, it was through our countenance that she had lived it down. She was now swimming on the waves of the society very triumphantly, having organized it and carried all the elections of officers in favor of her friends; but I knew very well she would be quietly requested to leave the country should I make the aforesaid developments public.
               I certainly was not fond of her, but my sentiments did not amount to positive dislike, sufficient to actuate me to any overt attack upon her.
               As I reached the head if the spiral staircase, irritated at my failure in accomplishing what I had sought, I heard her tripping behind me:
               "Miss Mona, come back a moment, if you please—just a few words."
               I found her mood very considerably altered.
               "Let me hear some proof of all these strange things: I may have been slandered. Who told you I was named Delia Boyce?"
               "Mr. pearson." I saw her start. "Mr. Pearson told me all about your life in the North. He told me you had informed him that you had married a Mons. de Boisseau and been divorced. But I knew that was a fiction of your fancy. invented to account to him for your being now a French woman: I have never heard before or since of your being a widow. Besides, I have seen the name on Your books and music, and on your articles of clothing."
               "Who gives the proof of my being an Abolitionist? Only the negroes?"
               "And you pamphlets," I added. "Do not flatter yourself, M'lle de Boisseau, that the negroes will not be believed because their testimony is not received in a court of justice. Besides, Mrs. Skillem observed to me one day she had seen some suspicious documents in your mail-matter. But I lulled her suspicions as far as I could, and begged her to say nothing about it."
               M'lle di Boisseau commenced turning up the screw of the lamp. She did not speak for some time. At last she asked in a low tone,
               "Do you think these Southern people would tar and feather me, Miss Mona? Tell me candidly."
               I enjoyed her evident alarm, and it was not my policy to relieve it; so I said I could not tell to what length popular resentment might go.
               "Why have you concealed this knowledge, you say you derived from Mr. Pearson, so long?"
               "Simply because I knew you were friendless," I replied, "and I did not wish to injure you."
               She gave me an incredulous look, and seemed sounding me for some deeper motive. Doubtless it was beyond her comprehension that one could be swayed by so silly and simple a consideration.
               "Then, Miss Mona, what has been your motive in seeking this conversation? What is it you would have?"
               "I would have you desist from your unholy, mesmeric arts on that innocent, child-like old man down stairs," I replied. "As for your tampering with his slaves, I am indifferent myself. But why you should preach freedom to his negroes, and contemplate marrying an old man because he owns them, I cannot well imagine. You would find them very unmanageable property and worthless after you had demoralized them."
               I think this argument was probably what carried my point.
               "Miss Mona, you have always acted like a very sensible young lady," she began whining; "I have been influenced more by a desire to enliven the hours of a good old man than anything else. This is a very hand, hard old world, and he has been very kind to me."
               "Then you will best show your gratitude by letting him alone," I concluded. "The first interview you have with him—the first approach you make to that library, and Armstead will guard it—the sword of Damocles will fall on your head."
               I again turned away, and as I waved my hand in adieu had the satisfaction of reading in her cringing look that I had snatched my uncle from a miserable, heartless, characterless adventures.
               As I walked quietly down the corridor, I caught the sight, standing on the broad swerve of the stair step, of certainly the brightest confluence of mere animal beauty, to speak nothing of diviner attributes, that earth had ever witnessed.
               It was Hubert, his arms twined around his cousin, all the passions of his vivid, flashing nature leaping like flame around her and kindling at last the precious sandal-wood of the pure marble-like shrine.
               Indeed, Callamura was becoming like some realm of enchantment. Go where I would, it seemed that my unlucky foot was destined to intrude on some scene of love. So entirely had it become the empire of love-making that I would not have surprised on landing down stairs to discover the overseer, on an errand for camphor and laudanum, suddenly seized with a desire to fall on his knees and assure old Mrs. Burns she was an angel!
               But if I had the misfortune to run afoul of such scenes, I had the tact to steer clear of observation myself.
               I slipped back to the door.
               "M'lle de Boisseau, another thing;" I spoke in a loud tone so a to attract their observation. I put my head in the door and said,sotto voce, "I shall never allude to this conversation. I hope it will make no difference between us. I shall not mentioned it, myself, to any one."
               I slammed the door, and when I returned I met the lovers coming severally up the steps.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               THE next morning a large political meeting was to be held in Pineville. There was an immense outpouring of several neighboring towns and precincts expected, and ladies were invited to hear the speeches.
               I think this meeting was a mere formulary on the part of Pineville; for although she had exceeded the lengths of neighboring localities in organizing a Ladies' Relief Society, that was entirely owing to the devouring zeal of M'lle de Boisseau. But Pineville, being rather deficient in those indigenous products of America, stump-speakers and tavern politicians, had really been backward in public movements, and it was deemed advisable that she should define her position clearly and decidedly before the world upon paper.
               It was generally imagined where she would be found; but such opportunities for aspiring young lawyers to reap laurels in the line of furious declamations and old party hacks to roll our the king's English into twenty or thirty "Be it Resolveds," not often occurring, there was, of course, corresponding excitement for many miles around, and an inexhaustible amount of volunteer talent anxious to assist her in this trying emergency.
               Pineville was famous for the best grocery in the parish; good cheer and hospitality were bounteous, and the slightest pretext could throng her courts.
               Hubert was going in the carriage with his splendid "Queen Mag," as I now heard him terming his cousin, in allusion to her resemblance to the magnolia blossom; but I knew he would lose half the speeches waiting on one of her state-occasion toilettes.
               Hermoine had a quiet, dreamy way of listening to his gallantries now when we were present: leaning her head on one of her hands, looking so passionless and pure, and yet pensive, that I wondered not at Hubert's adoration. I imagined Hubert had confided something of his inclination to his uncle. The old man had gone in to the Secession meeting, driven by Armstead in his buggy, making a remark as he passed them seated together on the colonnade which gave me that impression. He seemed avoiding his old persecutress, while I kept very faithfully at her side, inviting her to walk in to town with me. I was now tracking her steps as closely as she had ever done mine.
               She was very civil, offering to tie my ribbons, smoothing down my skirt and admiring my general appearance, as we started off from Callamura to view the boiling of the great political cauldron.
               The school-room was used for the occasion, and the seats appropriated to the ladies, while crowds of handsome, dashing Southerners, ignorant of the death-doom they were invoking, hovered round the aisles and windows and darkened the doorways.
               There were several fine speakers present—burning spirits who have since then gone plunging down the sea of death, or whose white plumes rode triumphantly on the tide and then wandered into exile.
               Mr. Sterne was seated on the rostrum among them, half way doing the honors of the house, and giving his undivided attention to those momentous proceeding which were to decide the fate of a country rivaling Europe in extent.
               Although Pineville has since then been rather populous of men who endeavored to stem the wild tide of Secession at that time, I cannot say that they were anywhere visible to my eye.
               Co-operation sung a low song, but Unionism was mute.
               
               Each man seemed to vie with his fellow in the glad note of Secession, unconditional, immediate and eternal
               I was seated near a window, and at the close of a speech turned my eye to meet the striking figure of James Conway without, pressing through the crowd to greet me.
               Doubtless my face radiated with pleasure, for he was the most companionable person to me in Pineville, Mr. Sterne excepted; and I leaned forward, extending my hand through the open window to offer the cordial welcome my heart prompted.
               After a few remarks between us, Hubert and Hermione dashed in late, as was her wont.
               I was leal to my brother, but I could not help being saddened as I thought of the suffering in store for my friend.
               "She is more beautiful than ever," he observed.
               I resolved to allow him to discover his loss without my assistance; besides, I had not yet been made the recipient of their confidence. But there were loud cries of "Sterne! Sterne!" bringing down the house.
               He had some warm friends in Pineville, though doubtless enemies likewise, anxious for him to trip himself; but as he rose and his deep mellow voice rolled over the assembly, all lay hushed, entranced under the spell.
               It would be impossible for me to describe his oration, for such it was; the deep, giant-like thoughts stalking forth from his soul, uncommon and striking as that extinct race of mastodons which roamed of yore under the trees waving above our heads.
               The man himself seemed restored to a new or rather a former being. The loose, disjointed manner with which he had worn his temporary honors as pedagogue, gave place to a dignity and grace of motion astonishing to those who did not know his slumbering volcanoes.
               Electric thought energized every obedient nerve, and the cumbrous body wheeled into rank, seconding all the splendid evolutions of the intellect; and as he launched his clear arguments, mingled with thrilling appeals, momentarily he enchained the wild delirium of the people.
               Had he stood there that day the accredited ambassador of the Northern people, and his voice could have penetrated to the remotest hamlet of the South, a thimble would have held all the blood to be shed.
               From his intimate acquaintance with both sections he seemed like a messenger-angel sweeping with white wings the troubled waters and whispering of peace.
               "It is true," he pleaded, "that you have experienced contumely and insult, and perhaps injuries. But you must reflect that the great mass of the Northern people are perfectly ignorant of the people they have maligned. A great popular delusion is sweeping over their senses, blinded by tears over the imaginary sorrows of Ethiopia. Apply but the euphrasy of forgiveness to their eyesight and it will become clear once more, and the generosity of the future will indemnify you for the past."
               He foreshadowed Mr. Lincoln's scheme of American benevolence, and pictured forth another Great Salt Lake City among the boundless forests of the West, where the unfortunate sons of Africa might pitch their weary tents.
               "Let Ephraim be joined no more to his idols," he continued. "Two stars shine not in the same sphere. The Ethiopian has too long clogged the wheels of Southern progress; unloose the chain which fetters the white race, and you will bound forward in the path of triumphant civilization, the successful yet friendly rival of the North.
               "They are a wayward but not an ungenerous or unjust people," he said. "They will compensate you for the sacrifice with no unsparing hand, while Europe will pour out on you her industrial millions, eager to till the fairest regions of the earth."
               I could not describe all his passionate appeals, all his subtle arguments, all his prophetic forebodings, as he dwelt upon the overwhelming puissance of the North: it was a strain of pathos to the end.
               He seemed to have caught his inspiration from the mute marble bust beside him, and revived memories of the Roman Forum.
               I gazed transfixed upon him. He was no longer my lover, he was the saviour of my people. But he came too late.
               As well attempt to restrain the high-mettled courser awaiting the tap of the drum with wreaths of rose-buds, as reason of patience and long-suffering with a people whose back, like the camel's, was already broken with the last hair of their burden.
               That last hair was the scornful boast of some belligerent Northern editor that if the South dared to secede she would be whipped back into the Union.
               This speech—the first threat—was the goad of nails on a back already lacerated to resistance. It rankled in every heart, and first gave shape to the dream of war.
               But Mr. Sterne was well known in Pineville; many knew his sentiments, and yet were already committed against them. The few who sympathized with them, and who had possibly communicated the impulse to the crowd to call him out, could only admire his superior boldness in avowing them, and secretly indulge the hope that his burning eloquence would yet carry the day.
               Others, however, from a distance, ignorant of his sterling worth, were dissatisfied that Pineville could tolerate at this stage of affairs such dubious loyalty, and that from a Northerner.
               Only momentarily impressed with the charm of his oratory, as soon as he had concluded brows darkened and low murmurs indicated the vain struggle that the son of peace had made. He was himself doubtless conscious at the time that it was useless, for the sublime resolution of a martyr glorified his brow. He resumed his seat, listening calmly to the excited replies that vollied forth, while my eyes fastened themselves upon his face with the earnest sympathy of my deathless devotion.
               He caught them, and returned me a look which many of my sex may have doubtless met in some dark passage of life, but which may never be portrayed.
               It filled me with the wildest despair and astonishment. It betrayed not the slightest recognition or remembrance of that sweet past which had so sanctified the walls of that sequestered school-hall.
               Only the stone-blue expression of his changeable eyes shot like a sharp flint upon my heart and buried itself in my undefended and unsuspecting bosom. Contempt, passionless anger, eternal adieu glittered from their soundless depths as he coldly turned them away; and the iron-like expression froze the great lips whence had just issued the soul of music.
               There in its birth-place my ill-starred love had perished, while the wild hosannas without, that greeted a new-born nation, rose, rending the insensible sky.
               As I left the room, almost blinded by the sudden destruction which had so unaccountably fallen upon me, I neared him at the door.
               With the most blinded and graceful bow I had ever seen him offer a lady, he lifted his hat:
               "Good-morning, Miss Buccleugh."
               He passed on, scarcely noting my acknowledgment of the civility, mingling freely with the excited populace, himself as absorbed in discussion as they.
               
               I was dumbfounded, stunned.
               James Conway met me, as I divined, for the purpose of falling in with Hermione; and we approached the carriage in which she and Hubert were about to leave for home.
               I have a very indistinct recollection of how it was managed, but I saw James Conway whirling away with them, and to my relief I pursued my way home with M'lle de Boisseau.
               I was too absorbed in my own misery to be cognizant of anything. I suppose I gave meaningless replies to her remarks, for as we neared Callamura I became conscious of her saying:
               "It's a pity, Miss Mona, that such a sensible young lady as you are should be so influenced by prejudice. I suppose if a handsome Yankee lad were to court you, you could not make up your mind to marry him. What a pity people will be so prejudiced!"
               "M'lle de Boisseau," I growled, "I have told you a thousand times that I have no prejudices against any one. I endeavor to keep my mind free from them."
               "Of course, Miss Mona; but we are not always aware of them ourselves. I know now that is the reason you have disliked me so—you have supposed me one all the time. Mr. pearson's silly about Delia Boyce—a Yankee milliner! ha! ha!"
               Her little, metallic laugh grated on my overstrung spirit with a twang that produced a discord.
               "Do you suppose," I savagely replied, "that I confounded you with the powerful North—that I consider you a fair representative of Hawthornes and Hallecks, of Emersons and Bryants? No!" I cried, some spirit of divination and revenge prompting me to expand my lacerated and tormented soul upon the wretched little cosmopolite before me.
               "No! that country was too great for you—you were but the sediment of society there—thou insignificant barnacle, washed with the seaweed from her mighty shores!"
               I did not wait to hear her reply not to receive the venomons looks I doubt not she returned me, but dashed into my own room, where I could be alone with my superhuman grief.
               Tears, tears, that precious safety-valve for the brain, were not always at my command. I could only moan in my anguish and pace the floor, pressing my hands on a heart I thought would burst.
               Never before had I seen that stern look, not only of indifference, but of avoidance, wrapping like an iron mask the features to which I had always possessed the magic "open sesame." Never before had I heard him bid good-morning to "Miss Buccleugh." "Child," "Mona," "little one," "Miss Mona," had he sometimes addressed me, but never "Miss Buccleugh," with that iron rigidity of accent!
               Never before on an occasion like that had he passed me without a sweet word, a kind look, a furtive, thrilling pressure of the hand.
               I think there flashed across me a faint remembrance of his doubting look on leaving me at Mabel's entertainment; but I was too unsuspicious to connect it with his conversation with M'lle de Boisseau, too convinced of his opinion of her and his confidence in myself.
               Now all was dark and rayless, only that I had forfeited his esteem and lost in some mysterious manner the brilliant carbuncle of happiness that had glittered from the dazzling heights before me.
               So uncertain and startling were the developments from the political earthquakes that were every day thundering through the fair fabrics of the West, that a feeling of insecurity was pervading everything; and I naturally shuddered at this first break in the calm beauty of our love.
               
               Yet I had some of the will of the Morants; and although my mind sunk into the horrors of chaps, I could not hear quietly the gates of hell closing upon the departing form of our flying happiness.
               I imagined that like Orpheus I could penetrate the land of shadowy mysteries, and charm to relenting the unpitying soul of Rhadamanthus.
               Pluto and Proserpine would restore me the lost beauty of my life.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               EVERY day now was the harbinger of some important event. Recruiting was going on rapidly in the village, where Hubert was to be found when not in the presence of the gorgeous "Magnolia Queen" of his soul.
               He had donned a handsome suit of Confederate gray, and delighted the eyes of his old uncle, who doubtless anticipated the time when his blade should emulate the deeds of the Morants, in ages fled, on the chivalric fields of France.
               The old man himself would sometimes drive in in his buggy with Armstead to see the drills, and probably with his aged breath to blow a faint blast on the raging fires of Liberty.
               At others he would relapse into deeper musings, M'lle de Boisseau having desisted from her mesmeric operation; and, like the immortal Edmund Ruffin, his only dream was of his country.
               He would sit for hours speechless, seeking the shelter of some shady nook or lying dreamily on the stile, the house seeming to burden his spirit.
               For myself, I had not seen Mr. Sterne or heard any solution of the strange mystery hanging around his conduct, and it was the third day since the political meeting. I has listened in anguish to the various comments called forth by his speech, hearing his name frequently, but striving to bury my consciousness and intense suffering from observation. I had thought of walking into Pineville, hoping to meet him somewhere and learn whence all these direful ill; but I dreaded to meet him there, when, probably, in the presence of strangers, my self-command might desert me.
               I thought possibly he was deterred from seeking me at Callamura from the fact that the morning after the meeting Hermione had issued cards for a large party she designed giving in honor of Hubert's birth-day. He was twenty-three that day; and the house, after having been the scene of interminable scouring and waxing and adornment, was all ready for visitors.
               Rather late in the evening uncle came walking up the pavement, innocent of his coat, in his shirt sleeves.
               He had gone into town, but Armstead had returned, driving the buggy round without him, some time before. He had doubtless stopped down at the stile, or where some hands were renewing the avenue of Lombardy trees, which, it would seem, was always requiring attention.
               None of his vagaries ever surprised us. It was no unusual thing for him to wear two vests, or two shirts, or one sock, or a boot and a shoe, when not under Armstead's watchful guardage, so that the loss of a coat was nothing remarkable.
               As soon as he saw me he put his hands back to where his pockets should have been, gazing wistfully at me.
               
               "Mona, I thought I had something here."
               He looked round so bewildered I could scarcely forbear smiling, sad as I was.
               "Why, uncle, your coat is gone! what have you done with it?"
               "Sure enough," he said, gazing astonished upon his white shirt sleeves—" sure enough I have."
               the discovery of one of these material "inadvertences" Philip had so politely denominated them once, always had the effect of more completely unsetting the old man's faculties than before. They would fill him with genuine sorrow and shame.
               His eyebrow dropped so helplessly and hopelessly I knew he could never account for its disappearance; so I consoled him with the fact that as it was nearly time for him to dress for the party, its loss was of no importance. Armstead soon got possession of him, and remedied it with one more festal-like in appearance.
               The old servitor, however, was quite wrathy at the loss, sending down to where he had been helping to set out the young poplars, thinking he must have left it there.
               No tidings of it came; the negroes stated that he "cummed there in his shirt sleeves, and they knowed nothing about it." Armstead was evidently miserable that Commodore or Toney might have hooked such a prize.
               Hubert came in, inquiring if Mr. Sterne had been out.
               He had seen him in uncle's buggy, driving out that way with him, and supposed he had.
               I told him no; uncle had walked home.
               "I suppose, then, he only drove part of the way with uncle," Hubert concluded. "He said he would be out tonight. I think we will have quite a crowd; there are a good many strangers in town. I found some of Hermione's friends at the tavern, and persuaded them to stay."
               "My own heart bounded with joy. Mr. Stermne would not have designed coming to the party if it were not his intention to inform me as to the cause of his coldness. I knew I could tear away that icy veil which had fallen upon my love.
               Oh I knew that the mystery would be penetrated, and the Rhadamanthine form of Fate would yield to such love as mine.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THE old man was fond of mingling sometimes with parties of young people. I saw him frequently during the night passing among them, the last gay crowd assembled in those princely halls before the storm of battles came and the besom of destruction swept over the land, scattering the bright posies of youth and loveliness on very different and distant shores.
               Whenever he would encounter me, he seemed to remember the loss of the evening; for he would look round at his lappels, hardly seeming familiar with his holiday garment.
               I was too crushed to wish to mingle much in the happy rounds of festivity, and was seated out on the colonnade with Alfred Sims, now on a visit to his father; hiding my woe-begone appearance under the dim shadows of the huge stone columns.
               It was rather early, but the company had already assembled to a considerable extent. Hermione's gay friends, the Misses Marigne, were in the parlor with their beaux, dashing, handsome young Creoles. Mr. Britt had also just returned from South Carolina, and there were some half dozen of the neighboring politicians, who had gained fadeless laurels at the Secession meeting, induced to remain longer by the prospect of this occasion. Besides, all Pineville was assembled to do honor to Hubert's twenty-third birth-day.
               James Conway had just entered the house. I do not think he had as yet any conception that Hubert had borne off his prize. Our family prejudices against such marriages were well known to him. Mabel and myself had frequently inveighed against the marriages of cousins in his presence, and he had doubtless returned to pursue his inclinations, unfearingly and unimpeded by any serious obstacle.
               I had not had any extended conversation with him, however, since his return, and he soon sought me out on the colonnade, sharing Alfred's willow sofa.
               After Alfred's departure, he entered into an earnest recital of his hopes, which, vivid as they were, I had not the heart to dash.
               Mr. Sterne arrived while we were seated there; and if he saw us he did not turn his head. Through the open window I could see him, summoning to his large proportions the grace that could animate them, as he paid his devoirs to the fair hostess of the house.
               As my companion and myself sought the drawing-rooms, now nearly full, we paused a moment just within the door, the bright blaze of the chandeliers exposing us fairly to view.
               "Give me your bouquet?" requested Mr. Conway. "You know how Hermione values such attentions. I should have come provided."
               I handed it to him. It was a small one, and he eagerly placed it within his vest lining.
               So capricious was Hermione and so exacting that she never excused these little derelictions on the part of her suitors, She required the most perfect tribute at her shrine; and Mr. Conway's countenance expressed only what he felt—delight in being able to prove to her how constantly she reigned in his thoughts. He had brought her an exquisite bouquet. But this action caught Mr. Sterne's observation. Indeed, when I first stood there, I had met his look, softened somewhat and bending inquiringly upon me; but he regarded me on this not only with a cold and wintry glare, but it amounted to absolute horror.
               He turned off composedly, and sought the side of the radiant Hermione, sparkling in white satin and "jewels from the mine."
               My agony was extreme.
               "Mr. Conway," I said, catching his arm as he was about to leave, "stay a few moments. Let me tell you something."
               "Let us seek some quiet place then," he suggested, for the expression of my face alarmed him.
               "yes, the conservatory," I answered; and we sought its dim shadows, removed from the tumult of the crowd.
               "I love, too, Mr. Conway," I said, sorrowfully—"love with all the intensity of an earnest nature. I love Mr. Sterne! Some terrible misunderstanding has taken place, and to save my life I cannot unravel the enigma. Oh, tell me what shall I do?"
               He seemed astonished, touched by my distress.
               "Let me go," he suggested—"let me go tell him that you wish to speak with him."
               It was a divine inspiration.
               "Yes," he persisted, observing the glad hope that danced in my eyes, filled with the most gallant sympathy; "let me bring him to you immediately."
               "Yes, Yes," I cried, "once more! once more! I know I can explain it all;" and the bright phantom of Hope cheered my foolish heart.
               
               As he left me to execute his generous suggestion, I saw Mr. Sterne bending by Hermione's side, reveling in the blaze of her brilliant beauty. I knew it wondrous enchantments. What if already he were so steeped in its seductive influence that he would heed no summons from the unhappy Mona?
               Had I not heard him tell her that all on earth must bow before "the might, the majesty of her loveliness?" while I must be content to delve patiently in mines of knowledge and wretchedness.
               I sprang after him.
               "No, Mr. Conway; wait, wait a while; not yet—I will tell you when."
               "As you please, of course," replied Mr. Conway, kindly; "only remember to command me at any time."
               He had gained the back parlor door; and Mr. Sterne, lifting his head from Hermione, coolly surveyed my excited appearance.
               In fact, he had probably had a complete sweep of our whole interview, for the drawing-room door was exactly opposite to that of the conservatory, the passage between not more than ten feet, giving to good eyes a very fair field of observation.
               But I did not reflect upon that. I reflected that he was standing by Hermione, the most perfect conformation of feminine perfection I had ever seen treading the tropical shores of the South—a land famed as the region where woman eclipses the memory of Circassia and realizes the dreams of Mohammed. I knew he was inhaling that sensuous odor of magnolias which always emanated from her matchless person, and my soul sank in the maddening hopelessness of despair.
               But crushed, hopeless as I was, the grand impulse of a woman's sterling pride came rushing to my feeble spirit with its strong support. I haughtily drew up my neck, and mingled with the crowd with what composure I could assume.
               I, too, was a Morant. The pure blood of the French nobility ran through my veins, and I would not sully it with a thought nor a look unworthy of them.
               M'lle de Boisseau, the tinsel imitation of modern France, met me while in this mood.
               She clicked away at me:
               "How strange the young people are now-a-days! Mr. Sterne seems to have made up his mind at last. Do you think Miss Hermione will have him? She is not so prejudiced as you are. What do you think?"
               "I know nothing about it," I gloomily answered. "You know her better than I do."
               "I know he has admired her a long time," she clipped away; "but he has been afraid to try his luck. What a fine match it would make!"
               I turned my back upon her, seeking some more agreeable companion. Hubert, gay and joyous, avoided remark by leaving his cousin free to glide among the guests.
               But there they stood, looking down the future from the same watch-tower. Life offered them now but an epitome of that future. Callamura their, they were already one in spirit; only a few words from Mr. Stafford and the bright jewel clasped the golden ring.
               Miss Ballard, being in the literary line, was a great propounder of conundrums, and was going the rounds with a very novel and intricate one, just invented by some abstruse genius: "why is an elephant like a thousand of brick?"
               I was so stunned with grief that I could not take in all of Hubert's brilliant impromptus, or enjoy them, as he glanced round the rooms, shaking back his curls and sparkling with spirits and happiness.
               
               But I happened to be near him when Miss Ballard pompously approached with her difficult problem.
               "Oh, indeed," he cried, glancing up at the French clock on the mantel near which we stood; "like immortal Samson, I will answer you in riddles: Why is that clock like a beautiful woman, and why is it like a politician, and why is it like a river, and why is its pendulum like Noah. and why are you like a gay song and a tremendous auger?"
               Away he darted, leaving a crowd of young people guessing his conundrums and running round the room for solutions.
               I was not, myself, very apt at divining such riddles, Hubert often laughing at my obtuseness; but knowing his opinion of Miss Ballard's entertaining powers, and translating his wicked look when pronouncing her "a tremendous auger," I had the acuteness to solve that startling query myself.
               He considered her a "tremendous bore," I knew; and I never was so struck with the readiness of his powers, for I knew the whole string of inventions was purely for the purpose of escaping her importunities. But I felt some curiosity to see how he would escape the consequence of that improvisation, and avoid confessing his opinion of her boring qualities.
               But he was now entertaining the Misses Marigne and a gradually increasing crowd with the recitation of the most weird, melancholy, ludicrous, fanciful and classical improvisation of his genius I remember to have heard from him. He called it "The Dream of the Owl Queen."
               He did not halt for a rhyme. When the English did not supply it readily enough, Latin and French rolled in. It was certainly the spur of the moment, applicable to the occasion. War dashed along the lines; and the "fair marines" (the Misses Marigne), Hermione's unexpected guests, came in for complimentary notice. At one time it was almost drawing forth tears from his auditors, at another provoking bursts of merriment.
               Could I have caught it all, it would have remained in my faithful memory; but my mind was too much preoccupied. I would have valued it, if from no other consideration than as a remarkable literary curiosity.
               But Miss Ballard, and that journey man crew of feminine typos, which generally found employment in her publishing establishment, bad been for some time knotting their brows over his puzzles in vain. They now assaulted him, en masse, He was compelled to satisfy their curiosity as to that clock, of which it had seemed to me he had said everything that could be said.
               "Why is it like a beautiful woman?" asked Miss Hemmingway. "I can't possibly make out, unless it is because it has face and hands. Do tell us, Mr. Buccleugh."
               "Because, you see, it always adorns a mantel"(mantle), he explained.
               "And like a politician?"
               "Because it is a time-server."
               "And like a river?" pleaded some one else.
               "Because it runs from springs, don't you know?"
               "And why is its pendulum like Noah?" asked Miss Jerkins.
               "Because you perceive, it travels in an arc" (ark).
               At this beautiful conundrum, I caught sight of Mr. Sterne's grave face bent forward with a kind of fascination on his handsome, sparkling features. He had been leaning against the door, carrying on a limping kind of conversation with M'lle de Boisseau, but they now joined the group around him. They seemed dazed by the flashing splendor of Hubert's ready powers.
               "But you haven't told why I am like a merry song," lumbered up the athletic Miss Ballard. "I know I am a ballad, but this does ot make a merry song."
               "Are you not a merry ballad?"(Mary Ballard).
               "And a tremendous auger?" questioned the unconscious old bore.
               I trembled for him now; but he readily dashed out of ungallant as that. An altar, an altar. I said an altar and a priest."
               With those resemblances, and altar, because she was the shrine where all the world laid its tribute of adoration, and a priest, because nothing could prevail upon her to marry, the dignified old spinster went away highly delighted.
               I dare say she had never met with a provocation to matrimony in her life. James Conway approached me, whispering,
               "Shall I speak to Mr. Sterne now?"
               "No," I replied. "I have resolved to imitate his silence. I am conscious of having given him no cause of offence. I may by that he was weary of the engagement."
               Mabel joined us.
               "What does all this mean?" she questioned. "Is Mr. Sterne suddenly fascinated with Hermione? What secret are you and James so intimate over?"
               It is difficult for a stranger uninitiated to determine who are the single men in society in the South, such a universal tenderness toward woman pervades all ages. Mr. Conway, haughty towards his own sex, possessed in an eminent degree this chivalrous bearing toward woman; and the sight of my unhappiness had possibly called forth an unusual impressement in his manners.
               M'lle de Boisseau was standing not far from us, still limping along in a conversation with Mr. Sterne. I had thought him so near that possibly he would have spoken; but although he faced me, his powerful frame had the rigidity of an iron statue.
               Hermione's faultless arm depended in its sculptured beauty just against M'lle de Boisseau's shoulder, ad her diamonds flashed full in Mr. Sterne's eyes.
               They wiry little Machiavel raised her voice so that Mr. Sterne could to fail to hear its metallic click as she turned quickly to our group:
               "Oh, Mr. Conway, how nicely things are getting along! What a sly puss Miss Mona has been all this time! Just to think that none of us suspected it! And oh so suitable to all parties—a real family match! We don't often see such suitable matches in this strange, hard old world. I really, really must felicitate you on your good management."
               I would have given any amount for some of Hubert's happy self-possession or Hermione's matchless strategic talent, but I had nothing but the simple armor of truth.
               Mabel's innocent brow did not seem as if she comprehended all her insinuation.
               But I replied, thoroughly irritated now:
               "M'lle de Boisseau, your felicitations are very premature. I am not likely to mate soon with any one."
               Mr. Sterne had heard it all, but he stood calmly unimpressed, wrapped in the panoply of an utter indifference.
               Stung, enraged that he could thus resign me without an accusation, without a hearing, without a regret, I dashed away, halting just before him, where I returned his stony regard with all the indignation of my fearless nature.
               I braved him.
               "Good-evening, Miss Buccleugh," he composedly pronounced, folding his arms across his breast and bowing gravely, grandly, half-way withdrawing, as if he expected me to pass.
               The sweet music of that voice, which had laced my life so log like the silvery bars of a matin psalm, wooed me a moment to pause and say:
               "What is it, Mr. Sterne? Oh tell me!"
               But I felt too keenly the sense of injustice and wrong.
               A contemptuous smile curled my lip. I scarcely inclined my head.
               "Mr. Britt," I said, accosting him, "we are always happy to welcome in our midst the gallant sons of South Carolina. First in war, first in peace, may they always be first in the hearts of their fair countrywomen."
               I did not know or care what nonsense I rattled away.
               Mr. Britt was an agreeable, rather good-looking partner, and returning some pleasant speech, we were soon engaged in an animated conversation.
               I mingled in the dance, never once turning my head to observe there Mr. Sterne chose to bestow himself.
               "If he were jealous of James Conway," I argued, "time will eventually convince him of his error. If he has listened to any maligner, it is unworthy of him, and all explanation and advance must now emanate from my accuser."
               James Conway was now hovering around Hermione, seemingly very well satisfied with his progress.
               I was passing them on Mr. Britt's arm.
               Adaline, promenading with Dr. Turner, had just paid me one of her amiable compliments:
               "How bright your color is to-night, Mona! It is so becoming. I don't think I ever saw you look so well."
               As I moved on, I was arrested by hearing Hermione pronounce my name, and I turned my head toward her:
               "I tell you, Mona is your star. Mona, I was just telling Mr. Conway how admirably you suit each other."
               Mr. Sterne was standing disengaged near her—indeed, he had seemed to be hovering near Hermione nearly all night.
               "Hermione," I exclaimed, "You astonish me!"
               James Conway appeared always so spellbound in her presence that he seemed entirely destitute of tact and self-command; and I was left to battle with my fate and extricate myself from the singular, invisible yet inexorable net of wires which I felt was drawing so unerringly around me, with what little address I possessed.
               "Mr. Sterne," she coolly accosted him, before I could recover from my surprise, "do you not agree with me? I was just telling my young relatives if ever there was a match made in heaven it is theirs."
               The audacity of this woman was sublime.
               Mr. Sterne did not make any remark, but he gazed upon Hermione's face as if he would read her very soul.
               "You cannot deny, at any rate, Mona, that I have prophesied it to you a thousand times. The verification of it depends entirely upon you. But it is not strange that I believe in my own prophecies, whether they have 'the eternal years of God' or not!"
               Mr. Sterne turned away.
               She laughed musically, carelessly, mockingly.
               Yet she must have known the irretrievable mischief she was perpetrating. But how could I fathom her motives? I had never been able to do so in my life.
               "Miss Hermione," spoke Mr. Conway at last, "you surely must be jesting: you, you, surely must know where my affections lie."
               "She does know," I cried; "and, Hermione, you are not
                   acting truthfully. Mr. Conway will acquit me of any false dealing between you."
               "Mr. Conway," she said, softly, with that wonderful thrill in her voice, "I thought it was Mona that you loved."
               "Then," said I, brusquely departing, "he may now inform you himself who it is."
               I left them, that unaccountable white glow quivering round her mouth, as it had during that whole James Conway was concerned—as it had during that whole conversation, calm and collected as had been her demeanor.
               Had I not felt so soul-wearied, I would have trembled for the result of that explanation I saw fated to ensue between them; for Hubert was just then lariated by Miss Britt to the piano, while James Conway was inhaling the fragrance of his tropical magnolia.
               "But what was Hecuba to me or I to Hecuba?"
               I seated myself on a sofa, glad to find a vacant post near old Mrs. Burns, and take refuge from my troubles in her deafness.
               Just before the festivities closed, I saw James Conway in earnest consultation with Mr. Sterne, evidently on some serious subject. Mr. Conway was facing me, and as soon as he caught a glimpse of my locality, his face brightened and he sprang forward, taking hold of my hand.
               "Good news!" he whispered in my ear. "I'll be over to-morrow to tell you all about it; all right—no more trouble."
               This familiar action was the mere result of our connection by marriage. he had never had a sister, and regarding me as Mabel's sister, although he seldom was prompted to such exhibitions, being now filled with powerful emotions, he was unconscious of it himself, and ignorant of what construction might be placed upon it by others.
               Doubtless Mr. Sterne had observed it with that cold, impassive passive attitude which had marked his demeanor during the whole evening; but when Mr. Conway withdrew from my side, Mr. Sterne was nowhere visible. The company were now dispersing. The Misses Marigne would not accept Hermione's invitation to spend the night; their trunks were at the tavern, and they must return.
               They had stopped at Callamura frequently before, spending several weeks, and were the most intimate of Hermione's friends. They were now returning from Marshall, Texas, on their way home, after a lengthened absence, under the convoy of an uncle, and anxious to make all expedition.
               They were leaving, Hermione accompanying them to the front of the colonnade.
               I had also followed some friends to bid them adieu, standing on the side nearest the house.
               I heard a deep-toned voice, thrilling through me like a haunted sea-shell,
               "God bless you, Mona!"
               I knew the dear source, but I could see no one, my eyes were so blinded by the light coming from the chandeliers.
               I leaned back on the stone columns, as lifeless and cold as they.
               I crept back to my room when the gay revelers were gone, my brain in a whirl and my heart in a storm.
               Only on thing was clear. James Conway knew the cause of this terrible misunderstanding. Mr. Sterne had told him—he would be here to-morrow, and, oh, sweet hope! "it was all right," there would be "no more trouble." What joy a few simple words of English may communicate!
               I do not think it struck me as at all singular that after hi conversation with James, Mr. Sterne did not himself seek me; but never having seen them at all intimate before, I imagined I must have been the subject of so serious a conversation which Mr. Conway's sympathy for me had induced him to seek.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               WHEN I awoke the following morning from the few broken hours of rest my excited brain had allowed me, I saw a string of carriages drawn up at the gateway.
               It was late; the dew had dried from the grass, and Hermione's mocking-birds were trilling through the soft, spring-like summer-like.
               As soon as I could dress I hurried out into the bustling crowd of servants, who were carrying forth bandboxes and trunks and carpet-bags, necessary for the ladies' departure.
               Before this the provident forethought of Southern ladies was impelling them to the purchase of supplies of domestics, coffee, medicines, and so forth, apprehending the terrible blockade which was threatening to hem us in like a Chinese wall from intercourse with the outward world.
               Hermione had ere now ransacked the limited shops of Pineville, and I was not very much surprised to learn that she intended accompanying her friends home, for the purpose of increasing her stock of dry goods.
               Two of the carriages at the gate were theirs; they were already in the house.
               I met M'lle de Boisseau in the passage, holding in her hand a note, which she was reading;
               "Good-morning, Miss Mona. Only a note from Mr. Sterne to Miss Hermione. What a beautiful thing love is! I hope you have rested well. So little true affection in this hard old world now-a-days!"
               She had on her bonnet.
               "Where are you going, M'lle de Boisseau?"
               I saw the inside of the note, which she carelessly fluttered before me. I was too determined to conceal my suffering from her gloating vision to throw more than a contemptuous glance upon it. It was sufficient, however, to confirm her statement. It was written in his well-known chirography.
               "Only on a little jaunt to H——. Miss Hermione wishes some new dresses. We are all ready. How late you slept! Good-bye, Miss Mona."
               I shook hands with her.
               Hermione caught sight of me from the colonnade, where she stood chatting away with her gay friends, the Misses Marigne, and their handsome Creole attendants.
               She threw me a careless adieu.
               "Good-bye, Mona."
               And her voice went thrilling through the saloon, up the spiral steps of Callamura, waking up the deep echoes that slumbered there, while the mocking-birds rolled back their triumphant medleys.
               "Good-bye, Hermione."
               She looked so marble-like and pure in her blue hat and feathers, her close-fitting brown habit revealing all the womanly grace and perfection of her figure, that my eye, gifted by Nature with a sculptor's appreciation of the lines of beauty, lingered lovingly on the bright realization there.
               The oppressive deliciousness of her favorite perfume haunted the atmosphere, so that to this day I never can inhale the fragrance of the flower, nor view its waxen petal gleaming upon the handsomest boughs of the Southern forests, without recalling the memory of Hermione.
               With all her faults, she was Hubert's love. With cousinly freedom he was playing there with her earrings, doubtless pouring in her car some of his gay, passionate adorations.
               I sprang forward to kiss her. I forgot for the moment all the sorrow her waywardness had caused me.
               "Wait, wait a moment, Hermione!" I cried—"good-bye."
               "Don't hasten up matters with Mr. Conway before I return," she launched at me, gayly audacious in her parting raillery.
               She threw up into hubert's bending face one of her bright-beaming, saucy looks, as if she invited him to share her innocent amusement at my expense, and dashed down the steps, leading off her friends, leaving me standing in the door, with my unshed kiss frozen on my lips.
               "It's an ill wind that blows nobody good," growled old Mrs. Burns at my side. "Birds of a feather will flock together. There they go, a parcel of harum-scarums."
               I did not follow them to the gate, possibly because that party of demi-French individuals would sometimes burst out into a strain of Gallican Volubility, and as I was not as fluent in that language as even Hubert, it had the effect of rendering me awkward. I stood with Mrs. Burns watching their departure.
               They were quite a crowd, standing now without the arched gateway, their gay tone of laughter and merry jests disturbing the primæval majesty of Callamura's ancient oaks and magnolias.
               Miss Marigne, her sister and her uncle, and the two Creole Young gentlemen, Hermione and her shadow, M'lle de Boisseau, Hubert's glossy curls waving around his cousin; and, added someway to the departing crusaders, mounted on an impatient, pawing steed, his proud head defiantly cut on the clear background of the sky, I beheld distinctly—Mr. Sterne!
               There was a tight cord drawing around my heart. Life, motion, thought seemed struck with an iron spear, but vision remained helplessly fascinated to its death-doom.
               I watched them drive off, Mr. Sterne and one of the Creole caveliers on horseback riding behind uncle's handsome silver-mounted carriage, through the windows of which I could see hermione's blue plumes waving on the soft morning breeze.
               Far down the lane I watched them, till they melted from my view, shut in by the converging perspective lines of the tall Lombardy poplars, that rose like eloquent ministers to heaven, and preached in their symmetric perpendicularity of the uprightness of Truth.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               STUNNED, shocked by what I had witnessed, I rushed into the parlor, throwing myself upon the sofa, burying my aching brow in my hands.
               My anguish was maddening. To behold him gliding off a willing captive in her train, just after, too, all the delusive hopes I had entertained of hearing a satisfactory solution of his conduct through Mr. Conway!
               It was a most cruel blow, but a gay musical voice caroling the immortal measure of Dixie broke upon my grief.
               Hubert's bold, fearless step rung upon the colonnade, and, like a planet bearing its own life-giving atmosphere through space, he beamed upon my benighted chaos.
               Snatching me in his arms, without observing my distress, he whirled me around in the exuberance of his joy.
               He threw me back on the sofa.
               "Mona, I am too happy. To have won so magnificent cent a boon from Heaven! I dreaded mentioning it to you and Mabel, knowing the prejudices we have always entertained to marriage between cousins; but I hope our happiness will have its weight."
               I kissed his bright brow, and assured him that while I thought continual marriages between relations horribly criminal, yet there were occasional instances where they were admissible; and in this I though Mabel would sincerely sympathize.
               "Indeed, Hubert," I concluded, "nothing could please us all more than to witness your bridal with Hermoine."
               "I marry her or I die!" he cried with wild enthusiasm. "It is my first love, Mona. I knew not before the wonderful strength of my own passionate nature."
               I smiled, remembering his admiration of Adaline.
               "Do not speak of Adaline," he interrupted. "I was a boy then, and, boy-like, I was flattered by her soft blushes and sweet sayings; but Hermione, Hermione, I idolize! I am now a man, and I give her the deep, earnest devotion of my matured manhood. I hardly think I ever loved anything before. You, Mona, some."
               There flashed a faint resemblance to his cousin through the half-mocking, jesting, yet affectionate manner in which he said this, stroking down the dark masses of my hair.
               He was so confident and triumphant in his anticipations of approaching happiness will have its weight."
               I kissed his bright brow, and assured him that while I thought continual marriages between relations horribly criminal, yet there were occasional instances where they were admissible; and in this I thought Mabel would sincerly sympathize.
               "Indeed, Hubert," I concluded, "nothing could please us all more than to witness your bridal with Hermione."
               "I marry her or I die!" he cried with wild enthusiasm. "It is my first love, Mona. I knew not before the wonderful strength of my own passionate nature."
               I smiled, remembering his admiration of Adaline.
               "Do not speak of Adaline," he interrupted. "I was a boy then, and, boy-like, I was flattered by her soft blushes and sweet saying; but Hermione, Hermione, I idolize! I am now a man, and I give her the deep, earnest devotion of my matured manhood. I hardly think I ever loved anything before. You, Mona, some."
               There flashed a faint resemblance to his cousin through the half-mocking, jesting, yet affectionate manner in which he said this, stroking down the dark masses of my hair.
               He was so confident and triumphant in his anticipations of approaching happiness that insensibly I caught the bright infection and forgot my own sorrows, unknown and impalpable in their source as they were.
               Besides, too, no thought of Mr. Sterne as a rival crossed his conception; and were there any just ground for that assumption, love, such love as his, would have quickly taken the alarm.
               I had doubtless magnified appearances, giving heed too easily to M'lle de Boisseau's well-known gossiping fictions; and as James Conway must certainly possess the clue to the mystery overhanging our own unhappy misunderstanding, my mind became more tranquil.
               "She has now gone to H——," pursued Hubert, "to purchase her bridal trousseau."
               "Why did you not accompany her? and why did Mr. Sterne go?" I ventured to inquire.
               "Heaven knows I would like to have done so," he replied, fervently, "for I do not see how I am to manage to exist without her; but her sweet modesty prevented. She said it would doubtless create remarks for the groom to accompany the bride-elect for the purpose of purchasing the bridal wardrobe. It was that consideration alone which made her deny me. She would have preferred my going."
               "So it would," I assented. "It is some way opposed to our conventionalities—very absurdly too, I think. But Mr. Sterne—what carried him?" I timidly persisted.
               "he had some business in H——, trying to get his Northern interests protected, I dare say; and as they would have had no escort for their return—the times are too excited for them to travel alone—it was a fortunate thing that he was going, otherwise they would have had to return unprotected."
               what a simpleton I had been! Why had I not obeyed my natural impulses, and sprung forward to his side with sweet inquiries of his estrangement.
               I was sure now I had met the return of love in his looks as I stood at the parlor entrance with James Conway.
               Why had I not met him with my usual tribute of flowers? Instead of that, he had seen me bestow them upon another.
               It seemed to me now that the coldness, the haughtiness of his emotionless attitudes towards me possessed something of the mournful desolation of a wounded pride—of a stricken, suffering spirit.
               
               Yet he had heard me complimenting the gallant sons of South Carólina through Mr. Britt, and doubtless inferred my admiration for the State, as derived form my devotion of James Conway.
               O heedless pride of passionate youth! how often in life we have to look back and mourn over thy reckless iconoclasts!
               But Hubert's impetuous happiness whirled me onward in its bright, exulting torrent.
               His gorgeous, Nile-like soul, independent of minor tributaries, flowing only in one mighty channel, revivified every surrounding shore with its sparkling inundations.
               I listened, entering with a sister's genuine sympathy into all his gay prefigurations of his approaching happiness. I found that, as I had expected, he had intimated his prospects to the good old philosopher of Callamura's library, and met with every encouragement there to prosecute his plans unfearingly. Nothing could so completely have crowned the desires of the old man's heart. Out of the immense stores of his wealth he had settled and handsome marriage portion on Mabel, who was without a patrimony. He has willed Hubert his river-lands, contingent upon his relinquishing to me his share in Brightvale, which of course it was his interest to do; and Callamura, the old family seat erected by the emigre marquis, was Hermione's, the diamond-crowned child of his heart.
               It had doubtless cost the old man a struggle to bestow upon a left-handed scion of the house the old feudal mansion, hallowed by memories of a race of princely chivalry and unsullied blood; but by this arrangement all difficulties would be obviated. Hubert was the only living male descendant, in a direct line, from the gallant but unfortunate marquis.
               Thus all the landed estates of our uncle would pass into the hands of his idolized boy, the sole representative of a proud and distinguished house, held by him for the benefit of the daughter of his only love, the dream of his youth.
               I listened to Hubert's gay pictures of his nuptials drawn by his eager imagination, selections of the bridesmaids and gentleman attendants; and two weeks was to witness it all. I entered into his joyousness with renewed cheerfulness, for then, if not before, I would meet Mr. Sterne, with no enchanting Hermione for a rival. She would be my sister.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               AS Hubert had said, how we were to pass the time until the return of the absentees it was difficult to imagine at least for me.
               The bugle call was sounding, summoning every true Southron to the breach. They had all for which a people ever fought to animate them, and love, however absorbing, could be at best but an interlude between war-songs.
               Hubert had been elected captain of the Creole Guards, and would rush from the bridal to the battle-field.
               He might find in the stirring roll of the drum and the duties of the drill, which imperatively demanded his presence in Pineville, some food for thought, some occupation for the heavy moments pressing upon us.
               Even now the glories of Manasses were impending, and the earnest flush of revolution mantled every face you met.
               James Conway did not fulfill his promise of calling over to Callamura. He too was plunged in that devouring whirlwind of excitment—engaged in some distant precinct in organizing the fourth company our little parish had yielded from her limited quota of men.
               In a half existence of suspense, agonized between fear and hope, I managed of pass five days of their absence.
               Hope, however, predominated; and I twined roses and japonicas in my hair, whose wealth of midnight Mr. Sterne had so often enthusiastically admired, and I resolved, on meeting with him, to bound up with all my old freedom of gladness.
               I had not confided anything to Hubert, for really I had little as yet to confide save an unhappy love, which a maiden always shrinks from exposing.
               Hubert was looking for Hermione's return likewise. He had gone into the village, doubtless ridden a mile or two beyond, to anticipate her arrival with the wings of his expectancy.
               I stood gazing anxiously from the arched gateway. I wandered down the poplar-flanked avenue, deceived by many a cloud of dust in the distance, raised by straying cattle or some passing horseman.
               But no return of the cherished lingerers gratified my straining vision.
               I tore the harmless japonica leaves and rosebuds from my hair and trampled them under my foot.
               "Perish there in the dust!" I cried, "like all the bright hopes I have ever nurtured."
               I was querulous, nervous in my disappointment.
               I sought the house, for the level rays of the setting sun were kindling their crimson glories on the snowy battlements of Callamura.
               As I sauntered up the broad pavement it struck me that no vesper melodies were gushing on the air from hermione's mocking-birds.
               Conscious-stricken at my own dereliction in having left them to the tender mercies of Sarah and Dinah (the latter Hermione's especial maid), I rushed through the saloon, up the broad staircase into Hermione's room, where they hung suspended form the front window.
               Alas! Hermione's mocking-birds were dead!
               I turned away grieved at their fate, but the thought that their careless mistress was more responsible than I, consoled me.
               Had she requested my attention, I would have bestowed it. I had usually attended to them in her absences, without any request on her part. But now my heart had been so full of sorrow and suspense I had failed to remember them.
               As I wandered through those deserted rooms, some of the old visionary terrors of my youth came pressing back upon my spirits.
               The rooms looked as if they had never had occupants.
               Only a few of Hermione's least serviceable dresses were hanging in her wardrobe. Bits of paper, broken brushes and combs, scraps of pasteboard boxes and whalebone were piled on the hearth.
               The lamp was still burning on her mantelpiece, a faint flicker of the exhausted oil, a few of her books. French pamphlets of romance were piled in one corner of the room, a half jar of pomade on the marble-slabbed bureau emitted the sensuous fragrance of magnolias; but M'lle de Boisseau's apartment was a perfect desolation. Not a pin, not a scrap of any kind, indicated that it had ever been inhabited.
               Struck with a deepening spirit-gloom, I descended the steps. Hubert had arrived, like myself chafing at the long delay of his heart's idol.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               THE following morning Hubert, restless in his disappointment, was ready for Pineville again.
               "Did you know, uncle,' he said, drawing on his gloves "that there is a rumor about town of some harm happening to Aleck Jerkins? His family are very uneasy about him."
               "No one knows what to think,' Hubert replied. "He has been missing for several days. I think myself he is only hiding to escape the army, and will turn up safe and sound somewhere."
               "In a large warehouse or china store, Hubert," I interrupted. "I always suspected he was constructed of glass."
               "I did not expect that stroke of fun from you, Mona; but he certainly has for some time resembled a glazed jug of Louisiana prunes."
               He left, and I drew up to uncle where he was bending over some charts of heads, Moncrieffe's, Albert Durer's, Cæsar Borgia's, Addison's conspicuous among them.
               "Here, Mona," he said, enthusiastically, singling our the face of Moncrieffe, "you see undeniable proofs of the accomplished gentleman, the man of letters and refined taste. Observe that clearly-cut eye, the delicacy of the nose, the pliability of the mouth! In this cut of Albert Durer you perceive fortitude, penetration, unconquerable perseverance and extraordinary inventive genius; but in these noses,' pointing to those of Addison and Cæsar Borgia, "you observe undeniably the prodigality of heaven. See how broadbacked backed they are. None but the most remarkable men possess such noses, and many superior men are found without them. Titian's nose was as broad-bridged, perhaps. Such noses are a more valuable possession than the heritage of empires—empires!"
               I must confess I was not always very apt in divining all these nice distinctions of facial angles and lines, which seemed to strike uncle at a glance, but he was never so happy as when he found a sympathizing listener to his scientific theories, and I attended very respectfully while he hashed up the faces of Perrault and Shakespeare and Boerhaave and several other unconscious worthies for my benefit.
               We were interrupted by the entrance of Armstead with the mail-matter, which he laid upon the table and disappeared.
               Hubert was generally the old man's amanuensis, attending to the calculation of his accounts, assisted by old Mr. Braham, the universal lawyer and referee of Pineville; but I frequently officiated myself, his eyes becoming too dim to read or write without spectacles, and even then he preferred to use younger optics.
               There were two letters on the post-marked H——, one for him and one for myself.
               I broke them open.
               The one addressed to him was from Hermione, but in the handwriting of her private secretary, M'llle de Boisseau.
               These are the words, indelibly impressed upon my memory:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              DEAR UNCLE:
                           
                           "When you read this, my fate will have been decided. Your invincible repugnance to the Federals has led me to the course I have pursed. I would have preferred to have been married at Callamura, but you have frequently informed me that 'blood of yours should blend with a Yankee's.'
                           "I have every prospect of happiness, wealth and a home in a land of security. Give my love to Mabel and Mona. Tell Hubert. Adieu, and with many kind regards for yourself,
                           
                              "I remain
                              "Your affectionate niece,
                              HERMIONE MORANT."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The old man listened attentively, but did not seem to take in the idea at once.
               Eagerly I broke open my own document, where the serpent-like lines seemed to hiss at me as my burning senses comprehended them.
               Thus it ran:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              DEAR MISS MONA:
                           
                           "Miss Hermione is just married. What a brilliant match she has made! We leave immediately for the North, fearing the lines of communication may close. How much she and Mr. Sterne will enjoy this bridal tour together!
                           "Mr. Sterne has a very fine property in the north. He will now be able to save it from confiscation. When you and Mr. Conway marry, I suppose you will come up and visit us all some of these days. What a strange old world it is! Who would have thought of such a thing? Remember me kindly to everybody. I shall never forget Pineville and Callamura.
                           
                              "Yours truly,
                              F. DE BOISSEAU.
                           
                        
                        
                           "P. S. I left some arsenic in my room; it might cause trouble. It is in the armoir drawer.
                           "This is one secret kept from Pineville. I knew it all the time, and can imagine their astonishment, particularly Miss Mary Ballard's!"
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Great heavens!" I cried dropping the letters and seizing uncle by the arm to rouse his truant attention. He was poring again over his maps of the human physiognomy and cranium. "Uncle, uncle," I cried, "Hermione is married to Mr. Sterne!"
               "What? where?" said the bewildered old man, in a deep maze.
               "Fled from Callamura—gone North!"
               "Gone?" he echoed. "I thought she would marry Hubert?"
               "She has fled," I cried; "she has deceived Hubert—she has deceived us all. Oh God!"
               I sank down in my misery.
               "False daughter of a false dame," said the old man, solemnly, rising as the whole truth flashed upon him. "May God forgive them both! I loved her, I loved her, beneath me as she was. I encircled her with jewels, and I loaded her with wealth. I begirt her with adoration, and before I could sanctify the tie between us, she basely deserted me for a Jew-peddler! I could almost curse her daughter, although my own. Why did she leave?" he added. "She never even asked my consent."
               "She feared you would not permit her marriage with a Yankee, so she says."
               "I hardly call Sterne a Yankee," said the old man. Some memory came now dawning on him: "But I think he did ask me for her."
               "When, oh when, uncle?"
               "It was several days ago," he replied, while my heart sank at this revelation of double perfidy.
               
               What did he say?" I strove to rouse the old man's flagging interest. "Oh tell me, uncle!"
               "He said, I think," his eyebrow quivering with the loss of mental power, "that—he wished—to marry my niece—my niece. I think that is what he said."
               "What did you tell him? Oh, uncle, remember!"
               But the gleam of memory was gone.
               It was his remarkable peculiarity that when once he had lost a fact, nothing could restore it, and it was sometimes painful to watch him striving after the subtle refugee.
               Mr. Sterne must have requested the hand of hermione on the evening of the party, when he drove out from town in the buggy a short way with uncle. It was that unfortunate occasion when the disappearance of his garment had so disturbed the old man's equanimity and confused his memory that I knew it was hopeless ever to expect from him now a clear account of any occurrence connected therewith.
               What I suffered as I broke from the library, rushing into the free air to compose my thoughts for my meeting with Hubert, this pen would vainly attempt to portray.
               What I endured—heaven knows it was enough; but my love was a wretched abortion, which, having never met the clear light of day, had perished unnoted and unknown; while Hubert's was in the full flush of a vigorous being redolent with promise and bloom.
               How could I approach that matchless boy, guiding the proud steeds of the sun, swathed in the glow of his own brilliant happiness—how could I approach him, bearing in my hands the hideous tidings of his death-warrant?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               HUBERT did not return to dinner, waiting in the town doubtless for the returning wheels to bring never-more his departed idol.
               I could eat nothing myself, and sat droning over the heavy calamity which had so suddenly befallen us, in one of the most secluded arbors of the back shrubbery, leaning against one of its pillars in a leaden, pulseless apathy. I could see the arched gateway, and I caught sight of the heaven-sent Mabel, shedding abroad from her peaceful countenance the undoubted divineness of her seraphic soul.
               I met her at the door. I clasped her in my arms, crying in my despair, "Oh, Mabel! ruin, ruin upon us all! Read these. Perfidious Hermione! Hubert loved her!"
               They were soon measured by her sympathizing eyes.
               "We must look to God, Mona, in such sorrows as this," fell her sweet tender voice, like the dew of Hermon, upon my bruised spirit.
               "Let us kneel down and pray," she whispered.
               The gentle pity was soothing to my senses only. It is not penetrate into my heart, all dark and stunned from the concussion as it was.
               "How shall I tell Hubert, Mabel? Oh, how shall we tell him?"
               One of his recent speeches to Hermione, fluent and imaginative, came to my memory.
               She was standing by the mantel, leaning on its Parian marble slab, less spotless and dazzling in its snowy contour than she.
               "Thou fair white being," he had murmured, "thou art Callamura—my Callamura. it is you who lends light to its alabastrian walls, and irradiate its stately corridors with the brighter glow of human beauty. It would be no Callamura without thee!"
               She had whispered back,
               "But both are yours now."
               He had frequently called her "Callamura" in his joyous, flashing way, and his "Cousin Calla."
               As I rehearsed these things to Mabel she too seemed troubled, but her calm reliance on a superior Power was not to be shaken:
               "God's ways are not our ways, Mona. All these things are done in wisdom; some good lies beyond. You may live to look back with thankfulness on these trials, bitter as they may seem to you now. Only look to Him."
               I laid my hand on her shoulder, as I had done at Brightvale when she came, like an angel, ministering to my sorrows there.
               "I can bear my grief, Mabel—I have been basely, most basely deserted—but oh Hubert's, Hubert's!"
               He came in, clad in his becoming Confederate uniform, looking soldierly and dashing, his handsome face glowing with expectation.
               Having been summoned from Pineville on some business connected with his company, it had been some hours since he left it.
               He thought to find Hermione returned.
               Armstead entered from another door in the rear.
               "Simon has just got back with the carriage," he announced.
               The poor negro, thoroughly aware of the grief he came to disseminate, hesitated before he hurled it upon us.
               "Where is Miss Hermione?" Hubert quickly asked.
               "She didn't come.'
               "What?" flashed the boy. "What's the matter?"
               "Simon says," slowly enunciated the old man, halting between every word—"Simon—Miss Hermione—is—married!"
               "Hang Simon!" thundered Hubert with a fearful oath, the veins of his neck swelling with choler. "Hang Simon! He is a scoundrel and a liar!"
               "I thought probable," said Armstead, "there might be some mistake bouten it—some mistake; but he say: M'lle de Boisou told him so—that she was married to—Mr. Sterne—and gone North!"
               "Hubert," pleaded Mabel, watching with alarm the furious rage that shook his form, communicating such nervousness to his lips that it was impossible for him to speak. "Be calm, Hubert. See here; don't be so excited."
               "They've gone off on a boat," concluded Armstead, bowing respectfully and withdrawing from a scene it grieved him to witness.
               He had chosen to announce it himself, lest less respectful eyes should intrude on the sacredness of sorrow.
               "It is an infernal lie!" burst forth Hubert at last.
               "No, Hubert, it is too true," I said. "Read the letters."
               "Hubert,' said Mabel so sweetly, "my dear cousin, remember that our God sends all these things. Do not rebel against his ordinations; control yourself, dear Hubert."
               But Hubert was devouring the letters, where blazed in characters of fire the blasting confirmation of his fat.
               "God curse them!" he cried, crushing them between his hands and jerking them into fragments. "God curse them for ever and ever! She was a wretched Callamura."
               The remembrance of his latest fancy of endearment came flashing upon his memory, embittering his agony.
               "A marble mausoleum—a whited sepulchre full of rottenness and death! God blast them!"
               
               The wild glare of his eyes frightened me: I twined my arms around him.
               "My dear brother, we are both deserted, betrayed, wretched. Let kneel to God any pray for his peace."
               "Pray?" he cried, bursting from me. "Let me alone!" and he dashed up the steps to his own apartment.
               "There is something like insanity in such mad passion," said Mabel. "God be merciful!"
               Her eyes were upturned, I knew, in fervent prayer.
               "Run, Mabel; follow him, for God's sake!" I cried in the anguish of apprehension. I was too paralyzed by my sudden terror to move.
               She fled wildly up the steps.
               Just then a clear pistol-shot rang startlingly through the house, thrilling through my brain for ever and for ever, stern and inexorable as the voice of Pluto.
               Thou God of the orphan!
               On my brother's floor there was a spot of blood, which tradition whispered had poured from the veins of the ill-starred Marquis Morant, the founder of Callamura, the victim of his own violence!
               It was this half-forgotten story which had flashed through my brain and winged my terrors with the plumage of prophecy.
               I sat there while the Plutonian echoes reverberated through the house.
               I heard wild screams; I heard shuffling feet hurrying along the echoing corridors. I saw the Conways; I saw them bearing a body; I saw Hubert's auburn locks drenched in the rich thought-tide of his own brain—the terrible picture Mr. Sterne had once conjured up to my horrified view; and he lay there a victim of my faithless lover!
               I saw no more:
               I seemed to go plunging down interminable shafts of chaos, barred by dim shelves of light, on which my weary feet would alight, only to fall still deeper down the abyss—constantly beguiled by the hope of rest on some spectral like ledge of light, yet constantly plunging still deeper down.
               Again, I saw fair fields of flowers gleaming out in the far distance. There were tall cedars rising round a proud white monument; and a fair white angel, like my sister Edith, hovering in the beauty of childhood around a green little grave. There was a boy with sunny curls like Hubert's trundling a hoop beside me.
               Then the rushing roar of many waters kept a continual thud upon my ears. Occasionally strange little boats rode over the waves. A thousand peering faces bent over their queer bows, seeming to triumph wildly over my helplessness as I drifted down the merciless surge.
               My mother came smiling around me. I caught the blue heaven of her eyes once more; she guided my teacher feet again along the paths of learning. I heard her love-songs as she drew me to her in the fair moonlit evenings, and I lisped out the rhyming prayer of childhood.
               A completely new and strange existence was mapping my being.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               HOW long I lay in this dreamy state of existence I could not tell. I was conscious sometimes of forms gliding around me: I would strive to recognize them, but a dim blur would baffle my scrutiny of their features.
               I occasionally caught sight of a white muslin cap bending over. One day I plainly beheld the features under it.
               
               They were black, and I knew then I was back at Brightvale, for old Aunt Mima was learning on my bed-post knitting.
               I strove to call her—to aske for my mother—but, I had no speech.
               Very far off, I thought, I heard a faint voice whisper, "Do not speak, Mona."
               And I closed my eyes and fell asleep.
               When I awoke I looked round, examining every object in the room. There were my own chintz curtains, my low bureau with its slab of Italian marble and gilt candelabras, my wardrobe and cane rocker.
               I was surely at Callamura. But there was old Aunt Mima, looking sorrowfully at me, and two angel-like beings I recognized as Adaline and Mabel.
               Mabel bent over me.
               "Do not speak one word, Mona. You are very ill. Lie still and trust in God."
               She sat by me holding some needlework in her hand, and I felt a little child glad to obey its mother.
               But as memory came gradually back, I felt that I must speak. After a while the syllables came to my lips; I looked pleadingly at Mabel, and with a mighty effort they fell—
               "Hubert?"
               "Mona," said Mabel, "you must not speak. Your life hangs by a thread. Trust all things to the goodness of God. He is hovering round you, folding you under the shadow of His mighty wings."
               I knew he was dead. She would have told me had he lived. His fate was all I cared to know, and I sank gladly back into that silence she commanded.
               I sought that God she adored and found him: he was not very far off. I remembered that my mother had led me of yore along those sweet paths, but my straying feet had wandered into strange fields.
               Mbel's sweet lessons of wisdom fell now upon an humbled and contrite spirit, and many more divine counsels, that I had gained from the hand of my betrayer, came back to memory, bearing now their precious fruit.
               I had made unto myself strange gods; I had crowned them with the passionate adoration of my nature, and God had reft me of my idols.
               I rose from my bed humbled, enfeebled, yet I drank without a murmur the bitter cup of every-day life. I was a stray waif of humanity struggling through sin and sorrow back to its divine origin.
               Never once the names of the lost crossed my lips. They were all buried—shrouded away in the sanctity of the grave.
               Old Aunt Mima had heard that her Miss Edith's darling, the last of her babies left, was ill. She had heard of her proud boy's awful death, and left Brightvale to come and "stand by Miss Edith's flesh and blood to the last."
               Often I threw my arms round her wrinkled old neck and kissed her in the desolate winter of my spirit.
               She was all that was left me of Brightvale—a humble memento of a ruined Past.
               But many change had occurred during my illness.
               Our uncle looked older, more crushed in spirit. He would sit moaning for hours, but never the name of the traitress of his household, nor that of her blooming victim, passed his lips.
               Mabel now lived with us. A tender infant was smiling in her room. She called it Mona. I realize now all her devotion to me. It had come wailing to life on that dreadful evening, yet, pale and delicate as she looked, her intense tense anxiety for me had brought her to my side and own her from her first-born.
               But on that score I was under a weight of obligation to all Pineville. The Hemmingways, Miss Mary Ballard—even Mrs. Skillem had absented herself from her postal duties to render me that nursing without which Dr. Sims had informed them I could not recover.
               Philip and James Conway were both gone, blent with the proud chivalry under the gallant Taylor, and everything bore the sad air of desertion and the gloom of war.
               Windows had parted with their sons, wives with their husbands, fair maidens with their brothers and their betrothed, and every breeze came laden with the brilliant tidings of victories. Thus every heart was incited to fresh sacrifice, so delusive was the foretaste of independence.
               Yet so terrible was the panic which followed the sweep of the Federal armies, so complete and sure the work of destruction, that already had Pineville been seized with apprehension, and many of her planters sought refuge in the boundless depths of Texas.
               Among them, Philip had not been slow to perceive the importance of removing his slaves from the danger of contact with armies apparently animated solely with the desire of freeing them.
               Mrs. Conway, his mother, roused by the excitement of travel and the times, had laid aside her valetudinarianism, and, accompanied by Meredith, before this had reached the State of Prairies and repose, so that Hawthorne Hill was virtually closed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               "LET us have the carriage, Mona, and ride out this evening," said Mabel. "It will do you good, your strength is so slow in coming back."
               "Yes," I replied, "let us go in to Pineville and see Adaline. I have never thanked her for all her kindness; but they were all kind to me."
               "Adaline and Dr. Turner are to be married soon," remarked Mabel. "She seems very happy. She is fortunate in her choice; Dr. Turner is a high-toned gentleman—a Christian too."
               It was fall weather, a cool invigorating breeze fanning my cheek as we drove through the open skirt of work bordering Pineville.
               It has been more than three months since I had entered the little village on the occasion of the political meeting, When Mr. Sterne had so vainly braved the wild tide of Secession, and I had first encountered in his eye the destruction of my hopes.
               How many changes had swept over my life since then! Indeed, how many changes had swept over America from Maine to Yucatan! Davis now filled the eyes of the world, soon to be rivaled in interest by the hapless Maximilian. We entered Pineville, mostly crowded on one main street, where the stranger could command her resources at a glance. She looked like a city of the dead. All the stores were closed—only a few gray-haired old men and an idle boy or so were creeping round the corners, reminding me of some city in a fairy tale where all things were suddenly converted into stone.
               As we passed the Institute I called to Simon to stop.
               
               "Let me go in, Mabel," I pleaded. "Send the carriage back after me."
               She let me have my way, and I left her in the carriage.
               Grass and weeds were growing in the yard around the blooming remontants and exotic evergreens Mr. Sterne had planted; but all the magnolias had withered and were broken down by the cattle; yet he had borne away with him the fairest magnolia of Callamura.
               Within, dust a piled on the benches and on Mr. Sterne's rostrum, where I had so long laid my daily tribute of flowers. A thick coating of the velvet sediment had settled on the grand outlines of the eloquent Roman, yellowing the white marble bust that uncle had presented his future son-in-law.
               I sat down in his chair; I leaned my head upon his desk, while tears, big tears, the first I had shed, rolled sorrowfully down my cheeks.
               What lessons of virtue and wisdom had I not gathered from his musical lips! All that I was I owed to him. It was like rendering up the brightest and best part of my being; but it was all over now—he was another's!
               Still, however, I had the sweet memory of my preceptor, and I kissed reverently his desk, where so often his arm had touched my flowers. I forgave him all—the tragic fate which had revived the memory of the Marquis Morant, my own desolation, his unequaled perjury. I forgave him all for the sweet recollection of what he had been before the blinding vision of Hermione's beauty had dazzled his senses and led his integrity astray.
               But if such as he fall, what hope for poor frail humanity? It was a sickening query. I could only remember that the most perfect manhood that ever trod the shores of time—excepting that spotless, faultless temple of flesh which held the divinity of Christ—the direct workmanship of the hand of God, which he himself pronounced good, had hearkened in the garden of Eden to the seducing wiles of woman.
               The carriage rolled back to the door. I blurred my tears with my fingers through the dust of his rostrum, where I had timidly stood the first day of my entrance there, endeavoring in my confusion to erase the varnish.
               I turned away, shutting the door, sealing up in that Institute the memories of the Past.
               But there was nothing, go where I would and strive as I Might, which did not remind me in some oblique manner of the lost.
               I found Mabel and Adaline absorbed in discussion of Adaliene's approaching marriage with Dr. Turner. The bridal trousseau was under inspection. How vividly came back the evening when Hermione's master will had decreed it! How easily she had accomplished her purpose! But Adaline, with her happy shallowness of feeling and unsuspiciousness of disposition, had never dreamed whose hand had moulded her fate.
               She was very joyous in her prospects, showing me all her tarletans and lace rufflings, which I felt called on to admire very freely.
               Dr. Turner was a man of fine appearance, a dark, thoughtful-looking person. He had never admired any one but Adaline, watching always around her ever since she had been a little girl. His family was a good one and his fortune ample. He was now a surgeon in the Acadian regiment, but expecting to return soon on a furlough to consummate their happiness.
               Dr. Sims came in the room where we were seated. He had been very kind to us all during my illness. I knew he had stayed at Callamura for two weeks, abandoning all other professional duties, while I lay hovering between life and death, and Mabel lying with her little Mona in her arms.
               
               The Eclectic practice had had full sweep, for our old uncle had shut himself up in his library, only stealing out sometimes to throw himself, moaning, on a fresh earthen mound back of the high-walled garden.
               Armstead had followed him like a shadow, walking behind him into the library when he returned, mutely sharing his grief.
               I greeted the doctor warmly; he had cheerful, sanguine manners.
               He was delighted to see me out.
               "Well, Miss Mona, I see you need more iron—you must continue that preparation of carbonate. You have a wiry constitution; I had no idea you would baffle disease to successfully. But country girls have the best chance. If Adaline would ride more on horseback, and take the long walks you have been accustomed to she would not have such a delicate look."
               We found the doctor contemplating a speedy removal to some more secure locality. The roar of the cannon too frequently broke upon the seclusion of Pineville, from the memorable heights of Vicksburg on the north and the Mississippi flats on the south.
               Few had confidence in the defences of New Orleans, where the untried genius of Lovell was circumvented by the immense preparations of the enemy.
               As we drove back to Callamura, such a loving November evening settled on the landscape that Mabel moralized on the beauty of Nature:
               "Does it not seem strange that war, Mona, can be devastating this lovely land—the land for whose liberties our forefathers fought? We have had none of its horrors yet—few from Pineville have fallen in battle; but, peaceful as this fair landscape looks, it may be all ravaged and out hearts torn with grief before the conflict closes."
               "Yes, yes," I answered.
               "The hymn of Bishop Heber on Ceylon is far more applicable to us now," she mused: 
                     
                        "'Every prospect pleases,
                        And only man is vile.'
                     
                   Yet we have far less excuse than the savage heathen. We profess to be Christian people."
               "The Christian nations," I replied, "have deluged the world with far more crime and bloodshed than it has ever been in the power of barbarians to accomplish. Every war brings to a higher state of perfection some murderous implement of destruction and warfare, until the killing of mankind has become one of the fine arts, one of the intricate sciences. They bring to their butchery all the enlightenment and civilization Christianity has bestowed. Witness the wonderful inventions our struggle has called forth—our own iron-clad Merrimac, the triumph of naval warfare."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               THUS the days wore along, the fall deepening into one of the mild winters that visited our sunny regions.
               Uncle dwelt in the laud of the shadowy dead, having their craniums and faces always before him; only the arrival of the occasional papers which sometimes found their way from Baton Rouge and the city, served to rouse him, when they would divide his interest equally.
               He would pore over the maps of out defences and battles in Virginia, where McDowell and McClellan were adding lustre to the laurels of General Lee. Sometimes I would sit in the library a while, hearing him wind up all the subject with craniology, and then winding craniology back into the rebellion.
               He has likenesses of many distinguished generals of both armies, always comparing them with some hero of the past, but I forbear quoting his comments on the living.
               His abstrusities were becoming interesting to a listless mind suddenly wrenched from all its footholds, and the enthusiasm, with which he had devoted a life to the various conformations of humanity commanded my admiration.
               Botany and the discovery of all new plants prossessing any medicinal virtue were also attractive to him. Many South American plants in the conservatory, of wonderful nervine power, were the subjects of his experiments.
               "Mona," he said one day, handing a lithograph of a Northern celebrity, "there is the head of Turenne. It would not strike an ordinary observer, but there is a same coolness, the same ardent enterprise, the same wonderful sagacity."
               "Uncle," I asked, rather abruptly, "what is pathognomy?"
               "I will quote you Liechtenburg," was his reply. "Physiognomy, child, is a capability of discovering the qualities of the mind and heart from the form and qualities of the external parts of the body, particularly the countenance—not including (mind that)—not including the transitory signs of the emotions of the mind. Pathognomy is the whole semeiotica of the passions—the passions."
               "Uncle, I am afraid I do not comprehend that definition exactly."
               "Pathogonomy, child, is the study of the play of the countenance—a knowledge of the natural signs of the emotions of the mind and character."
               I did not feel very much enlightened.
               "Uncle, do you think these sciences very exact?"
               Exact?" I fear he looked at my incredulity with something like horror. "Why, child, they are among the oldest, most venerated of sciences, although running down through ancient literature almost without a name. But Herodotus mentions a remarkable fact—a remarkable fact. Even in his time the difference of skulls as relates to nations had been observed. It was easy to distinguish on battle-fields the effeminate craniums of the Medes from those of the more warlike Persians."
               "But uncle, why is it, then, that persons possessed of splendid heads are sometimes guilty of little actions? I have heard it said that criminals are sometimes found with the countenance of an angel and the head of a Hampden or an Algernon Sydney."
               "That is true," uncle replied. "There are spots on the sun, valleys in the moon, but they do not destroy the integrity or the brightness of the orbs. The crimes of such law-breakers may be accounted for by early circumstances, some unguarded point of their character, where the devouring enemy of souls crept in—crept in. Elizabeth was a splendid queen, but a paltry coquette. Shakespeare was the god of the English language, but an unlucky poacher. Louis the Fourteenth was a Christian martyr, but a glutton. Algernon Sydney himself was sold to France; likewise Russell. One must not be judged by his crimes alone: the whole tenor of his life must draw his portrait. A noble aspect certainly indicates the bounteous gifts of God—what the man may, what he ought to be. The explanation of the failure must be found somewhere else."
               Such conversations as these wore away the winter months, varied by a visit from philip, which brought joy to Mabel's pining heart.
               Philip was dreading the fall of New Orleans. The enemy was menacing it with determined outlay of men and boats. It was his wish that we should leave Pineville in that event.
               In my bright little namesake I found the surest relief from my haunting thoughts of sadness.
               She was beginning to crow and break into smiles as she became familiar with out faces, and had learned to pat together her little hands.
               Since my strength had fairly returned, I would take her in my arms and stroll down the avenue of poplars, thanking God for the bright little piece of sunshine he had cast upon my sorrowful path.
               As I sat with her in my arms one evening, resting on the stile from my walk, I spied, under the steps, an old garment piled up with leaves and débris.
               
               I pulled it out. It was uncle's missing garment, still wearable, because perfectly protected from the weather by the projecting platform. It looked very well, and was certainly not to be scorned in the present dearth of dry goods.
               I knew old Armstead would consider it a windfall. I threw it over my arm, returning to the house with the treasure.
               But Sarah was a very careless maid; she stuffed it into some hole or corner where Armstead missed the prize again, and I soon forgot it myself.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               I SOMETIMES walked into Pineville, taking Juno with me. Mabel was not very strong, and I had never know old Mrs. Burns to waddle any farther than the gateway.
               Miss Mary Ballard still kept up a languid business, having generally the earliest telegrams to disseminate from the scenes of army operations. Her brothers were all in the army—stalwart and true soldiers they made. They had been among the first to leave, and had with a few other daring Louisianians landed in Kentucky, falling in some way among that gallant crowd of spirits who contested "the dark and bloody ground," baptized so early in the struggle by the blood of that heroic boy at whose grave the poet sings songs of such unearthly sweetness. Alfred Sims had started with them. In what regiment, or how they landed there, I never heard, but the Louisiana chivalry were scattered over all the Southern States" many of them left their homes in advance of State action or organization of companies, and fell into the first ranks they found.
               Miss Jerkins and her mother were living with Miss Mary during her loneliness; Mr. Jerkins had never been heard from. Many supposed he had fallen in the lake and been drowned.
               I had called at Miss Mary's, where I heard news startling indeed. New Orleans had fallen! Consternation was painted on every face.
               Yet so sanguine is the Southern temperament that in a few hours after the accounts of this irretrievable disaster had been fully discussed, I heard the most irresistibly arguments that it could not affect the final issue of events. It was really a benefit. It would allow us to concentrate all our energies upon Vicksburg. Vicksburg was in impregnable Gibraltar. She alone would hold the Mississippi river.
               I left Miss Mary's, wandering over to Mrs. Rathburn, who was a frail, nervous woman, left now to the contemplation of unrelieved widowhood.
               I entered her neat, quiet bedroom, draped with large-flowered window curtains, and full, heavy hangings around her bed, precluding the entrance of a breath of fresh air.
               "Come in, Miss Mona; nobody ever comes to see me these times. I miss Dr. Turner so much; nobody but him ever did me any good."
               Dr. Turner, I should have mentioned, her come on his furlough, and after a private wedding had borne off Adaline some time since.
               "It seems that I never can keep a friend, Miss Mona. Sit down here."
               She was washing some lettuce for dinner, which I offered, to assist her in. While we were thus engaged she carried on her bewailings:
               "I liked never to have got over Mr. Sterne's departure, Miss Mona, I had got so used to him. Nothing ever displeased him; no matter what I had for dinner, it was all right to him; and then it was my boys, and now Dr. Turner. Oh I am completely broken up by this cruel war."
               Mr. Sterne had boarded with Mrs. Rathburn, keeping, however, his books and so-forth in a little apartment at the Institute.
               "And then Mr. Sterne never even told us god-bye. He went off so singular. They tell me he's married, too—married your cousin Hermione. To be sure, Miss Hermione was a very splendid lady, but somehow I thought it was you as he had his eye on."
               "Oh no, Mrs. Rathburn; who would want me with Hermione by? You were mistaken" I said. "What fine lettuce this is!"
               I never mentioned Mr. Sterne's name, and I hurried her off with accounts of the fall of the Crescent City, inflaming her with a narrative of the in human execution of Mumford for a crime he never committed. She was a distant relative of his, which I learned then, however, for the first time.
               I stayed to dinner. Her married daughter, Elizabeth, whom she persisted in calling "Betsy Ann," had gone out to Miss Dryweather's, with her phalanx of boys, to spend some time; so that we had a quiet day, with the exception of her reminiscences of the annoyance of those aforesaid boys, which made me fancy that I heard them romping and shouting around me all the time.
               "Oh they are a pest, Miss Mona! "To think, after I had got through with all my own children, I should be bothered with Betsy Ann's! It seems like everything always goes wrong with me."
               I consoled her with bright pictures of their father's return, and how necessary it was that we should add patience to our Christian virtues.
               "Yes, that's the way Mr. Sterne used to talk. I never shall be satisfied about his leaving the way he did. And, Miss Mona, now you are here, I wish you would help me fix up all his curious papers. I am sure you will know how. I am afraid of those piles of flowers—afraid I might ruin them. He was so kind, always paying up his board so prompt, and teaching my boys every night, that I feel like I ought to take care of his things for him. I brought them over from the Anstitute, and they are in a perfect hullaballoo."
               Doubtless Mrs. Rathburn knows how to spell Institute, but Anstitute was the Pineville pronunciation.
               
               "You know, Miss Mona, he might be along some day when the war is all over; and he tooks so much pains with getting up all these weeds, I know he must value them."
               I agreed with Mrs. Rathburn, and assisted her in assorting his herbariums, thrown into terrible confusion, and piling them, with his books and papers, into a pine box, which she nailed up.
               Among them I had caught sight of a bundle of compositions written in my own handwriting. There, too, was the valedictory address which he had made me copy so often, rather unnecessarily, I had thought at the time.
               But all that was over now.
               "Them are your compositions, aren't they?" asked Mrs. Rathburn. "I remember he used to bring them home sometimes, and say how well you wrote. When that great novel—whose was it? You remember what a stir it made? Well, when that came out, I remember Mr. Sterne said your valedictory was as good a thing."
               So many new novels had come out making a great stir that I could not satisfy Mrs. Rathburn's curiosity; so I commenced inviting her out to see Mrs. Burns, who was one of her particular friends.
               Mrs. Burns had told me to tell her to send out and get as many green peas and radishes as she wanted.
               But she insisted on saying that all that talk of Mr. Sterne's was what made her think it was me that drew him to Callamura—me that he wished to marry.
               But I bid her good-evening.
               What did it all amount to? Nothing, but that there is no fascination so strong as that of beauty.
               Pericles acknowledged the charms of Aspasia; Julius Cæsar transmitted his blood through the veins of Cleopatra; Mark Antony sacrificed for her the empire of the civilized world; Elizabeth died of grief over the fate of the handsome lover she had executed; Napoleon periled the empire of France for the smile of Eugenie.
               Was Mrs. Sterne more than mortal?
            
            
               CHAPTER XL.
               THERE were rumors that our lines would be compelled to fall back, but those who were in Taylor's confidence declared that he would maintain them at all hazards; so that we remained at Callamura, although Pineville was deserted by most of the largest slaveholders.
               Seated on the colonnade one morning, I was surprised to see James Conway walking up the pavement, dashing and handsome in his gray-tinted uniform.
               "The news?" I cried. "How is Philip?" for, like every one else, I was always on the qui vive for disaster.
               "Philip is well," he gayly replied, "and fighting the blue-coats like a tiger. I met Mabel in town and gave her his letters."
               I had not seen him since my illness. The last recollection I had of him was on that dreadful evening when he and Philip had chanced to call by for Mabel, and summoned by her wild shrieks had rushed into the fatal chamber.
               He had since then been mingling in active scenes, and, full of the fire of youth, looked happy and handsome.
               "You seem in good health now," he observed—"rather pale, but I perceive a resemblance to Mabel which never caught my eyes before. I am so glad to see you! You do not know how beautiful the women all look to us soldier-boys."
               
               "It was Philip's furlough," he continued, cordially shaking the hand I extended, "but I persuaded him to let me have it, I was so anxious to see you. Let us go in parlor."
               I had never crossed that threshold since our loss, but I complied. The air was damp from a recent rain, and besides it was time that I nerved myself for all things.
               "Mr. Conway, when I first saw Hermione pass this threshold, there came to my mind a brilliantly-worded picture, I had somewhere read of that wonderfully gifted Roman as he dashed across the Rubicon. In think of it now—now that they are all fled, and she has accomplished out desolation—a desolation more fearful than that Cæsar wrought upon the liberties of Rome. She controlled all things at Callamura, even the destinies of her people; she has wrecked our happiness, and Callamura is a desert."
               "it was partially of her," said Mr. Conway, "that I wished to speak with you, though, fortunately, I was not thrown so much within the sphere of her influence as the rest of you."
               "Yes, fortunately," I repeated. "She was like a brilliant creeper of the woods, twining her glowing scarlet blossoms around every tree within her reach, and poisoning the pure atmosphere of heaven with her pernicious influence. I do not wish to be harsh, but, oh what a truthless nature!"
               "I loved her," mused James Conway—"loved her with a strange infatuation for which I never could account! But her crowning treachery," he added, "you do not know. When I pursued my explanation at the party, you remember, when you left us she confessed modestly her love, and declared that you had misled her—doubtless innocently, she had the grace to say. She assured me that she had only been withheld from the betrayal for some time by the constant fear of your being her successful rival."
               "It does not astonish me at all," I replied; "and that was what you had to tell me when you said all was well?'
               "Yes, I left her satisfied with her love; if she did not feel it, she simulated it to perfection. In fact, it always seemed to me she betrayed some singular emotion in my presence. I thought it love, or I should never have addressed her."
               "And what were you and Mr. Sterne conversing of so seriously at the door—you remember?—just before you left?"
               "I do not remember any very serious conversation. I believe though we were speaking of the fall of Fort Sumpter."
               How widely astray my foolish hopes had led me! But what now were the foolish hopes or fears I had entertained?
               "But indeed," pursued Mr. Conway, "I did not deprive less woman to any extent. Heaven knows I made a fortunate escape. We have both been wretched—we have both been deserted, betrayed! Let us both render each other what consolation we can."
               I looked up at him surprised, ignorant of his meaning.
               "I do not speak of love; that could hardly be expected yet; but you are desolate in spirit, lonely myself. Indeed, Miss Mona, I have thought of you much more than of her, and I admire your character much more than that of any woman I ever knew. Since all this has happened, and the glamour of her enchantment has passed away with the knowledge of her utter falsity and worthlessness, I am surprised to find that your words are those that float through my memory, clad as they always were with genius and truth."
               I looked at his handsome face, offering to brighten my desolate lot with his own cheerful nature, and my brain swam.
               
               Was I, too, to become one of the pieces of Hermione's chess-board, and accept the lot she had chosen to assign me?
               Great Heaven! I trembled that one frail human being should hold the reins of fate so securely yet carelessly, and made and unmade marriages with the genius and the will of Napoleon.
               "I do not expect, nor ask, nor profess love," continued Mr. Conway. "We are both sensible people, though, and know that the past is irremediable. The future we may mould ourselves. Let us call it friendship; even that is a sweet tie these troubled times."
               "Yes," I replied, "let us call it friendship, for it never will be anything more."
               "Do not say that," he interrupted.
               "Mr. Conway, you love for Hermione was not, like mine, entwined with all the memories of your life. When mine was uprooted, my heart was borne away. I can never outlive the memory of the blow I have received."
               "You are no silly maiden, Miss Mona," he said, looking at me with genuine admiration. "You have too fine faculties to pine away over the memory of one who has acted in such bad faith."
               "No," I replied, "I shall not do that; but my feelings are too crushed, too sad to dream of love. I know that time does bring relief, and I may possibly find another happiness. I know that people do love a second time, possibly as ardently as at first, but I could not permit you to entertain that hope in regard to me now, Mr. Conway."
               "Then we are friends—good friends?" he said, taking my hand kindly.
               "Yes, and no more," I replied. "You might be disappointed in the future if you found no second rose should bloom in my heart."
               "Indeed, frankly, I would. If this is not love, it is a purer and happier feeling than I ever felt before. I would trust it myself unhesitatingly, now."
               So handsome and so frankly tender as he looked, the last bright remnant of Callmura's brilliant past, what wonder that my heart yearned generously over him?
               "Had I known you first," he continued, "before I became infatuated with Hermione, I candidly believe it is you I would have wooed. It is strange that Sterne, with that intimate acquaintance with you that I never had, should have been weak enough to have been caught in her wiles."
               "Oh, Mr. Conway, would that I could love you; but do not be misled—my heart is utterly broken."
               "Let us talk of other things," he said; "I fear I have been too premature."
               "Yes," I said, touched by all his goodness and frankness; "and if ever I do feel that I may conscientiously accept your noble generosity, I will have no hesitation in acquainting you with it."
               "I think the time will come," he said cheerfully, bending on me a tender look.
               "To tell you the truth from the depths of my hear," I declared, "I do not think it ever will."
               He passed off to other subjects. His furlough only extended forty-eight hours, and our interview was not very lengthened.
               Among other things he informed me that Mr. Sterne had been compelled to leave H—rather hastily. There were persons there who had heard his speech in Pineville with dissatisfaction, and rumors of spies having gotten abroad, he was waited on by a party of gentlemen and advised to return North as his life was threatened. The ceremony had been doubtless performed on the boat, which, being owned by Northern parties, had also vanished the clime for an indefinite period, being laid up in some Northern port. All communications cations being long since at end, this was the last information received of the fugitives.
               War, war, in all its fury, was now upon the devoted land.
               Mr. Conway brought Philip's instructions, endorsed by his own advice, for us to leave with Dr. Sims' family for the northern part of the State, where Hope still waved her beamy flag, and repose hovered for a season over our unfortunate countrymen.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLI.
               IT was universally conceded now that the lines would certainly have to fall back, and accordingly we prepared to follow Philip's urgent advice.
               In a few days all was preparation and activity at Callamura. Our trunks were packed, and the vehicles and wagons overhauled for our departure. Some of them and a portion of the slaves had already departed with Dr. Sims' family, few besides those designed for our own especial property remaining: Julius Sims had been detained a day or two in Pineville, and would act as our escort.
               We lingered till the last with our uncle. Nothing could induce him to leave the home of his fathers. There he was born and there he would die.
               "I am but a miserable worn-out hulk," said the old Anchises, his eye flashing with a momentary gleam of the fire of the Morants. "Not all the hosts of Pandemonium shall drive me from my own hearthstone. I was born a freeman, and a freeman I will die."
               "Oh, uncle!" we pleaded, "come with us. We cannot leave you exposed to the fury of an enemy who knows no mercy."
               "Yes, but it is my Callamura, and you shall stay no longer under the baleful shadow of its roof. While I own it I will be obeyed. Leave it, both of you; leave me alone to meet my fate—to meet my fate."
               "Uncle," we insisted, "they will burn the house down."
               "Then I will perish under its burning rafters. Go, my daughters; God bless you! The life of an old man is naught; neither is it a new thing for the blood of the Morants to enrich the halls of Callamura."
               Mr. Stafford was going to stand his ground at Pineville, and had promised to bring his family out to Callamura; and with them to take charge of the old people, we did not feel so uneasy in heeding Philip's pressing solicitations to fly from the wrath to come.
               There were some sad duties I had to perform before leaving Callamura. A fresh mound, lying away among the long-buried Morants, which I had never had the nerve to look upon, was to be visited.
               I sought the little marble village lying back of the high garden wall, and sat down on the thin sprinkling of verdure that had begun to veil the resting-place of its last inmate.
               Roses and evergreens adorned the path, strewn with white sea-shells, kept in scrupulous order. Stately piles commemorated the virtues of the dead with their French inscriptions; but the only one that spoke to my heart was the silent mound marked by a temporary head-board.
               Nothing there proclaimed the brilliant genius, struck in its vaulting spring, before its radiant plumes had waved upon the Southern breeze. That rapid conception which had seized with unfearing audacity upon the evolutions of the battle-field, and made a mark upon the rolls of fame; that clear precision of mathematical powers, only equaled by the exhaustibleness of fancy and the splendor of imagination ination; that rare combination of all the mental powers, as it would seem, in a rivaling pre-eminence, were all lost lost—lost to his country, lost to fame, without a laurel twined around his brow.
               Blending in his veins the blood of the three proudest nations of Europe, his wonderful intellect seemed flowing with the finest attributes of them all. The clear calculation of the Scotch, the flashing vivacity of the French and the bold comprehension of the English race were his.
               But the rapid, half-finished affluence of his life was lying hidden away from view; his brilliant deeds were unaccomplished; he was but a silver chord on the great harp of life, having bursted with the intensity of his own emotions.
               Tears rolled sadly down my cheeks. I dared not think of how many golden opportunities had passed away unimproved—how I might have whispered sweet things to him of a fairer world, and mayhap thrown around him some memories of mother's half-forgotten teachings, which might have won him to a milder fate.
               Such thoughts press mournfully upon a sorrowing heart sometimes, when it is all too late, too late!
               I turned away. There was one more spot. I dreaded to view it, but it might be my last opportunity.
               Up the spiral steps I flew into that melancholy, deserted chamber where I had often stood in childhood, gazing dreamily on the dark life-stain of the proud Marquis of Morant ineffaceably imprinted in its centre, and I was familiar with all its terrible outlines.
               There it lay, the identical spot without a variance, only of a fresher deeper hue.
               Whose wretched hand had photographed again the crime of suicide upon the floors of the Morants?
               I dared not answer that harrowing question. Had the stern, proud integrity of the stranger vessel stood intact, the siren temptations of the bewitching enchantress had been of no avail.
               My mother had taught me to shun as a poisoned upas the subtle works that plunge into polemic discussions. I knew nothing of skeptical or infidel literature, and I pray my feet my never be caught in their bewildering nets.
               Her faith had been that the Bible was the way so plain "that the wayfaring man, though a fool, may not err therein;" her doctrine, "Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, that do with all thy might."
               But there came one tempting thought as I gazed on that dark discoloration.
               The Church denies to such erring sufferers as he her consecrated ground; yet oh who shall say that the pitying wings of the Saviour yearn not lovingly over the bright jewel dropping into a bottomless abyss? That he will pluck not from destruction the fair masterpiece of his own handiwork? Who shall say that after ages of punishment he may not redeem the lost spirit of evil? Such thoughts were consoling, since without doubt one drop of his precious blood were more valuable than a thousand such worthless worlds as this.
               But while I gazed there in my lone agony, I became conscious that the house was surrounded by a fierce-looking crew, 
                     
                        "As if all the fiends from heaven that fell
                        Had pealed the banner-cry of hell."
                     
                  
               
               The Federals were upon us.
               I flew down the steps to gain the presence of the household, but the wild tide of war had occupied every nook of the establishment.
               Dinner was on the table, and a rough, uncouth set were devouring it. Others were helping themselves to the massive table-spoons and goblets, tea-urns and silver salvers.
               The pantries were swarming, the outhouses and henroosts; indeed, for every article on the place there seemed a dozen claimants.
               The old man stood gazing solemnly on in the mute grandeur of endurance; not a work escaped his lips.
               "We must have you trunk-keys," said a young man, fair and prepossessing, doubtless the idol of his mother's heart at home, or of some white-browed Northern maiden, but toward rebels the stony side of his nature turned.
               I gave them without a word of remonstrance, and his rude soldiers were soon bearing off our dresses and articles of jewelry.
               "Where are the diamonds?—in the name of St. Patrick, where are the diamonds?" growled a rough Irish-looking customer.
               "We have none," I answered.
               Some treacherous servant had blazoned the fame of Hermione's jewels.
               Mabel possessed a small pair of diamond ear-rings, her mother's, which they had discovered and appropriated.
               "These are not all," they persisted.
               "The lady who owns the jewels you seek," said Mabel, "has left the country and carried them out of your reach."
               Tthey continued their search, gleaning every movable article about the house, sweeping even the photographs and parlor ornaments.
               I saw one of the men entering from the saloon, handling one of his trophies and eyeing it curiously.
               It was an antique silver-mounted pistol of French manufacture, and heirloom in the Morant family.
               "Oh leave us," I cried, addressing an officer, the prepossessing young man—"do leave us that sad relic! it has sacred associations for me."
               Mabel added her entreaties to mine, relating the circumstances of our loss.
               The officer replied that he could on no account leave firearms with rebels.
               "There suicides have been committed with that weapon," I urged. "It was kept in the family only from the most sorrowful considerations."
               We were too proud to become abject in our supplications, and it was being borne away.
               Uncle had stood silently observing the scene.
               His eyes were coolly, stoically, nay scientifically, fastened upon the man who held the pistol—directed to his broad flat face, his rude gross skull, perfectly flat on the top, compressed and remarkably prominent at the sides.
               "It is the skull of a Calmuck," he quietly remarked, all passion absorbed in the contemplation of a type of mankind I thought it probable he had never seen before.
               But even as he finished speaking a clear startling report went echoing down the lofty corridors of Callamura with the terrors of a death-peal.
               The soldier who won the prize had won his doom. True to its antecedents, the mute executioner had done its work and palsied the hand that held it.
               His comrades bore away the inanimate body, but the dark red life-tide is yet visible on the stone colonnade of Callamura.
               He was a Hungarian battling under the banners of the Union against the States rights principles for which he had bled under Kossuth.
               The crowd of despoilers seemed to shrink from contact and conversation with that majestic old man, who looked dreamily upon them, seeming to be filled more with shame and sorrow than resentment.
               "You say you are Federals!" he said, finally, to one of the officers.
               The reply was in the affirmative.
               "God help the republic of America," he ejaculated, "when robbers are the offspring of her loins!"
               But while this devastation was going on within doors without, equal despoliation, with equal rapidity, was being accomplished.
               Our wagons, packed chiefly with our personal conveniences, were disgorged of their contents, and they distributed generously among the soldiers, while the vehicles themselves were driven round to the negro quarters, and loaded with the servants remaining on the place.
               Armstead and his family firmly refused to accompany their deliverers, and, in defiance of threats, obstinately persisted in remaining near the "old master."
               We had been keeping fast ourselves all day. The dinner had been swept from our famished vision, and I knew we should be compelled to send to Pineville for supplies, every edible on the place having been destroyed or purloined.
               With this consideration I was anxious they should complete their search as speedily as possible, knowing the old man could not well endure the delay of his meals. I ordered Armstead to expedite their robberies as far as lay in his power, and guide them through every cranny of the establishment.
               I was rejoiced to see, as the sun was declining, the last vestige of a blue-coat had faded away.
               Swiftly, surely and unexpectedly as the destruction of the Campbells at fatal Glencoe, the avenger had done his work and Callamura was pillaged.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLII.
               THESE events but rendered our departure the more imperative. Beside, too, the fury of the storm having already burst upon us, we could really leave our uncle with less apprehension.
               We had means of support beyond the reach of enemies. The servants believed that "old master" had chests of gold and bags of silver, but where they were kept no one could form any idea. Possibly Mr. Braham in town had some suspicions: I never had, but, like the negroes, I believed his wealth inexhaustible.
               Armstead's family and Venus would be sufficient to attend to his personal wants.
               As for ourselves, we were now compelled to follow the servants who had preceded us, and in the scarcity of overseers and managers would be necessitated to find them homes and raise sustenance for them.
               We gathered up the wrecks of our comforts and procured conveyances in the village, but the condition of our wardrobes was pitiable. We were left little beside the garments we wore.
               Old Mrs. Burns had made a narrow escape.
               There was a spring some half mile distant—good, soft washing water—where the old lady was accustomed to go sometimes with a whole week's washing, taking her knitting, and inciting some indolent Africaness to unusual exertion in the line of soap and water.
               It was a quiet, secluded place, which had escaped molestation. All of the old man's underwear, some few articles of our own apparel, and happily little Mona's, were included with hers.
               
               Armstead, listening to our deplorations over our losses, appeared struck with a sudden idea.
               I saw him engaged in consultation with uncle a while, uncle replying, "Certainly, certainly, it is the very thing."
               Mabel and I had just consoled ourselves with the reflection that the fields of Louisiana and Texas were fair, and that while we were sure of securing bread for the future, we could learn to turn the wheel and ply the loom.
               "There are some trunks of old finery up in the attic, Miss Mabel," said Armstead. "I 'spect you might find something up there."
               I had often peered up that vast trap-door over the centre of the corridor up stairs, and observed some jointed steps folded away in one of the numerous chambers in that part of the building, but they had never been used since I had been a Callamura.
               Often had I gazed with curiosity, striving to penetrate the light floating dimly down through the glazed sashes above, wondering what eerie shadows roamed those mysterious regions; but the cooing of the pigeons and the rattling of their horny nails on the glass panes were all that ever gratified my curiosity.
               We now followed Armstead up the spiral steps, and watched him unfolding the ladder and planting it against the trap-door, preparatory for ascension.
               They were easy to mount, and I followed behind him, prompted by an unsatisfied desire which had haunted me for years.
               Mabel shuddered as she saw me running fearlessly up steps undefended by a rail.
               "Come back, Mona," she cried. "How dreadful! You will fall—you will fall!"
               I laughed at her fears, entering behind Armstead the vast, unexplored precincts, peopled so long by my imagination.
               I was surprised to find that it resembled more a cabinet-maker's warehouse than anything else to which I could compare it.
               The main building of Callamura being very large and nearly square, and this attic consequently of the some proportions, it offered immense capacity for storage. My eye was at first bewildered on encountering so many objects.
               Dust lay like a mantle on them all, and the light faintly struggled through the large circular dormer windows inserted in the roof, and down the square skylight over head.
               A graceful flight of steps wound upward, going to the platform above, which I immediately followed, leaving for a space the coveted treasures behind me. Sliding with ease the glazed sash, I sprung outward, where I stood surmounting the stately heights of Callamura.
               "Come up, Mabel," I cried out enthusiastically to her down below; "come up and see what a beautiful prospect."
               But Mabel was too timid, and I stood there alone, gazing on the magnificent surroundings of the home of our ancestors, where her mother and mine had passed together the joyous days of youth.
               Far away stretched the splendid fields of tropical verdure, bathed in the full glow of a Southern summer; the plume-like canes swayed gently in the humid breeze; the starry and rosy cotton blooms nestling under their broad, graceful green leaves. Above them, glancing the sunlight from their wings, soared the restless pigeons, while herds of lowing cattle and flocks of Southdown sheep wound slowly over gentle declivities, seeking pasturage and straying do the fair round lake flashing beneath me like a silver buckle on an emerald ring.
               To the west, buried among pines and oaks, Pineville greeted me, the modest cupola of Mr. Stafford's church gleaming through the green foliage; while in the east, far across the broad prairie that rolled from Callamura's landmarks to kiss the horizon, I fancied I caught the distant outline of the enemy's ranks and the dim smoke of his camp-fires.
               Armstead's grizzly old head emerged from below, and he soon stood beside me, bearing in his hands a most welcome treasure.
               "Oh, Armstead," I reproached, "why did you never bring me up here before? To think I have lived all this time at Callamura and never seen this beautiful sight!"
               "Well, I don't know," he replied; "I never thought about you wanting to see it. I knew Miss Mabel was a poor little coward. But I believe, now I remember it, your mother used to come up here sometimes."
               He was wiping the instrument with his coat sleeve.
               I eagerly caught it from him, holding it to my eye.
               "Sure enough," he said, "your mother was the last person who looked through that telescope the morning after she was married. She and your father came up on this fish-pond before they left. Miss Mabel's mother was like Miss Mabel—allers afraid—afraid."
               I was examining every point of the compass while Armstead rambled on:
               "Mr. Bentley, the overseer, was up in the attic once since then, but he wasn't thinking 'bout mounting up here: he had a bigger flight on his mind. He came arter that French pistol to shoot hisself, and he had better never a totched it—never, never in this world. You see them trees, looking like cotton-woods, 'way over beyond the spur of the prarara," he continued, pointing my attention to them. "Well, them's whar the Massissipper river swamps begin. The river lies 'way out more'n forty miles off. That's the direction Miss Hermione took. The road has to start the other way fust, through Pineville, to roundabout the slew."
               But something more interesting had caught my eye. What I had thought the smoke of the enemy's camp-fires was evidently the smoke of conflict.
               "Look, Armstead!" I cried, handing him the instrument. An irregular, thundrous-looking cloud of dark, fierce-looking cavalry were pouring over the prairie, impetuous as a horde of Tartars and as irresistible.
               "They are not blue-coats, Armstead?"
               "No," said the old man, eyeing them steadily. "There don't but one State grow them sort, as I ever seed. Them's Texan rangers. I've been up in Texas."
               The old man's eye fired, and he drew up his still stout proportions with a show of undoubted pride.
               "Me and Mass' Hugh fout through that Texas war, Miss Mona: we was young lads then. I choked six yallow greasers myself—six; and I knows them Texas boys on sight."
               But our attention was now intensely excited by the developments of the conflict.
               The old man was right. I caught, flashing through the clear noonday, the streaming glories of the Lone Star flag, borne onward impetuously over their ranks as they trod down without mercy the party of raiders who had pillaged Callamura.
               They flew like chaff before the wind, and the victorious cavalry of the reckless Texan Ranger, Thomas Greene, melted from sight on the wings of pursuit.
               A loud cheer broke from Armstead as he witnessed the success of his ancient companions-in-arms. He threw up his old hat, which went tumbling down the roof, lodging against one of the chimneys, and I really felt apprehensive lest he should inadvertently break through the skylight and land below.
               "That's the way to serve 'em. The dog-drotted blue-bellied rascals! they stole the last chicken I had—the last one!"
               He shook his old head, finally descending below, where I followed, leaving an intense blue and cloudless sky bending lovingly over the scene of man's rage and bloodshed.
               Armstead was now summoning me to the trunks, which he had opened for my inspection, holding in his had a very rusty bunch of keys.
               "See, Miss Mona, if you think it will be worth while to bring 'em down."
               I could not examine them very thoroughly. They were innumerable small brass nails, and filled with every imaginable fashion on earth.
               The materials were on the most costly description. Brocade silks, Irish linens, heavy merinos, cloth riding-habits, bonnets, plumes, ribbons, antique bracelets, composed of fine links of gold, head ornaments—all the numerous paraphernalia of ladies' toilettes, and some of them perfectly new. Moths had not corrupted them, for they were strewn with sandal-wood and camphor, the trunks lined with thin slabs of cedar.
               "What a windfall! Armstead, whose were they?"
               "These two trunks," he answered, designating the most antiquated in appearance, "belonged to the old Marquise Morant. I have heard say them things was worn at the gay court of Louis the Sixteenth."
               "And those?" I asked, pointing to three exactly alike.
               "Them belonged to your grandmother. She died when you was a baby. She packed up them trunks herself. One of 'em was for your ma and one for Miss Mabel's mother, and one for Mass' Hugh's wife, when he got her—when he got her. But Miss Mabel's mother living in the Norrard, she never sent for hern, and Miss Edith never sent for hern; so here they has stayed all this tiem—all this time. Them two," he continued, pointing to the most modern ones—"them two was Mass' Hugh's foreign wife's—I suppose you know all about it—Miss Hermione's mother."
               I did not know all about it, but I did not cure to ask. I never liked to talk of Hermione. I knew more of her now than I wished to know; besides, I did not think it becoming in me to pry into any particulars of the old man's secret history, especially through his confidential servants.
               "Well, Armstead," I asked, "what shall we do with them? Shall we take out all the things we will want?"
               "No. Mass' Hugh wants you to carry the trunks just so," he replied. "It's the best anyways—anyways. The blue-coats might come again, and then they might fine 'em. If they were not all eat up or rotten you were to take them all—all."
               "Very well," I said, knowing that in the long conflict stretching before us we should need them, indeed we needed them now; so, while Armstead shouldered them down the steps, I gave a hurried survey to the strange wonders I had never dreamed were silently mouldering away over our heads.
               Possibly a more talkative child than myself had heard the whole history of these things before from Armstead, or a suspicion of it from Mrs. Burns; but I had had the impression, when I first came to Callamura, that there were mysteries haunting it into which little children had better not inquire, and I had rather repressed the garrulity of servants than encouraged it.
               I saw now various queer articles of French furniture ranged around the attic—bureaus with large brass rings inserted in the drawers and brass claws projecting on the floor; singular sofas, with pointed backs; odd-shaped tables and circular, convex and concave mirrors, so coated with dust that naught but their heavy gilt frames, wrought into large leaves and flowers, suggested the idea of their being mirrors.
               There were handsome Etruscan vases sitting about, heaps of Venetian blinds, large brass andirons, rising up in rusty cones, fenders, everything, it seemed to me, enough to have furnished two or three ordinary houses.
               A half-dozen covered bedsteads of solid mahogany, the huge baskets of lilies represented on the bedposts covered, like everything else, with dust, flanked the whole array.
               "Where did it all come from, Armstead?' I asked, filled with mute wonder.
               "It was all fotched from France. The old Marquis sent it all out from the old country. Mass' Hugh's father, your grandpa, had it all put up here, and here it's been ever since—ever since."
               But a large French bedstead, standing just in the middle of the floor, so that the sloping sides of the roof might not interfere with its massive projecting canopy, struck most my fascinated vision.
               It was made up, as if ready for occupancy, adorned with a pair of lace-ruffled pillows and covered with a Marseilles quilt—dabbled with blood!"
               A tri-cornered had surmounted with plumes, a gold-headed cane, a pair of silver knee-buckles and a short broad-sword were lying on the pillow.
               It had been immediately removed to this obscure locality, and arranged as it had been at that occurrence.
               "There is his poetry," said Armstead, seeing me gaze so intently upon the bedstead, uplifting the green curtain from a frame just in the rear of it. It was the portrait of a handsome man in the prime of life, dressed in the costume of the court of Louis the Sixteenth. Bright auburn curls hung over a broad, white brow; blue eyes smiled upon me with the haunting regard of the dead.
               I turned away; it was too like—too like.
               But Armstead had finished shouldering down his burdens. We had already whiled away an hour of our precious time. We were to leave that evening, and travel some ten or twelve miles beyond Pineville.
               Just as I was leaving Callamura, I had sprung its mine of deepest interest. There was food in that immense shadowy, unpeopled desert, rising in unbroken solitude and desolation above us all, to furnish a thousand romances to my imaginative spirit.
               But as I had been at Brightvale sole mourner over its fatalities, sole mistress of its fortunes, so I felt I was to be at Callamura. So I was. My uncle designed it now for me, and I bore in my spectral eyes the unceasing deploration of its fatalities.
               I should behold these venerable relies of the olden time again. It was au revoir.
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIII.
               I FOUND, as is usually the case with all departures, especially of quite a number, that ours was delayed until the following morning. Broken hames, loose tires, splintered felloes, missing mules, was the cry; all those innumerable merable annoyances which are the element of the shortsighted African.
               I might have spent the evening in that sacred attic, listening to the hallowed voices that rolled down to me there from the ancient régime of the kingdom of fertile France.
               But still it was one more evening at home.
               Viny, our cook, had been shopping in Pineville when the raid occurred and temporarily escaped freedom. Venus, Sarah and Juno were at the spring. Thus sufficient colored friends were left for all practical purposes.
               Mr. Stafford and his family drove out that evening, so that all broken swingletrees and missing mules being obviated, the following morning we were able to make good our start.
               Julius was awaiting us in town. We bade our adieus, and turned our faces to the far West leaving the old man leaning on one of the pillars of the colonnade, in the massive grandeur and imposing silence of some Egyptian statue fading on the traveler's vision from some deserted Thebes.
               The pigeons were whirring above us as we turned our heads from the last eminence of the poplar-lined lane which could afford us a view of the marble-like beauty of Callamura.
               It seemed to smile with a melancholy grandeur upon the faces of its departing children, hurled out by the rude fortunes of war upon a distant and unknown country to meet what fate only the unlimned future could reveal.
               The wind had changed, and clouds racked the blue uncertain summer sky and threw their shadows on the alabastrian facades, around which another band of pigeons was floating like dim specks in the distance.
               There, under the groves of magnolias, slumbered the bright manhood which should have defended it, and it was left a prey to the spoiler, guarded only by the powerless weapons of old age and the peaceful religion of the Saviour.
               We were both silent, Mabel and myself, for tears rolled plentifully down her cheeks. Yet even in my grief I felt, as my uncle had expressed it, that I had departed from some baleful, mysterious shadow. Without doubt, the spectral apparition of my sorrowful figure, gliding around him clad in the sombre hues of mourning, had served to perpetuate in the old man's mind the memory of a grief he could but wish to forget. But still more influenced, I am convinced, by considerations for me, he had banished me from Callamura, with the hope that other scenes would dissipate my sorrows.
               I appreciated, I realized this nicety of delicacy—his utter self-forgetfulness.
               Travel insensibly imparts its elasticity to the spirits of the young, and as we journeyed onward I yielded to its influence. My spirit lay confidingly in the arms of its Origin, fearlessly confronting the unseen Beyond.
               We found little Mona quite a fretful and troublesome traveling companion, four little pearls pushing through her gums. But Sarah had insisted, on accompaning us. She had been deprived by the Liberators of all her family but Juno, but she seemed to entertain not the slightest regret. She was so delighted at the prospect of pushing her matrimonial interests in new quarters that she was as gay as a lark, and rendered us valuable assistance.
               We found Julius, too, an excellent escort, gallant and agreeable; and after a long and tiresome pilgrimage, he pioneered us, without any accident or incident worthy of notice, to the welcomed goal of our peaceful rendezvous.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLIV.
               DR. SIMS, who had for some time preceded us, had secured us a very pleasant and comfortable home near a neat little village somewhat resembling Pineville.
               Fair, thriving fields surrounded us, an extensive, well cultivated garden, a cool spring, so that we did not feel that we need apprehend any immediate danger of starvation.
               It was a low yet commodious log-house, embosomed with rose vines and defended by neat white railings. As we drove up before it, I thought we certainly ought to be thankful in such troublous times to have granted to us such a quiet, agreeable retreat.
               Mrs. Bell was vigorously applying a broom made of sedges upon the front gallery when we arrived; and calling to her son Marion to hurry along and feed the doctor's horse.
               She seemed delighted to see us, running up to assist us from the carriage, having a great deal of "hoodly-toodly" talk for the baby, whom she insisted on carrying into the house. Indeed, it seemed to me she transported most of the baggage for us, too, relieving Sarah of several carpet sacks and satchels, while she was smiling upon Roderick Sims and Baxter and several other "cullerd gemmen" of the Sims tribe who had caught sight of her beaming countenance from the windows.
               Mrs. Bell was enthusiastic in her praise of the place; such a good garden! though it was now getting late in the summer it still yielded a fine supply.
               The doctor assured us he thought himself very fortunate in securing it. The lady who owned it, he said, had gone to reside with her mother, who lived some half a mile distant, her husband having fallen in battle. She had left us most of her furniture, and what was wanting the ingenuity of necessity could supply.
               "Come in the parlor, Miss Mona," invited the doctor, after we had divested ourselves of our traveling encumbrance; "you will find Mrs. Childs had left you one treasure not to be scorned."
               He led the way to a handsome piano, guarded with a rich crimson cover. "You would not have expected to find such a fine instrument as this out in these quiet shades?" he asked.
               "Indeed it is a surprise."
               "It has a fine tone, too," he added. "Try it."
               I ran my fingers over the keys. They were faultless.
               "It is perfect," I said.
               "Sing," said the doctor. "I have been wishing for some one to give me some music. Sing that strange little medley I heard you singing for Adaline one day."
               It was an impromptu effusion to her I had caught from the brilliant boy; the music my own fashioning, and I had forgotten it.
               "Doctor, I never could sing; you must excuse me."
               "Indeed, Mona, I always liked your voice better than Hermione's. It is not strong, but is an uncommon one. It is a genuine contralto, which I always preferred to a soprano."
               I was astonished; indeed, the doctor had always hung so entranced around Hermione I thought he was one of the fascinated too.
               Something of this thought I suppose I betrayed.
               He laughed in his sanguine, cheerful way.
               "One may have other motives besides love in flying around a woman, Mona. Hermione would have been a very unsuitable partner for me, though she was a splendid woman. Now she is married, I suppose it will do no harm to confess that I was merely watching Alfred."
               I found in the course of further remark that the inhabitants of our neighboring village were considered kind, pleasant people; and as there were a good many refugees from a distance, like ourselves, we had the prospect of spending our time as agreeably as that hidden phantasmagoria of death and desolation allowed.
               We were fatigued, and retired early to rest.
               I remember, however, speculating on the doctor's remark that he was attentive to Hermione for the purpose of "watching Alfred."
               The doctor had been intimate with uncle a long time. Possibly he knew Hermione's history, and did not care for Alfred to risk his happiness in her keeping. He knew the antecedents.
               If it had been the father's design to eclipse the son and throw him in the shade, certainly it always seemed to me that he completely succeeded. Alfred never appeared to so poor an advantage as when contrasted with the doctor's rather antiquated but still imposing stateliness; and I am sure M'lle de Boisseau always found on those occasions some of her most ill-natured and effectual depreciations of poor Alfred.
            
            
               CHAPTER XLV.
               GRADUALLY the neighbors all called out to offer us their welcome: of course only ladies and boys. Like Pineville, Pleasant Hill boasted now of few male denizens.
               On rare furloughs, sometimes a soldier boy would enliven our society, bringing letters from dear ones and thrilling us with the hairbreadth 'scapes and desperate ventures which characterized that vain and memorable struggle, and bearing back to them our prayers and the few comforts that the stringency of the times would permit.
               Among the refugees who had sought this locality a short time before ourselves was a family from the Mississippi River, Barnard by name. They lived just within sight of us, although they had not yet called; but I had begun to suspect that possibly it might be because Julius did not give them much spare time.
               I think he must have made their acquaintance, in some indirect way, the morning after our arrival; for he was very prolific in excuses for starting off from home in that direction, from which I gathered the fact that the family was composed of a bevy of girls.
               "I would like for you to see Miss Ellinor," he said to me one evening, sitting out on the piazza.
               "I think Mr. Julius must be struck," observed the doctor; "I see him going over there every day. I observe, too, the apples are disappearing very fast." Julius was of that age when boys can blush.
               "It is not Miss Ellinor," he frankly admitted; "she is too old for me."
               "Oh! then there are two of them!" exclaimed his father.
               
               "Yes—four."
               "Ah! I didn't know there was such a crowd."
               "Miss Ellinor is the second daughter. There is a sort of old maid among them—Miss Hattie. Then there are two younger ones, Miss Nannie and Dona. Enough for all the family, father. Miss Hattie would make a good stepmother, I know."
               Julius enjoyed this back thrust at his father in a sly laugh.
               "Is Miss Ellinor the prettiest?" asked Mabel.
               "Miss Dona suits my taste best," said Julius; "but I expect Miss Ellinor is considered the beauty of the family. I would like for you to see her. I think she looks a little like Miss Hermione."
               "Why don't you invite them over?" I asked.
               "They say they are coming soon. These pleasant moonlight evenings will certainly tempt them shortly," replied Julius.
               Our house was quite full, sheltering three families; but still we had the parlor unencumbered with a bed, which was not very common in those times, when one-half of the Confederacy was giving refuge to the other, and it afforded us opportunities of pleasant evenings of entertainment of visitors.
               Even while we were speaking, the Barnard family made their appearance. The parlor was lighted up—we still boasted kerosene and lamps—and we invited them in.
               They were a charming family. Mr. Barnard, was quite elderly, his white locks looking very venerable among his blooming daughters.
               Miss Hattie had a quiet, subdued expression, as of one accustomed to cares. Her father had been a widower for many years, and she had supplied his loss; still she was agreeable, lady-like and prepossessing.
               I was struck, as had been Julius, by Miss Ellinor's resemblance of Hermione. There was the same regal bearing of the head, the same horizontal sweep of the eyebrows, the same striking beauty, only it seemed softened to less oppressiveness of brightness.
               Her face had not that marble-like repose of the chisel. It was more like a delicate mirror, reflecting the images of the soul.
               A constant flitting of expression rendered its beauty shifting and variable, yet ever enchanting. The figure, too, was less commanding and voluptuous in its proportions, moving noiselessly with the tread of a sylph rather than that of a queen.
               The little girls were twins, yet strangely unlike. Their features were similar, yet one had blue eyes and fair hair, while the other sparkled with coal-black curls and flashing black eyes.
               This was Dona, the bright little creature who had captivated Julius.
               Miss Ellinor regaled us with music. She had a soft, bewitching voice, tremulous and thrilling in its melody as the uncertain vagaries of an Æolian harp.
               "How I miss my splendid instrument at home!" she lamented, rising from her seat, "and how often I shall impose on your good nature! Fortunately, I brought a great deal of my music, and I shall be coming over incessantly to practice."
               "Nothing could please us all better, I am sure," I replied.
               "Yes," insisted Mabel, "as we are all strangers alike, we must resolve to be all we can to each other."
               "You will find us sociable enough," replied Miss Ellinor; "at least, I can speak for myself, if we have been rather late in calling."
               I am sure I was sincere in pressing my civilities, for I never had seen so attractive and patrician a looking family, from the old gentleman to the twins.
               Mrs. Bell was actively engaged in thrusting hospitalities upon them, in the shape of apples, cakes and sweet potato beer, a very fine Confederate substitute for wine; the Doctor civil to Miss Hattie, so that I think they left under the impression that all parties were pleased.
               Time developed so many attractions between the two families, and we were so adjacent to each other, that we gradually became as intimate as if acquainted for years.
               Julius' hint to his father seemed to be taken in good part, for he was really very attentive to Miss Hattie; and I would not have been surprised if the warm friendship between them had melted into matrimony. But the stern exigency of the times was demanding further sacrifices from the exhausted Confederacy, and the Doctor was meditating offering his services as surgeon to the Acadian regiment from our little parish; therefore matters were apparently unlikely to arrive at a consummation very speedily.
               For my own part, I enjoyed in Ellinor's society a boon which my limited experience in life had hitherto denied me—a true and intimate friendship with one of my own sex with congenial tastes and sympathies.
               Placing, too, the stress that I did upon personal appearance, her elegant exterior threw the charm of romance around that first pure friendship, which possesses the same passionate strength and beautiful light of that love 
                     
                        "Which ne'er can shine again
                        On life's dull stream."
                     
                  
               
               We would frequently take long strolls in our sun-bonnets, examining the flora of the country, bringing to mind, in her passionate devotion to Linnæus and Wood, Mr. Sterne's botanical pursuits.
               Indeed, there were a thousand times that his memory would be unavoidably recalled in our conversations and readings, for I had scarcely ever read a book upon which, severe as critical Aristarchus, he had not passed judgment.
               I was at her house one day when one of those rare blessings which sometimes fell to the lot of Southern women in their lonely desolation cheered us all, in the shape of a budget of letters.
               The Doctor had heard from Alfred for the first time. He was doing well, rushing with the Ballard boys under the meteor-like Forest.
               We heard indirectly from Callamura. The Federals had now complete possession of all the lower portion of the State, where our gallant boys had in vain contested every inch of ground, and Callamura and Pineville were absorbed in their conquests.
               I opened one of my letters. It was from James Conway, evidently written under great depression. Our victories were startling the world, thrilling the old nations with the brilliant spectacle of a people, considered sunken in the apathy of ease and luxuriousness, holding at bay five times their number, and reviving the half-forgotten heroism of Sparta and Athens. Still, I could see that he was not sanguine of ultimate success.
               The delusive song of Intervention, so skillfully drawn by the editorial priests of the day at every morning sunrise of victory, passed unheeded through his ears. He saw no path no independence but through our blood; and that blood was rapidly ebbing away.
               I learned back, musing on the the vastness, the completeness of the sacrifice we had made, and the utter wretchedness of our fate should it result in failure.
               "What are your tidings?" asked Ellinor, softly smiling. "Have you a lover in the army too?"
               
               "Not exactly a lover," I replied. "Mine is from a friend. It is the first letter I have had from him. Will you read it?"
               "The writer of mine is my betrothed." she confided. "He is in Virginia, following the bright star of Stonewall Jackson."
               After we had finished reading our exchanged documents, she brought me his photograph, giving to view a handsome youth, with a serious, pensive countenance, looking martial and determined in the Confederate uniform.
               His name was Calhoun Pratt; and she poured out her artless confidence, dwelling with enthusiasm on his perfections.
               "Mr. Conway writes a handsome letter," she observed. 'Probably your affairs are only in embryo. It would certainly be suitable to all parties—what is called a family arrangement?"
               "Yes," I acquiesced, "and I may possibly marry him—the future is so uncertain; but at present I do not anticipate it."
               "Yes, the future is terribly uncertain now—none of us can say what the morrow may bring forth. Even now the hands that penned us these yearning lines may be cold in death. Our poor soldier boys! what privations they endure, and how uncomplainingly!"
               We walked out on the piazza; the stars were beginning to peer from the blue heavens. There we lingered, as was our wont, till the "wee sma' hours ayont the twal," recounting reminiscences of our past lives and exchanging sweet intercourse of sentiment, delightful to us both.
               The brilliant comet that had ushered in our struggle, shaking horrid war and bloodshed from his fiery mane, was fading from view, and only the stars shone lustrous and pure.
               "How benign and tranquil the heavens, shining down serenely upon a distracted and wretched people!" she mused. "Death seems to have seized for his prey the Western hemisphere"
               "How blank would be the heavens without those animating intelligences pulsing through their blue depths!" I observed. "Their companionship is a greater necessity than we imagine. How lonely would be our planet, singing her unechoed song on her rounds through space!"
               "And how many beautiful things have been said of the stars!" she pursued. "Alexander Smith seems to have exhausted the treasury of the heavens. See the wasting moon just rising, half-orbed. It always brings to mind his beautiful line, 
                     'The moon lies stranded on the coast of morn.'"
                  
               
               Unconsciously, I quoted Mr. Sterne: a beautiful, starthronged evening at the singing-school springing to memory.
               "Yes, they are the poet's mine, teeming with nuggets of gold, and inexhaustible."
            
            
               CHAPTER XLVI.
               WEEKS and months of our sojourn at Pleasant Hill glided off without any occurrence worthy of note. Mabel was pining for a sight of her heart's love, but the utter self-abnegation of Southern matrons did not eclipse anywhere that she displayed. She bore her lot cheerfully and unmurmuringly.
               Mrs. Bell had certainly never found so broad a field for the exercise of her active charities as the condition of all things now afforded. I am sure she equipped, socked, comforted and shirted more destitute Confederates than any other ten women in the South; to speak nothing of her palmetto hats and knapsacks, stitched up of old carriage curtains and old rugs and carpetings.
               Three such women as Mrs. Bell were sufficient for the wants of one company, at least.
               I was instrumental in affording her ingenuities still wider scope, by presenting her a real, live elephant one day, which I was at a loss myself what to do with, I must confess.
               I was returning from one of our botanical strolls with Ellinor, when we observed a little boy sitting on a log by the road-side, leaning against the worm fence, weeping very bitterly.
               Filled with sympathy, we approached him, inquiring the cause of his unhappiness.
               At first, we imagined him devoid of speech; he could only weep and sob.
               "What is your name, son?" I asked.
               The tones of kindness seemed but to call; forth fresh tears.
               "It is Lionel Brooks," he said, after a while.
               Lionel Brooks! It came over my spirit like the remembrance of some sweet song I had heard afar off, at some dim, forgotten period.
               "And what are you doing here?"
               "I have got a chill," he sobbed. "I couldn't keep up, and the cattle have strayed out in the woods."
               We found, on pursuing our inquiries, that Lionel was an orphan. His father and mother had moved out from Missouri just before the war to one of the south-west parishes of Louisiana, and dying soon after, their son had floated about in the hands first of one party then of another.
               He was now in company with some movers, and assisting them with the charge of cattle.
               But he was evidently too ill to be of any service; so I bade him follow me into our house, where I knew Mrs. Bell would be delighted to try the sovereign virtues of her last invention as a substitute for quinine. It was the bark of the swamp willow, dogwood and chinquopin boiled down to the consistency of tar, taken in pills ad libitum.
               
               They were all surprised with the captive I had secured, but there was no question of the wisdom of my course.
               He was exceedingly ragged and dirty, but being about Marion's age, was allowed, after cleanliness had been prescribed as the first regimen, to share his wardrobe until I could have him supplied from our stores of homespun.
               After he recovered from his attack and began going about in his new finery, he was a very respectable-looking boy. He was about fifteen, but he intimated on day that he had been in the service and shot at "black regiments."
               He was generally, however, the genius of silence, going quietly about, which our country had always imported, and hammering away on very genteel shoes, which he turned off with native skill and neatness.
               I was very much obliged to Mrs. Bell for all her kind assistance in the premises; but still I considered Lionel, by right of discovery, as my elephant; and I think the boy recognized my right, frequently following me with his large, almond-shaped blue eyes with an expression very much like gratitude and affection. He had considerable education, which I endeavored to further by placing books in his hand and procuring a slate for his use. He found slate pencils himself in his rambles over the fields.
               He was more demonstrative, however, toward little Mona than any one else, fashioning her dainty little shoes out of bits of merino and broadcloth, and frequently coming around me when I held her to "boo" at her; and the child would put out her arms, delighted when Lionel would become her temporary horse and trot off with her on his shoulder.
               
               But time was gliding off very rapidly. Many stirring events, ineffaceable records, had been stamped upon the page of history, hardly relevant to the thread of this humble narrative.
               We had received letters, passed through the lines, surreptitiously, of course, from Mr. Stafford. The old people were well; and since the Federals had obtained complete possession of the country, most of the servants had flocked back to the bountiful supplies of Callamura; so that the crop we had left untended in the fields had been partially gathered and another started under very favorable auspices, considering the harassments of war. It was now doubtless in the full tide of its summer luxuriance.
               Miss Ballard was, beyond question, driving a thriving business, for Pineville was thronged with Federal officers, it being a favorite thoroughfare.
            
            
               CHAPTER 
                     LXVII.
                     XLVII.
                  
               
               OUR house always thronged with Confederate soldiers seeking shelter. The kind-hearted Doctor, ever open-handed and patriotic, made them welcome to his cheer, scorning the Confederate promises, twenty dollars' worth of them, which they would offer him in return for a night's lodging.
               A giant-like Texan came riding up one evening, and, as was our custom, was accommodated.
               While he sat at tea, devouring the coffee and molasses we still boasted, but uncommon and unexpected luxuries to him, the Doctor began inquiring about prospects down his way.
               "Crops on the Brazos is fine," he replied. "I never seen finer crops than Jerkins and Birdsong have. They are my two nearest neighbors. My crop. having nobody but my old woman to tend to it, ain't quite so promising. How-sumdever, I'll do mighty well."
               "How are you off for medicines?" inquired Mrs. Bell. "What do you do for quinine? We are independent of quinine up here."
               "Well, passing well off of doctor-stuff. The doctors are purty scarce, but I don't see as many more folks die for that. Mrs. Jerkins does a mint of practice in the settlements. Everybody is trying her new-fangled notions. Most of the folks believe in her strong, and go mesmerizing for everything. Aleck Jerkins," he continued, "went down to Matamoras last spring, though, and fotched up a stock of medicines and calicoes which helped out the settlement wonderful."
               "Did you say Aleck Jerkins?" inquired Dr. Sims. "Do you know where he is from?"
               "I believe he came from a place down below here somewhere, they called Pineville."
               "Aleck Jerkins! and married, did you say?" put in Mrs. Bell. "Who on the earth married Aleck Jerkins? do you know?"
               "No, golly," replied the rough Texan, "and I don't think he knows hisself. My wife says she is one of Satan's evil spirits. She is always turning tables and mesmerizing Aleck into trances. There's something tarnation curious about her."
               "What sort of a looking woman is she?" I asked.
               "She's a sort of a pony stock—a thin, spavined-looking creature—hops about sort of limping-like, like she might have had the foot-evil. She's rather the worse for wear, too. People thought for a long time she might be Aleck's mother—they came there strangers."
               
               This description recalled a familiar personage, and we continued our inquiries.
               "Do you know where they were married?" inquired the Doctor.
               "I think I have heard say, on a boat. They came there in the wedding morn. I think Aleck got some one to go back to Pineville after his niggers. They have plenty of money."
               "What does he call her?" I asked. "Florio?"
               "Florio? yes that does sound like the name. I never seen them but a few times, and I don't know much about them. But I hear my wife talking lots about them."
               "How does he keep all this time out of the army?" propounded the Doctor.
               "Well, that's what's a mystery to 'most everybody. Aleck's a fine, hearty young man, if he didn't looked so like a skeered rabbit jumped up just before day. He might do good service if he's got the sense to pull a trigger. But his old woman patches up some excuse when the doctors come round—always physicking him for some terrible disease she says he's got. I believe she calls it the 'Ripsisterless' or the Idiot-sinnercuss.' I hear them all laughing about it; anyhow, the examining doctors go off without Aleck."
               "That description certainly sounds like it might be M'lle de Boisseau," commented the Doctor; "but where on the earth could they have met?"
               "On the boat when they left," I cried. "Don't you remember, Mabel, when everybody was talking about Mr. Jerkins' sudden disappearance? It was just after M'lle de Boisseau's departure. He must have gone off on the same boat."
               "Certainly," said the Doctor; "and he had time, ample time, after I left Pineville, after he reached Texas, to have sent back for his slaves before the Federals obtained entire possession of the country."
               "But how often," objected Mabel, "have I heard M'lle de Boisseau say she thought it an unpardonable sin to own slaves, and she wondered how good Christians could hope for heaven who had that sin to answer for! It cannot be her."
               But it was M'lle de Boisseau. She had married a youth who owned more slaves, probably, than any one of his age in the State of Louisiana.
               But consistency is the obsolete virtue of the Nineteenth Century. Who that had heard the querulous voice of the Southern people censuring the misfortunes of the gallant Sydney Johnson, and seen him, stung with injustice, rush with the patriotism of Curtius, but far more vainly, into the abyss of destruction yawing for his country—who that had seen his lofty crest borne down in battle, like another Hirtius at another Modena, and conscious that such a loss was irreparable, could believe in aught but inconsistency and the treacherous tenure of any hold upon Americans?
               Already they were becoming dissatisfied were widespread. Those who continued to fare well, and, by influence with any officials, obtained some few of the luxuries of life, were glared at with the scowl of hatred and envy by humble individuals, subjected, for the first time in the history of the bounteous South, to deprivation and poverty. Certainly human nature wore its darkest aspect, but, for-sooth, what cause had not I to believe most firmly in inconsistency and treachery of every description?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XLVIII.
               ELLINOR called by for me to accompany her on one of our walks. She had a present for me in her hand. It was a bonnet beautifully woven of fine wheat straw, which the Southern ladies arrived at great skill in fashioning.
               I put it on with thanks for her forethought: I suppose she had noted mine showing signs of wear.
               We went wandering down the overarching trees, searching for the flora, which partook of the character of Texas plants, so famed for their variety and beauty, and not very many miles from our locality.
               "Oh what a treasure!' I cried. "See here, Ellinor!"
               I stooped down to gather an object of the most singular description. It was in growth and shape like a hyacinth, emitting a peculiar, delightful, aromatic fragrance. But the whole plant was of that white, lifeless hue which vegetation assumes when deprived of light in some dark, damp cellar. The flower-bells, however, were not rounded and drooping like those of the hyacinth, but pointed upward, crimson anthers relieving their cream-like whiteness. Fleshy and brittle, it was a beautiful curiosity.
               "There is not another in sight!" I exclaimed, looking round.
               "There is no name for this stray child of the woods in any of my botanies, I know," remarked Ellinor. "Rising up so pure and fragrant in this damp flat, it ought to be called the 'Marble Belle.'
               I was gazing down the road where I heard the sound of approaching horsemen.
               Three cavaliers came in sight, dusty and looking like weary pilgrims from a far land. Two of them passed; the third was still some distance in the rear.
               My eyes were fastened on him with a fixedness of observation which amounted almost to fascination.
               A powerful frame mounted on a strong, coal-black steed, that easily bore his weight, a proud, defiant-looking head thrown gracefully back, whence long disheveled locks were flying in the wind, and which seemed eagerly scanning the face of the country, burst upon my astonished view.
               We were standing some forty paces from the road, but as he passed thus, so nearly within my grasp, as it were, impulse would be obeyed, and I cried,
               "Mr. Sterne! Mr. Sterne!"
               I forgot all wretched past; I forgot he was Hermione's perjured husband. I forgave him our loss. I only remembered that he was my preceptor, a dear link to Callamura.
               I sprang forward in my delight, and the action, with the sound of my voice, attracted his observation.
               He turned upon me the fall view of his deep, serious eyes. I was near enough for him to have recognized me perfectly, for my bonnet had fallen off and my hair dropped down to my waist, presenting very nearly the same picture that he had once so enthusiastically admired in the music-room.
               But he simply raised his hat with that involuntary motion to which a gentleman is always prompted in passing a lady, and he rode on. Not a gleam of recognition crossed his features—not a muscle betrayed that he had not passed a perfect stranger.
               "Who was it? queried Ellinor, who had curiously observed it all.
               "It was my teacher, Mr. Sterne," I answered.
               "He didn't seem to recognize you?"
               
               "Probably because he was unprepared to see me, or, more likely, his mind was preoccupied."
               "Perhaps you were mistaken?" she suggested.
               "No, I was not," I replied. "I am perfectly sure. I would know him anywhere. I wonder where he is going—what brings him here?"
               Even with these speculations on my lips, a sharp thrill of fear shot through my hear, which made me contradict myself.
               "It might be only a striking resemblance," I admitted: "some resemblance are remarkable. Besides, I was near enough for him to recognize me, and there is no reason why he should not have been delighted to see me. It must have been some one else, as you suggest. Had it been himself, he would have halted immediately. He married my beautiful cousin—you remember I have told you."
               I entered carelessly into conversation on other topics, striving to divert her remembrance from the incident, but my own thoughts were busy endeavoring to solve the problem I had myself propounded—
               "Where was he going?"
               Mr. Sterne was now the resident of that country which was making war upon us. There was every probability that if he had not voluntarily entered its army, he had been placed there by the rigorous hand of conscription.
               His comrades and himself wore gray coats, but they were not homespun. They were well mounted and equipped. They scanned the country with the curiosity of strangers, and from the few tones of conversation between the foremost, my cat, always a nice and accurate balance of sounds, was now certain it had caught the indescribable roll of the Northern accent.
               They were Federals, and the wild thrill of fear that had shot through my heart was the thought that the man I had loved could not, dared not, recognize me because he was passing through my native land—a spy!
            
            
               CHAPTER XLIX.
               DID I possess the iron virtue of that Roman Brutus who sentenced to death his own sons because they had broken the laws of their country" Could I point out to certain destruction the friend and preceptor of my youth—him rolled—who, though now lost to me for ever, was yet possibly more dear to the idolizing heart of my kinswoman, the daughter, although the treacherous one, of the good old uncle at Callamura? Was I to ruin and wreck her happiness? And yet was I to sit calmly by and see my country betrayed by the hand that had betrayed me?
               These conflicting thoughts tore my heart and robbed me of all equanimity. I was on the rack of suspense for several days, lest Dr. Sims or others from Pineville had recognized Mr. Sterne passing through Pleasant Hill, and he should meet the fate the laws of war demanded. But his name was not mentioned, and I concluded he had never been seen. However much I might be called on to see others near and dear to me suffer from the results of his reconnoisance—however much I might suffer myself—I could not believe mine were the lips to proclaim his identity. I resolved to let events take their natural course.
               We were all now busied making some little preparation for the Doctor's marriage with Miss Hattie, which was to occur very shortly.
               Sugar we had in abundance, and some coffee still, but there was not any very heavy supply of that snowy commodity which I have heard appreciative Ethiopians denominate as "Heaven dust."
               Lionel and Marion were, however, very active in securing eggs and butter, and down deer and wild-turkeys with their guns, and we managed to arrange a very festive-looking little affair at Mr. Barnard's, if it was during the prevalence of war.
               Mabel and I had overhauled some of the finery of our ancestresses, which proved very valuable on the occasion in decoration the bride and her attendants. The latter were Ellinor and myself, supported by Julius and an old Nestor of the village, who had witnessed the passing away of several generations.
               These snatches of gayety were refreshing to hearts continually bowed down by sorrow and apprehension.
               Miss Hattie looked pleasant and dignified in a handsome gray silk, the skirt altered into gores and trimmed down the front with large black velvet buttons, which none would have suspected were, merely circular bits of gourds neatly covered over.
               The Doctor wore his usual Sunday broadcloth, which had seen, it is true, the wear and tear of several years, but still, industriously brushed up, looked young enough for the wearer.
               There was a goodly number of guests present, but Julius and Dora, I think, enjoyed the festivity more than any one else.
               "I little thought, Miss Mona," he whispered to me, "that father would have taken my hint so kindly. I have succeeded so well in my first attempt at match-making that I have a great mind to undertake another. How would it do to suggest Aunt Bell to old Mr. Barnard?"
               "It wouldn't do at all, Julius," I answered. "Don't you dream of such a thing; your Aunt Bell would think you presuming. Besides, Mr. Barnard is too old ever to think of marrying again. He is much older than your father; and such remarks frequently destroy the pleasant relations existing between families, I wouldn't start the idea now."
               "I have seen many old men," Julius wickedly replied, "whom their friends thought too old to marry, but I have yet to meet one who thought so himself. If you will give old Mr. Slater half a chance, he will offer you his hand this evening. The old creature's heart has dessicated long since."
               But Mr. Slater was just then on a subject that interested me more deeply than the light talk of Julius.
               "Doctor," he was saying, "did you know there had been some spies through Pleasant Hill the other evening."
               "No, I had not heard it. Were they arrested?"
               "I believe they got off," was the reply, "before any suspicion was excited. They returned the way they came."
               I breathed freely once more.
               If love were constructed of adamant, instead of the fickle, insubstantial material of which the poets have painted it, mine could scarcely have survived the shocks it had received.
               It was thoroughly dead, shrouded in petrifaction. I knew Mr. Sterne to have deliberately deserted me—not only to have proved false to all the teachings and actions of his life, but to have hastened, with the vows to me yet warm on his lips, to the bridal with another.
               Treacherous, perjured, a spy, yet I desired not his downfall: I rejoiced in his escape, whatever consequences might follow it in the future.
               He had been the world to me.
               Miss Hattie and the Doctor left the following morning for scenes of death and trial—ministering angels, doubtless bailed with joy by many a stern and suffering soldier. We were left under the charge of Mr. Barnard and Julius, fearing that a short time would behold the latter also floating down that devouring maelstrom where so many bright barques of Hope and Youth went plunging, fated never more to return.
               The bridal couple had been gone but a few hours before Julius came over to Mr. Barnard's, bearing us the rare treats of the times—letters and papers.
               Ellinor and I were tossing up the dear, dove-like little Mona, just beginning to toddle alone, admiring the elegant appearance she made rigged out in her great-grandmother's laces.
               We all flew for our documents, eagerly devouring their contents.
               Adaline and Dr. Turner wrote interesting accounts of their whereabouts. They were evidently very happy in being together, and I judged the doctor was rising in his profession.
               There was curious string of Greek characters there for me, signed, as well as I could make out, "Betsy Burns," which I translated to mean that all were well at Callamura, and that a Captain Temper had taken Black Bess for his own use. This was about the gist of the old soul's letter, the first one I ever knew her to write.
               Mabel had several communications from Philip, accompanied by one to myself from James Conway, more despondent even than the former.
               "All of our victories," he wrote, "seem to me but as so many garlands twined round the victim preparatory to sacrifice. The geographical position of the North is against us. All our defences are but as a wall of mud—no sooner erected than swept down by the all-conquering tide of numbers. Besides, the prestige of victory has always hung round the Northern Pole. There is something in a cold climate imparting a persistent vigor, which must in the end triumph over the impetuous chivalry of Southern denizens. Still, like brave men, we must defend and struggle on till the last. Would that the vain contest were over, and I clasped in my arms, as the bright reward of so many troubles and privations, the sweet friendship we plighted, blossomed and perfected into the valued fruit of love."
               "Another great battle in Virginia!" exclaimed Julius, looking up from the paper he had been examining, while we had been reading our letters. "How terribly we have suffered! See what a long list of killed and wounded!"
               Ellinor had just folded up her long heart-burdened letter, written on the eve of the battle. She fixed her eyes, swimming with soft emotions, on Julius.
               "Read the Mississippi list," she said; "our friends are there.
               "Yes, brother Harry too," said Dona.
               Julius read on with his clear, distinct articulations, when, like an arrow, it fell—the cherished name:
               "Calhoun Pratt, killed."
               O ye sorrowing mothers and maidens of America, scattered over the loveliest and proudest nation of earth, bound together in the fearful insanity of blood by the only tie ye could not break, that being the common fief of death! ye only know the anguish those few words communicated. Ye only know to how many households those fatal columns winged their ebony flight, scattering desolation and widowhood and orphanage.
               Heaven grant the sacrifice to Moloch may have been complete and final—that never more, while the Mississippi leads her rival tributaries to the Gulf and the waves of two oceans wash her stretching shores, may the blood of the ruler race of earth enrich the fertile fields of America! May our sons suffer not as their sires!
               Ellinor's face was buried in her hands, the tears dripping down her lily-like fingers.
               "He, too, gone?" she sobbed. "They will all perish."
               Sadly she glided to her own room to bury the sacredness of her grief from observation.
               But Ellinor's was a graceful and yielding nature, bowing to the storms of life till they passed over her head. Though the thunderbolt of Heaven seemed winged with the terrors of Jove, her simple faith recognized it as the hand of a Father, who pitieth His children and chasteneth whom He loveth.
               Yet very touching it was to watch her superintending household affairs, warping on the bars and drawing threads in the loom harness; all of which devolved on her after Miss Hattie's depature, while the big tears rolled silently down her cheeks and the quivering lip told how the heart suffered within.
               But the sorrows and also the pleasures of Pleasant Hill were destined to terminate for us very speedily.
               Julius came in one day with the certain intelligence of an anticipated advance from Banks. We would be necessitated to retreat still farther, possibly beyond the frontiers of Texas.
               Like the Israelites of old, we could only pitch our tents for a season, when once more the note of departure was heard.
               I was now musing in secret very frequently over James Conway. Would that time ever arrive when I was to discover in my own heart the growth of another happiness and bestow it upon him?
               Love was in my nature the child of sunshine and halcyon days. How could I dream of love when whole families lies were plunged in mourning and desolation? Possibly, after the dawn of peace and all things were redolent again of light and life, my heart would bound to hear his manly step ringing like music on the earth, and my eyes would find a heaven of happiness in the fond smiles his handsome face would bend upon his lonely darling. Such dreams are very temptingly sweet to the imagination of youth. I saw, too, that Mabel was indulging in similar speculations, yet I resolved that I would remain unpledged and untrammeled until that brighter era should arrive.
               For the present we were in a very pressing emergency.
            
            
               CHAPTER L.
               IT was now that the virtues of Lionel shone conspicuous. After having worked up all the leather he could find into shoes for all that needed them, he had turned his attention to the harness, and silently put every locomotive on the place into fine running order. The boy had a natural genius for mechanics.
               On our hurried exodus we found it invaluable, for short was or shrift. We had scarcely lost sight of the village before the fierce tide of Banks' chivalry took possession of it.
               We made good our escape, however, without the loss of a man, and after a few hours' hard driving, pitched our tents beyond Mansfield, where Taylor's rash heroism was destined in a short time to turn the tide of fortune—where Banks rolled back in dismay before the hundred thousand yelling Texans I have heard he professed to have seen there.
               
               As we rode along some miles before reaching the village, I observed on either hand of the road immense trees uprooted in the forests, which I afterward learned were traces of a terrible tornado which five or six years before had devastated the country with awful fury. These uprooted trees, lying in every conceivable direction, threw the Federal cavalry and teamsters in such confusion during the battle as to contribute very sensibly toward their defeat.
               Julius had secured us an old establishment, a few miles beyond the village, which had been used occasionally for a dancing saloon, near a spring of fine mineral water, and by dint of additions and repairs it sheltered the helpless fugitives.
               As we encamped in our new home, and the distant roar of the enemy's cannon came rumbling on the evening stillness, thrilling "the hearts of these long hills," now suddenly become the theatre of battle for that splendid race of men whose deeds are the admiration of centuries and the glory of both hemispheres, bitterness, intense and profound, came settling surely on my soul.
               Certainly, I thought, God is just: His vengeance may slumber, but retribution is the shadow of crime.
               The dark spirits of the bronzed aborigines flitting under the proud oaks of their forefathers, beside the silver streams and lakes that knew no strokes but those of their yielding canoes, they may now glide appeased to their fabled Isles of Rest.
               The pale faces are avenging their wrongs. A land won by oppression and tyranny must offer the sacrificial atonement of blood; and so vacillating and contradictory are the dominant passions of human nature that the same people who mercilessly exterminated and defrauded the copper-browed owners of the soil are now meditating a transfer of the property to an alien stock—a still later importation from Africa.
               I had never before felt any bitterness toward our enemies. I had considered the influence of education their devotion to the idea of American unity; but now, as I heard the muttering roll of their cannon like distant thunder, and remembered whose false hand guided their steps through the peaceful valleys of the New World's France, personal influences and recollections had their sway.
               He was one who had mingled with our people; he knew their virtues; he was not blinded by ignorance nor seduced by prejudice; he believed a people had the right to choose their own government, even though he thought secession unwise and avoidable.
               He had been welcomed and honored with our friendship; he had eaten of our salt, and yet, less noble than an Arab, he had pioneered the armies of the republic through the State that had cherished him!
               Could love possibly endure so wretched a record? Love? I had not indeed committed that crime; but there was a memory hanging around what had been, which had striven to invest its fallen idol with some faint shadow of its former greatness.
               Was not contempt rather the merited guerdon of such deeds and the just offspring of every noble nature?
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LI.
               THE morning of that memorable day dawned. It had been expected that no defence would be attempted until the enemy had reached a point still further north, probably the village of Keatchie, some fifteen or twenty miles north-west of Mansfield; but Taylor, acting without orders, determined to snatch the beautiful county-seat of DE Soto parish from the hands of the spoiler, and marshaled his forces just beyond the village, precluding his entrance.
               The point of defence bordered an old mill, and stretched over an open field, where the ranking fire of the Federals made fearful havoc in the heroic ranks of the Southern troops. They fought against tremendous odds. The enemy, commanding a slight elevation, shielded by trees and fences, had much the advantage of position, and it was only the superior temper and enthusiasm of Southern metal that won the day.
               We had all gone into the village, and stood in the portico of the house of an acquaintance of Ellinor's to watch the marshaling of the troops for battle array.
               Ellinor did not accompany us. Her recent grief rendered her shrinking from contact with tumult and the presence of strangers.
               Philip and James had snatched a few moments from their duties the day previous, and visited us. They were both conscious of the crisis impending, and of the responsibilities and risks overshadowing every hero of that Spartan band, which was to make a Thermopylæ for the Trans-Mississippi Department.
               I thought Philip seemed more cheerful, less overcast, than James. The latter had frequently remarked to me that if either of them was fated to fall in the conflict, he hoped it would be himself, as he had no responsibilities. I was hopeful myself, however, that both would be happily restored to us.
               We stood gazing absorbed upon the dark masses of the Confederate chivalry pouring through the streets of Mansfield, seemingly bursting the narrow confines of the little town with their swelling ranks.
               It was the first army of any size I has seen, and for the first time some idea of the strength of the Confederacy and some hope of its success dawned upon me.
               Taylor revived the memory of glorious deeds in Mexico, filling with enthusiasm every eye. The gallant Mouton led along his chivalric ranks, and it seemed as if the genius of France was roused at last to one generous thought of sympathy for the splendid empire in the West, where waved of yore her snowy flag as the dashing Polignac rode at the head of his command.
               The stalwart Texans, stern and defiant, brought up their irregular cavalry, and on every brow was written the proud determination to do or die. At their head rode the rash and reckless Thomas Greene.
               It was a grand and exciting scene, wagons and vehicles blocking up every avenue, while still they rolled by, throng after throng; and the wild waving of handkerchief's from the fair beings they were marching to defend showed how truly every heart was with them, and how sincerely it was lifted to God in their behalf.
               I caught the form of Philip sitting on his horse with a royal manliness at the head of his regiment, when he filed away under the lead of the immortal Mouton. He waved his hand to Mabel.
               James, under his command, bowed and threw me a tender look, which I caught even through the tumultuous scene.
               
               My prayers were joined to Mabel's that God would spare us these dear ones.
               All during the day couriers were arriving with tidings of the battle, and ambulances bringing in the wounded, conveying many a fatal blow to the anxious hearts that were bowed then in unavailing prayer.
               I heard one shriek, which will never fade from my soul, from a beautiful bride whose gallant lover had left in the morning to defend her cottage home. The fatal tidings met her just as she was leaving her gate to inquire of his welfare. She never saw him more. He fell at the bands of his friends, the companions of his boyhood's home in the far, cold North.
               Mabel's brow wore that peculiar heaven-rapt expression which I knew was the effect of mental devotion. All that day I was certain the recording angel was transcribing her petitions.
               It was toward the close of the day when James Conway came seeking us with an agonized expression on his face, foreboding disaster to our trembling hearts.
               "Philip!" cried Mabel. "O Heaven! I feared it!"
               "Not killed," answered James, "but wounded."
               Mabel's white brow grew pallid and aghast.
               We hurried to the hospital, where lay her gallant heart's idol sinking into the cold arms of death, wrapped in the silken flag of his devoted and decimated regiment.
               The daring Mouton, leading his bridge across the open field, storming the enemy's position, had fallen in the van of conflict under their terrific fire. It was there that the Louisiana troops suffered so terribly, many a brave and well-tried veteran trailing the honors of a hundred battles mournfully in the dust.
               The standard-bearer of Philip's regiment had been struck, and the colors tottering from his grasp, the impetuous South Carolinian had seized them himself and borne them aloft through the raking carnage, till he fell pierced with more than a half-dozen balls. He went down shrouded with the flag of his country, bathing it with the free, generous tide of his heart.
               Mabel threw herself in agony on his bleeding body, as if the vain strength of human love might chain the fleeting spirit to its frail abode.
               The room was filled with the wounded and dying, their groans lacerating the ear and soul; but our eyes were bent only on the manly form, where the glazing eyes and hurried breath betrayed too surely approaching dissolution.
               Only a faint quiver of the lip and eyelid as Mabel's voice broke upon his ear, and the fair little Mona I held up before him seemed to strike the optic nerve, indicated consciousness.
               Mabel leaned by him, her spring-like garments dabbled in the precious stream of life, and her fair hair and brow tinged from the same source, looking so young and bride-like in her youthful sorrow that unconsciously the recollection of that singular hallucination which had overtaken me on the night of her bridal floated back upon my memory.
               It was the same picture—her fair brow floating down a sea of blood!
               Not only her white brow, her pure, sinless head, her angel-like happiness, but it would seem that the hope and sunshine of a doomed and hapless nation were drifting likewise down that terrible torrent.
               She was holding his hand, gazing mutely on that great light of her life now going out for ever. Silent tears were rolling down her cheeks, but lips moved in unexpressed prayer.
               There came a quick twitching of the muscles of his face, a long-drawn gasp, and it was all over.
               
               "Thy will, O Lord, be done," she murmured, "on earth as it is in heaven. Yet pity me, O my Father!"
               Yet, even then, through our mighty grief, we could hear the grief, we could hear the great shout of victory that rent the air without—a victory purchased with the loss of the proudest and bravest of the land—a sacrifice too costly to our crushed and bleeding hearts for one throb of triumph or rejoicing to mingle with the widespread joy that reigned around.
               James Conway stood a gazing with the passionate grief of a brother on a form he had cherished with filial as well as fraternal devotion. Julius was beside him, sharing and endeavoring to alleviate his grief. Marion and Lionel stood near. All three of them bore evidence of having partaken in the exciting conflict.
               "Let us leave now, dear Mabel," I said. "God had granted us at least the mournful satisfaction of watching the parting breath: many have been denied even that sad privilege."
               "Yes indeed," replied the stricken wife, leaving her sad, gentle kisses on the still noble-looking brow before us, "it is a satisfaction—mournful though it be. Farewell, thou noble heart! Peace, nor freedom, nor victory, nor conquest, was worth the treasure I lost in thee."
               We left him among the dead and dying. We buried him among the green trees around our temporary dwelling, where Mabel would sit for hours teaching her little Mona to weave spring beauties and snow-white daisies and wild yellow violets into garlands for his humble grave.
            
            
               CHAPTER LII.
               THE tie of common suffering was welding the souls of Mabel and Ellinor into the firmest friendship. They found in each other a consolation I was incapacitated from offering, having never sounded the depths of a similar grief. Though I offered all that was in my power, I felt instinctively that it was in the other that each found present solace.
               Mrs. Bell was sufficient to attend to all household concerns, and there was such an urgent demand for nurses among the wounded in the village that I was frequently induced to go in with what assistance I could render.
               James was of course with the army, having succeeded to his brother's command. Julius was also gone, a fresh conscription act having included "the heroes of the cradle and the grave."
               But Harry Barnard was soon expected to join us. He had received an honorable discharge from the service, owing to disability arising from obstinate wounds.
               I was standing in company with Ellinor's friend, Mrs. Enderby, one day, at the bedside of an insensible patient, when the surgeon called us aside.
               "Ladies," he said, "I am giving these directions, but I candidly tell you, with no hope of their availing anything. If you undertake the posts of nurse, all will depend on you, for patient nursing is all that can do this man any good."
               We assured him that we would do all that lay in our power.
               "I know," he replied, "the ladies of this place have acted nobly. In their poverty and privation, consequent everywhere upon the state of affairs, they have generously parted with every luxury at command, for friend and foe alike."
               
               He gave us the directions to be pursued and left, saying, "Your patient is Federal."
               Mrs. Enderby was an experienced nurse, and her energy seemed never to flag.
               At intervals the patient would moan in his sufferings, muttering, "Mother, some more drink, "and when we would place the cup to his lips, he would say, "thank you, sweet mother."
               He was a fair-haired youth, about twenty-eight, rather good-looking, despite the pallor of exhaustion and the bandage round his temples, where a great seat seamed them; and something in his appearance and in the tones of his voice interested me-too deeply, striking as they did upon the chords of sympathy, for me to neglected my charge.
               We sat by his bed, Mrs. Enderby and myself, watching quietly the sweet slumber into which he had fallen at last, whispering our hopes that it would prove refreshing and usher in his convalescence.
               Suddenly an unearthly glare painted the heaven without, and yells and shouts of the most terrific confusion smote upon the atmosphere.
               "Oh," cried Mrs. Enderby, "how unfortunate for our patient!"
               But she was a woman of quick expediencies. She snatched up a newspaper lying within reach and carefully placed it over his features, so the light might not strike upon his eyes.
               "Now," she suggested, "let us sing low, monotonous hymns, that the scenes without may have less influence upon his senses. It is a fire somewhere, but I suppose it will not endanger us. Our town is built up too irregularly for it to spread very much."
               We sang sweet hymns of Zion's minstrels, and had the satisfaction to perceive that our patient still slumbered unconscious of the raging element without.
               Once he tossed his arms and looked inquiringly around. I still chanted the "Rock of Ages," while Mrs. Enderby soothingly whispered in his ear,
               "Keep quiet; go back to sleep; you are among friends. It is only a little shanty burning down. Shut your eyes now."
               He turned them inquiringly on me a moment:
               "Yes, yes, I know—Callamura," he muttered.
               And he turned back to sleep once more, leaving me haunted by the speculation as to when he had heard that name.
               The fire fortunately was dying out, but it proved to be unluckily a more serious loss than that of a shanty. It was a very substantial little church, which had been devoted unselfishly to the exclusive use of the wounded Federal soldiers. Some of them had set it on fire handling cotton and lamps too carelessly, and barely escaped with their lives; indeed it was believed that two or three had perished in the flames. The loss fell heavily upon the congregation thus deprived of a place of worship, and too irretrievably plunged in poverty since the surrender to indulge in any hope of its reconstruction.
               But the slumbers of our charge stretched heavily into the next morning. He woke with the light of consciousness restored to his features. He regarded me steadily, while Mrs. Enderby was dressing his foot, badly shattered.
               "Is it you, Miss Buccleugh?"
               Instantly the ray of recognition dawned upon me.
               "Mr. Pearson?" I cried.
               "This is not Callamura, is it?"
               "No," I replied; "this is Mansfield, where you were wounded in battle."
               
               "And you have been so kind as to tend me?" he said.
               We assured him we had been glad to have it in our power to relieve his sufferings.
               He looked thoughtful a while:
               "Miss Mona, we have not deserved any kindness from people we came to subjugate."
               "Do not talk about it, Mr. Pearson. We were none of us responsible for this war. It was brought about by designing politicians. We are none of us to blame."
               "And where are Miss Hermione and Miss Delia—M'lle de Boisseau?"
               "Oh cannot you give tidings of them?" I asked, a strong hope of hearing through him, some solution of that strange mystery hanging around them having suddenly arisen in my heart, but its death was sudden as its birth.
               He knew nothing of them; he had been in service ever since the commencement of the war.
               I told him what I had reason to believe was M'lle de Boisseau present position in life, which seemed to amuse him highly.
               He informed me that the reverend old lady had to his knowledge sued three different unwary individuals at various times for breach of marriage promise, and he seemed much diverted at the final success of her matrimonial schemes.
               "Well, well!" exclaimed Mrs. Enderby, "I had no idea that you two would prove old friends; but I expect, Mr. Pearson, you will get well now, and our duties will soon be over; but of course you will be welcome to remain here as my guest until you are disposed of by the government authorities."
               Mr. Pearson had been a good deal in the South, and seemed really to feel his position as compulsory guest of the people he had been warring upon, but Mrs. Enderby's kindness seemed anxious to put that feeling to flight.
               In a short while I felt that I was a supernumerary nurse, and prepared for a return home.
               Before I left, Mrs. Enderby proposed a walk to the hospital, to see if any of her jellies and condiments for the sick were needed.
               After we had finished our visit, as the carriage stood out in the street waiting for me, I bade her adieu, insisting on her coming out to see us.
               As I was turning away I caught sight of a little girl in the hospital door, holding in her hands a pair of diamond car-rings.
               She was a fairy little creature, tossing them up delighted with her costly playthings.
               I knew them instantly. They were Mabel's
               "Where did you get those, dear?" I questioned.
               "One of the sick soldiers gave them to me," she replied.
               "I gave him a bunch of flowers, he looked so sick, and he drew them out of an old leathern pocket-book, and said I might have them to put in my eyes."
               The sight of kindness, or probably the remorse of conscience wakened by the near approach of death, had prompted the poor wretch to a quasi restitution—all that was in his power.
               I related to Mrs. Enderby the history of the jewels and their theft from Callamura, and in a few days the little girl returned them to Mabel tied round one of her beautiful bouquets.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LIII.
               MEANWHILE, Harry Barnard had arrived, and the joys of such reunions were as superlatives as the sorrows we had endured.
               He was a graceful, intelligent young man, gifted with the same ease and elegance of manner that characterized the whole family. He wrote his arm in a sling, having, as he assured us, won the hardest battle he had yet fought in warding off the surgeon's knife.
               But in spite of warnings and predictions, he had saved his arm, somewhat shrunken it is true, and powerless as to two of the fingers; but, suffer as he yet did with it, and would probably continue to do for some time to come, it was far better than amputation.
               Dr. Barnard looked ten years younger since his only son, the stay and support of his old age, the apple of his eye, had returned.
               Life never so much resembled Swift's celebrated and dangerous bridge as during the fearful reign of havoc, when every man seemed only occupied in pushing his fellow through the cryptic holes of its rotten timbers into the yawning abyss below. To hail one returning from the seat of war was like hailing one returned from the dead.
               Little Mona looked at us with her father's large eyes of gray, and was the delight of the household, as such irresistible little tyrants generally are. It was charming to watch her little feet toddling over the white sands just beyond our improvised dwelling, where the bubbling minerals spring effervesced, bold and pure, and almost as exhilarating as champagne. The spring, too, strange to say, took its rise just on the verge of a meandering brook, blending its waters with those that glided peacefully along under surrounding groves of turkey and live oaks, and the ever glossy bay and magnolia.
               Cold as ice, butter and milk could not sour suspended in its waves. yet woe to the luckless vessel that unsuccored penetrated its soundless depths: it was a bottomless abyss.
               Dona received frequent letters from Julius. He was stationed at Shreveport, some thirty or forty miles distant.
               Dr. Sims and Hattie had written once. They had succeeded in crossing the Mississippi, and had fallen in with the Virginia armies, and the doctor contemplated a visit to his relations in that section. He had lost all traces of Alfred, as indeed we all had.
               I had received one letter from James Conway since the battle of Mansfield. He was dashing on his way down South in pursuit of Banks, but when that small affair was despatched he hoped to obtain a furlough and visit us.
               Lionel came up in his silent way, a few days after Harry Barnard arrived, requesting leave of absence.
               "To look up after some business."
               It was all I could get out of him, and seeing him very determined, I lent him a horse, and he put out—I did not know where. He was gone several weeks: I think his best friends supposed, ad interim, I had paid a mule for the keeping of my elephant; but he returned in the same silent way he had departed, and his absence soon ceased to call forth any further comment.
               The arrival of Harry Barnard was a fortunate diversion to our grief, for it was heartrending to behold Mabel's dejection and absorption. Her brow seemed to have lost the little earthliness it had ever worn, and she looked to be ever in communion with celestial influences, and her heart outflowing to that heaven where her treasures lay.
               
               Owing to the scarcity of goods, she was not clad in the sombre habiliments of mourning—a luxury few could command—yet the expression of the countenance seemed more startlingly sorrowful from its contrast with her attire. Like my own, it was generally composed of the rich fabrics from the looms of our fatherland.
               Yet Harry seemed to enjoy his freedom once more so unfeignedly that we all felt it would be selfish not to enter somewhat into his feelings while he was with us.
               Ellinor's grief seemed vastly softened since his return, and her interest reviving in the floral beauties of the land, many race unrecorded treasure under shady nook or in flowery dell seduced our footsteps forth.
               We would all take long rambles together in the woods, Ellinor sometimes bending over her guitar to sing him the songs he loved.
               He wore always round his neck the locket of a beautiful girl in Virginia—one who had attended on him after his wound, and in return for whose devotion he had offered her the most valuable gift in his possession—his heart.
               But Mr. Bernard had extensive possessions in Texas, and Harry found it necessary to proceed thither to give them some personal supervision. We were all sad to lose him. He bore off all the faint sunshine our stricken household had enjoyed.
               A few days after his departure I observed two horses standing at the spring, with side-saddles on them, and two singular-looking persons walking up toward the house. One of them came on a peculiar gliding shuffle, strangely familiar; the other was different from any human being I ever saw or probably ever shall see again.
               Her skirt a white muslin, with broad brown stripes, a quarter of a yard in width, running up the middle of each width; her body of yellow calico, surmounted with an uncommon-shaped Zouave jacket of a fiery hue; and a quantity of snowy feathers tufted on the top of a very novel hat. She wore a dagger and a pistol belted round her little body, and came threatening the house in a very martial and determined manner. The gliding shuffler proved to be my old class-mate, Virginia Sturgess.
               She was delighted to see us, informing us that her home was not more than twenty-five or thirty miles distant, being on the confines of Texas, and that hearing some one speak or our being down at the spring, she had made it convenient to visit some friends in our neighborhood.
               She introduced her companion as Miss Keziah. I don't suppose she had any other cognomen or she would have mentioned it. I now observed the little woman had a curious satchel slung on her arm, made of plaited willow strips, her own manufacture, she assured me; and the curious satchel contained a curious assortment of Confederate and Northern notions.
               Miss Keziah was anxious to sell us some buttons. Mabel purchased two dozen for which she gave her twenty-five dollars. She needed them for an overcoat Sarah had just finished for James.
               "Wouldn't you like to buy a hat?" asked Miss Keziah, taking off the uncommon chapeau she sported.
               It was a very ingenious invention, constructed entirely of shucks, and quite pretty. We all admired it. Nannie became the purchaser, Miss Keziah drawing out a woven straw shaker of her own make to supply its loss.
               "Where did you get these beautiful flowers and plumes these scarce times?" asked Nannie.
               "Oh I have plenty of hens and turkeys," replied Miss Keziah. "I'd like to make you all some hats; but maybe you'd prefer some home-knit clocks?—only ten dollars a pair. That's cheap, too; they are powerful tedious to knit."
               The hose were very creditable, and soon found a purchaser.
               By this time all the servants had got an inkling of what was going on, and soon came surrounding us with rolls of that flush currency which was the only bounteous thing the country boasted.
               Virginia seemed to enjoy the thriving business upon which Miss Keziah hd entered, informing me, aside, that Miss Keziah had purchased a pretty little farm in Texas while her soldier was in Virginia, and was paying for it in this way.
               While everything else was running up to ten times its value, the lands of the South, doomed to be for ever unprized, remained at very nearly their old valuation.
               Miss Keziah had agreed to give thirty-five hundred dollars for five hundred acres of land, partly improved, and had very nearly finished paying for it with such speculations.
               She had some calicoes on hand, and by depriving herself of every luxury, receiving from three five hundred dollars for a dress pattern, not many dresses would be required to liquidate her liabilities.
               "My soldier's fighting somewhere now," said Miss Keziah, "but he's getting not a dollar of pay. It wouldn't be me risking my life for nothing. I've got to have money for what I do. He's a fighting for nothing. I'll fight too," pointing to her belt, "but it'll be niggers I'll bring down. They don't give me any of their sauce. They've got no souls, and it's no harm to get them out of your way. Don't you stand grinning at me, you black, idle vagabonds, you! If you want to buy anything, say so. Where's you money?"
               It was Sarah smiling so self-satisfiedly at her bundle of goods. Virginia, who understood all her friend's peculiarities, laughed at her warlike pleasantries. saying,
               "Oh, Miss Keziah, you know they have got souls."
               "I don't know any such thing: they are not mentioned in the Bible as having souls. Is not the Ethiopian classed with the leopard as a brute, never to be changed by any act of man? They are the link between mankind and the monkey. Where's your money, you idle pests? Take yourselves off, and get me some dinner. It takes five of you to do as much work as one little white woman can do any time."
               I had been so amused at her vivacious, energetic way talking, and there was such crowd of them swarming from the looms and everywhere else, that I had not observed but that little Mona was somewhere straying round.
               "Sarah," I cried, horrified, "where is Mona?"
               I saw by the expression of her face that she did not know, and, thrilled with apprehension, I rushed down to the bayou.
               I arrived there just in time to see her faltering little footsteps insecurely placed upon the crumbling banks of the stream, and she disappeared within the foaming waves from my agonized view.
               I tore the air with my shrieks, and rushed, wringing my hands, to the side of the bayou, where not a trace of her form could be seen. But there was a sudden splash from the opposite side, and Lionel went plunging down the tide, swollen from recent rains, after her.
               In less time than it could be imagined he came bearing the precious body of our darling treasure in his arms to Mabel's horrified view.
               We were too delighted to bestow more than a general reprehension on Sarah's carelessness, while Lionel received our fervent and unqualified thanks.
               
               Miss Keziah presented her pistol at Sarah, assuring her that she intended to kill her for trying to murder that child before she left.
               "You black resemblance to the Father of Lies!" she remarked, "I don't know what you obtruded your ugly mug where I was for. I knew you had no money, but plenty of work, if you would attend to it. Now do you stick to your business in the future. I don't live far from here. I shall keep my eye on you; if I hear of your misdemeanors, I shall come over here and shoot you down. Mind that!"
               Miss Keziah went away, having gathered four hundred dollars of our Confederate money, and promising to call again.
               We were not very flush of that article, either, now, for we had met with some losses consequent upon our flight from Pleasant Hill.
               We had made a fair cotton crop there, but had disposed of but a portion of it. Without doubt, all we had left had been destroyed or fallen into the hands of the Federals, which was frequent source of lamentation to Mr. Barnard.
            
            
               CHAPTER LIV.
               IN the dearth of occupation consequent upon our solitude and seclusion, I commenced, one day, rambling through the trunks descended to us from our ancestress, the marquise. The antiquated silks and satins there were mostly too aged to be of any service; and particularly those which had originally worn the handsomest gloss, were dropping into pieces ad flying to dust; but the deep lace flounces which had graced the court of the unfortunate daughter of Maria Theresa were still in tolerable preservation.
               I sat musing over these mute yet interesting and eloquent mementoes of the past, when I turned over an elegant black velvet mantle, discovering under it, a small traveling escritoire of polished ebony, curiously inlaid with ivory. A small rusty key was in the lock, which with some difficulty I succeeded in turning.
               Within were old bundles of yellowish letters, old title-deeds and leases of lands written in the French language, it is true, but I was familiar enough with it to consider that I had stumbled on a lode of very valuable ore.
               As the day was fine, I closed the trunk and walked out with my acquisition to a quiet bower of hollies, where I could enjoy my good fortune uninterrupted.
               The first package I opened seemed to be a general correspondence from various parties.
               The first letter was signed "Lanthenas," giving to the marquis a detailed account of the horrors of the memorable 2d of September in Paris. It curdled my blood, dwelling as it did, with wild regret, among many other catastrophes, on the hapless fat of the Princess de Lamballe, sister-in-law of Philip Egalité, and daughter-in-law of the good old Duc de Penthievre.
               Lanthenas was shocked, quoting from Madame Roland horrible predictions for the future of France, while such fearful crimes were being perpetrated by unlicensed mobs. He, too chronicled that remarkable fact, just discovered by the late historians of the French Revolution, that Robespierre walked sleepless that fearful night through his chamber, while, to use the words of Robespierre the following morning, "Danton, he has slept."
               But there were letters from other parties, commemorating the same hideous stain upon the record of mankind—one dwelling particularly upon the horrid memory of Tournier l'Americain and his Ethiopian satellite.
               The writer, whose name was signed in cipher, wrote:
               "You may thank your Creator, marquis, that you did not view that volcano of Erebus burst upon Paris. De Lorme, black as midnight, bared to his waist, and literally dripping with blood, killed with his one hand two hundred citizens of the city of Paris. Does it not seem incredible that an Ethiopian should revel in Parisian blod? Brutal bursts of laughter accompanied every blow he struck; all the savagerie of his nature seemed unloosed by the sight of blood, and he reveled in its carnival."
               Several of the letters bearing an approximating date alluded to this hideous monster. "De Lorme," chronicled another, "is never absent from our feasts of blood; always exhibiting the trophy of a human head, he may be seen marching through our streets, the personified devil of the saturnalia."
               There were many allusions to Dumouriez, the first general of the French Revolution, its unsuccessful Napoleon; and also to the name of Pamela Seymour, the reputed daughter of Philip Egalité, afterward the wife of the unfortunate Fitzgerald.
               Thomas Paine came in for a full share of reputation, the ungrateful persecutor of his kingly benefactor; and I could but blush for my country as I read the honest indignation of the French gentry at the manner in which he lowered our reputation in the course he pursued.
               "Having received," ran the passage, "from our unfortunate Louis two hundred and fifty thousand francs—a princely donation for struggling freedom in America—how foul his return! how despicable his conduct! Faithless himself, with no God for his guide, it is not strange that he should have no reverence for a king and no pity for his fortunes. A commoner moner of America thinks the heir to th French throne badly brought up, and the underminer of religion censures his intemperance! God grant some rest to poor France!"
               But there was another package of letters signed "Felicité," written in fair, delicate characters. They were from the ill-starred wife of the marquis, filled with devotion and affection. The marquis had just completed Callamura with the revenues of his immense possessions in France, and prepared a refuge from the horrors of the Revolution.
               They were separated during the terrors of the times, Felicité being with her father. The marquis had communicated to her his design of leaving France with his two sons, and she was to rejoin him in America. The marquis had succeeded in escaping, but the unhappy Felicité had been one of the victims in that demoniacal nature-outraging massacre—the Noyades of Nantes.
               When the fearful tidings reached him in America, the crushed brain gave way under a calamity so appalling, and the marquis finished with his own hand a life tracked with such horror and desolation.
               Reading these unexpected memoirs of that wretched trance of blood while our own tragic revolution was at its height, rendered me thoughtful and sad.
               I shuddered at the picture of De Lorme, possibly the prototype of the part his race was destined to play in the future history of our own unhappy country—a hideous possibility, which can never be wholly absent from the apprehension of a defenceles being surrounded by an inferior servile population.
               Docile and peaceable as they are, the sight of blood enrages all the fury of their nature. Neither is that docility a natural attribute of the African. It is the result of years of bondage, and of that unconscious witchcraft to which the talented favorite of an ordinary queen confessed fessed on trial—the influence of the strong-minded over the weak.
               As the man-eating lion, having tasted the sweets of human flesh, disdains thereafter all meaner prey, so, once incited to contest with his tamer, the brute fury of the Ethiopian may yet revel in the sumptuous and costly feast.
               I folded up the papers, returning them to their ancient hiding-place, and my soul having wandered in dreams of the past and speculations of the future, I walked in dreams of back towards the house.
               Before I reached it, I met James Conway riding furiously down the road.
               "I have stolen time to see you," he said; "I am the bearer of despatches to Kirby Smith, and have ridden two miles out of the way. But my horse is a fine one, and good for the delay. I was so anxious to see you. How is Mona and Mabel? I cannot possibly alight. Now that I have met you, it was all I wished."
               "We are all well," I answered.
               "And you?" he continued. "I have never had but one letter from you—you do not write."
               "No," I replied, "I have written but once."
               "Miss Mona, have you not yet recovered from that delusion? Have you not yet forgotten—"
               "Yes," I interrupted. "I have forgotten, or remember only to contemn. It all seems now like some wretched dream."
               "Then am I so unfortunate as not to have deserved you?"
               "No, not that; it is I who am so unfortunate as not to have deserved you."
               "Do not say that," he interposed: "you are all that I desire in life."
               "Yes, but you deserve and will require all the deep passion sion and fervency of one's nature. You know nothing less would fulfill all your anticipations."
               "And that you cannot bestow? But you mistake, Miss Mona. Knowing the strange sorrows which have unhappily begirt you, I should not look for that girlish abandon of affection which is not always the precursor of true married happiness. All the I would require—and which I know you too sincere not to believe in its avowal from you—would be the calm conviction that your confidence was not unworthily placed. All the rest I would trust to time and opportunity."
               He was blending down from his horse, looking so attractive and earnestly impressive that I felt carried away by his candor and noble unselfishness.
               "Mr. Conway," I replied "you have the rare art in wooing, of assaulting my most vulnerable point. I am convinced you were impelled to seek me first by a consideration of the utter wretchedness and desolation which had befallen me."
               "That is true," he admitted; "but whatever the motive, it is now love that urges me on."
               "It is a far nobler motive," I continued, "than love. It was a profound and generous sympathy which it looks like ingratitude in one to avoid; yet I would fear, on the other hand, injustice in accepting it."
               "I will endure all for such injustice," he smiled. "Indeed, Miss Mona, this suspense is becoming intolerable."
               "That is what I have feared," I said—"what I did fear when I objected to our having an understanding based even upon the tie of friendship. That is why I have not written. I thought it best to let matters rest, and that if possibly, after the dawn of peace, we were permitted to mingle together, and new affections should spring up, it would then be time enough to express them."
               
               "I fear there might have been more wisdom in that course, but, Miss Mona, I hardly realize how it was. When you showed such deep, true feeling in the conservatory, your countenance was photographed upon my memory. It gave a new revelation of your character, and often and often afterward it recurred to me, waking up the strange desire to rouse such devotion myself."
               I do not know why it was, except that such vision are always tempting to the heart of youth. I never was with Mr. Conway but that I seemed impressed by the prospect of my dark fortunes mated with his own sunny future.
               He was, as I had once told him, all that a maiden could desire, and possibly, had not the demands of war torn him from my side, ere now time had softened all recollection of the past, and, won by the sweet persuasiveness of his appeals and the charming tide of sunshine emanating from his handsome, haughty brow, I had realized a happy destiny as his wife.
               "I feared that you might become interested, Mr. Conway, more rapidly than I did; you were not so crushed—"
               "Yes, Miss Mona," he interrupted. "I am vitally interested."
               "Then," I concluded, "I wish to make my final decision on this subject. I prefer to do so after reflection and meditation, and I will write or send my determination through Mabel."
               "Any way, so that you prefer it. But who is that?" he suddenly asked.
               It was Ellinor moving down the road toward us, her brow adorned with wild flowers which Dora had twined in her sportiveness, communicating to her appearance that unusual regality always the effect of a circlet.
               "It is Ellinor Barnard," I replied. It was the first time he had seen her. "Does she not bear a slight resemblance to Hermione?"
               "I think there is some resemblance," he replied, gazing dreamily upon her, "but I hope it extends no further than personal appearance."
               "Elsewhere there is a marked contrast," I replied.
               "But my good steed must make up for this lost time," he cried. "Au revoir! I shall dream of you."
               He threw me a parting wave of his hand and galloped down the road, soon lost in a cloud of dust.
               Ellinor was seeking me, my long absence among the old letters and memories of the French Revolution having been observed.
               She came to inform me that her brother Harry had returned. He was in the house then, meeting me at the door with graceful delight.
               I sought my room to place them in their receptacle, the writing-desk; and remembering to have seen a small leathern pocket in one of the trunks of Hermione's mother, I suppose my curiosity into our family arcana was only fairly roused by what I had learned.
               Besides, I argued that our uncle would not have confided these things to our keeping without a willingness that we should know all their contents. I had not imagined there was anything of this kind buried away among the old silks and satins, but now pursued my investigations.
               I found nothing in the leathern pocket but a miniature. It was that of a beautiful woman, strikingly like Hermione, dressed in a costume du ballet. She was in the attitude of dancing, holding castanetts in her matchless hands, her weight thrown forward on one foot. On the reverse of the medallion was engraved, "Hermione d' Etrange, Paris, June, 1834."
               It was doubtless the likeness of Hermoine's faithless mother, a Parisian ballet-dancer.
               
               I closed up the trunks, returning to the main building where most of the family were assembled.
               I found that Harry had engaged all the household in a search for men's garments mdash;articles that then, to use a common but forcible expression, certainly did not grow on trees.
               Dona had marshaled up several garments of Mr. Barnard's, which her brother had pronounced unsuitable for his purpose.
               "Deuce take the times!" he said. "Never since the days of Adam and Eve were garments so unattainable as in the Confederacy."
               He stood eyeing his father's coat.
               "I could get along if I had a coat big enough for a flea. I have often questioned the wisdom of Providence in manufacturing such small men as father, and now I am convinced he ought to have been larger."
               "What do you want with so many things?" inquired Dona.
               "They are for two poor Confederate soldiers," he replied, "that I found in rags—literally dropping to pieces."
               "It's always the way," she petulantly returned. "I am tired of clothing Confederate soldiers. I wove those shirts myself, and it was very poor fun, I can tell you."
               "Come, Dona," mildly reproved Ellinor, "you ought not to talk that way. Isn't there something about God's loving a cheerful giver?"
               "Oh, sister, but I am so tired of it. We are always giving everything we have, and then they never have anything. They lose their knapsacks and blankets. We have the poor satisfaction of knowing we have deprived ourselves without benefiting any body."
               "Yes, we do," Ellinor argued. "Mercy is twice blessed—we are benefited ourselves."
               "But the soldiers are nothing to us: they are strangers. I am willing to help our friends: pa will need these shirts."
               "Dona, Dona, you forget how the Virginia ladies cared for Harry; they treated him like a son, yet they had never seen him before."
               Dona seemed quieted by this remembrance."
               All this time Harry stood surveying the homespun nondescript in his hand, till he broke out into a hearty laugh.
               "Well, I suppose it will have to do, but I know the seams will split."
               He was leaving the room, when a sudden remembrance flashed upon me.
               "Stop," I cried; "I think I can help you out of the dilemma. You would not have expected a young lady to be traveling about with a gentleman's coat—a very good one, too."
               "Sarah," I said, "can you find that old coat of uncle's? I think I remember to have seen it somewhere since we had been here."
               After some search, Sarah produced the old vestment, and really in those times it looked quite stylish, compared with homespun jeans and cottonades.
               Uncle being a large, portly man, Harry seemed charmed with his windfall.
               "Stop," I cried, as he was bearing it off, for I caught the gleam of valuable gutta-percha buttons flashing down the breast; "mind, I do not give you those buttons. They are worth two or three hundred dollars. If this war continues half a century longer, we may need all those buttons for wedding-rings."
               "You shall have the buttons," he answered, laughing back at me, "and I'll make the wedding-rings myself."
               He went, bearing off a pile of garments down the road, and, my mind preoccupied with a solemn duty before me, I took my own little writing-desk directly after dinner, and sought a shady little study Marion and Lionel had improvised of logs and leaves, and sat down to write the most important letter of my life.
            
            
               CHAPTER LV.
               A FEW birds were caroling in the green branches around the waters in the brook, singing now the faint, low song of autumn. A few fleecy clouds were floating round the sky; and like faint specks among them the representative birds of America were wheeling about as though they snuffed the carnage from afar.
               our "library," as we termed it, was rough and rude enough, yet it had a quiet, refreshing air, inviting mediation and repose of spirit. It consisted of huge logs piled on each other, boasting of an entrance and a window.
               Nannie had eclipsed herself weaving a curtain of straw, which, painted green, bore a very recognizable to Venetian shades. Two or three shelves in one corner held our limited stock of books, a pine table, a bench and a very respectable and luxurious arm-chair, constructed of a barrel and a red chintz curtain, composed its furniture. A large nosegay of holly branches and partridge berries filled up the cavity where should have been the fire-place, and the floor was cool and agreeable—the bare face of our mother earth.
               Yet although such rude surroundings offered a striking contrast to the luxuriousness of our past lives, they possessed the charm of novelty, and none of us thought it anything but the sheerest good fortune to have secured a shelter of any description in such troublous times.
               I sat down, opening the Bible that lay on the stand, and endeavored to compose my mind into a devotional frame and seek assistance from on high in this, the great crisis of my life.
               I read the fourth chapter of Philippians: "Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication let your requests be made known unto God.
               "And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ.
               "Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on those things."
               And my prayer and supplication rose unrestrainedly to God that He would guide my ignorant feet in the path that He had designed for my happiness; and I arose from my knees with a lighter, happier heart. I was resolved to pursue the path of duty, conscious that His blessing awaited me.
               I argued all the case to myself clearly as I could, unswayed by selfishness and purely personal considerations.
               Mabel, I reflected, is now without a protector; to James Conway must she and her little one look for future guidance and assistance.
               Should I marry him the tie between them will be strengthened, and under one roof we will be all one family, without the jars that the introduction of any new element of relationship might occasion.
               Then I myself was alone in the world. We had not heard from our uncle in a long time. Even if living, the old man's days had nearly filled their allotted time, and we could not hope for him to ward off the ills of the future from the children of his heart.
               Ours was truly a lonely, isolated position. Friends were now supplying the place of relatives; and although wealth was still at our command, it was that insecure wealth based upon salve labor. Who could foresee the termination of the present contest? James, I knew, had long been distrustful, and many others had now become dubious. For myself alone I did not dread poverty; but the helpless condition of my cousin weighed heavily upon my mind. As Lanthenas had said in one of his letters to the Marquis of the martyred Louis, he knew how to suffer adversity like a brave man, but, like a coward, he could not conquer it; so I feared for Mabel, and I dreaded that the mighty fall of the Confederacy should find us both penniless and unprotected. That tie with James once consummated and the future was secured, as far as a true heart and a brave arm could accomplish it.
               Then, too, on the other hand, should I reject him, it was still from him I must probably receive all my future care and guidance through life. His duties to the wife of his brother I knew would never flag, and strange that it should be so and distant as was the tie, yet he was the only person of earth on whom I had the shadow of a claim. I could not dissever my fortunes from Mabel's. I would be necessitated to receive incessant attention and benefit from a man whom I repaid with incessant ingratitude and insensibility.
               All these were worldly considerations, it is true; but we are mundane creatures, and such motives are taken into account, even into calculation the attributes of the man himself—his personal claim to consideration. I had mingled much more with men of the world since leaving Callamura than I ever could have done in the secluded shades of Pineville. In the shifting, hurrying transit of army operation I had met, on the wing, men who stood high on the rolls of Fame, and had had the opportunity of comparing James with men who were men; and I could but acknowledge that the comparison was not unfavorable. He was a man to whom a woman might point with pride in any crowd and say, "that is my husband."
               Whatsoever thing were lovely, whatsoever things were of good report, if there be any virtue, if there be any praise, there it was to be found.
               I could give him unreservedly my profound report, my entire esteem; and besides, around our acquaintance there was hovering that mellowing influence of time and association, both in scenes of gayety and happiness and in those of terror and dread.
               In any event, I could not believe that marriage with such antecedents and foundations could result in unhappiness, and I resolved to marry him.
               This is the letter I wrote:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. CONWAY:
                           
                           "I have made the subject of which we spoke a matter of serious and prayerful consideration, and cheered by the consciousness of walking in the path of duty, I have resolved it shall be as you desire. My mind is clear and composed, my frame tranquil and happy, and I doubt not, when the clouds of war have passes away, and you sit by my side, painting, as you always do, bright pictures of the future, my heart will respond in sympathy to your own. I have no fear that you will not awaken an interest proportionate to that which animates you.
                           "At any rate, I feel satisfied in trusting my happiness entirely, unreservedly, to your keeping; and I pray God may hold you under the shadow of His wing till the storm of war be past.
                           
                              "Your affectionate
                              "MONA."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               The die was cast. I had signed away my freedom.
               I knelt down in a fervent prayer that God would bless me in the step I had taken, conscious that I had been guided by the purest and loftiest motives; for what was I but a wretched, floating waif of humanity? What right had I to remember the desolation that had overshadowed my being? Was it not rather a brighter, nobler to destiny to live for others, and would not God reward me for the self-forgetting effort by returning me four-fold the happiness I sought to disseminate?
               Most assuredly He would. Already I felt the sweet assurance of reward. The invisible wings of the Paraclete seemed waving around me, communicating that sweet peace which passeth all understanding.
               I had not imagined such perfect self-satisfaction could follow, as with calm, unclouded eye I surveyed my destiny as the betrothed of James Conway.
               Not a fear, not a doubt troubled my mind. I had trusted all to God, and I felt the foreshadowing of that antepast of heaven, which His beneficent hand had silently prepared for me with such wondrous prodigality.
               I folded up my letter, putting it away in my writing-desk till some suitable opportunity should offer for transmitting it to its destination, and I wandered back to the dwellings, for the evening shadows were beginning to fall, and the short Southern twilights soon admonish loiterers of the advent of darkness.
               The sound of voices in the room we had partitioned off as some sort of a sitting-room, though likewise occupied by Mr. Barnard, struck my ear as I passed by. I returned my writing-desk to my trunk, and without acquainting Mabel of my determination in reference of James, I do not know why, except that I was naturally, like all self-reliant persons, somewhat reticent, I sought the sitting-room to hear, peradventure, some news from the seat of war.
               One of the neighbors, a talkative old Unionist, bad dropped in, and it was his excited tones that had caught my ear.
               He was inveighing bitterly against Mr. Davis, Mr. Walker, Mr. Memminger, Mr. Trenholm and the whole crew of "ignoramuses," as he termed them, who had found an elephant and did not know what to do with it.
               The old man, having lost a leg serving his country under General Jackson, always assumed the privilege of old age and patriotism, and thinking with freedom, spoke as he thought.
               "A pretty kettle of fish," he sneered—"a pretty kettle of fish you have all made of it. You've knocked up a good old ship to tinker up a leaky, riddled little concern, carrying a dead freight of jackasses. Was there ever such a blunder on record as that? You had better employ an Arab to do your calculation. They can heat Trenholm and Memminger."
               There were two Confederate soldiers sitting in the room, with their hats slouched over their faces, very oddly and quaintly altered and apparently very badly used up by the war, but they had not much to say; indeed, one of them leaned back, hidden by the shadow of the fireplace, his arms folded in his coat, and preserved an unbroken and motionless silence.
               The other solider remarked,
               "I am surprised to hear such sentiments in this part of the country. I thought you were all a unit down here. I guess in old Massissip we don't hear much of that talk. Too many tree grow down there."
               "Trees!" echoed the old man, indignantly. "I guess one who got a timber leg defending those Mississippi trees will hardly fear to dangle on one now. I am a Unionist, and they dare not touch a hair of my head."
               "No, Major," said Mr. Barnard, "everybody has too much respect for you opinions to gainsay them."
               "Jack is quizzing you, Major," said Harry, laughing. "He never was in Mississippi in his life, either. He is just from Santa Fe, on his way to join our army."
               The Major, soon pacified, drank a sangaree Ellinor had brought in, manufactured of some of our home-made muscadine wine. While he was imbibing it, I bestowed a curious yet furtive inspection on the Santa Fe Confederates Harry had evidently succored from distress.
               On the one leaning back in the corner, he being the large man whose wants it had so puzzled Harry to supply, I could distinctly see gleaming by the firelight my valuable gutta-percha buttons. The coat was very respectable, but he had on a pair of blue cottonade pants of Harry's, striking him about four inches above the ankles, whence protruded a pair of large bony feet, yet swollen, cracked and seamed with dirt, which it would seem that no washing might remove, so deeply imbedded were the dust and sand.
               His companion's feet, less white, did not look as if any attempt had been made to alleviate the unsightliness of their appearance. Poor fellows! they were the worst specimens of the rough handling of was I had yet seen.
               They had made their way, as the spokesman said, from Santa Fe. They had joined, at first, Marmaduke and Price, under whom they had fought against Steele; but having relatives in Virginia, they had obtained transfers to that department.
               As it was very difficult to persuade soldiers to leave the Trans-Mississippi Department for the horrible seat of carnage around Richmond, where the immortal General Lee was winning the richest laurels reaped by either combatant during the rebellion and was battling, like some heroic Diomed, against fearful odds—whence, too, such a despairing cry for succor was thrilling through the impotent, exhausted South—such transfers were very attainable and gladly forwarded.
               "Major," said Harry to him, after he had finished complimenting his beverage, "can't you contribute something toward the limited wardrobe of our Confederate friends there? They've had a hard time up among the Federals and Arkansas jayhawkers, and you see that are reduced to great destitution. I have equipped them as far as I can. You have plenty of leather—send them over some shoes."
               "I?" exclaimed the old man, really indignant; "I have never clothed or shod a traitor and I never will. Let them stump it. They ought to suffer for their folly."
               "But, Major, I know you will not be so hard-hearted."
               "Yes, but I will."
               Ellinor rose to light the candles; not the delicate-tinted wax and lustrous paraffine tapers that use to glitter at Callamura, but several yards of cotton wick dipped in rosin and beeswax and twisted round a black bottle—a treasure almost as uncommon as the wax tapers, by the way, but an invention that carried gladness to many thousand households, where the sick and the dying would not now lie with life ebbing away upon the blank shores of midnight, unrevealed to the eye of affection by a single ray of light, blessd—beautiful light!
               The old man, observing this action, declared he must go: he had no idea it was so late.
               "Wait a moment, Major," cried Harry, following him without; "I want to speak with you a while."
               In a few moments he returned, giving a spring as he reached the fireplace.
               "Well, boys," he cried, "I used some of my magic powers ers of persuasion on the old man, and I've got your shoes. He promised to send them over to-morrow morning: shoes socks and innumerable unmentionables. He is going to kill a mutton to-morrow, too, and divide with us. What a fine thing it is to know how to play the agreeable!"
               The individual he had termed Jack jumped up, dashing off his old slouched hat, which I thought bore a sneaking resemblance to the dining-room servant's, and running his fingers though his long, streaming hair commenced laughing merrily.
               "Well, these are adventures!" he cried. "Don't I cut a swell? What would the folks at hum think to see me now?"
               "Come, Dunbar, why don't you rejoice in our good luck?" he added, looking down on his queer appearance in continued merriment. "You've no spunk."
               But his phlegmatic companion answered him from his retired post with something very like a snore; and as I had other thoughts to occupy me, I returned to my room, leaving the warlike confrères to their own uninterrupted conferences; for they were such a rough, unattractive pair that the other ladies swiftly followed my example.
               We had a shed which served as a kitchen for our own use, so that we did not take meals with the Barnards—an arrangement which secured sufficient privacy to each family, at the same time our intercourse was as unreserved and intimate as was agreeable.
               I found Mabel asleep, little Mona lying like a delicate flower or her arm, both looking so helpless and beautiful in slumber that I stooped involuntarily to kiss them, happy in the sweet thought that one roof would now be ours for life one noble protector the natural guardian for us all, and one heaven, I hoped, finally succeed to all the sore mutations and trials of time.
            
            
               CHAPTER LVI.
               NEVER having been a favorite of "Nature's sweet restorer, balmy sleep," that night the wayward god was unusually long in heeding my earnest pursuit.
               Visions of the good old man at Callamura haunted my brain; the old marquis in his death-agony, then the beautiful Felicité and her horrid, watery bridal with death, the devoted Princess de Lamballe, who, even to save her life, would not heed the prayers of her brutal saviour, who would fain have rescued her from her fate, and swear she hated the ministers of her happier days; all these, with the terrible phantom of De Lorme gliding like an avenging spirit of Nemesis over the wreck of America, rendered my sleep feverish and unrefreshed.
               When I awoke the sun had won several hours of his march; a few warblers were caroling merrily without in the soft October sunshine, and my breakfast was setting in an oven waiting my attention.
               I drank the coffee, a miserable beverage with the color of coffee, but a slimy taste of soap or rye or some such Confederate substitute.
               "My head aches, Mabel; I feel like being out of doors."
               "Let me bathe your head with camphor," she offered. "Oh these miserable times! I have forgotten the odor of cologne."
               "Yes, many luxuries are now remembered but as 'the dream of things that were.' But the sweetest perfume to me always was the unprofaned freshness of the woods, the wine-like atmosphere from the grapevines and muscadines, and all those sweet country smells for which the crowded denizens of smoky cities are almost famished. Let us remember what we have to be thankful for."
               "True," she replied; "we must possess our souls in patience."
               I looked up at her sweet, placid brow, so resigned and unresisting under its weight of affliction, and was meditating informing her of the crowning wish of her heart, which I had decided to gratify; but I was not inclined for conversation just then. The soothing influence of her hand across my brow predisposed me to silence, and I soon sauntered out to inhale the invigorating morning breeze.
               We, having very few to provide for and such a bank of trunks to draw from, were not necessitated to that constant application to the wheel and the loom which threw such unusual drudgery on the Southern ladies during that wretched dearth of dry goods, so that we had comparatively much leisure. Mrs. Bell, however, and Ellinor kept the looms tramping and the wheels whirling around us, so that a stranger passing might have supposed a miniature factory had suddenly sprung up among the forests of the West.
               I sought somewhat mechanically our secluded library, and taking a book leaned back in the arm-barrel-chair, not so much to read as to rest my head on its comfortable support.
               The buzz, buzz of the wheels and the tramp, tramp of the looks insensibly composed my senses and gave loose rein to thought and meditation.
               Of course I thought of nothing but the change in my future upon which I had resolved. My judgment warranted the step, but some demon dark, from lower shades escaped, broke loose with a torrent of speculations, retrospections, introspections and conjectural impossibilities that for a while almost unsettled my equanimity and beclouded my judgment.
               Have you not, said a voice, always held that a woman should never marry without that absorbing, devoted love which would reader it miserable without its object? Have you not always believed this? Have you been constantly sighing for James Conway's return? Have you felt any anxiety to tighten the bond between you? Have you not rather preferred a postponement of the matter? How know you that, after the knot is tied, indissolubly tied, you may find no love to respond to his, and a long life of loveless hypocrisy be yours?
               "I have acted correctly," I replied. "I have every reason to believe that I will love him; besides I have seen enough of the world to know that if not him, then no one. His superior I will not find; or if I do, I might not win, and I do not care to vegetate alone, unloved, in the world. Better the lot of his cherished wife than that of a wretched, hapless old spinster, with naught to live for. Mabel, with that soft yielding grace, always attractive to the other sex, might, as the years glide along, become consoled in her grief by another; and how desolate my lot then! I have acted wisely."
               "Suppose, though," and I started at the thought, "suppose, in the after changes of lie, Mr. Sterne should stand before you free. Hermione is treacherous and faithless. One who broke every other vow will not heed the marriage vow less lightly. Suppose he should return to you, deserted, outraged, penitent and suing for forgiveness, for restoration to your favor, would not your heart plead for its first, its fairest dream? How would you agonize if your hands were tied, and you had forged your own fetters! A little more delay, and you might have held your prize, soiled, it is true, and degraded by another's keeping, but still yours, yours at last!"
               This impossible possibility flashing upon me now, as it were, at the eleventh hour, made my heart grow cold and heavy; and an Ithuriel spear went searching my spirit, and dragging to light all the inmost arcana of my soul.
               There was one farewell of Mr. Sterne's ringing through my ears like a sea-shell, pouring though its limited valves all the depth and the power of the haunting sea; and strive as I would, it had never ceased to haunt the halls of my memory.
               It was that deep, despairing "God bless you, Mona!" as I stood out on the colonnade, under the dim shadow of the columns, the night when Hermione had chosen to surround herself, on the eve of her departure, like the sinking sun, with clouds of glory, and leave in the mind of all her last appearance as the brightest memory of her presence.
               Could I have been able to discover him among the shadows there, the wild, adoring pathos of that "God bless you," had brought me to his side. Whatever influences had decided him to marry Hermione, of one thing I felt assured: when he left me that night, it was not with indifference.
               Unconsciously to myself, that agitated heart-wrung farewell, falling almost on the very eve of his bridal with Hermione, had been the one single, golden star striking through the dark clouds of mystery hanging around my abandonment, and consoling somewhat the utter paralysis of my woman's self-respect and wounded pride.
               Yet even with this voice of temptation, even with this seducing memory, I became reassured in the consciousness of having sought the path of duty, and consequently that of true happiness.
               "No," I replied; "even if he stood before me, free and untrammeled, after he had drank the bitter water and reaped the consequences of having trusted to a perfidious siren, I would spurn him. I could not stoop to a perjured heart. Better the manly faith of James, a thousand times better his noble sincerity! Were they both before me which to choose, I would scorn Mr. Sterne!"
               "But he might explain it all," whispered the tempter—"Hermione's artfulness, M'lle de Boisseau's untruthfulness!"
               "Explain! never!" I returned. "No explanation could wipe away such falsity. The fact of his marriage stands. It must have been of his own free will. Nothing could ever palliate that. A spy, too, the perjured ingrate! I have decided wisely—worthily. A lofty, upright nature could not act otherwise, and heaven will crown my endeavors to act conscientiously with its blessing."
               My mind became tranquil again as I cast my eyes on the pages of a book, endeavoring of fix my attention to Bascom's brilliant sermons, one of Mrs. Bell's treasures contributed to our limited store of books.
               My attention was momentarily diverted to one of the Confederate boys crossing the yard in the direction of the spring. I saw the old major had been true to his promise, a very respectable pair of shoes gracing his feet, and a pair of very presentable gray jean pants meeting them quite sociably over the ankles.
               I returned to Bascom's splendid description of the Crucifixion, but had not proceeded more than a paragraph when a shadow fell across the sunshine of the door, and I lifted up my eyes.
               It was the tall Confederate soldier, sporting uncle's missing coat.
               A sudden sensation of alarm crossed me that this man should have discovered me alone in the library but a moment's reflection convinced me that there was no necessity for apprehension. Although rough in appearance, and apparently unused to ladies' society, he was our guest, one of our defenders, and I looked at him kindly.
               
               "Good-morning, sir," I said. "I am glad to see you have some shoes, at length."
               The man did not speak. His hat was slouched down over his eye, but he stood regarding me so earnestly that my fears took birth again. Yet his motionless attitude some way had the effect of communicating the same inertia to my faculties, and I became too frightened to move. His heavy beard floating in the wind and his wild disheveled locks flying round his countenance, half concealing it from view, gave him anything but a pacific and inspiring appearance, and I fairly trembled under his quiet, deliberate inspection.
               "Mona," said a deep, musical voice, which once heard must float through the spirit for ever and for ever—"Mona—at last!"
               "Mr. Sterne," I cried, almost ignorant whether it what a delusion of the senses or a reality. "You here!"
               "Yes, Mona, at last in the heaven of your presence." I started.
               He said the words sadly. He took off the old servant's hat that had so effectually veiled the nobility with which the hand of Heaven had so especially crowned his royal-looking head, and the blue summer-time of his eyes darted though his heavily-fringed lashed and brows, radiating the sublime yet mournful joy of his soul. He walked in and seated himself on the bench near my chair, leaning wearily back, while his eyes fixedly continued their regard. I remembered that I was meeting the husband of my cousin, and I had no lingering weakness of betray, neither was I pleased with his light tone of gallantry.
               "I never was more astonished in my life, Mr. Sterne. I hope you have been well," I said, with dignity. "When did you hear from Hermione? Was she well?"
               "She was well when I parted with her. I have no heard from her in a long time."
               He was, I knew from close acquaintance with the man, scarcely conscious of what he was saying. He was gazing, gazing on my face, with his whole soul centred in the look; and it was the blended passion of adoration and despair.
               I felt my face flush with resentment that any married man should regard me with such unrestrained admiration, and I rose to return my book to the shelf, designing to put a speedy end to the interview.
               "How did you get here?" I asked, politely, as I was placing back the book. "Where are you from, Mr. Sterne?"
               "I came like the Magi, Mona," he sadly returned, "seeking the bright star of Promise, bringing gifts of frankincense and myrrh; but like them I find its beauty fading from my view."
               He saw me about to leave.
               "Stay, Mona, stay," he cried. "Sweet child of my affections, do not leave me."
               He caught me gently by the arm.
               "STay, child," he pleaded; "I will not offend your sweet modesty: only give me this one parting ray of light to gild the memory of my desolate life; it is all I ask."
               I felt touched by his sorrow. Large tears stood in his eyes, threatening to roll down his weather-beaten cheeks, and I noticed threads of silver were scattered among his long disheveled locks and streaked his heavy beard. He looked like a melancholy ruin, slowly verging to decay, yet still grandly imposing in its majestic simplicity.
               Then Hermione had deserted him and rendered his life a desolation, as she has all others. I could not repress my sympathy.
               "I am sorry, Mr. Sterne," I condoled, "that your life should now be desolate; after such brilliant hopes, too, as you must have had."
               "Speak not of my hopes," he said, despairingly. "I was credulous to have entertained them. I am but a wrecked barque, floating aimlessly on the tide, without a star to guide or a spar to steady it. It is of you, Mona, I would speak. I know it all. I saw you parting yesterday with your handsome lover. I stood looking at you with a crushed and bleeding heart. I saw him bearing down the road the fervent eyes of my precious pupil. I knew he had won the sweet ewe lamb of my flock that I had cherished in my bosom and enshrined in my heart; yet with all this, Mona, I have not cursed him, and I can still feel a throb of sympathy for your happiness. Oh, Mona!"
               He was talking so wildly that I felt uneasy; his eyes seemed devouring me with the fervor of their flashes, bringing back, oh so much of the shrouded, petrified past that I began to tremble for my own equanimity. Yet I was conscious that I should spurn him—hurl him from me.
               "Mr. Sterne," I cried, "I beg you will not address me in that style again. Mr. Conway is my lover: I am his betrothed. I intend to become his wife; and reposing my happiness on his manly faith and integrity, I do not wish to wound your feelings; and while I retain many kindly recollections of your care of me as my preceptor, and would value your sympathies therefrom; otherwise, I cannot forget that they come from a perjured source."
               There came a shock, a spasm of agony assaulting his whole frame as I said these words, with which, strive as I might to preserve my composure, I could not wholly prevent myself from sympathizing.
               It was like that description in the immortal Diver of a ses giving constant birth to a sea.
               He seized me again forcibly by the arm, and broke out in a torrent of language:
               "Mona, Mona, child, unsay those terrible words, if you would not thrust the last arrow from the quiver in the heart thou hast broken. Never was the shield of Minerva more spotless than the faith I have plighted to thee. Through all the difficulties and dangers that have beset me in winning my way to the altar of my soul, my love has been, like Saladin's polished blade, cutting through the fine hairs of diplomacy and cleaving the thick cushions that blockaded you from my arms. I can yield you, Mona, to another, though my heart will follow you; and when its sad pulses have ceased to beat, its lone ashes will naturally glide round your feet with every breeze that brightens your brow. But, oh, Mona, I cannot bear that you should call me perjured!
               
               "Perjured? no, never, Mona," he added, his eye flashing fairly on me; "believe that the Mississippi will fail to blend her waters with her beautiful tropic gulf, believe that the earth will forget her sun or that the stars will forget the laws which guide them though the blank infinitude, but, oh, child, never believe me false—perjured! Half-fearing you were already wedded to another—half-believing it—I have wandered for years over the desolating track of our armies, cheered on by hope of freeing you. Imprisoned for months, I have endured it calmly, because I was a prisoner in the native land of my Mona. No! I have given you a devotion, nerved with strength and almost the purity of a seraph's, and you call me perjured!"
               What intense bitterness and sorrow rang through his tones!
               He could say nothing which did not convey the assurance of its verity; but it was time that I closed my ears on such dangerous yet futile phrases.
               
               I rose from my chair, which I had resumed. It had a somewhat awkward back, though comfortable, which just reaching to my twist of hair, was always wont to disarrange it. As I gained my feet the heavy mass fell sweeping to my knees, each fibre seeming always to possess a negative repulsion for its fellow, and they suddenly strayed all around me like a veil of midnight.
               As I stooped to pick up my pins scattered on the floor, his arm was around me. I was pressed to his throbbing heart and enshrined within his powerful arms, so closely smothered that resistance was vain. A thousand kisses were showered on my brow, on my lips, on my throat; and filled with shame, confusion and a revival of wretched delight, I knew not which way to turn my conscious eyes.
               Yet shame predominated.
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," I cried, "forbear! forbear! What must you think of me? I have given no warrant for such presumption. If you forget the tie that binds you, I do not."
               "What tie," he questioned, "but that deathless one of love that binds me to you?"
               I was now horrified at his obliviousness of Hermione; but still he would not release me.
               "Forgive me, Mona, but I cannot, cannot yield you up—not if James Conway stood at the door to claim you as his bride.'
               "Mr. Sterne," I cried, for I felt like a criminal, "remember Hermione. What would she think? Oh, Mr. Sterne, release me."
               "Never," he answered, while the hot tears rained rapidly on my lips, communicating, in spite of my anguish, all the vanished delight for which my heart had so long pined. Indeed, I ceased to struggle. Heaven forgive me if they were stolen waters! they were not stolen by hand of mine. They were placed to my lips, and could but drink.
               "Never," he cried. "What is Hermione to me?"
               I could scarcely speak. The fatal delirium had overpowered my senses. Wrapped in his arms, strained to his breast, my bosom beating against his, one hand under my chin and the other twined among the dark luxuriance of my hair, with his lips glued to mine, sending with each muscular movement fresh torrents of fire into my heart, his eyes penetrating into mine, where they read—ah! shall I confess it?—all the pent-up, rekindled passion of years, I could only whisper,
               "Is she not your wife?"
               "Never on earth,' he answered. "You, you, for my wife, Mona.'
               When the transport of his passion was passed and his yearning heart had satiated its hunger, he placed me back on my chair.
               "There!" he said; "that were worth ages of exile and wandering, and you do love me, precious?"
               I could only bow my head, for my traitress eyes had revealed it all.
               "Let me unravel this mystery. Had you heard I married hermione? where?"
               I told him all the reader knows.
               "Yes," he explained. "I was at the bridal. It was on the boat, but the fortunate bridegroom was Mr. Wintersoll."
               "Mr. Wintersoll!" I cried, a new light bursting on all the horrible treachery and misrepresentation of which I had been the unconscious victim. "But why, then, did you not return?"
               "Why? Because I was waited on to the boat, and ordered by a committee to leave immediately for the North. I knew it was both folly and madness to resist a lawless mob. 'Inter arma leges silent,' you know, but I wrote you a long letter, explaining the cause of my absence and assuring you that I would rejoin you as soon as practicable."
               "I never received it," I murmured, winding my fingers among his long, disheveled hair. "Nothing to tell of the death of my dream, save that you had married Hermione."
               "I wrote the letter on the boat, sending it in the town to M'lle de Boisseau, requesting her to forward it by Simon. I hardly knew myself where to find him. Hermione was flying all around the town among her acquaintances.'
               "It was she,' I remarked, "who informed the driver that Hermione had married you, and her letter to me bore the same construction. Hermione herself did not mention the individual, whether from inadvertence or from a wish to further the deception, it is hard to say; or possibly it might be she was too proud to mention Mr. Wintersoll's name to uncle, after he had objected to him."
               "You must have offended M'lle de Boisseau very deeply some way," commented Mr. Sterne. "She first informed me that you were to marry Mr. Conway. She it was who knew all about your engagement, assuring me that she had overheard your courtship on your to school—that you frequently met that way. She it was who had seen him give you his photograph, to which you replied that it realized all your fairest dreams."
               "Alas! alas!" I cried; "the wretched cat! I did say something of the kind in reference to Hermione, but I had no idea she heard it at that distance and treasured it up to repeat to you.'
               "Then she knew that you received letters from him constantly—that all the family was in his interest—that there was no doubt that you would marry him—that it was a settled things. That you had his photograph I could corroborate myself; and just after she had finished her Iago-like villainy with which she regaled me at your cousin's party, passing you and Philip Conway, I heard you speaking of your 'lost letter' in such a way as to confirm the balance of her statement. Then, too, at the political meeting I caught the bright flash of pleasure on your face when you greeted him at the window, and my soul sunk into the tortures of Othello's. With this horrible nightmare of your untruth upon me, I addressed the crowd. I threw you that cold, indignant look, and I endured the anguish of the rack.'
               "And yet," I could not forbear reproaching, "you never accused me; you even denied me all opportunity for justification.'
               "Ah, sweet child! the wisest of us all are liable to err; but I had no sooner passed you than I repented me of my blindness. I watched you with the eye of a hawk for a dove. When I saw that Mr. Conway accompanied Hermione home, I mistrusted M'lle de Boisseau's motives, and I sought your uncle, as you remember I told you at your cousin's I would. But conscious I had given you cause of offence, I wrote you my amends, which, strangely enough, only to-day did I discover had never reached you—returned to me, to my astonishment, in your uncle's coat-pocket, where I expect it has lain from that day to this, unknown to you as well as to me."
               He thrust his hand in his pocket and drew forth a delicate perfumed billet-doux, such as the scarcity of the times could not possibly provide, bearing primâ facie evidence of being an ante-bellum document.
               "What did you say to uncle?" I inquired, turning it over in my fingers. "He was under the impression that you had solicited Hermione's hand.'
               "I told him I wished to marry his niece," Mr. Sterne answered, "and I handed him the letter to give her. I supposed he could read. He seemed hurried."
               
               "Interested in those Lombardy poplars," I interrupted.
               "Yes; he merely looked at the letter, and putting it in his pocket, remarked that it was all very satisfactory: he had no objections."
               "And there it might have stayed for ever," I said, looking up at the sweet happiness shining down on me again from those dear eyes, just as if three long years had not passed away, obliterating their light from my every-day life.
               "What a pity you sent it by uncle!" I lamented. "It seems to me you might have known he would forget it. He lost the coat, which I found by accident. I never dreamed there was any clue to the mystery hanging around you lurking in the pockets, or I should have searched them long ago. But I owe the preservation of the coat itself to Sarah's stuffing propensities—she has had it hid away somewhere all this time."
               "Read." He pointed to the letter. "See why I was so shocked at your conduct the night of Hermione's party."
               Thus the note ran:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              SWEET MONA:
                           
                           "I have just seen your uncle. He has no objections to our marriage, which I hope now will be speedily consummated. Forgive my coldness yesterday. I am shocked to think, sweet one, I could so easily have been tempted to doubt your sincerity; but such love as mine is prone to be very exacting, and I thought the proof sufficient.
                           "I will tell you of it when we meet. Let us act in such a manner to-bight as to announce our engagement.
                           "Secret understandings are always liable to the assaults and machinations of enemies. Once published, they are secure.
                           "If you forgive me, which I know you will, meet me with one of your sweet tributes of flowers, and let me enjoy a happy evening blessed by your bright smiles.
                           
                              "Yours,
                              STERNE."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Instead of that," commented Mr. Sterne, "I found you and James Conway seated on the colonnade, engaged in earnest conversation; and you stood in the doorway, just in my view, and handed him your bouquet while you caught my eyes glued on you."
               I opened my eyes wide, remembering how unconsciously I was trampling that night upon his heart and my own happiness.
               "Who would imagine," I cried "that such slight things could have divided us? He was asking me for the flowers to give Hermione. I give them willingly, anxious to forward his suit with her."
               "Our lives are composed of trifles, Mona," mused Mr. Sterne. "As I have often told you, it does not require any intricacy of plot to create a comedy or even a tragedy, such as our little history had well-nigh proved. But unfortunately your own conduct seemed to give coloring to all that I heard. Then, added to all this, that singular scene in the conservatory between you, to all of which I was witness. I saw you making some very serious confession to him, then springing after him in that excited manner, recalling him. All these things substantiated M'lle de Boisseau's statements."
               "He was going for you—for you," I said, "to come and relieve the agony I was suffering; but I saw you so enamored of Hermione I recalled him."
               "Enamored of your cousin? I was only hanging round her to draw from her all I could in reference to your affairs with Mr. Conway. Less communicative that M'lle de Boisseau, she had the rare the art of always throwing out enough insinuation to render me tantalized to hear more. But I did not think I was attentive enough to attract observation."
               "But your billet-doux to Hermione the next morning," I inquired, "Which M'lle de Boisseau had the kindness to wave before me?"
               Mr. Sterne looked really surprised:
               "Why, it was merely an inquiry to know the hour at which she would leave. I see now she purposely misled me. I designed to call in and see you before I left—one word to relieve the suspense, the agony I was enduring. She replied she would leave at ten. I called at nine and found her ready to leave, intending, as she said, to wait for me in town. This must have been to prevent my seeing divide us, I cannot imagine."
               "I can," I said. "I had mortally offended M'lle de Boisseau. I think it was her revenge. Hermione had no ill-will against me, I should think; only her natural heartlessness made her enjoy anything of the kind. I believe, too she really had her heart set on my marrying James Conway, but from what motive i cannot divine. Possibly she may have thought she ought to provide him some resource in the desolation she was preparing for him."
               "Certainly all of their machinations would have fallen through,' remarked Mr. Sterne, "could I have returned. But Fortuna faveat fortibus! Everything conspired to aid them."
               "Yet all of our troubles hung upon that letter. Poor, dear uncle! he little imagined he was causing me such unhappiness.'
               "No, our troubles began before that. Your unwillingness to have our engagement known—hic labor hic opus est. And that was the argument my suffering spirit most frequently used in seconding all the tortures M'lle de Boisseau inflicted upon me. Had you really resolved to marry me, you would not have so zealously guarded our relations from the public. And what indeed had I to offer you, compared with James Conway? He was my junior by several years. Youth, wealth, family, friends, position, all he had to offer you; what could I do but relinquish the bright prize for which I had yearned and toiled so many years?"
               "But he had not offered it then, Mr. Sterne," I answered, gazing fondly up in his face; "and if he had, it had been all the same."
               "There was one another thought too, sweet child. I dreaded lest in my selfishness to win my flower before the rude breeze of the world had blown upon it I had laid up cause for future sorrow. What if your sentiments were the unsteady fancy of girlhood, and after you mingled more in the world you should find a brighter realization, and should reproach me for talking advantage of your unsuspecting ignorance?"
               I gave him a look that must have exonerated him from all such imputation on my part.
               The ringing of Mr. Barnard's dinner-bell interrupted our interview.
               He drew me to him.
               "No more concealment now, Mona," he said. "We have suffered enough from that."
               And we walked on together toward the house.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LVII.
               "MABEL!" I stood before her almost too excited to command language. "Mr. Sterne!"
               "What, Mona? your eyes look troubled. What of him?"
               "Mr. Sterne is here," I said, "in the house."
               "And Hermione?" she inquired.
               "Hermione is Mrs. Wintersoll. It was M'lle de Boisseau's artifice. She had been engaged a long time to him. I see it all now."
               "What confusion of ideas!" replied Mabel. "Do collect yourself."
               "Don't you remember, then," I proceeded, "that M'lle de Boisseau always went to town herself for her letters and Hermione's? Hermione was engaged to Mr. Wintersoll all that time. He met her in H—— and he married her on the boat—not Mr. Sterne. Hermione always spoke as if she looked forward to some brilliant destiny in a foreign land. What piles of letters she used to write and receive—her foreign correspondence, as she termed it—and how carefully she kept them all locked! It is all plain, plain now."
               "Not so plain that I see. How does that bring Mr. Sterne here?" asked she, bewildered by this strange revelation. "Where in the world did he spring from?"
               "I do'nt know myself yet," I answered; "but here he is, dropped down from heaven."
               "You have seen him?"
               "Yes, I expect I have.'
               "I shook my head meaningly.
               "And I suppose it will all be accomplished this time?"
               I laughed in my joy.
               "Oh, Mabel, nothing will separate us again, I hope."
               "And poor James?"
               "No, no poor James. I hope he has a brighter happiness in store for him. Mabel, I promised to write and give him a definite answer at once; but it would now be better for you to write and tell him all. I shall give his photograph to Ellinor. Tell him to apply to her for it. Oh, Mabel, don't she suit better than I would have done?"
               "You look so happy," said dear, good Mabel, "that I wish you joy with all my heart. I will write as you desire.'
               "Write to-day, mabel,' I said, snatching little Mona from her arms. "Here comes Mr. Sterne now."
               "Ask him in," said Mabel.
               He entered, greeting her with warmth.
               "See our little household god," I cried, holding up the bright, handsome child, beaming then with her father's noble brow and large dark, gray eyes, almost blue.
               Mr. Sterne was fond of children; he put out his arms, and the little one sprang within them, nestling close down to his great manly heart.
               "Papa, dood papa, tome."
               The instinct of childhood had recognized the fostering protectorship of his true manhood.
               Tears burst from Mabel's eyes.
               Thus every joy, in those dark days of the South, however pure and true, was dashed with tears wrung from some desolate heart. No meeting was unhaunted by the wretched ghost of some life-long sorrow.
               Mr. Sterne had heard of Philip's death from the Barnards, to whom he had revealed his former connection at Callamura. He pressed the dear child to his heart, and placed his kind kisses on her brow.
               
               "Yes, sweet one, your own "dood papa," come back to live with you and care for you. Call me always papa."
               She nestled up close around his neck, refusing to leave, and calling him her own "dood papa," a name she gives him to-day.
               Mr. Sterne had a thousand things to relate of his adventures since leaving Callamura. He drew out his pipe, which little Mona insisted on lighting, and then resumed her post under his arm, while we listened to his recital.
               He amused us first with an account of Mr. Jerkins' marriage to M'lle de Boisseau. He had joined them in H——, and getting on board the same boat, in some unaccountable manner found the old baggage sealed to him before he left. The little Negative had met at last with an Affirmative. I gathered from what he said that the difficult match required Hermione's strategic powers before it could be accomplished. She had blarneyed him into the belief that he was acting with rare wisdom and judgment.
               "Yet a more crestfallen-looking bridegroom," concluded Mr. Sterne, "I never remember to have-seen. the only drop of comfort dashing his bitter cup seemed to the fact of his wife's being a subject of the French empire, and a vague hope he entertained of her extricating him from the service. She had persuaded him, moreover, that she had great influence with the Federal government, and he was 'not going to be swallowed up in Confederate losses.' They landed just below Vicksburg, a doleful, desolate-looking pair enough," Mr. Sterne concluded. "They had my sympathies."
               "Yes," I mused, knowing Hermione's heartlessness, "Hermione had no further use for M'lle de Boisseau. It suited her very well to marry her off to Mr. Jerkin's full pockets."
               "Did Hermione look happy at her bridal?" asked Mabel.
               "She was always a riddle to me," replied Mr. Sterne. "I think she looked like she always does, calm and consciously happy in her unequaled beauty. The boat was under weigh when the ceremony was performed. It was crowded with Northern refugees, flying homeward, and a handsomer wedding I never witnessed. Mr. Wintersoll ordered a magnificent collation; and there was dancing and a brilliant crowd of handsomely attired ladies and gentlemen."
               "How was she dressed?" I asked; "but I don't suppose you can tell."
               "Yes, but I can; for she told me all about how she had managed everything, and seemed to enjoy extravagantly her wonderful secresy of manœuvre. Her dress was of white moiré, flounced with deep Brussels lace. She said it had cost several thousand dollars. She had written to her mantua-maker in the city, who had her measure, and had it made two months previous. She wore a thread-lace veil, sweeping all round her queenly figure, embroidered with silver orange buds, the product of Scotish looms, she said, costing several thousand dollars. It was secured with a crown of pearls, a gift from Mr. Wintersoll. Jewels covered her sculpture-like throat and arms, and she was pronounced by her impromptu guests as the most peerless-looking bride they had ever seen."
               "Did she tell you how she secured her treasure so opportunely?" I asked.
               "Mr. Wintersoll bought it all up. He had been waiting in H—— several days for her. The captain of the boat was a friend of his, and that was his sole object in coming to H——."
               "Well, well," said Mabel, "it all sounds like a romance."
               "Hermione had a broad stripe of that in her," I commented. "Her reading was almost entirely of that description tion; and she had an intense desire to enter upon some broader sphere, where she could dazzle the world. Callamura was too limited for her."
               "Did she have any attendants, Mr. Sterne?" I questioned.
               "What curiosity women have!" he replied, smiling; "but I suppose I must gratify it, as I am sole bulletin. Yes, Mr. Wintersoll brought his niece with him, who stood with a Mr. Rives from New Orleans. M'lle de Boisseau leaned affectionately on Mr. Jerkins' arm, clad in a pale blue silk, Hermione's gift for the occasion; and I—as the Episcopal ceremony was used—I had the honor of bestowing the bride."
               "How wonderful it all seems!" expatiated Mabel. "Hermione living so securely among us, yet all the time preparing to leave and marry a man we had all forgotten."
               "And that very secresy of plotting," I ventured, "was what threw charm of romance around it all with Hermione, and doubtless induced her to act as she did. She loved mystery."
               "How long, Mona, since Mr. Wintersoll left Callamura," she asked, "before all this happened?"
               "About a year, I think."
               "Yes, but they had met on her visits to neighboring towns several times afterwards, so she told me," Mr. Sterne remarked. "She excused her conduct by saying her uncle had refused his consent, and she knew he was unalterable in his decisions."
               "She must have loved him," concluded Mabel.
               "Love! no love entered Hermione's soul," I indignantly contradicted.
               "Yes," Mr. Sterne argued, "there is no heart, however stony, where love does not at some time gain some hold. James Conway was her beau ideal."
               "Either James Conway or the dead," I pondered. "I have tried a thousand times to decide which; and although I saw more of her than either of you, I never could determine."
               Probably the truth was as Mr. Sterne had asserted. James Conway was her beau ideal, but her heart pining for that affection which the stern rigidity of that ambitious course she had marked out for herself had denied her, her woman's nature consoled itself for a while with the counsinly devotion offered her, quieting conscience with the tie of kindred which, so far from blazoning, she knew would throw the veil of charity and oblivion over her errors.
               "Where did you part with them?" inquired Mabel.
               "I left them at Cairo. I had most of my means invested in Chicago, and as the South had banished me, I proceeded to secure it from confiscation. I followed afterward in the rear of our armies, striving to make my way to Callamura. I heard of the raid upon that place, but just as I was entertaining some hopes of reaching it, I was so ill-fated as to be blent with the fall of Fort de Russy. I was taken prisoner with a squad of Federals in that vicinity, and though I professed to be as good a Sourtherner as any of them, I have been imprisoned almost ever since at Tyler."
               "At Tyler!" I exclaimed, horrified by his sufferings; "and how could you endure those hot suns?"
               "Had I not been acclimated," he replied, "they might have told heavily upon me. I may thank several years' residence in a still more tropic region, I suppose, for my immunity. In company with Jack Frierson, I succeeded in making my escape, fancying we heard the yelling of bloodhounds at our heels."
               "And how did you land here?" I asked, breathless with interest.
               "Jack, as it happened, was an old college-mate of Harry Barnard's. We came upon him in the road. Jack recognized him and made known our necessities, which he kindly relieved. He never would have recognized jack. We were both very sturdy-looking representatives of the fair sex."
               "In woman's attire?" I ejaculated. "How on earth, Mr. Sterne! whose clothes?"
               He laughed heartily at the remembrance:
               "Well, Mona, I suppose there was but one woman in in America whose gowns would have swept down to my ankles. Cannot you divine her? Probably, too, not may whose extreme goodness would have prompted it."
               I could not guess how she had landed up there, but it was Miss Britt. She had at last married little Mr. Ware, and he had been assigned some obscure post duty, and traveled round from pillar to post till he at last had been ordered as a kind of supernumerary commissariat, or sutler, or tithe agent, or clerk at Tyler.
               Mrs. Ware's kind-heartedness prompted her to occasional visits to the Federal prisoners; and as soon as she had recognized Mr. Sterne among them, she had set about to devise means for his escape.
               With what success I happily knew.
               "And here you are safe, safe," I repeated, my eyes swimming with the deathless devotion of my heart.
               But I had many little confidences, too sacred for other eyes to behold. I opened my writing-desk, looking for my letter to James Conway, which must now meet Mr. Sterne's eye, leaving him to talk a while with Mabel.
               I place it conveniently in my pocket, and stood beside him.
               "Let us walk out," he suggested, looking longingly upon me. "Evening is approaching. Mrs. Conway, you will excuse the selfishness of lovers—long parted, too, as we have been."
               We walked down the road, he bearing the dear, precious little Mona in his arms; and we sat down under the holly bower, so lost in looks of love and dear delight on the cherished faces we had thought never to see more that language was at first not very fluent.
               The child played round us, gathering purple, weedy flowers and golden rods and wood Bacchus to fling upon her new "papa's" lap.
               "Here," I said, handing him my letter to James—"hero is the precious fruit of all your teachings. You taught me not to mourn over an irretrievable past—an unrequited love. I was just about to marry James Conway."
               He read the letter, looking keenly in my face.
               "There is no love here, Mona," he said; "but written in all truth and sincerity—Mona-like—but you did not love him?"
               I shook my head.
               "You, you, even then."
               "Let us thank God, Mona, for this precious deliverance."
               He placed his hand on the sweet child's head and one arm round my waist, while the musical soul translated itself forth through the responding lips in a prayer of such deep, triumphant melody as never before had thrilled those grand aboriginal trees around us.
               "It is a good thing, Mona," he said, when he had concluded—"it is a good thing to give thanks to our Lord. This Blessed trust has sustained me through all."
               The sun was sinking in the west.
               "A few more revolutions of that orb," he said, "and you must be mine for ever past doubt—beyond recall. Do not speak of delays, Mona. We have had enough of them. Yes," he cried, catching me close round the waist, "not another revolution shall the day-god make—to-morrow!"
               Could I say nay?
               
               The tears sprang to my eyes, but he kissed them away.
               "We must proceed immediately to Callamura," he argued. "I decide all things for you now. There is no time to lose."
               "Tell me one thing," I inquired. "After I had just informed you I was to marry James Conway, why did you suddenly seize me in your arms? What was there in that to fill you with such sudden enthusiasm?"
               "Poor child! did I not view your lips quiver with the announcement? Did I not see you start when I first spoke? Did I not see all that you were striving to conceal? Had I known you so many years, daily associated with you, not to know all the changes of your truthful countenance? And with the hope that you still loved me, as your wayward tresses broke from confinement, bringing back all the dear scenes of the past, I was maddened—maddened by the sight and by the grief of losing the woman who still loved me, and whom I adored."
               "One thing more," I interrupted. "I stood before you in the same disarray in the woods near Pleasant Hill. I called you. You looked at me. Why didn't you recognize me then?"
               "Me!" echoed Mr. Sterne, in intense surprise; "never! I was never near Pleasant Hill in my life."
               "I was sure it was you," I replied, relating the circumstance.
               Mr. Sterne seemed lost in thought.
               "That must have been my brother Allan," he said, after a while. "He might have been on a reconnoitering expedition for Banks. I know he was with Banks about that time, and we are considered remarkably alike. But I should have thought your eye could not have been deceived."
               "When the heart is full of one image," I replied, "may it not cast from within a shadow on the retina which gives a resemblance to many a passing object?"
               "True, sweet child," he answered, "and was that the case?"
               "Yes," I replied; "the image was dead in my heart, because Hope had fled the scene; but its features were indelibly stamped upon my memory."
               "Yet the likeness there must be strong enough to account for even your misapprehension. I believe that resemblance may account for my imprisonment. Among my captors were those who had seen Major Sterne, of the regular United States Army, and in spite of my asseverations to the contrary. I was hurried off under the impression that I was a military prize of some importance."
               Mr. Sterne then had a great deal more to tell me of that brother and his mother and sister, painting forth the happy time when we should all meet.
               So the hours glided away, till the deepening twilight warned us to adjourn within doors. Little Mona had fallen asleep, wrapped up in my shawl, in her papa's arms.
               Mabel was surprised when she heard of Mr. Sterne's desire for so speedy a consummation; but those were days of surprises, and she concluded with him, at last, that it was as well that my as any other.
               The absence of drawing-rooms—everybody's spare rooms being generally occupied with refugees—rendered conventionalities absurd; and Mr. Sterne came into Mabel's room, sitting down by the fire with us, assisting to draw off a rapid schedule of to-morrow's arrangements.
               Before bed-time all was concluded.
               I was to wear the same dress I had worn at Dr. Sims' wedding. I displayed it to Mr. Sterne.
               "It requires careful handling," I cautioned, "and is verging to decay."
               
               It was one of those rich brocades for which the looms for France are famous, and which have, since the gentle Eugenia decided, become once more the vogue, to relieve the distress which has fallen on those manufacturing districts through the caprices of Fashion.
               It was covered with Chantilly lace.
               "It looks to me," criticised Mr. Sterne, admiring its courtly splendor—"though I am a poor judge of such things—it looks to me a very fair rival to Hermione's more modern attire."
               "The owner of it was the daughter-in-law of the old marquis," I said. "It is about the last wearing it will admit of, and as I am the last of the Morants to marry, it is well, I reckon, for the old race to go our in a faint flash of its former splendor."
               We had decided to invite no guests but the old major's family, it being best for the interests of Federal prisoners; besides, we had no other neighbors whom we visited to any extent.
               The old major being a Unionist, the interest of our guest could not be endangered in his keeping. Indeed, he afterward proved a valuable friend to Jack, giving his employment on his place and otherwise furthering his secretion till the surrender arrived.
               Ellinor and Jack Frierson were to officiate as our attendants, although with such an informal wedding as ours promised to be I hardly considered that necessary.
               I had not heard of a minister since I had been in this region of country. I could hear very frequently of chaplains in the army, who were shouldering muskets, but ministers of the gospel were few and far between.
               A justice of the peace was to preside at our nuptials.
               I had down to one more of my sleepless nights. What woman ever slept the night before her bridal? I am certain tain I did not, for to-morrow, oh to-morrow was the bright shaft of sunshine letting down on my unworthy head through all the gloom and horrid wretchedness of a fratricidal war.
            
            
               CHAPTER LVIII.
               THE morrow saw confusion dawn upon our miniature factory, although it rose with a brilliant sun and a cloudless sky.
               "Hoarse November's early blast" delays long to blow over these tropic gardens. The trees were arrayed in all the rainbow hues of autumn, and a soft purple haze hung like a bridal veil around the lovely landscape.
               As I looked forth, I saw beds and tables piled promiscuously flanked by the negroes, tearing away the partitions that had divided off our main building into apartments.
               My first thought was that the enemy was upon us, and that my unlucky star had finally predominated upon the very eve of my bridal to thrust us asunder again.
               But I heard the sounds of warfare in the kitchen, the clanking of spoons and pottery.
               On investigation I discovered that all our private arrangements had met with serious interference.
               Jack Frierson, perfectly oblivious to his personal safety, being constitutionally one of Mrs. Burns' class of "harumscarums," after having sat up all night with Harry Barnard to manufacture me a gutta percha ring, had gone tearing round the country in search of belles and fiddlers for the wedding.
               There was no remedy. Mr. Sterne had gone quietly the clerk's about three miles distant, seeking his license and a magistrate; and during his absence, Jack and Harry, reviving their chum-like antecedents, had concocted the idea of a general blow-out.
               All seemed so pleased, and as really I did not care, I gave loose to my own exuberance of spirits and turned in to brandishing spoons and knives with the balance of them.
               We had an abundance to Texas flour, and cakes grew up under our hands surprisingly. Mutton had opportunely arrived from our neighbor, and soon his blooming daughters joined us, bringing in their rear Virginia Sturgess and the Amazonian Miss Keziah.
               "Hoity-toity!" exclaimed the latter, presenting her revolver to Sarah; "what sort of a hotch-potch is that you are cobbling up? Hold that spoon in your right hand, you slabsided Ethiopian! I don't know how it happens that all the niggers are born left-handed now-a-days."
               Sarah slapped the spoon immediately into her right hand, and Miss Keziah swiftly joined us, accomplishing as much work as any five present.
               "What sort of a hocus-pocus is all this you've juggled up so quickly?' she said to me. "A wedding, hey? I've arrived in the nick of time."
               I saw Mr. Sterne arriving, and I left the culinary department for the library, where Dona and Nannie were spreading the table, ornamenting it in quite a rural and tasteful manner.
               "They would make a country frolic of it," Mr. Sterne remarked.
               "Yes, a time for all things," I replied; "I believe I am glad of it. When our own hearts are filled with joys, it is pleasant to have our friends appear to sympathize."
               "Who is that?' questioned Mr. Sterne, fixing his eye on Lionel's graceful form, where he was actively at work among the carpenters, piling up the débris of their labors for future use.
               "That is my boy," I answered; "his name is Lionel Brooks."
               "Lionel Brooks!" echoed Mr. Sterne, with surprise. "Where is he from?"
               "Missouri, I believe, originally."
               "He is the image of him," mused Mr. Sterne, and without saying another word, he strode off to where the boy was at work.
               After an earnest conversation, which lasted for some time, Mr. Sterne returned, saying,
               "It is as I supposed. Lionel is the son of my earliest friend. He is now my boy too. That ring you wear was given men by his father. I saved his life when we were boys together."
               "Yes, you told me of it when I found the ring," I cried. "I remember it now. I thought the name of Lionel Brooks sounded strangely familiar."
               "He has had a sad, wretched history," said Mr. Sterne, "but he shall not want a friend while I live. How thankful, Mona, I am to you that you rescued him from his miserable fate! His father and I were bosom friends, playing together on the green hills of New Hampshire."
               "Strange things happen sometimes. I found him straggling with some cattle to Texas—a poor, suffering little creature."
               "The sun is declining," admonished Mr. Sterne. "I have no improvement to make in my wardrobe, except to have my hair trimmed. I suppose, though, you have some."
               The sun was floating like a great globe of fire down the west, leaving all nature flushed with a tide of glory.
               Ellinor, arrayed in her evening attire, looked elegantly faultless, with a wreath of white spireas clasped around her temples. She had sauntered down the road, with a bright scarf thrown around her shoulders.
               Mabel had just finished superintending my toilette, having bound up my hair and secured my veil with an antique grape-leaf of pearl.
               My veil was a curiosity. It consisted of yards upon yards of a singular fabric—I have never seen the like before or since—resembling point d'applique, sewed neatly together, and looking, I thought, if not à la vogue, very handsome and uncommon.
               "There, Mona," said my cousin, "you look like Pamela Seymour, or the Princess de Lamballe, or our grandmother Felicité—some of those old French beauties now dead and gone."
               Some one said,
               "Mr, James Conway has come."
               "Oh, Mabel," I cried, my conscience striking on my heart, "do go and meet him. Tell him he must stay and stand with Ellinor. I shall never forgive him if he does not. Yes," I cried, following her with my voice, "Dona can stand with Jack Frierson."
               But he had met the sudden apparition of his lost Hermione, beaming in equal yet different charms, as he dismounted, and Ellinor's grace and ease of manner were already exercising their influence. So at least, I fervently hoped.
               "Mona to be married, did you say?" he said to her. "I am sure I never was so surprised in my life."
               Mabel reached them with my message.
               "Oh yes, stay, Mr. Conway!" insisted Ellinor. "It is not often we have a festive occasion like this. You soldier-boys must have nearly forgotten the taste of cake and wine. We have really a handsome supper."
               "Creature comforts are not to be scorned," he admitted. "The hard fare of a soldier, especially of a Confederate soldier, renders the argument a cogent one."
               "Indeed, James," urged Mabel, "It would look strange if you absented yourself from Mona's bridal; you must stay."
               "Then Miss Ellinor must do me the honor of standing with me."
               "Certainly," she replied. "I believe I was to have stood with a wild Confederate jayhawker. I am sure I shall rejoice in the opportunity of escape."
               And he stayed.
               I did not see much of him during the evening, though, as soon as the ceremony was concluded, he offered me his hearty, manly congratulations, and I saw Mr. Sterne frequently conversing with him in a very friendly way.
               He was most of the time at Ellinor's side, bending over her guitar, and I hope most fervently becoming at least impressed by her loveliness of person and character.
               She was not so brilliant and showy as Hermione, but her face possessed that rare delicacy of chiseling and expression that grew upon you with every inspection.
               Miss Keziah stood guard during the evening, dancing in her daggers and revolvers. I began to suspect she was short of ammunition, and carried her weapons more as ornaments than otherwise. She had a habit of cocking them and pointing them at one too freely for her to have run such risks with loaded revolvers.
               Some chance guests arrived during the evening, which brought considerable addition to our merriment. They proved to be French officers with Polignac. James introduced us. I was charmed with the general, and discovered in conversation that our ancestors were doubtless old friends during the exciting times of France. The cipher used in the correspondence I had seen was one often employed by the Polignacs.
               But jack Frierson was the lion par excellence of the evening. Like a bird let loose from a cage, he reveled in his newly-won freedom, and regaled the crowd with descriptions of having all his hair pulled out by the Arkansas jayhawkers, spending three days and nights tied to a tree—of the numerous heroic feats he had performed under Marmaduke; how many times he had saved his life swimming rivers—what a splendid hero Marmaduke was. All were pure fabircations of the moment, which he had the art of rendering life-like, and he wound up with some amusing joke or anecdote that took wonderfully. His loud, hearty bursts of laughter went pealing through the night, while Harry Barnard at his side would clap his hands and urge his Munchausen friend to further exploits in the clime of invention.
               I fancied a faint echo in his tones, which stirred up the slumbering deep of my memory, as he threw back his fair, flaxen hair and dashed among strangers with such perfect self-possession and ease.
               Mabel, of course, did not mingle much in the festivities; but I happened to be near Jack Frierson when she was once in his full view. Such an effect upon human being I seldom witnessed.
               He started, looked at her and followed her with his eyes, hanging round her to catch the few words that fall from her lips. I could see that Mabel observed it, for an angry flush printed her brow, usually so serene and calm. The death of Philip was too recent for her to brook such remarkable attention from one of the other sex; and she soon withdrew entirely from the assembly.
               "That Jack Frierson," she whispered to me, "is a rough, rude specimen. I don't like the way he looks at me."
               James Conway bade us adieu at the close of the evening. He left, carrying off with him our accidental guests, the French representation.
               He had agreed with Mr. Sterne as to the propriety of our returning immediately to Callamura. Mabel's property was in danger of being condemned as abandoned land; indeed it might already have been done; but should any accident happed to uncle, Callamura would be lost likewise.
            
            
               CHAPTER LIX.
               A FEW days more witnessed out departure.
               One wretched drawback was the want of hats. Lionel had lost his on the occasion of Mona's immersion in the bayou. He had been sawing peg-wood on the banks of the stream, selecting straight saplings of the swamp-sassafras, when he heard her plunging in the waves, and was so horrified and hurried by the disaster that he had never been able to hear from his hat since or remember its fate.
               Mr. Sterne was likewise woefully deficient in that respect; and whether it was that a fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind, to quote one of Mrs. Burns' axioms, or that there were otherwise bonds of sympathy binding them, between the two had sprung up a warmer degree of friendship than any one else had succeeded in establishing with Lionel.
               Lionel was expert in plaiting the palmetto very beautifully, and had remedied his loss with nearly a hundred yards of the plaiting, but we had all lived in such an excitement ever since that no one had time to complete his had.
               Miss Keziah had observed their destitution and promised to remedy it. It offered her a fair opportunity of paying off forty or fifty dollars more of her debt; and as it still amounted to some six or seven hundred dollars, I hoped she would be prompt in the fulfillment of her promise.
               Mrs. Bell and Marion had decided to accompany us; Mr. Barnard had concluded to remove to his Texas property, where Harry had been occupied in erecting and repairing houses for the family, so that our improvised and temporary factory was likely to return to the original silence in which we had found it.
               Jack Frierson had disappeared the morning after the wedding. There was a search being made through the country for escaped prisoners, and that impulsive and imprudent young gentleman had been advised by his friends to become non est for the nonce. In fact, the spring being such a frequent resort for all passers-by, it was a very insecure locality for him at best. I shrewdly suspected, however, he was at present entertaining the major's family with his quips and pranks.
               We were all ready to leave—Mr. Sterne and I seated in Dr. Sims' buggy, Mabel and Mrs. Bell, with the little Mona, in the carriage, where Sarah benignly bestowed likewise the light of her countenance. Marion and Lionel, mounted on genuine Texas mustangs, convoyed the crowd of blacks, who had, after great delays, announced themselves as ready for the line of march.
               Much to my delight, I was Virginia Sturgess and Miss Keziah alighting at the blocks by the spring. I knew the hats were forthcoming, and we halted, awaiting them.
               They were very handsome, and Mr. Sterne looked ten years younger after one was placed upon his splendidly-formed head.
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," cried Virginia, "you look like yourself now, as you did in the old Institute times."
               Miss Keziah insisted upon making him a present of it, which I am afraid he received rather ungraciously, whereupon Miss Keziah began assaulting Sarah in the carriage behind us:
               "Poke your woolly head back in that carriage, you miserable beauty's egg-bag! You are trying now to let that child fall out of that window. You let that child get a scratch on this trip and I'll follow you to Callamura, and blow out the little brains you've got. You hear?"
               I am afraid Sarah had fallen into a very irreverent way of receiving Miss Keziah's warlike civilities, for she commenced grinning and ogling at Roderick Sims, who had managed to mount a horse as a kind of supernumerary out-rider, yielding his post as carriage-driver to Baxter, that he might keep his eye more securely on the precious inmates of the carriage.
               "Don't you stretch those oyster lips where I am," admonished Miss Keziah, putting her hands to her side in a very fearless and determined manner. "I am a Federal, and can shoot as many darkies as I choose. There's no law against the Federals. You stick yourself straight up in that carriage and hold on to that child, or those long egg-plant jaws of yours will get squashed up."
               She pointed her revolver full in Sarah's eyes, and the terrified maiden became as rigid as a poker, holding on to Mona with a death grip.
               "Now you keep that way!—that will do! Jeff Davis is afraid of me. I've got the rope spun to hang him now," she added, rolling her deep black eyes at her, "and when he goes up, you go along side of him—you and all the balance of your satanic crew; and when the trees and the ropes give out, I've got lots of power and shot. You hear that?"
               The woman looked really somewhat excited. She turned round to Roderick, who had been innocently enjoying Sarah's consternation on the sly:
               "What are you mounted up on that fine horse for, you lazy son of destruction? My soldier's footing it over the Virginia rocks to-day, or in prison somewhere, risking his life for you worthless black cattle! Vamose out of my sight, sir, and go along and help those white boys yonder, doing all the work. You are wild-cat enough without wearing its hide on your head."
               Roderick found it convenient to depart. In fact, it required a good deal of nerve to face Miss Keziah's intrepidity. With a jaunty little hat stuck full of wild turkey and eagle plumes on her head, a red Zouave jacket on, and a long blue Mexican scarf tied round her waist to secure her weapons, she looked not unlike a representation I have seen somewhere of the famous Maid of Zaragossa; and though all the victories I had ever known of her gaining had been chiefly by the prowess of her tongue, there was a perceptible twinkle of enjoyment in her eye after them, and she patted her weapons on her side as if they had accomplished all her feats.
               "She is a Federal," Mr. Sterne said sotto-voce to me—"a product of Massachusetts. How much Confederate money have you, Mona?"
               I pulled out my pile from a satchel I carried on my arm.
               "I do not know how much exactly," I said, "but several thousand dollars."
               He was counting it rapidly. Dividing the amount about equally, he returned me one portion.
               "Here," he said, "I have reserved enough to pay our traveling expenses. The balance of it will be as worthless to us as the dead leaves of the forest. You can hand that you have to Miss Keziah, if you choose. It will be of some service of her. Her troubles are turning her brain."
               I knew she was very much perplexed lest she should not complete her payments before the money should become utterly valueless, and in deep distress about "her soldier," from whom she had not heard for a long time; and should he ever return to her, they would be homeless unless she could succeed in her purchase.
               I sprang out of the buggy and drew her aside,
               "Here, Miss Keziah," I said, "you must accept this. We have no use for it; it will be thrown away if you do not—only greenbacks where we are going."
               She opened it and caught sight of the beautiful five hundred dollar notes drawn on our tottering government.
               The tears gushed out of her eyes: she sank down on the ground, covering up her face with her hands.
               I kissed her, whispering adieu.
               "God bless you," she sobbed, "and Mr. Sterne!"
               I resumed my seat by Mr. Sterne, and we drove off, leaving her seated on the ground crying, Ellinor and Dona standing near.
               "Sure," I said, "I did not think Confederate money could ever bestow so much happiness. How glad I am you thought of it! I have been so selfish in my new-found joy that I was not thinking of other people."
               "See here," Mr. Sterne said, handing me the reins to hold a moment—"see how rich you are."
               He drew forth some four or five thousand dollars in greenbacks from his pocket.
               I was truly amazed.
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," I cried, opening my eyes, "surely you haven't robbed anybody?"
               He laughed.
               "No, you might know it is not mine. It is yours."
               "Now you are quizzing me," I said; "you know it is not mine."
               
               "Yes, it came from the sale of your cotton last year."
               Now I knew.
               "Did Lionel go—"
               "Yes, Lionel went to Pleasant Hill," Mr. Sterne interrupted.
               "There it was he went when he was gone so long," I cried. "The wonderful boy! But our cotton was missing, some of it, the morning we left."
               "It was he moved it," exclaimed Mr. Sterne. "He was hauling it out in the swamps all night! He hired white men to help him put it out of the reach of discovery. When he went back, he sold it to the Federals."
               "What a boy," I exclaimed; "what an astonishing boy! But why did he keep it secret all this time!"
               "He said he was afraid your loyalty would be suspected if it were known you had greenbacks and had sold cotton to the Federals. He took all the responsibility himself, and has had the money laid away until you could use it."
               "Well! well! I discovered a treasure in that boy, Mr. Sterne, did I not?"
               "Yes, truly: he is our boy now."
               James had procured us permits to pass the lines, so that we did not anticipate any molestation.
               Our journey was a monotonous and wearisome one. The chief incidents of interest were the furious raids that Roderick Sims had fallen into the habit of making upon the carriage. He would drop back a mile or two, and then rush desperately up, his horse's heels clattering fearfully through a cloud of dust, and his wildcat-skin helmet emerging defiantly to view. All of this parade, too, was totally unnecessary for the announcement of his whereabouts; the aforesaid helmet, doubtless, from being unscientifically fragrance of the defunct varmint. I could know when Roderick was threatening us some time before his helmet bore in sight.
               Rodcrick was the bore of the journey decidedly. Like his immortal ancestor of the Dhu family, he had not a very strict regard to the rights of property, being accustomed to levy black mail and blue mail too, whenever convenient.
               We had ridden four or five miles from a farm-house one morning, where we had spent the previous night, and were jogging peacefully enough along, when we were overtaken by the farmer in a thundering rage. He bore Roderick's cat-skin cap in his hand, and collared him on sight.
               "You black rascal, you! Hand up that twenty-dollar hill my wife gave you for them turkeys you stole out of her coop and sold to her! Here's your skull-skin you drapped in the coop, you black villian!"
               There was no denying such evidence as that. Roderick meekly drew out the twenty-dollar bill, which he had received for four turkeys, and apologized by saying he "did'nt know whose turkeys they was. He thought they was what some drovers had lef' thar. He had no idea they was his old 'oman's turkeys, or he never would have totched em."
               He was consoled, however, by the recovery of his skullcap, which he had been twitting Baxter with abstracting, and rode off with it as defiantly and proudly as ever, à la militaire.
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LIX.
               WE had passed Pleasant Hill long since, where I had pointed out to Mr. Sterne the pretty little dwelling where we had spent so many happy months with the Barnards, and the point on the road where I had encountered his brother; and now the long stretches of level country proclaimed that we were nearing the vicinity of Pineville.
               We passed through the town, where several Federal soldiers were sporting their blue coats and giving some appearance of animation to the place. The stores were open, and everything looked more cheerful than when we left it.
               Miss Mary Ballard spied us as we were emerging from the town and ran out to greet us. Nothing could exceed her astonishment at all that had occurred, and I felt a great gratification at having at last afforded her the publication of one of the most complete "book of wonders" that had ever yet delighted Pineville.
               "Well, ain't it all astonishing?' she kept saying; "and we all thought he had married Miss Hermione"
               We shook hands with her as we drove off, and I, feeling kindly disposed after all her hearty congratulations, shouted back,
               "And M'lle de Boisseau is married to Mr. Jerkins!"
               She seemed perfectly overpowed by the weight of so much important information.
               The last view I had, her hands were solemnly uplifted to heaven, but whether invoking blessings or imprecations on her absent friends of course I could not say.
               Soon the heights of Callamura flashed upon our view. Broken fences, however, and the withered poplars, never a long-lived tree in a Southern climate, threw an air of melancholy grandeur around the deserted homestead.
               No pigeons were shirring around our heads. They had all been shot by thoughtless soldiers and destructive negroes. No flocks of sheep and lowing herds of Brahmin cattle enlivened this Acadian paradise with the appearance of life. Ploughs lying rusting in the half-cultivated fields, and a luzy-looking negro stretched in the sun asleep on the stile, all proclaimed, "Ichabod! Ichabod!"
               "Callmura at last!" I cried, gazing on its white walls with a look of reverence.
               "Yes," said Mr. Sterne, helping us out; "home again!"
               No one came out to greet us. I saw some rare and beautiful white feathers and glossy black plumes scattered about the yard, the sport of the winter breeze.
               I knew them at once. They were the fragments of uncle's stuffed ibis, the sacred bird of the Egyptians, which Philip had procured him in his wanderings on the Nile.
               It had always surmounted the library door, holding back its head against the wall, and apparently threatening its inmates with its long, horny beak. But this bird, which excited so much veneration from antiquity, had found no defender among the rude spoilers of the New World.
               I gathered up some of its plumes as I hurried along.
               There was not a human being in sight. The house below seemed silent and deserted.
               We sought the library, where uncle sat over a handful of coals, one skirt of his coat departed, and his hair and beard of such amazing length one could see at a glance that he had suffered for attention.
               I fell on his neck.
               "We have come back, dear uncle," I cried.
               "God be thanked!" he fervently replied. "God bless you, my children! Welcome to Callamura!" he said with some of his old stately grace. "Welcome to the halls of your forefathers and to your own! I had designed it for Hermione—for Hermione; but I have given it to Mona—to Mona and Mabel. What the spoilers have left is yours—what the spoilers have left."
               I presented Mr. Sterne to his notice, informing him of our marriage.
               "Didn't he marry Hermione?" inquired he, with one of his bewildered looks.
               "That was all a mistake, uncle. Hermione married Mr. Wintersoll," I explained. "It was me Mr. Sterne asked you for, and as you had given your consent, we did not wait to reach Callamura—we married in Mansfield."
               "Yes, I had no objection, child; I remember I told him I was perfectly satisfied; and he gave me something for you—I remember it all now."
               His face brightened as he recovered one of his truant memories, and he began fumbling in his pockets, as if it were but yesterday that he had stowed away the billet-doux.
               "Never mind, uncle—never mind the note: we have it now."
               I would not pain him with the knowledge of all the suffering its loss had occasioned us.
               "Mr. Sterne," he said, offering him his hand cordially, "let me welcome you as a son. May the choicest blessings of heaven rest on you and your bride!"
               There was something of the charm of the olden time of courtesy and benison in the old man's manner as he laid his hand on my head.
               "Hermione," he dreamily continued—"Hermione left me without my benediction. She deserted the old man, and my boy lies under the sod."
               All of us sat silent with this memory sweeping over us.
               The silence was broken by the old man himself.
               "Whom did you say she married?"
               "Mr. Wintersoll," said Mabel.
               "And it was for his wealth she sold her soul," said the old man, bitterly, "and dragged destruction on us all. Had she said she loved him, I had been willing. But I knew she inherited an itching palm for gold and gewgaws."
               Mr. Sterne entered into conversation with uncle, and I followed Mabel, who had fished up old Mrs. Burns. I met them in the back passage.
               "Well, well," cried the old Panza; "good luck! good luck! It's a mighty long lane that has no turn. Blessings and curses, like chickens, come home to roost. Sure the sight of you is good for sore eyes. I'm powerful glad you've got back."
               It did one good to see her dear old simple face again, terribly dirty and befouled as she was with pot-grime; and her lace cap, that used to look like the driven snow, was as yellow as her wrinkled old face.
               We started up stairs to my old room, situated in the most convenient and pleasant part of the house.
               "Don't go up there," she cried; "them's Mrs. Tempest's rooms."
               "Mrs. Tempest? who is she?" I screamed in her leaden cars.
               "It's Miss Carrie Horn, she answered, gliding off and motioning me after her outside the door, where we could not be overheard. "She's done married a Yankee captain, and the house as good as belongs to 'em. Birds of a feather will flock together, you know. The captain's planting a crop here. Miss Carrie's here, but the captain ain't at home."
               It was late in the evening. Mrs. Burns went out to get us some supper, but Sarah was kind enough to relieve the poor old woman from drudgery her age rendered her unable to perform.
               "Where are all the servants?' I asked.
               'None willing to work," was her reply, "but all willing to eat."
               I found so many sad changes at Callamura that it was hardly like home. Hermione's splendid piano was in the horse-lot, having been used as a horse-trough by soldiers. The walls had been stripped of their pictures, the windows of the curtains and the chandeliers splintered to fragments.
               The next day a squad of Federal cavalry came riding up to the gateway, a fine-looking, dashing officer at their head, but evidently under the influence of some excitement. He was swearing vociferously:
               "By the Eternal Thunderer! I will put Pineville in hot water. I will have negro troops stationed here, and these vile rebels shall know how to insult an army officer."
               Some of his friends seemed endeavoring to pacify him:
               "Captain, you are too quick—that remark was not intended for you. We were whipped at—. For my part, I do not take it as a personal affront when such things are discussed. We cannto grind manhood out of these people if we would."
               The captain answered with one of his terrible oaths. "Didn't he throw a glass of whisky in my face,—his soul? Wasn't that an insult?'
               "Captain, what did you say? You said there were Federals enough to let all the vile blood out of the rebels, and you would do it. I think you threatened him first."
               "Curse them! and so we will!" the captain continued; "and these rebels shall ring through the North. I will write statements to my friends—and they will sow them broadcast through the Northern population—of the rebellious spirit of these people."
               "Captain," asked one of his men, "you do not hold your commission now, do you?"
               "No."
               "Then if you insult a Southerner, he will resent it as he would from any other man."
               "Blast their souls! I have the power to crush them, and I will."
               This was the Captain Tempest who was planting a crop at Callamura. There was such a glare in his eye I thought it resembled lunacy. I was astonished at the development, too, for I had formed the idea that he was a man of taste and refinement from the fact that some of his beautiful drawings were lying in uncle's library; and to do him full justice he had striven in some manner to repair the damages done to the rare treasures of Callumura by gathering up the fragments and reducing them to something like order.
               I afterward heard him repeatedly lamenting that so fine a property and such curiosities of science and literature had been so roughly desecrated.
               But he was a man of impulse merely.
               He ordered his dinner in a peremptory tone, which obsequious servants, under the domination of terror, came promptly swarming to provide.
               We maintained our privacy, but we could hear the clicking of glasses, loud jests, and the call of trumps, aces, spades and so forth, which proclaimed how the hours sped away in the princely halls of Callamura, once so aristocratic in its company.
               I found that several of the neighboring planters, discovering they had lost all influence over their emancipated slaves, had employed the ex-captain to hire hands, and offered him a certain share of the profits accruing for his superintendence.
               
               Callamura was his headquarters, Mr. Stafford having left it long since for a prison.
               Miss Carrie was rendered miserable by the excesses of her spouse, but seemed powerless to modify them. Poor Miss Carrie is now dead: her death was published through many journals as the result of the brutal treatment she experienced at the hands of Southerners!
               But strange things have been published—and believed.
               Old Armstead was now a conformed invalid, but, looking sound and hearty, had fallen under the captain's displeasure because he would not work.
               "I have no nigger on the brain," he said to Mr. Sterne one day. "They shall work if they stay around me. They have got to make my living. I am no fanatic—not a bit of it—and they shall not come on the United States Government, if I can help it."
               In spite of this, however, he had not art in systematizing their labor, and his crops were all failures. He would strike them when in a fury and "hurry them up," and the next day drink whisky with them and borrow all their silver. In this way he denuded their pockets of all the coins they had been hoarding up for years.
               Pineville was blazing with indignation against him, but the Southern people had learned to control their proud anger. They knew they were under the heel of oppression, and the summoned the fortitude of Sparta as the last gem in the crown of their degradation.
               If they shunned him entirely, they were accused of disloyalty; if they mingled with him at all, or passed the usual courtesies of asking him to join in drinks at saloons, a dispute of some kind was imminent. He never left home that he did not return in a passion.
               Mr. Sterne had no fancy for him, and did not care to conceal it. On their first acquaintance, Captain Tempest, supposing him a Southerner, had extended to him the same blending of patronizing forbearance and overbearing domination which rendered him so universally odious; but on discovering that he was a loyal citizen of the United States, and becoming finally awed by his cool surveillance of his actions, he altered his tone.
               He came home one day flushed with wine, and ordered Armstead to curry his horse, a handsome stallion that a neighboring planter had presented him on his first arrival, when the charm of his dashing appearance and gay, frank manners had won him many friends, before the strange, wayward bitterness of his character, inflamed doubtless by vinal potations, had discovered itself to a generous people.
               Armstead neglected the order, confiding its execution to a heedless boy, his son, and the captain's wrath was consequently aroused. He had two or three satraps under his command, idle youths from the army, which he, or rather uncle, maintained in a very leisurely kind of independence; and I saw them all proceeding down to the negro cabins after dinner in quite a martial and determined array.
               About an hour thereafter I happened to saunter down that way myself, speaking to some of the negroes lounging about, when I passed one of the outhouses and was startled by hearing groans within.
               The door was locked.
               "Who is that?" I asked.
               "Oh me, Miss Mona," replied old Armstead. "Run for Mr. Sterne, Miss Mona; I shall die."
               I ran immediately for him, and we tried together to open the door, but while we were thus engaged, Captain Tempest arrived and applied the key.
               Old Armstead appeared to our astonished sight, swung up by the thumbs, his knees knocking together, and great drops of agony running down his wrinkled brow.
               
               "I expect you will learn to obey orders another time," wrathfully remarked the captain, cutting him down. "I guess my horse will be curried in future."
               The poor old negro limped away without reply.
               "Captain Tempest," inquired Mr. Sterne, coolly, "by what authority do you do these things?"
               "By the authority of my government," he replied, audaciously.
               "These people," Mr. Sterne answered, "are citizens of the United States. They are not soldiers. You are transgressing bounds, and if you try such punishments again, I shall report you to my government."
               The captain walked away without saying a word.
               "I am sorry you witnessed such a scene, Mona," said my husband. "I knew he had been very cruelly punishing the negroes, but did not wish you pained by the knowledge."
               "Particularly old Armstead," I grieved. "To think of the faithful old being in his age and infirmity being subjected to such treatment! I don't expect he was ever punished in his life before."
               "Shakespeare must have had him in his eye when he spoke of the insolence of power dressed up in a little brief authority," commented Mr. Sterne. "If he were not going to leave so soon, I should order him off the pace. But he is a venomous little wasp, and has written statements, as he threatened, inflaming the passions of Northern people against this locality; and I think it better policy perhaps to endure him."
               He had been wounded before our arrival in a carouse with some Federals whom he had provoked by his domineering temper, and had written to some Northern press that his life was in danger from the rebellious citizens of the country. He had written to a neighboring post for negro troops to be stationed at Pineville to protect him and the Bureau agents from assassination. He had suborned a foreigner and a negro or two, whom, by the way he had never paid, to swear to overhearing a plot against his life.
               The general commanding the post had not given heed to his wild assertions, probably knowing his character; and spared his government one foul blot, by refusing to send spared his government one foul blot, by refusing to send negro troops to insult the few women and old men in Pineville, such garrisons being the demoniac resort of the spirit of cowardly revenge, which must ever remain an indelible stain upon the history of America; but his accounts were gloated over in Northern localities as irrefragable proofs of the heinousness of Southern disloyalty. Doubtless many such equally well-grounded reports contributed to perpetuate the animosity between the two sections.
               Strange, too, the man had finally wrought himself up into a belief of his won fears. He was certainly haunted by the idea of assassination, while his apprehensions had become a source of amusement to Pineville.
               Probably the negroes for their own purposes had concocted some story, but certainly the foreigner afterward asserted he was suborned and never received his twenty-five dollars."
               "Oh, Mr. Sterne," I lamented, "how war unbridles all the hideous passions of our nature! I sometimes fear that the worst has not yet come, and that the terrors of the French Revolution are in store and the horrors of St. Domingo.
               "No, child," replied Mr. Sterne. "The French Revolution was the madness of infidelity—ours is the insanity of a Christian, or rather a Protestant, people. Reason and religion must resume their sway, and order return. As to St. Domingo, the territory of the South is so vast as to prevent any concert of action among the colored population tion, I think, and they well know the first outbreak would seal their doom."
               I had never shown Mr. Sterne the French correspondence I had found in the little escritoire, and as I thought it would interest him, I placed it within his hands.
               After we had enjoyed it together, as he replaced it in the escritoire he spied the parchments in the bottom of its drawer.
               "What are these?" he inquired.
               "Some old papers, I reckon," I carelessly answered.
               "They are title-deeds," he persisted.
               "But they are of no value now, I dare say."
               "But they must be," he insisted, taking them in his hand and bestowing on them a careful examination. "They are title-deeds to a handsome estate in France, descending to her eldest son, Eugene Morant, from his mother Felicité."
               "The marquis left two sons," I informed him. "First, Eugene, who married in France, and after the Revolution sailed from America, but was lost at sea: he left no children. The other son, St. Pierre, was Uncle Hugh's father, my own grandfather. He married an American lady and inherited Callamura."
               "Then this property must descend to this branch of the family. It must be extremely valuable, worth at least an effort to secure it."
               "There is another document bearing on the question," he pursued, "signed before a French notary public, L. Fournier. It is a lease of the property for seventy years, renewable or extinguishable by either party every ten years, and payable at the same time."
               I mused a while.
               "One of those payments must have been Mabel's dowry, Mr. Sterne. Uncle told her it was as much her own as his; and I really believe he has been receiving those moneys from France without the least conception of where they came from, unless Mr. Braham knows."
               "The lease is about expiring," remarked Mr. Sterne; "it is dated 1795. It ought to be investigated."
               He sought uncle, who, as I suspected, had forgotten all about the papers. Mr. Braham knew he received large sums from France, but both of them had gone on quietly pocketing them, without the least idea of their source or equity.
               Mr. Braham imagined that of course uncle was posted, and he of course gave it very little thought.
               But it was all a mystery how the papers came in that little escritoire. The ill-fated marquis had shot himself without leaving any will. The most natural supposition was, that Eugene had carried a duplicate of the title-deed and lease with him when he started on his ill-starred voyage to France, thinking it wiser to leave the original documents in America, then enjoying a state of repose. Uncle Hugh's father, my grandfather, had died when his children were young: his American wife did not even understand the French language; if she had even seen the documents, she was ignorant of their value; so there they had lain till chance discovered them to my view.
               Mr. Sterne at once placed them in the hands of an eminent lawyer, hoping and believing that in our desolate fortunes some benefit might be derived therefrom.
               Brightvale was in ashes, and the dear home of my childhood colonized with negroes.
               Old Aunt Mima had been there, and returned bringing us the saddest accounts of the desolation and destruction accomplished by the rude vicissitudes of war. The stately monuments over the dead were all prostrate and chipped to pieces, and cattle grazed round the evergreens and roses planted at a mother's grave.
               
               Hawthorne Hill, Mabel's handsome residence, had been confiscated as abandoned lands, and was now planted by the Bureau agents.
               Any rents accruing from France were not to be despised.
            
            
               CHAPTER LX.
               DR. SIMS and Miss Hattie had returned to Pineville; all who were not slain came straggling back to their old homes, for the mighty surrender had burst like a bombshell on the astonished world—none more astonished than the Southern people themselves.
               To the last they trusted to the strength of their cause, and argued success from the antecedents of history.
               Dr. Stafford had preached his greeting sermon to his little flock, and matters were gradually assuming the repose of peace.
               Mr. Sterne and I drove in to hear his sermon on the beating of swords into pruning-hooks, and although his audience was somewhat thinned it bore a very placid and resigned appearance.
               I noticed, crouched up in one corner of the Ballards' pew, the splintered remnants of Mr. Jerkins—all that the rebellion had left. Madame de Jerkins was nowhere visible. He had shaken the dust of her garments off from his feet and returned to his native heath.
               That enterprising individual, however, followed him in a short time, suing for damages, and when the Bureau agents, as some compensation for the injuries she had received, offered her the post of instructress of a colored school, her indignation knew no bounds.
               She spat in their faces and soon departed for parts unknown.
               "She teach a colored school? She was a lady bred and born. A ci-devant slaveholder herself, she left that dirty work for Radicals and indigent Abolitionists, who came to prey upon the vitals of the bleeding South. She scorned such degrading occupation. She had been accustomed to teach white children."
               I had a shrewd suspicion that she had gone in search of Hermione, Mr. Jerkins liberally supplying her with funds to relieve himself of her presence.
               Adeline and Dr. Turner were back in Pineville, a blooming little boy running round their feet.
               Mabel received a letter not long since from James Conway, containing a hint that Miss Ellinor might be expected as a future citizen of our parish; and Julius Sims wrote a very strange document to Adeline, wanting to know how she thought their father would like to merge his sister-in-law, the charming Miss Dona, into a daughter-in-law.
               Mr. and Mrs. Ware reside in Pineville, where Mr. Ware has resumed the dry-goods business. He is selling calicoes at fabulously low prices, considering that cotton is the native product of the soil. It only requires three pounds of cotton in the lint to purchase one yard of his Amoskeags and Merrimacks.
               Mrs. Rathburn was out to see us the other day, in very low spirits. Betsy Ann's husband had returned, carrying his family to their former home, and the old lady was terribly grieved at their loss.
               "Just as I got used to her children, Mrs. Sterne, I had to give them up. Oh, everything always goes wrong with me," she lamented; "and now I have such hard times to get along. And nothing would do Jackson but he must bring home a wife out of the war! Oh, Miss Mona, I don't know what I am to do with a Yankee daughter-in-law!"
               I consoled the poor woman to the extent of my abilities on that score, when she sprung a fresh leak:
               "Times are so dreadful hard, Miss Mona! If I had had any young calves all this time, I might have made a living selling butter. Butter has been bringing a good price in Pineville. But as soon as my cows had their calves, and the spring came on, the butter dropped down in price. I had forty pounds on hand. But that's always the way with me. I never have anything bountiful to sell but what it gets cheap as dirt."
               But Mrs. Rathburn had manfully defended Mr. Sterne's herbariums and manuscripts during the Federal invasion of Pineville, and the result of her faithful and heroic defence lies now on the centre-table of Callamura's parlor, in the shape of a handsomely gilt volume, which rendered the author at once a member of the Royal Linnæan Society of London.
               We have received letters from Hermione written in France. She has won the coronet for which her sordid soul sighed.
               She is one of the ladies illuminating the court of the lovely Eugenic. She obtained a divorce in New York city from Mr. Wintersoll, dazzled a French count, and now adds his diamonds to her own.
               Strangely enough, too, as we afterward discovered, his estates were boundaries to these in France into whose titles we had instituted investigation, and which we finally recovered.
               But into our inheritance the wayward Hermione could not enter. Uncle had thoroughly ignored all her claims to membership in his family. She was as the dead to him—he never mentioned her name.
               The Sims went through a sad trial not long since. The Ballard boys brought home the remains of Alfred to be interred in the Pineville graveyard. His coffin was exchanged for a more respectful and elegant one. They found lying on his heart a braid of dark chestnut hair, a few tender notes from Hermione, and her life-like photograph!
               Surely our deeds will live for ever: they do follow us.
               Hermione's Nemesis was yet to darken her brilliant destiny in France in the shape of that croaking bird of ill-omen, Madame de Jerkins.
               There is a blue-eyed, golden-haired boy at Callamura. I had not called the hallowed name before for years, but when I first saw his wondering eyes rolled round on a new world, I said,
               "Hubert."
               And Hubert is again one of our household names.
               I stood dashing him up in my arms one day, when I heard a clear, ringing laugh through the saloon, startling my soul and thronging it with memories of the past.
               For an instant I thought I saw the graceful form of Hubert, my brother Hubert, moving up the colonnade through the saloon, dashing back his hair.
               The delusion was but momentary, for the person I saw was Jack Frierson.
               "And that is your little one?" he cried, laughing.
               The reader has probably perceived there was some mystery connected with Mabel's parentage. For many years I did not know her name myself; and once when I had questioned Hubert on the subject, he had told me little girls ought not to know too much—that uncle could not bear to hear the matter spoken of, and to keep quiet.
               Her real name was Mabel Wilder, but she was universally given that of Mabel Morant.
               
               Her father had eloped with her mother, when very young, from a boarding-school in New York city, which fact had probably contributed to deepen uncle's bitterness toward Northerners. But he had now been dead for many years.
               When I first saw Jack Frierson, remembering his peculiar emotion on seeing Mabel at my wedding, I supposed that the charms of the young widow had brought him to Callamura, and could imagine her dismay and annoyance, but a little explanation developed the astounding fact that he was her brother!
               He had been cruising abroad when the war first broke out, and never heard of his sister's marriage. A gentleman by the name of Frierson had made him his heir soon after, on condition of his assuming his name.
               Retaining some remembrance of his mother, Mabel's appearance had excited his attention at once, but before he could pursue any inquiries the prison-scouts were pursuing him so closely that he had been compelled to take flight.
               He was a very welcome addition to our circle, remaining indefinitely.
               Mona Conway is an exceedingly bright and handsome child, with a flashing, playful spirit. She sometimes reminds me of vanished days with her queer little speeches.
               "Auntie," she queried, looking very seriously at Uncle Jack a few days since, "whose son did Uncle Jack fry, and what did he fry him for."
               "I don't know, dear," I answered, laying back her fair hair to see if I could fathom her meaning in her large gray eyes. "What makes you ask such queer questions?"
               "I thought his name was Jack Fry-a-son, (Frierson)," she demurely replied, "and I wanted to know whose poor little son it was."
               "Oh, child," I said, kissing her bright brow, "how do such strange notions come in your head?"
               Yet I thought I knew.
               The old man of Callamura spends most of his time in his library, partially restored not to its former appearance.
               He dives into antiquated tomes, hoping to find in their erudite pages some remedy for the evils that afflict his unhappy country.
               Sometimes he wanders among his pet grandchildren, taking them in his arms, while snatches of his reading and consequent speculations fall in his dreamy, musing way from his lips.
               "What is it they hope?" he question. "What is it they hope? Do they suppose that the imposition of political burdens will create political talents? Have not all these things been debated and decided before? Those who urge the influence of climate and food on the national physiognomy of man leave out of view entirely the wisdom of the Creator—entirely. First was the climate created, and then was placed there a race of creatures perfectly adapted to it. Thus the Greenlanders are short and fleshy, that the extremities, being nearer the centre of vitality, may the more easily resist the excessive cold. The negro is rendered indolent: he is created so, because in an abundant tropical country there is no need of exertion to obtain the supplies of life. His very smell, which Buffon found most offensive on the coast of Guinea, is a wise dispensation of Providence, preventing by neutralization the absorption of the more fatal malaria of that climate. Thus the negro resists miasma better than the white man. The diversity of races was direct from the hand of God, each species receiving the stamping of the mint where it was coined."
               Mr. Sterne, not being so widely acquainted and familiarly posted as to the peculiarities of the four million colored citizens the United States Government had lately acquired, would listen with great interest himself to uncle's theoretic conclusions.
               "There is a great diversity among the negroes themselves, Sterne—a great diversity—betraying even to-day whence their origin. The Guinea negro may be recognized at once by the thickness of his lips, his good-nature, his faithfulness and his stupidity. He never learns to count more than three, and he never will learn it while the sun shines—never! Then there is a handsome, likely stripe from Senegal and Cape de Verde. They are intelligent, but rather unreliable. The Mondongos and the Mimos represent cruelty, desperation and inhumanity. Theft I fear to be ineradicable among them all—ineradicable.
               "Good help a people," he pursued with a flashing eye, "whose skulls are moulded by the triumphant hand of Divine plasticity into the most perfect curved lines of beauty, as fit receptacles for the brains of Newtons and Shakespeares and Pitts and Blackstones, who must seek their lawgivers in the steep, suddenly-elevated skulls of Ethiopians. The most casual observer may soon learn to distinguish a negro's skull from a white man's wherever he picks it up. It is always suddenly compressed, sharp above the eyes and strongly projecting beneath. There is no back head there: the impelling faculties are entirely wanting. The European head boasts a protuberant arch, a beautiful spherical form, while the negro's is perfectly flat behind. Will such brainless people make statesmen, Sterne? May the gods defend this deserted land—deserted by reason and common sense. Must the experiment be tried there, at our expense of elevating to the level of the European a race to whom Providence has denied both brains and hair. Ages of cultivation will never elongate that woolly kink into a fibrous vegetable, nor enlarge that niggardly planned skull into a genuine head—never! They are the first descending step from man in the scale of creation; they share the wool of the brute. Good God!" he cried, rising and walking away, overcome by his emotion. "Statesmen! They do not hope it. It is either the prompting of a reckless and unprincipled ambition, or a scheme of infernal revenge emanating from hearts blacker than the Ethiopian's skin. Satan himself were too noble to have planned such vengeance. It has disgraced America—disgraced America!"
               I sit by Mr. Sterne with my boy in my arms to-day, and I gaze out on the gently waving hills and vales around me.
               The sky is as beautiful as any that ever bent above a lovely land; they breeze glides soft and lovingly upon my cheek, weighed with the humid memory of the sparkling Gulf. The perfume of the magnolia and the orange-blossoms smites the senses with oppressiveness of odor.
               All is beautiful as Fairyland. Even the birds—which every one observed ceased singing during the prevalence of strife, either startled by the incessant roar of cannon, and fleeing the atmospheric commotion, or sympathizing with the sorrows of mankind—even the birds are pouring forth transcendent melodies which haunt no other land than this; but I say to Mr. Sterne:
               "Mr. Sterne, let us leave the South."
               "You surprise me, Mona," he replied. "I never would have suggested that to you myself. I thought your heartstrings so entwined around your native land that nothing could tear you thence. I have a fair competency in the North, but I fear the climate might prove too severe for your fervent tropical nature."
               "Let us go to France," I cried—"the vine-clad hills of the pleasant land of France. My heart-strings do cling round my own sunny South, but my sorrows over the sufferings of my people are too exquisitely painful. It is no longer the South to me. Let us return to the land of my forefathers."
               Mr. Sterne was holding now our boy to his breast.
               "Shall we make a monsieur of your young gentleman?" he asked, playfully stroking his fair curls.
               "Yes," I earnestly replied. "We dwell here, Mr. Sterne, surrounded by a moral malaria, which will surely exercise its influence upon the future generation. How is it possible to rear pure-minded women and high-souled men in a country when every crime known among the lapses of humanity stalks abroad unblushingly among its recognized citizens? Bigamy, theft, adultery, superstition, drunkenness and all vice are obtruded daily on your notice, unprosecuted because of the lowness of their origin, and because protected by a legislation unparalleled in infamy itself. These things openly exhibited—vulgarity presumptuous, because ignorant of its own existence—will assuredly pollute and contaminate the minds of our children. The lowest expressions now meet the cars of ladies and children from women whose coarse faces nature shrouded in black, that they might mourn for ever the absence of chastity's blush. There is now no security for any grace or virtue one might possess; profanity insults the ear of woman and of heaven at the same time. It is a land veiled in Ethiopian shadows, and tottering in the arms of midnight. There is one of three fates, Mr. Sterne," I continued, vehemently, "in reserve for the South. It is miscegenation and the wretched lot of our Southern neighbor, a might St. Domingo, or the wretchedness, crime and bitterness of spirit. Let us fly from the ashes of Gomorrah."
               "Alas for the once sunny South!" ejaculated Mr. Sterne, tears of genuine compassion standing in his fine blue eyes,
                     
                        "'The harp that once through Tara's halls
                        The soul of music shed,
                        Now hangs as mute on Tara's walls
                        As if that soul were fled.'
                     
                   Unhappy land!"
               "Yes, unhappy land!" I cried. "The flames of Troy, the destruction of Carthage, the persecutions of the Moors, the dismemberment of Poland, the degradation of Ireland, the incests of Salt Lake City, the lice of Egypt, the filth of Lisbon, the thefts of Sparta, the sorrows of Israel, are hers. Nay more, she has sounded the lowest depths of degradation, unheard or undreamed of before in the remotest periods of the history of mankind. Cicero commended Cæsar that he cemented his conquests by rendering the vanquished free citizens of Rome; but the conquests of the Federal arms rendered slaves the masters of freemen. O unfortunate country!" I cried, while sobs of misery burst from my breast, "abandoned of Heaven for a season! The day of thy calamity has come, they desolation as a whirlwind, and only the tone of mocking is heard. Thou art the crucified among the nations, drinking the last bitter dregs of wormwood and gall—the innocent victim, making atonement with thy best blood for the sins of the haughty England. Like a lone pariah she stands in her helpless agony and shame, a spectacle and a sport for gods and men. Stretching out her arms like the blind old giant of old when the locks of his strength were shorn and the hordes of Philistia mocked his impotence, I tremble lest the pillars of Liberty themselves go not down in her final fall, and the whole edifice become involved in one general ruin."
               "Oh, Mona, hush, child," spake Mr. Sterne. "Hush your Cassandra-like prophecies. You make my hair stand on end. Time remedies all things. Out of our great trouble some new salvation will spring to light, as to the despairing Greeks in the modern Athens, when, closely beset by their ruthless foe, shut up in their last citadel of liberty, to their famished view a fresh spring of hitherto undiscovered water gushed forth. So, when we are pressed to our last Acropolis of Freedom, some blessed hero, some bright inspiration will rescue our perishing land from its impending doom. Look not so steadily on the dark side."
               "No, Mr. Sterne," I replied, sadly, "you are not a Southron. I know what the country is. I have little hope of its future political regeneration. All plans for our political and social resuscitation are delusive schemes cherished by visionary enthusiasts and ignorant politicians. Wickedness propagates, but virtue is sterile. The whole will be swallowed up in the jaws of crime."
               "Is there not so much the more need, then," asked Mr. Sterne, gently, "that every good man and true should remain at his post, and help, so far as in him lies, to roll back the fearful wave of destruction? Am I truer to the South, Mona, than you, or is it because a faint resemblance to remorse for the desolation my countrymen have wrought impels me to desire to remain here and assist in restoring to the South some vestige of her former glory? Besides, I cannot resign my belief that vox populi vox Dei. I have every confidence in the final success of our government, and that it will emerge from these present trails more grandly glorious than ever."
               "You have, Mr. Sterne," I questioned, "in the face of present affairs? I cannot forget that the assassination of Cæsar preceded the fall of Rome, and history has but repeated itself, as is its wont, in that of Mr. Lincoln. It is the 'mene, mene takel, upharsin' to America. False principles were ingrafted in our government, Mr. Sterne, with the subjugation of the South. They will prove, in the future, wedges splitting it asunder. No earthly art can escape the consequences of error; it is a worm that consumes itself."
               Mr. Sterne gazed upon me with a deep emotion.
               "Child," he said tenderly, "think no more on those things. Let us trust our immortal future in the hands of a divine Saviour. Time soon drops the curtain over our narrow span. Let us hope the best for our native land, despite the scheming of heartless politicians."
               "The ancients believed, Mr. Sterne," I pursued, my brain crazed with the appalling situation of my country, "that when they drifted far away from their beauteous Eastern shores into the unknown waters of the Atlantic Ocean, they beheld a dark, shadowy, monstrous hand covering the face of the sky in the west, which menaced them from further exploration, and threatened them with instant destruction. I tell you, Mr. Sterne, it was a dim, undefined foreshadowing of this ill-starred, unhappy South. It was her dark ebony hand reaching out from the misty vaults of the future, warning them back—it was her hollow voice floating over the wild tempest of waters and shouting in her anguish to the happy denizens of smiling Europe, 'Procul! procul!'"
               "Mona, I thought, child, you rejoiced in the emancipation of the slaves. Why afflict yourself with the consideration of ills you cannot remedy?"
               "I can sympathize, Mr. Sterne, with the individual happiness freedom must have communicated to thousands, but that does not prevent me from seeing the Pandora's box of evils their sudden emancipation has opened upon the country. Slavery was a Gordian knot cut rudely by the brutal sword of an Alexander, when it required the unraveling patience of a Penelope."
               Mr. Sterne laid a light kiss on my brow.
               
               "Mr. Sterne," I cried, throwing down my pen, "it is a sad truth, but we dwell to-day in a land of the Past. No future incites her sons to action; refused the privilege of voting beside the negro, because they dared to defend their native land, they are sunken in the apathy and indifference of despair. It is a land whose dwellings are but whited sepulchres, full of the dead bones of perished hopes and the ashes of former joys—a land sinking slowly but surely into Cimmerian darkness dotted over with a hundred thousand wretched Callamuras!"
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
