
    ----CITATION----
        Giles, Daphne S. (b. 1812). East and West .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6888
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            East and West
             
                ,Yet Is thine image one Tbat long ill linger In Memory's temple, like a melting tone Of music from a spring-bird gone, Till Death's dar finger Hath *Wrtten that my hour is oome."  DAPHNE S. GILES, NEW YORK: PRINTED BY R. CRAIGHEAD. 1853.     Entered, acoording to Act of Coagre,. in the year 1863, by DAPHNE   . GLES. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York. 1. CRAIGHEAD, Printer and 8tereotyper, 58 ybe . 8., N. Y.  I   TO J. W. BROO     S, ESQ. Odtroft, k(. I respectfully dedicate this volume to you as a memento of my gratitude. D. 8. GILBS, Ar aBlOBR, Ikas r       Every incident of this work may be relied upon, as the author is not a Novel  reader, nor a Novel writer.      CHAPTER I.       rage The New England Cottge ..................... 7 CHAPTER n. The Night Vigils .........      .. 30 The Battle Field................................. 47 CHAPTER IV.  The Victory ...... .. ..... ...................... . 66 CHAPTeR V. Blighted Hope . ........... 8.........8..... CHAPTER VX. The Inebriate Wife............................. 112 CHAPTER vI. The Departed.....................1.....5..... 1     ":t^      alCONTENTS. OHATER vImI.      Papg fxfi The Forebodings ...............**..16Q The Christias Faith.............     186 CMAPTU X. The Deceiver and the Deceived,........ ^ 220     The clime of love, the home of light, 'With gems and fragrant llies dightL. IF the reader ia a dtranger to the esque scenery it will be a difficult task to strengthen the mental eye, though aided by a vivid imagination, to, look upon its lofty .moiuntains, Clothed with the richest verdure, which     r       ' 1 have nursed the gigantic oak and towering pine, amid whose branches the forked lightnings have held their midnight dance, while the deep-toned thunder strove in vain to chant the requiem of centuries past; and against whose impregnable sides the frenzied whirlwinds have dashed in quick suc- cession the electric balls, unextin- guished by the rolling torrents falling from cleft to cleft, until the shattered crag loses its strong hold, and the unimpeded element finds a safe deposit in the bosom of some deep ravine, where it leaves its maddened roar, and mingles with the purling stream or babbling brook. There is beauty, as well as sublimity, mingled with moun- tain scenery. The eye cannot rest with indifference upon. the distant east, while the King of day raises his golden lidt and with his irradiating lashes fohning the glorious network   9      , of the purple morn, causing the valleys to unfold their dewy pearls. In one of these deep ravines on the banks of the beautiful"Roselle," stood a plain white cottage, unadorned by ancient or modern architecture. The weeping willow and a spreading elm furnished an ample shade, while the blooming honeysuckle and luxuriant woodbine formed a floral arch over the doorway of Captain De Van's hospitable dwelling. This gentleman was of the Puritan race, with stereo- typed principles, and a native of Con- necticut-was reared among the Blue Laws of that state, and was married in early life to a Miss: Jane Williams, after which he moved to- the state of Vermont, and settled with his young wife near the spot above described,- where they, by their industry and economy, acquired in a ^iw years a  comfortable competency. :      10        1i Mrs. De Van was indeed the help- mate of her husband. Her amiable character rendered her the favorite of the neighborhood. She often, in ad- ministering to the wants of others, found that it was more blessed to give than receive; their house was the house of prayer,-morning and even- ing the old family Bible lay open upon the stand. This volume was not only sacred to Mr. De Van as the  word of God, but because it was a precious gift from his venerable father. As he knelt with his wife and children around the family altar, with bowed head, in low and solemn tones he prayed to Almighty God for strength and wisdom, to train up his children in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Year after year passed on,s and the sacred fire on that family altar burned bright and clear. They met from Sabbath to Sabbath,   and mingled their unostentatious de- votiohs with those whose delight it is to bring unto God the acceptable offering of a broken and contrite heart. These humble villagers worshipped not God by proxy, they sang with solemn melody-   "My soul shall pray for Zion still, While life and breath remains  There my best friends and kindred dwell,- -There God my Saviour reigns."  The villagers of Roselle, by their united efforts, had ereted a neat and commodious sanctuary in a seques- tered part of their village, though for several years they were obliged to use this as a school-room. The ample play-grounds and the: neighboring grove in the rear, made it not an unfit place for the development of the intel- lect. A long range of the Green Mountains were in full view, and lofty hills on either hand could be' seen      12 covered by the grazing flocks of the surrounding farmers. Mr. and Mrs. De Van were prompt to defray their portion of the expenses of church and school, for they had now two children who must be educated either at home or abroad. As much pains was usu- ally taken in the selection of teachers, they resolved to educate them  at homte. Affie and Amelia were the names of their two elder daughters; Affie being two years the senior. The foundation for correct princi- ples was early laid, by their virtuous mother; and her health being poor, she had not failed to initiate her daugh- ters into the art of housekeeping. At the age of ten they were further ad- vanced in this necessary part of female education than the most of young la- dies are at the present day at twenty. The large bunches of fine linen yarn that hung upon the walls and after-   13 wards made into linen, or the high case of drawers filled with bedding of the same material bleached to the whiteness of snow-these were suffi- cient proof that Mrs. D. and her daughters were of that class of whom the wise man hath said, "( She layeth her. hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff." Mrs. De Van taught her daughters that industry was an ancient accomplishment, while Mr. De Van read to them the custom of the eastern nobility, as follows: "It was the pride of Augustus Caesar, that his imperial' robes, his fringed tunic, and -costly quilts, were wrought in his household, by the hands of his wife, his sistei his daughter, and his grand-daughter.  So, too, Alexander the Great, when advising the mother of Darius to teach her nieces to imitate the Grecian ladies in spinning wool,showed her the garments     a     " wh-ih he wore, and told her they were made by his sisters. The vir- tuous Lucretia worked with her maid- ens at the splnning wheel; and Tana- quil, the wife of Tarquin, wrought woollen robes so well, that long after her death her spinning implements, to-  gether with a robe of her manufac- ture, were hung up in the temple of Fortue,--a constant monument -of her taste and skill, and for the instruc- tion of Roman maids and matrons, that theby too, should lay their hands to the spindle, and their hands should hold the distaff." Affie, with a heart as pure as the mountain air she breathed, often danced her distaff, while the silver  thread glided through her slender fingers, rolling. like magic on the polished spool, which she, with grace unsurpassed, kept in motion with her tiny feet Affie playfully inter-  ^   -      %   15 rupted her father, as he read the fob lowing: "In early times the bride went to her new home amid the throng -of re- joicing maidens; and the young atten- dants carried in their hands the distaff and the spindle, with the gay-colored woollens hanging about them.' This isjust the way, dear papa, that I am goiag to my bridal home." Amelia seriously replied, "You are not sure -that hee will have a home to take you to." "Then, Milly," replied Affie, "be assured I shall not be took!" -Mrs. De Van for some time had been a silent listener, but not an in- different one, as she was always at- tentive to the reading of her husband, and the incessant prattle- of her child- ren. She now broke silence by play- fully asking Affie to conjugate the verb 4-took.? The girls soon set I* -.I                16 about their task in high glee, and the parents joined heartily in the laugh of their children, Mrs. De Van then cast her eye upon I the old woodenuelock, that stood in a tall but finely polished case in the corner, and saw that ,it was nearly four o'clock. "It is time, my children, that your sports and your work were laid aside, for we shall have scarce time to make arrangements for the Sabbath before sundown; it is later than I had thought." "Thank you, Jane, for telling me the time, for I have my chores all to do,'  aif Mr. D., and rose hastily and walk- ed to the door, when he saw that the boys had. already got the cows into the yard. "Milly, dear, hand me the milk-pails." Milly had just finished laying her patchwork in perfect order in her basket, and was ready to com- ply with the request of her father., 1.    Affie in a few moments had her wheel stowed away i4 the weaving shop; and the floor, which in the morn- ing had been scoured to almost a per- fect whiteness, was re-swept, and every chair put in its place. The old kitchen table was drawn to the middle of the floor, and covered with a cloth as white as snow; every diah wa soet in order, and among them were several pewter plates which were considered by them more valuable than their chi- na set, which was only used on special occasions. The brown loaf was drawn smoking from the oven, where ait had been placed in the morning by Mrs, D., and put upon a large pewter platter, which, with the butter plate, had been polished till they were as bright as silver. The new-made honey was there, accompanied by cake and pie, which always grace the New England farmer's table. Saturday might well i* . 2     18 be called " food day" with the New Englanders, as a two days' supply is invariably prepared. The family was soon summoned to the well filled ta- ble, placing themselves behind the backs of their chairs, while Mr. De Van solemnly invoked a blessing as the children reverentially folded their hands in silence. During the meal, Mr. D. asked his wife if she knew that Mr. Wil- lard had opened -a store in their village. She replied, I was not aware that there was such a person in town, till I Alaw him at church last Sab- bath. Heis quite a young man, I should not think him over thirty." "He is, indeed, an intelligent looking man," replied Mr. D., " and he certainly ought to be a good man, for our  friend, Lieutenant Morse, informed me that his father was Deacon of one church fifty years'.   19 Affie asked her mamma if she had heard from Mr. Morses child that was so very sick yesterday. "It is better, my dear; though I think it will not recover. Mrs. Morse would feel very bad if little Franky should die. I have often heard her say that she was the image of the other little girl she lost. I shall go up and see her before dark.", Willie, a little boy five years old, looked seriously up into his mother's face," Ma, I thought it was wicked-to go visiting Saturday night after sundown." "It is not wicked to do a work of mercy on the sabbath day. Our blessed Lord, when here on earth, was always  ready event on this day to relieve suffering humanity.- Amelia, what day was it that Christ restored the withered hand?.:' "It was the last day of the;week, mamma, the Jewish Sabbath." , -  - ......, . , -     "20 Affie looked inquiringly to her father and said, "I do not see why the Sabbath has been changed to the first day of the week, for the Bible says that God made heaven and earth and sea and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day; wherefore, the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and hallowed it." Mr. De Van was always glad to have Bible questions asked him by his children, and was ready to answer to the best of his ability. "There was no direct command given to change this day. The redemption of man through Christ was consideredby the Apostles to be a greater work than the creation of myriads of worlds. It was on the first day of the week that Christ arose from the grave, and can you tell me who was earliest at the Sepulchre ." The girls both replied, "It was Mary." ,    I-    -    . ... ........ 21 Mrs. De Van asked, 'Was it Mary, the mother of Jesus, or Mary Mag- dalene ." Affie readily answered," It was Mary Magdalene."*  Their supper being finished, they respectfully arose while Mr. D. return- ed his heartfelt thanks to the Author of every good and perfect gift. Dur- ing this Willie, a- sly little rogue, happened to espy an intruding grass- hopper perching itself upon his plate. Willie did not close his eyes as did his parents, his bright black eyes saw everything that was about him. Not- withstanding the reproving looks of his sister, as quick as thought he took the poor insect prisoner, placing one of its legs between his pretty lips, looking mischievously at his sister, while the grasshopper performed vari- ous evolutions about the mouth and nose of its antagonist. Even Affie i -,; : v, -, x -  , - - . * s X v      22 could scarcely control her risibles, but he was sure to loose his hold before the solemn "Amen" was pronounced, and as soon as the closed eyes of his parents were opened he looked as demure as if nothing had happened. At this moment a hurried rap was given at the door; it was opened, and Lieutenant Morse entered. Deep anxiety was depicted on his counte- nance, and without ceremony he re- quested Mrs. D. to accompany him to his house. The question being asked if Franky was worse, was answered in the affirmative. Mrs. D. was soon seated in the chaise; they drove rapidly down the descent to the highway, and in a moment were out of sight. Mr. Morse soon drove to his own door, where his friend alighted. Mrs. D. with a noiseless step entered the  sick room, where several neighbors were already present. The little   23 sufferer lay in the arms of its pale and weeping mother, in strong con- vulsions. This kind-hearted lady advanced and took the child. Cap- tain De Van was not, a man that ab- sented himself from scenes of suffer- ing, but. taking his hat and cane, walked leisurely down the road that lay upon the banks of the river, which formed a deep bend, where, many years before, the inhabitants of this village had selected the burying-place of their dead. The thoughtful eyeof our friend gazed with intense interest upon the  richly cultivated fields, while upon the other hand the lofty hills stood out in bold relief, and ever and-anon the white rock Could be seen peering through the green foliage, that fringed the banks of the beautiful river. The branches of the elm and the box were interwoven and by its side like a sentinel- .     24 "The lombard poplar stood, And silver willow gently bowed, To drink the crystal flood." Happy indeed is he who can look from  " nature up to nature's God. Our friend halted as he came up to the city of the dead, and leaned pen- sively over the white fence; there -he could see engraved upon 'fie white and grey marble, the names of many whose memory was yet dear to him. He repeated almost audibly, "there was a garden, and in the garden a new  sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid." He thought of the unbroken ranks of his dear family, then offered a silent prayer to that God in whose hand are the issues-of life and death, beseeching him to de- fend from the arrows of death, which were  lying  thick  around  them. He saw not the dark cloud that was gathering, nor the bitter cup which he t7   25 was soon to drink. It was a pensive hour and a suitable place for such _Vj fleotions. The birds had sung their evening lays, and all nature was hushed. The footsteps of a traveller aroused him from his reverie. He soon joined him, and found it was a young man with whom he had a slight acquain- tance, who had been to a neighboring village to obtain medical aid for his friend. They were soon at the bed- side of the dying child, where they found Mr. Willard  and his lady. They did not wait for a formal intro- duction, but did what they could for the consolation of the afflicted family. Mrs. Willard and Mrs. De Van dressed the corpse in a white muslin robe and laid it away; the little chair and empty cradle were carefully set aside, sand Franky's toys were gathered up and laid in the drawer by the weeping    26 friends, While the two gentlemen who had been strangers but a few moments before, were mutually making arrangements for the funeral, each anxious to do his part Son this mournful occasion. Mr. and Mrs. Willard resolved to spend the night with their new friends, and watch the corpse. After an ap- propriate prayer by their minister, the Rev. Mr Bradley, in which he earnest, ly besought God to temper the winds to the shorn of his flock, Mr. and Mrs. D. walked home. Mr. D. broke the silence by re- marking that he liked the appearance  of his new friend very much. Mrs. D. replied that he had shown himself very kind," but there is one thing that I am sorry to learn of him." "What is that, Janea-" If I have been correctly informed, he has brought into our little village a -                ,    27         quantity of liquors, amounting to several hundred dollars." "What harm is there in that? He is a gentleman who knows how to dispose of it properly. We have a large farming country around us, and there are several large buildings to be erected this season, and every laboring man you know, my dear, must have  it, and our winters are long and cold, and we are subject to influenza. I think Willie would have died last winter, when he had that severe attack, if, it had not been for the hot slings and rum sweats which we gave him." "I know Wilhe was very sick, but I think that it was other medicines ; that Dr. Williams gave him that re- moved the disease. Be -this as it may, my husband, one thing is sure, that drunkenness is an acquired habit. If our heavenly Father had approved'     28 of the sale of intoxicating liquor, he would not have said, ' Woe unto him that giveth his neighbor drink, that puttest thy bottle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest: look on their nakedness."' "This isolated text of scripture would prohibit the use of wines, for, Noah was made drunk by the juice of the grape." Mrs. D. modestly said, "I saw in the newspapers a few days since, a short sketch giving the history of the intoxicating properties of the different wines that, were used in those days, and should judge from this account that there was a small proportion of the wines in the days of Noah that contained  intoxicating  properties. And therefore the use of them could not have been as dangerous as it is at the present day." "You would then, my temperate   29 Jane, exclude wines on    all occa- sions." "I would, if it was in my power, rid my country, and especially this little village, from an evil that is cal- culated to ruin our young men, and to blunt the sensibilities of those who have been hitherto pillars in society." Our friend had not been in the habit of hearing his wife express herself so freely, and especially upon a subject that he considered of so' little impor- tance.; there was but one drunkard in town, and he saw no occasion for so much alarm. He was now willing to drop the subject, by asking Mrs. D. if she knew that James Radford went for Dr. Smith. She answered in the affirmative.      I          3 0 CHAPTER II. TH- NIlGHT VIGILS, "Were Ismourning in the hall, O1?   Where, beneath the snowy pall. Waiting for the hungry grave, Like alily on the wave, Sleeps an infant's tiny form, Now with life no longer warm." OuCR good frends had now reached their quiet home, where they found their children seated in their pleasant little parlor,; Affi was reading aloud, Amelia being:her only auditor, for Wilhe had been in bed a full half hour, but he could not say his prayers and go to sleep, until he had confessed that he had been a naughty boy while his father was saying grace.   Affie kindly told him that God would for- give him if he forsook his sins; Willie   promised he would not be guilty again of such an act. The girls observed, as their mother entered the parlor, that she looked pale and weary.  I I am afraid, dear mamma, that you are sick."  "I am  not sick, but Franky is dead."  Affie expressed her deep sympathy for  and Mrs. Morse. Mr. De Van inqu d of Affie jwhat she had been i reading.  "-Papa, in the fore-part of th4 evening I read in 'Josephus' the ae^: count that he gave of the Jews'seventy I years of captivity, but, when you came [ in, I was reading in 'Baxter's Call to the Unconverted."' "I am glad you have been So well i employed; it is necessary that all, but especially one like yourself, who has so recently put on Christ by a public       e ,.,  . -     32  profession, should cultivate a spiritual frame of mind."  A portion of scripture, from the old family bible, was then read, and they bowed together around the family al-th tar; after the thank-offering had as- cended, the petitioner for the first time offered up a fervent prayer, that God would stay the tide of intemper- ance, that was calculated to ruin man, on whom God had4 stamped H  ow/n  image; at this p ayer, Mrs. D. ii d-I ed audibly. After the devotionwe concluded, Affe was informed thatshe was to watch, in company ith Mr. Radford and Wilhelmina Harris, at Mr. Morse's. This family did not think itr right to lie in bed late on the Sabbath morn- ing; they: arose early, as was their cus- o tom, and every duty quietly discharg- ed with the utmost promptness, each anxious to keep the Sabbath-day holy.   33 Affie singing, as she prepared the sim- ple breakfast: "Welcome, sweet day of rest, That saw the Lord arise, Welcome to this revivinghreast, And these rejoicing eyes. "The king himself comes'near, And feasts his saints to-day. Mere we may sit, and see him here, And love and praise and pray." Mrs. De Van's health would not ad- mit  f iier accompanying her family to church that day, although it was one of those tranquil mornings, and one might have well sung: "How calm and beautiful the morn, That gilds the sacred tomb, -      * Where once the-crucified was borne, And veiled. in midnight gloom, Weep no more your Saviourislain, The Lordis risei-he lives again." The quietude of the Sabbath was not ' broken by the report of the hunter's ' "  ' .*      *        34 rifo; in Roselle there were no Sabbath- breakers to stroll abroad in pursuit of pleasures, which bite like a serpent, and sting like an adder. Old men and  matrons, young men and maidens, were seen on this day, as- they were on all Sabbath-days, quietly wending their way up to the sanctuary, where they listened to the word with becoming solemnity. The De Van family returned home after church, each one appearing anxious to communicate as much of the sermon as was possible to their mother. Amelia repeated the text, which was in Matt. xi. 28; "Come unto me all ye that labor, and are heavy laden; and I will give you rest; take my yoke upon you and learn of me; I am meek and lowly in  heart, and ye shall find rest unto your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light."   Mrs. . eeme peasd to find her Mrs. D. seemed pleaed to find her children so anxious to make her sab- bath at home not only pleasant but profitable. As soon as it was sun- down Affie gathered a beautiful bou- quet from her choice flowers to carry to her afficted friends; as they received it from her hands-Mrs. Morse re- marked to her husband, "In this selec- tion, volumes are expressed; I will take this white rose and place it on Franky's breast, for sheis indeed silent in death." Mr. M. said, "My dear, she is not silent in Heaven." Mrs. M. replied-"I have thought much of the sabbath that never ends, where are now our angel babes before the Throne of him who hasa said, in His sacred Word, "Except ye 'become as little children, ye can in no wise enter the Kingdom of Heaven.' I desire to acquiesce in what my heavenly Father'has done. The Lord gave and the Lord hath taken away." '   -   r .      1 36 Here the griefof Mrs. Morse prevent- ed her utterance. They mingled their- tears in silence, while little Georgy hid his face in his mother's lap, and sobbed aloud. "I cannot, mamma, have little Franky buried in the ground as little Laura was."  The weeping mother assured the sob- bing child that God had need of them, and if he was a good boy that he would meet them in heaven. Mr. Radford and the young ladies spent the night in reading and conversing on subjects befitting the place. , Mr. R.'s buoyant spirits were held in check by Miss D. so that he did not presume to joke Wilhelmina about Dr. Williams, who had for some time paid especial attention to her; he in- formed the young ladies that he had engaged himself to become the clerk of Mr. Willard. t   Affie seriously said, "What doth it profit a, man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soulA" Mr. R. frankly replied, "I ad- mire the frankness with which you defend your religion; but I do not  see as I shall be any more exposed to lose my own soul there, than in any other employment, and I think upon the whole, I shall have more time to i solve your problem, than I should have if I worked at my trade." "You will there no doubt encounter more formidable temptations than you would if you followeadyour former occu- pation; you will be constantly in the society of those that are habitually / drinkers." The color mounted to the young man's cheek, and with unusual firm- ness he said, "I-see that you are fearful that I shall become intem- perate, but I am able- fto keep myself." I )    4 ; 'S       *     88 Affie timidly said, "No man is his own keeper, and let him that thinks he standeth take heed lest he fall. James, I shall pray for you, that you may be kept from the fowler's snare."  I Affie was astonished at her own de- cision, for a few months before she would notfor the world have opposed her young friend. But now she was not afraid to defend that truth wherewith Christ had made her free. She appre- ciated the pearl of great price which she had earnestly sought and obtained-  she, desired others to drink from- the well of s:4ation which was in her soul-a well of-water springing up into everlasting life. The purple morn broke in the dis- taut east, and the fight vigils of the faithful watchers were now over; and they returned home conscious that they had been mutually benefited. In- the afternoon the- funeral ser-   '39         ] vices were conducted by the Rev. Mr. Bradley, who selected these words from Mark v. 39-" She is not dead, but sleepeth."  His remarks upon the death and resurrection of. the body, and the reunion of the soul with the body in the morning of the resurrec- tion, were -calculated in the highest degree to afford consolation to the -la cerated hearts of the afflicted mourn- ers.  Their- dead was -now buried out of their sight; and they returned accoms panied by several -of their friends, among whom was C.olonel Bertram, who had been a faithful friend of Lieutenant Morse, His parents were among the early-settlers- ofRoselle They were a wealthy family. Coloel Bertram had for mny years resided south, where he married a ladly of fortune. His objections to "slavery," even at this early period, induced him    40 to return to his favorite Roselle. Mrs. Bertram was a native of New England, and rejoiced with her husband to be again fanned by the mountain breeze, and to drink from the pure waters that make glad theheart of, the wan derer. She readily connected herself with the little church, and adorned the dobtrines of her profession, as we shall see, by a well ordered life and godly conversation. Her husband was aman of the world, possessing many virtues as- a husband, a gentleman, and friend. Being a military man, Lieutenant Morse and himself were kindred spirits. He had purchased a beautiful loca- tion near his friend on the opposite side of the river, where he had erected a superb mansion, in which he had displayed much taste, not only in its architecture, but in the embellish- ments of its ample fore-grounds. He   ". had selected a; choice collection of shrubbery -congenial with that cli- mate. Mrs. Morse,in her lonely hours, was glad of such a friend as Ms. Bertram. They engaged not in the idle gossip of -the neighborhood; they read and conversed together upon those subjects which were calculated to elevate the mind and enrich the soul. The influ- ence and responsibility of parents especially mothers, was often the sub- ject of their conversation. Mrs. B. had but one-son, whose name e, shall call Walter. He was at th-i time but two years old, but the reader will do well to bear him in mind. In one of Mrs. Morse's interviews with her friend, she informed her that s she had just returned from Capt. De Van's. She remarked that Mrs D. was failing. Mrs. B. assured her friend that if she had rknown of her illness,    42 she should have called on her hbe fore, "but I left town theday that Dr. Williams was marred to Miss Harrism and did not return till this morning." "The Dr. was there this morning when I called; he invited Affieand Mr. Radfordto callon them. Ithink-Affie possesses amind above Mr. R., though he is an industrious young man." Mrs. B. inquired if Affie -enter- tained any scruples in regard to mar- ying an unprofessor. "She is very conscientious, but I think she has not given that a thought. He is in the employment of Mr. Wil- lard." Mrs. D. had failed rapidly du- ring the day, and now no hope was entertained of her recovery;- sh was aware of her approaching dissluttion, and was calm, for all her trust was1 stayed on God. After committing her husbandi and   43 children to the hands of God, her sainted spirit left the church militant to -pass through " the dark valley apd shadow of death," when she joined the church triumphant. The new tomb - wiow opened, and the remains of one th wasdear to many were laid there- in. -:The weeping willow was planted by her-side, where, to this day, its  drooping branches can be seen. The soft zephyrs of evening whisper low, amidst its rich foliage, as if afraid to dis- turb the deep slumbers of the peaceful sleepers.  This spot became the favorite re- treat of Affie and her father. At twi- light's pensive hours they there min- gled their tears together. Unadmired by them, now rolled that beautiful ri- ver, that looked like a sheet of bur- nished silver beneath the full-orbed moon. Autumn with its golden robes had come-the lofty hills and spread-     I.'       44 ing plains had laid aside their rich ver- dure, while the neighboring groves were clothed in purple and gold, They were no longer made vocal by nature's songsters, and- .silence held its reign. The gentle breezes of summer had ceased to kiss the slumbering flowers, while autumn's rude blast tossed them to and fro till they fell from their tiny stems. Affie often repeated, when in company with Mr. Radford: "See the autumn's tempest rising, Makes the lofty forest nod- Scenes in nature, how surprising, Read ti nature, nature's God." Mr. Radford had at this time left Mr. Willard's, and set up business for himself. Mr, Willard still continued in the mercantile business, and was highly esteemed by his patrons, not only for his honor in trade, but as an intelligent man; he was a strong poli- ;   45  tician, and was a constant contributor to political papers published in a neigh- boring town; liberal, even to a fault, in his principles; his bottle always stood upon his counter; he was never indebted to his neighbors for a treat; he always gave his friends a hearty shake of the hand, and "I am glad to see you, Bir," accompanied by a well  timed joke, that seemed to spring spon- taneously from his nature. His store was the general resort of the villagers, for they knew they would meet with a warm reception, or if they wanted a dram and had not the ready ' change," or were, too penurious to pay the "three cents, or sixpence," by getting the start of Mr. Willard in wit,-the full bumpers-would be liberally dealt out to them. When the farmer came to market his produce, if he had rid- den a few miles in the cold, or the day ,was excessively warm, our friend: had *A:  '*           I     " always conveniencies in his store to makM a hot toddy, so that he might go home saying "he was the best man that Roselle afforded." Mr. Morse, after a man had fallen from his wagon, and broken both of his legs, in consequence of drinking too much of Mr. W.'s toddy, remon-  strated with his friend, and told him the misfortune of this man was the consequenee of his misguided liberali- ty. Mr. W. expressed many regrets, saying, as was his custom on such oc- casions, "I had no malice at heart, I will go immediately and see him." He took with him such things as he thought the poor man would need, and did not forget to put in the jug of brandy. As he set it into hiscarriage he soliloquized-, "No one will object to this, it is just what the poor fellow needs." Mr. Willard was not only liberal *?           l   "- with his brandy and wines, but was always ready to take from- hiswell filled purse, and give to the poor. ,He was not a miser--he hoarded not his gold for the sake of counting his rus- ty coffers. CHAPTER IIL -THRE BATTIE FTIBLD "Hoof-torn, and sabre-scarred, they rest, Fathers, and sons, and brothers," AFTER several years of successful trade, Mr. Willard closed his business, and moved to Champlain. James Radford bought the store of his for- mer employer, and purchased in New York a large assortment of goods, which he in a few months, by his peculiar tact in trade, was enabled to     48 dispose of at a large profit to his numerous customers. At this -time James Radford had been married to Affie De Van about fifteen years. Mri Radford had four interesting sons, whom she was endeavoring to teach, as she had been taught, to " remember their Creator in the days of their youth." The training of her sons de-  volved principally upon herself. Her husband was kind, but was indeed a man of the world; his mind was fully set upon becoming the richest man in town, and he was fast attaining his object. He was adding farm to farm, each in a state of high cultivation ; so that his numerous flocks and abundant  harvests, together with the property of : his store, one less avaricious than himself might have- been satisfied with. He had reached further--he had now in full blast the largest dis- tillery in the state. There-were a few    " that mourned when they saw   the smoke of that pit, where the Worm tiethUot, an^ the fire is-not quenched, sending up its dak columns, mingling its-impure vapors with the pure air of that pleasant village. About this time Mrs. Radford was called to pay the lkt tribute of respect to her aged father, who died with a broken heart William De Van, the only brother of Mrs. Radford, first became. the clerk and then the partner of his brotherin-law. The temptation being ' constantly before him, he became the victim ofintemperance,and while under  the infl ueSice of alcohol, he was indue- ed by a wicked companion that he had met in, a distant city while on business, to pass counterfeitmpney to the amount of several thousand dollars. He was obliged to fle: -his country to escape :th penalty of, the laws. When, the ' 'news was brought: t1 his father, he ,'.; :i" '    5 . ' ; , , /.           .  -     50 sank back in his chair and died in- stantly. William De Van was a child of many prayer. With such an example and such teaching, we might have expected better things of him, but he had looked upon the wine when it was red, and its delusive charms had allured him from the paths of virtue. If he had boldly withstood the tempter in his first assault, he would not have be- I come his victim, or a disgraced outlaw. Mrs. Morse was like an elder sister or mother to Mrs. Radford, who had known but little of what the world calls adversity till now. She appreci- ated the sympathy of her friends, who saw in the distant horizon of the future a dark cloud arising. She knew that the husband of her friend  was daily increasingin wealth. He had  just laid the foundation for a splendid,- mansion, and now his whole soul seem-   51 ed absorbed in its completion, so he had but little time to sympathize with his wife. He would have been indignant if any one had told him that he did not love her-he designed to, and thought he did, devotedly.  He romped with his children when in the house or yard, and praised iis tea and coffee, and declared that she was the best cook in New England. Some- times, when he thought of it, he would ask about her meetings.  "When I get our new house he would say, "and other arranged, I shall attend churcl you occasionally. I suppose yoF I  - forgotten the problem you gave me to solve, long, long ago." Mrs. Radford looked inquiringly.  "Why, when we were watching w ith -friend Morse's child." "- One promise," said sheI made you ; tat night, which I have always kept." 4       al y ket.     52 "Yes, yes," heanswered hurriedly, "I know that the prayer of the righteous availeth much. My good old mother used to pray a great deal for me, and I suppose that is what makes me such a pious man." Mrs. Radford was about to answer, but wishing to change the subject he asked, ' Did you know, Affil, that Lieutenant Morse returned rester- day 8" "I have not heard of it, but how health, and what is the decision council ",  is no better, and the physicians ot agree as -to the cause of his isease." "If it were I, I should be more discouraged than he is. He is spend- ing all his loose property in. travel- ling and paying physicians; this little village :would sustain a greater loss than it ever has yet, shoulId  - - -'- ........C--u- , - .   53 he be taken away. I suppose you think, Affie, that our loss would prove his gain." "I certainly do, for he has sought an interest in the blood  of that Saviour that has  made  him  an heir of God and -a joint heir with Jesus Christ to an inheritance which is uncorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away. When the earthly house -of his tabernacle shall fail, he has a building not made with hands eternal in the heavens, upon which the eye of his faith seems stead- fastly fixed." Mr.  adford said, "I think he may yet recover; I hope he will live till I get our new house done, so that he can see what a fine appearance it willmake. -I can bring water from the spring yonder, so that we-can have a fountain playing night and day in our front yard. I obtain- 5* r o  . u -   ,     54  ed a draught for it when I was in New York last. I tell you what it is, Affie, Switzerland does not afford a more delightful spot for a building than we have over here. I wish our friend Morse, instead of paying out a hundred to enlarge his library, had taken it to build a piazza; it would im- prove the looks of his house very much. He had books enough before, he has more books than I should read and, understand, if I should live to be as old as Methusaleh. I intend to get a few nice volumes, when we get into our new house.' Mrs. Radford was almost a silent listener, occasionally giving him a sorrowful smile; as her husband took his hat and hurriedly left tie house, she murmured tow, "I had rather be a door-keeper in the house -of my God, than  to dwell in the tents of wickedness," She called .... g 'od, th . -o -uin . -   55 her children together and prayed with them, earnestly beseeching God that they might be led to seek first  the kingdom of heaven and3 -its right- i eousness, and also saved from becom-  ing blinded by the God of this world. After her family devotions, which she never neglected, were concluded, she called upon Mrs. Morse, accom- panied by her two younger children. As she entered the yard, the three  young Morses ran to meet her. George,  Alpheus, and Odora were their names. There were also the three Bertrams, Walter, Josephine, and David. The children had just been listen-  ing to an oration delivered by Theo- dore Williams, a bold, fine looking lad, who had been perched upon a stool in the centre ofthe yard. Josephine, as she walked up. the path beside Mrs. Radford, pointed to the flowers and said, "Theodore reads these as he     I       56 would a book, and he has repeated to us almost the entire oration that was delivered the fourth of last July. I don't believe that brother Walter could say a word of it, and I do not know that poor David knows that there was a fourth of July'. Mrs. Radford entered the room, leading little Odora by the hand. Josephine had woven a beautiful wreath and placedit upon Odora's head, which- delighted her so that her dark eyes were brighter than ever. She clam- bered upon her papa's knee, made a great display of her flowers, and jab- bered so fast, that he had scarce op-  portunity to greet the ladies as they entered. He related the particulars of his recent journey, remarking that if he lived and his health would per- mit of it, he should visit the Medical Society at M. the coming winter. "'But to live is Christ, to die is gain.' l   57 I have been convinced for 'several months that what my hands find to do, I must do with my might; for my days are numbered." The solemn and anxious looks of those present did not escape Odora's notice; she clasped her little hand each side her father's face, kissing him again and again, "You are sick,  papa; smell this pretty rose, it will cure you." The fond father patted her, and set her upon the floor. She ran away, and was soon skipping and playing with the other children. At this time a gentle tap was heard at the door, and an aged lady, a mother in Israel, entered; every' one in this family was made glad when- ever they were blessed with a visit from grandma Graham. Mrs. Radford was much   pleased that she was so fortunate as to meet A , . .   +      .     58 her dear friend; she had often been blessed, and-her spiritual strength re- newed in her society. Mrs. Morse was ' unusually sad, and whenever her dark hazel eyes, full of tenderness, rested  upon her husband, a shade passed over her countenance, a half-suppressed sigh escaped her anxious bosom. The good old lady observed this, and spoke words of comfort such   as these; "Those that trust in  the Lord shall be as Mount Zion.   He has promised    to hear his children in the day of their tri::le'"  She repeated a verse from her favorite hymn: How firm a foundation, ye saints of the Lord, Is laid for your faith in his excellent word; What more could he say than to you he hath said, You who to his bosom for refuge hath fled." The old lady, in lower and more subdued tones, continued: "When through the deep waters call you to go. The rivers of sorrow shall not overflow;   59 For I will be with thee, thy troubles to bless, And sanctify to thee thy deepest distress." As she sat in the rocking-chair by the window, the wind had blown back her fine muslin border, which- was full a finger deep-her silver locks were combed smoothly over her high but furrowed forehead. As she conversed upon spiritual subjects her countenance became radiant with hope. As the two ladies retired, Colonel Bertramentered. "I am glad to see you home again, Lieutenant. I hope your journey has not been in vain; I am  particularly anxious that you should get well, for if reports are true we shall need the services of all our officers." The Lieutenant calmly replied, "I hope the Government of Great Bri- tain and that of the United States will honorably settle their differences, so that there will be no need of offi- cers or men.-     60 Colonel Bertram answered, "There is but little prospect of such an ad- justment of affairs. War is already declared between the two nations. Naval preparations are being made as fast as possible. I was on Com- modore McDonough's sloop yesterday, -it is to be launched to-morrow; there is a small party going down to dine with the Commodore. I hope you and your lady will be among the number." He told his friend that if he was able to ride, he would be in attend- ance. The two gentlemen spent the evening conversing upon the affairs of the nation; party politics were no longer agitated. Colonel Bertram was  anxious that his friend should accept a Captain's commission, which had been offered him. The Lieutenant assured him, that his health would not admit vf his accepting it. I,       *           " The dinner party found the Com. modore well qualified to entertain his guests. The question was asked him, when he thought the British would make their attack. He answered, "There is no doubt but that it will be on the Sabbath; this has been the day they have chosen on other occa- sions ; they are a Christian nation, and I know not why they should choose this day in preference to any other, unless it is because they think that we will be less prepared. It would be unjust to judge the English by the officers that are sent here as the aven- gers of their imagined wrongs; they often assume a proud arrogance that seems not to be characteristic of the nation." Mr. Graham, a revolutionary soldier, and for several months the Aide-de- camp of General Washington, re- marked, that he had heard his Corn- 6     62 mander-in-chief say, "that he never transacted business with more courte- ous gentlemen than those employed by the British Government." The aged veteran entertained the company by relating incidents con- nected with the revolution. As he spoke of the battle at Bunker's Hill, his youth seemed to return again; he arose hastily from the table, laid his cane upon his shoulder, to the no small amusement of the party, and with an elastic step promenaded the deck, assuring the Commodore that he should bear arms at Plattsburgh. The party returned home satisfied with the day's excursion. Roselle pro- bably was never in so great an excite- ment at this time. War, war, was talked of in every family, newspapers sought and eagerly read, so that they were well acquainted with every movement of the Government. The long looked   63 for day of battle came. The boom- ing of the distant cannon was heard by the villagers of Roselle. Lieutenant Morse, in omrpany with several of his friends, started that morning with a load of provisions such as he thought would be suitable for the suffering and wounded. Soon after the victory was obtained, he was upon the battle field, administer- ing to the necessities of distressed hu- manity, without respect to rank -or age. The dying officers and 'the wounded1 soldiers 'blessed him, as he kindly raised their heads and bathed their fevered brows. He endeavored to console them by pointing them to the Lamb of God that taketh away the sins of the world. He continued his errand of mercy till he fainted upon the field. He was borne to a neigh- boring house by his friends, where he remained unconscious for several hours. L     "        1 Mrs. Morse and Mrs. Graham did not spend the time in idle gossip; but in fervent and importunate prayer, not for their country's victory alone but for the salvation of those souls that were being launched into eternity. They wept over the horrors of war, and those that were being made widows and orphans. There was no business transacted in the village that day. The young people climbed to the highest clefts of the rocks, so that they might hear the cannonading more distinctly. It might well be said, that Rachel wept for her children and would not be comforted because they were not.  Colonel Bertram had been actively engaged in his country's service, but  upon hearing from his friend, he was immediately by his side. As he bent over his pale and exhausted form, he said, "You should not have been here, you were too weak." -- -    --- - -    65 "Duty called, and I obeyed," said the sick man,  He was then placed in an easy carriage, and conveyed to his own home, where he suffered for several weeks, after which he so far recovered as to be enabled to visit the then cele-, brated Dr. Huntington, who plainly told him that there was scarcely a chance for hope; his disease was such as to require a surgical operation. He gave such directions to his patient as  were necessary. The Doctor, as he folded a billet, without raising his eyes soliloquized; "Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with Thee, thou hast ap- pointed his bounds that he cannot pass, turn from him that he may rest till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his days." And as he handed the note which he had just written to the invalid, 6........-     " continued:--"Yes, there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and  that the  tender branch thereof will not cease." As Lieutenant Morse took leave of his medical friend, he said, "If a man die, shall he live again? All my ap- pointed tim'e will I wait till my change come." CHAPTER IV. TltH  VICTORaY, "Our Eagle mounts on FreedoW's wings, And shouts ' The victory won,' Her golden plumes reflect the light Of patriotic sons." AT this time, the village of Roselle presented a scene of festivity and joy. The glorious news of national peace   67 was heralded from city to city, and every village and hamlet was loud in their demonstrations of joy; every house was illuminated, and long pro- cessions composed of men and boys, could be seen each with hands lifted high, bearing the lighted torch, mingling its brilliant light with the still more brilliant fire-bavin that blazed upon every hill-top. Our nation lifted up its voice in- one long, loud paean of praise-its echo finding a kindred echo in every heart. The huzzahs of a free people who had valiantly defended their nation's rights fell upon the ear of LieutenantMorse as he slowly journey-  ed homeward. He looked with in- terest upon the stars and stripes of hi gtuntry, apd rejoiced in the pros- pect that his beloved America would yet stand first among the nations of the earth.  s -            68 The vast territories peopled with every nation, kindred, and tongue, were mapped out upon the mind of the weary traveller, who was glad the time had come, when the spear should be beat into the pruning-hook, and the sword into the ploughshare, and that the husbandman would not again be called to leave his husbandry to fight the battles of his country. He thought to himself, "The God of nations has watched over us and given us victories unparalleled in the annals of history; and a halo of glory encircles the names of those who have led forth our armies from conquering to conquest. The banner of liberty is still unfurled, and we are free from the oppressions of those who would force upon us the galling yoke of despotism." At this period much time was spent in conversing upon the past. Anecdotes were related and listened   69 to with increased interest, by aged veterans imbued with the spirit of seventy-six; among whom, was Mr. Graham, the favorite of the neighbor- hood. Young men and boys were alike entertained, as he related to them the incident of Lord Howe writing to General Washington, and directing his letter to M"Mr. Washing- ton," which the General returned un- opened, saying, that "he was not addressed in his public capacity, and as an individual he would hold no intercourse with the enemies of his country." Theodore Williams said, "If General Arnold had possessed such high-toned principles, he would not have proved traitor to his country, and the life of Andre would have been saved." "General Washington, my boy, did all in his power to save his life. Andre was one of the finest officers that I ever saw. At that ^  i  *^ - M . !  --- - - - - -  11.  . .. ,- - - r -^ I. J     '70 time I was ' Aide' of the General, and accompanied him, when he visited the unfortunate prisoner.  Letters were written  him  from  the  American officers expressing their deep sym- pathy in his behalf. Every means was taken which the usages of war would admit of, to induce the British to ex- change the heartless traitor that they had in their possession for Major Andre.? Several times the old gentleman, as he related the above, wiped the un- bidden tear from his furrowed cheek. Theodore asked his aged informant if Arnold was a temperate man ? "In the early part of his military career he was, but afterwards he be- came reckless and dissipated; this was the cause of his final ruin. If he had been temperate, as his commander- in-chief was, his name might have been inscribed with honor upon his   - I J,5   I   II     I   nation's history.  J-tell -yo  Theo- dore, men of usefulness have 'been slain by thousands,, men of strong, gigantic intellect, have reklessly torn .from their own brows laurels that they .have won, plunging themselves and their familiesinto rretrievable infamy; and before the fires of yonder distillery are extinguished, hundreds of this little village, that numbers only ,two thousand, wil fill a drunkard's grave. Twenty years ago there -was not an inebriaethat walked our; strets, bit how different now; 4this engine gef destruction is daily increasing -the nnmber of widows and orphans." -The Bintevew between Mr. - raham and his young friend was interrupted  'by the entrance of Colonel Bertram. He- inquired  after -the health  of  Lieutenant Morse. . Being informed  that he was not .as well as husual, hen  expressed his regets that the accident      " of yesterday was communicated to him. "He was sitting by the window as the mutlated --body was carried by ona a shutter, which so affected him, that he fainted, and has not been able to sit up since," said Mr. Graham. This is notthe first accident which has happened in consequence of Rad- ford's rum." "It was not rum, it was cider brandy, some of his own manufacture. If I was Radford, I should rather live in a shanty than to live in his splendid mansion he talks so much about, and have that the price of blood. I thought when Stumbleton and his two chil- dren were burned to death, that Radford would be a little more careful to whom he sold his liquor; but if he can get the money, it is evident he is regardless of the consequences." The two gentlemen walked to the   73 house of their friend, where they found Dr. Williams seated by the bedside of his pale and emaciated patient. Seve- ral weeks elapsed before he recovered fronm the shock he received. Mrs. Morse watched her husband unceas- ingly, anticipating all his wants-she listened in tearful silence, as he talked with composure of his approaching dissolution. As she kissed the almost  transparent lips of her husband, he said, " I would be glad, Carry, if you could converse with me upon the subject of death more calmly.' HEer tears were her only reply. At this moment Odora entered the room; she approached the bed cauti- ously, and kissed the pale hand of her father as he extended it to her; -turn- ing to her weeping mother, she said, i "Do not cry, mamma, papa is bet- ter; when .he laid his hand on my head to bless me, he said all is 7  .     -74 well; and will he not get well ." The attention of the child was soon di- verted, and the parents were again alone. Mr. Morse continued, ' Carry, when I am dead, I wish you, my dear, to write to Mr. . arteneau, and tell him that it was my request that he should take George as an ap- prentice. He is one in whom I have confidence. You had better keep Alpheus with you, and in our dear little Odora you will be blessed. I have endeavored to arrange my busi- ness so as to lighten in a measure the settling of my estate; you will have grace given you to endure withy pa- -tience the loneliness of your widow- hood. You will soon be called upon to test the immutability of God's promises. 'As thy day is, so shall thy strength be.' He has promised to be' a' father ,to the fatherless and   the widow's God,' and into 'his hands I commit you."' This memorable, interview was in- terrupted by the announcement of Mr. Willard, who had heard of the sickness of his friend,.and hastened to pay him his last visit. The two gentlemen had been sepa- rated for- several years. Mr. Morse was glad of this opportunity to exhort. and warn his friend to seek an interest in: the blood of that atonement which had made him an "heir of God and. a joint heir with Jesus Christ, to an inheritance which is incorruptible, un- defiled, and that fadeth not away." Mr. Willard had passed through trials during the interval of his absence, but" these he scarcelyreferred to. He was then living with his second wife-his hopes- ro future happiness seemed eoicentrated upon his only son, Ash- bel who was scarce a. year. old: cir- i     K a       e  s 76  cumstances made the responsibility of the father, unsustained by grace, with- out a parallel-- The two gentlemen talked of the past and future, while one stood upon the verge of eternity, looking through the almost transparent veil that separated him from that ce- lestial city through whose pearly gates he soon expected to pass, to possess that reward, that is laid up for those who have "come up through great: tribulations, and washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb"--where the sun would not smite by day, nor the moon by night, where the glorious effulgences that burst from the face of the Lamb made radiant the mansion that Christ had goae to prepare for him. 'The other  endowed with the richest gifts of na- ture, misapplying them, negle ing to obey God's great command, to seek first the kingdom of heaven and its   - -- - , ..... a ,    " righteousness, that he might claim the immutable promise, that all things should be added thereunto. He saw in his horizon a dark portentous cloud. Before the two friends parted, the in- valid requested to be bolstered up in his bed; he opened his Bible, which lay constantly by his side, and read Ro- mans- xii. After making some ap- propriate remarks on the scriptures he had just read, Mr. Willard then kneeled by the bedside;-while the dy- ing man poured out his soul to God in fervent prayer for him from whom he was soon to be separated. As he arose from his knees, and took the hands that had been raised while in prayer, he said emphatically, "My inmost soul envies you; your path is that of- he righteous, growing brighter and bright- er up to the perfect day; ,but I am in the broad road that' leads to destruc- tion. I shall be left to call upon the. 7*     rocks and mountains to fall upon me and hide me from the face of Him who now sits at the right hand of the Fa- ther. He has called me, but I have- refused to obey ;". grasping the hands still closer, with utterance choked with emotion, he continued, "Pray for me, pray for -me, farewell, fare- :well." At this he hurriedfrom the room, and sprang into his carriage and was soon out of sight, Mr. Willard had a long drive before him, but he resolved to reach home before he slept. It was a beautiful afternoon in June, nature was adorned with her. richest robes. As the traveller gazed upon the lofty hills over which the distant mountains east their venerable, shades looking gravely down into the- deep valleys, meeting Flora's milder gaze as she opened her finely painted lids, he tthought the trees wore a livelier green, and the wild ..        i -.   roses exhaled a sweeter perfume than they were wont. He exclaimed: "Na- ture is indeed an inexhaustible store- house; her treasures, how rich---her dominions are as yet unexplored." The sun was sinking beneath the distant ho- rizon. As Mr. Willard was descending along hill he espied upon an opposite one, a carriage contaihing several per- sons; on approaching it, found it was; the Rev. Mr. Bradley and his son; the lady was introduced to him as Mrs. Bradley, the daughter of Mr. De Van. "Is it possible that this can be Ame- lia? I am just returning from Roselle. I spent- several hours with Mrs. Rad- *fiord, they are getting aldng very nieely.      - !"Is Lieutenant Morse still alive?' asked Mr. Bradley.  "Yes, but his work is almost done. Did you call at my Hotel as you. crossed the ferry "'     8I  "We did, and your family were well -were they not, Amelia " "The little boy was quite sick." "Sick indeed! who was taking care of him l" asked the agitated father. "I think it was the hired girl that was holding him. , She told me that his mother had lain down." "Lain down," he bitterly repeated, "Fare- well, friends, call whenever you come to Champlain." Striking his horse furiously, he dashed by them, and the sound of his vehicle was lost in the distance. Mr. Bradley, turning to his children, said, "What a strange piece of com-  position, everything of the man seems blended in his character; he is a star of no small magnitude, but he is not moving in his own orbit."' The son answered, "It is evident from his appearance that he is not governed by the laws of gravitation."   81 "I should judge him a shooting star by the hasty leave he took of us," said Amelia. "His appearance con- firms the reports I have heard, that his home is not his paradise.: I read a short time since an article from his pen, upon the 'Fall of Man and his banishment from Eden.' Milton has scarce bettered it." Amelia asked her father if Mr. Willard still continued the traffic of intoxicating liquor. "If he does, others will have to write upon his fall." "Yes, Amelia, he still continues it. I design, as soon as circumstances will permit, to deliver a course of lectures on the evils of intemperance, and I hope you, Charles, will take up the same subject, when you return to the people of your parish." "This duty, dear father, I have al- ready discharged, notwithstanding I s  5 .          82; met with opposition. I believe the Lord has owned and blessed my labors. Some of my parishioners refused to assist in paying my salary. Amelia and myself have resolved to abstain entirely from the use of wines, save, for sacramental purposes"  "Well, my children, you are en- tirely ahead of me."   :; "Why, father, Amelia has been en- gaged in organizing a Temperance So- ciety among the ladies. She has met with a good deal of opposition, but I rejoice that she is willing to have her name cast out ,as evil in the cause, which we consider so immediately connected with the cause of Christ. The measures she has adopted are con- sidered by many as robbing them of their personal rights. The question has more than once been asked, 'Do you not consider us capable of govern- ing ourselves "'    83 "It certainly looks like signing away our liberty." "I think when we get to brother Radford's we shall have something to do." "Well, my children, you will find you have a hard' case to deal with, for your brother-in-law is blinded by the God of this world; he only thinks of the best way of making money, re-. gardless of consequences. He is as inaccessible to argument as persua- sion."- Amelia inquired if James was the only one in this business. She was informed that Colonel Bertram had opened a large hotel an-d also a store, in each of these he 'had a bar splen- didly decorated, and rendered attract- ive in every possible way. Mrs. Bradley sighed, and said, ";I should not have thought this gentleman would have resorted to measures so     84 disreputable as this."  The  Rev. father looked astonished, and said, the Colonel would not prosecute a business which the law did not fully sanction. "He employs his son as bar-keeper -he is a wild fellow, but a correct bu- siness man." Charles inquired if it was Walter that he had reference to. "Yes, it is Walter, but he is as tall as his father." "It hardly seems possible, for he was a little boy when we left." "I think he must be large of his age, he is a head taller than Theodore Wil- liams or George Morse. Theodore has chosen the  profession of medicine. George is to learn a trade-his father has made arrangements to this effect; he will not leave home while his father lives." Mr, Bradley informed his children       85 of the improvements that had been made in Roselle during their absence, describing to them their new church, telling his daughter that the ladies, by their united efforts, had furnished it. "They are trying to get a communion set. Sister Radford informed me of this, in her last letter. I read it to a few of our sisters, and they resolved to aid them by sending those that we have formerly used; they cost about forty dollars, and are none the worse for being used. I have also a set of cords and tassels for the curtains. Two of our good sisters called on me the morning before I left B., and handed me fifteen dollars to assist you in get- ting your lamps." - Tears of gratitude filled the father's eyes. "Thank you, my daughter; vou have found it more blessed to give than to receive." 1         8 *    . . .      86 They were now within a half houers drive of Roselle. Every object was be- coming familiar to, Charles and Ame- lia; the mountains, hills, groves, val- ley, meadows, and green pastures re- minded them of other days. "Do look, Charles, and see that field of green corn yonder; it looks just as it did when we left here eleven years ago; and look on that side -hill too, see that flock of sheep. .I should think for all the world that was the same flock that I use& -to help Julia  Mason drive into the yard when I was a little girl, anid that black-cherry tree --I have climbed to the top of it hun- dreds of times, and that old butter-nut tree, too, that stands by it, I have ga- thered butter-nuts there till my hands were as black as a chimney-sweep's W nThey had iow reached the top of the hill that overlooked the entire vil- lage, and halted a moment that they   I might gaze undisturbed upon the Eden of their childhood. The air was ex- hilarating to the weary travellers, for they had long been pent up in a dense city, and the ministerial duties of the young Mr. Bradley had been too nu- merous to admit of spending his sum- mers in the country, as is the usual custom of the city clergy. The cause of Christ lay too near his heart for him to indulge in inglorious ease, while the lambs of his flock required hix unceasing attention.                   . I I,         - -    i,     7         88  CHAPTER V. BLIGHTED HOPE. ' The gloomy future bears No-promise for tomorrow  -The taste of bitter tears Isthe sole bread of sorrow."--As Lewis. How different were the feelings of the Bradley party, as they descended the long hill 'that introduced them to one of the loveliest villages in New Eng- land, from those of the unhappy Wil- lard from wh6in they had been sepa- rayi for a few  hours. They had . found the ways of virtue the ways of pleasantness, that all her paths were paths of peace; and their minds were as free from clouds as the etherial arch above them, and as pure as the light that was poured from the silver lamps with which it was adorned. *      11 t . ,   89 They had ridden some distance in silence, each having a world within themselves, in which they were busii- engaged. Amelia, aroused from a-b'j reverie, repeated:  "When I consider thy heaven  :" work, of thy fingers; the moon ':.l - stars which thou hast ordained, whait: is man, that thou art mindful of him, and the-son of man that thou viitest him." Charles continued, ".Who coverestd thyself with light, as with a garment; who stretchest out the heavens like:-a, curtain; who layeth the beams of ,hi4s  chambers in the waters; who maktfl:  the clouds his chariot; who walkth-i upon the wingsaf the wind; who ma- keth his angels spiits,- hinisters a flaming fire; who laid the foiipdatfi s of the earth, that it should not ^r moved for ever."     *    , There had a holy admiration diffused -  K8     90 itself in each soul, and unfolded to them worlds, and systems of worlds, each containing an inexhaustible store- house, and each sufficiently accessible  to call into action towering intellects, and where every order of mind will move harmoniously in its own sphere. They had each made the word of God their study; as the astronomer looks through his telescope and views the distant planets, so they used the word of God, which not only enabled them to look into the upper sanctuary, but unfolded its unfailing truths to their scientific miads; and was an uner- ring lens through which they could look with unsullied joy upon the vast machinery of art, and the untiring wheels of science. The same cloudless sky and the same jewelled lamps that were lighting  the Bradleys to their home, were shed- ding their silver light upon the agi-   " tated Willard, who urged his spinrted steed on, and still on, tossing in his chaise from side to side, as the )Wheels struck the rolling stones that -Wy in his way. The road was hilly, and often very rocky; but the unhappy man was unmindful of tiis. His brow darkened as he muttered to himself, Lain down, and the hired girl holding him; it can't be possible that Joe has given up the keys to her, for I charged him to keep the cellar and bar locked, for Hknew that she would raise the devil with us all, if she got into either." Mr. Willard had married his wife on a very short acquaintance. Her family had been wealthy-she had gone the giddy rounds of fashionable life- was intelligent and very fine lioking -she had shone with brilliancy in the circles where she had been caressed and ruined--and had acquired a habit I of intemperance, not only from her t      92 father's sideboard, but in the gay party where she had reigned a bright, par- ticulat-star. The now Mrs. Willard, dur;* the years of her widowhood, had esided with the family of her  broth4r-in-law; her extravagance and intemierance had rendered her a bur- den to him, insomuch that he was ready to negotiate with friend or foe, who would rid him of one whose very presence had become loathsome. This gentleman, being an acquaintance of Mr. Willard, lost no time in recom- mending his sister-in-law to him. He visited her immediately, and was pleased with her appearance, even more 'than pleased-he was charmed. The brother and sister wanted every- thing made sure as soon as possible-; they^vell knew that it was impossible to keep Laura's faults behind the cur- tain long. By cunning management, in lees than a week, Mrs. Stillstiver  I   93        I became Mrs. Willard. In two years we find her sleeping soundly in a state - of intoxication, her only child sick, and left to the care of strangers. It was long after midnight when Mr. Willard reached his home; he entered the house cautiously, and lost no time in making his way to the nursery, where he found the idol of his heart lying in his beautiful cra- dle in a disturbed sleep. He examined his head carefully, and discovering there were strong indications of con- gestion, ordered ice-water to be free- ly used; on finding his little feet very cold, he had draughts applied; the watcher could not prevail upon him to lie down, he was constantly over and around the child, shedding bitter tears -the better portion of his nature was called into action. A few hours before he was the indignant husband, but now the weeping father, with a soul $ !     I        9X94 as tender and gentle as that of a woman. In the morning Ashbel's symptoms were more favorable, inso- much that he returned his father's caresses with a smile of recogni- tion. When Ashbel's mother entered the  room late in the morning, she seemed not a little surprised to find her hus- ' band present. "You must have drove all night, Mr. Willard, to have got home so Soon." He answered, "After I heard Ashbel was sick I drove very fast.'" "How did you heat?" inquired Mrs. Willard, somewhat surprised. "The Rev. Mr. Bradley informed me of his sickness.' tI was not aware that they had been here." A shade of indignation passed over the face of the husband, who said   9:5 "Our child is very sick, and needs the best of care." "Dr. Spencer was here yesterday." Mr. Willard asked his wife if she did not think best to send for Dr. Livingston., "Why my husband, Dr. Spencer has always attended Ashbel, and I think he understands his constitution better than a stranger would." "That may be so, to be sure, but I  tell you, Laura, I am distressed, I think our boy will die-if he does, I hope I shall go too." "You always talk and think just so if anything ails -Ashbel; I should think he was the very life-spring of your existence." You may well think so, for you know that he is the only one in God's I universe that loves me." "Why, my dear, I love you." "Well if you do, go and fix your-     96 self up before the Doctor gets here." Mrs. Willard had lost much of her self-respect, and to the annoyance of her husband, paid very little attention to her personal appearance. Dr. Spencer entered the sick room, at this time. "Ha ha, you have got home again, neighbor! I should think that you had been out on a spree, and drawn through an auger-hole; you had better go out into the bar-room, and take a glass of brandy, and you will look twenty-five per cent. better," bowing as gracefully as his awkward- ness would admit of, to Mrs. Willard. "Curse the brandy, I wish I had never heard of it. It will prove- the ruin of us all; but for heaven's sake don't fire another artillery before you look at your patient," said Mr. Willard. The Dr., seating himself beside the child, took into one of his hands the      . v   97 dear little wrist, while with the other he picked his eyelashes. "Ashbel is easier than he was yes- terday;"' turning to the table where he had deposited his valise, he pro- ceeded to deal out medicine.  Mr. Willard, observing the large portions that he was dealing out, said, ( "I should think those were large enough for an adult; he is a weak lit- tle fellow, and cannot bear much." The Doctor half angrily replied, uI -think, neighbor, yoi - had better produce your diploma before you dic- tate to me in my profession." "Pardon me, Doctor, I had no ma- lice at heart."- "Malice or not malice, you owe me a treat, for not boxing your ears for your sauce." "Well, well, walk into the bar-room, Ill pay that debt." As the Doctor was about to take 9 ,     .     98 leave of the sick room, he turned to Mrs. Willard, "I think I had bet- ter prescribe for you before I go; I think that a sling well nutmegged will do you good," casting a meaning glance at the hired girl, as he spoke. Mrs. Willard affected arsevere cough, and said with some hesitation, "' took cold yesterday, and I think some black strap would remove this tick- ling in my throat, and perhaps this soreness across me." As they left the room, the Doctor growled to himself, "Black strap; P'd give you black strap, but it should be made of cowhide, if you was my wife." Mr. Willard, not understanding this remark, said, "Come along, old growler, and get your treat," handing him a bottle of brandy. As he was filling his glass almost to running over, Mr. Willard exclaimed, "Hold on, don't    " get so drunk that you will not be able, to come, if I send for you, before Dr. Livingston gets here." "Sent for Livingston, eh? Well,send for him, and he be d-- d for all that I care." Mr. Willard asked Joe, as he came up, v How is Blitz this morning V" Oh, he is so stiff that he can hardly move, I have been rubbing him these '::t four hours." "What time was it when yoU left Roselle yesterday'.?" "I don't know exactly, but about three o'lock."  "And got here before two; pretty hard drive that, ten miles an hour, and eleven insuccession; that is too bad, Mr. Willard, Blitz will never get over that," Joe looked down and continued, "I am srr, sorry sorry." "Joe, I am sorry too, but that is a small part of my sorrow"     100 "I know that, Mr. Willard; how is onr little pet this morning?" "In reality he is no better, I must go to him. But by the way, did Bob take Doll when he went for fthe Doctor?" "Yes, and it is time he was back. She is fleet as a bird-it don't take long to go eight miles with her." "Joe, did you give Mrs. Willard the keys while I was gone 2" "Certainly not." "Do you know where she got what she drank yesterday?" "I suppose I do. Agnes told me." He hesitated, and seemed unwilling to tell. "Well, Joe, what did Agnes tell you?" "Why she said, that she actually drank the rum that was used to wet bub's head in." Mr. Willard turned away in disgust,   101 groaning to himself, "Has it come to this, has it come to this "9 With, as much composure as possi- ble, he returned, where he watched the changing countenance of his child, and began to think that Bob was gone a great while. At length Agnes told him that Bob had come, and that the Doctor was not at home, and would not return till next day. But he left word for him to come as soon as possible. The tears of the father fell fast; he knew that the disease was settling in his head. The mother wept several times through the day. Agnes said it was because she could not get her "bitters ;" but the hus- band and father did not think: so. -It is not easy to destroy the last vestige of confidence in one that we are desir- ous of loving. Mr. Willard pitied her; he knew that the appetite she-had acquired held her in a most cruel i   *         " g     102 bondage. He saw   that the once  luxuriant springs of her nature were dried up, he still hoped they would  live again. When he looked at the f bloodshot eye and bloated face, he asked himself again and again.-  "And will the mother a monster prove, And fill a drunkard's grave? Oh, lend thine aid, Almighty God, There's none but thee can save," Mrs. Willard had for several times during the day urged her husband to lie down, but he was incorrigible, he' waited anxiously for the Doctor's arrival. Atlength, becoming alarmed, he sent for Dr. Spencer. After Joe had been gone long enough to return, Bob told Mr. Willard that the Doctor had been in the house nearly all day. "Why didn't you tell me before? Tell him to come in immediately." "Tell him to come in," Bob inper-    108  tinently replied. "He is as drunk as a dog-dead drunk; and I took him as I would a dog, three hours ago, and dragged him in the back room, so that there needn't anybody see him. I should think by the noise that he has made the last halfhour, that he thought the day of reckoning was at hand, by the way he has cast up his accounts. I'll be bound if I don't be thrown over-board before I'll clean up after -him."  Mr, Willard's heart sank within him as. he closed- the door upon his inform- I ant, Again he bent over the little sufferer, and shed more bitter tears than he ever shed before. He said, without 'raising his eyes, "Laura and Agnes, we must do all we can for him, as we cannot obtain medical aid." He was soon laid in a warm bath, his convulsions ceased, and symptoms of consciousness appeared; his extre-     104 mities were -rolled in flannel, and cold applications were applied to the head. As his mother handed him his drink, he opened his eyes  and smiled. Agnes in a flood of tears exclaimed, "He knows us, he knows us-he hasn't looked so much like himself before, to-day. Everything was done for the child that kindness could invent. Agnes more than once during the evening went to her little room and knelt down and asked God to bless the means that were being used for the restoration of the child. Mrs. Willard appeared more like a mother than she had evei seen her before, and for this she endea vored to return thanks. She resolvec to watch with him during the night though she was very much fatigued But her sufferings were always for gotten when she saw that she coul be useful. Hearing an unusual nois     - . .   105 in the bar-room, she hastened down and called Joe to the hall, and told him that the house must be-kept quiet, for Ashbel's life depended upon it. "I thought he was better," said Joe. "His symptoms are, but he is so weak."  - "Well, Agnes, I will do all I can to keep the house still, but that is not much!" "Joe, will you tell me what that noise was that I heard just now a" I suppose I can, if that will be any satisfaction to you" 'No particular satisfaction, only I hope tlte like will not be heard again," said Agnes, turning to leave him. "Agnes, don't be in a hurry. I don't think Mr. Willard knows much what is going on in his house. Dr. Spencer has been so that he couldn't navigate all day, and he is a particular favorite of Mrs. Willard's; if he hadn't     106 been, I should have sent him adrift be- fore this.^ "You shouldn't mind that, Joe, she is only a cipher in her family." "A cipher, she is less than a ci- pher." "Well, Joe, I hope she will do bet- ter; she has appeared better to-day than I have ever seen her; I h6peshe will reform." Your faith is stronger than mine, you walk by faith and I by sight - Just give her a chance to get at the cellar or bar, and then see if she wouldn't make asnmuch noise in meet- ing the floor as the Doctor hasw" Why do you give it to him then 2  "I hav'n't given him a drop to-day Willard made him drunk this morning the first thing; and he has been sit- ting for the last half hour looking more like an  ourang-outang that   a doctor. And Christie, not much better off than himself, has been pok- ing all sorts of fun at him, and at last has poked him over with a glass of fourth-proof brandy; you may depend, Agnes, he would not have got it if I had thought he was going to gie it to the Doe. There was half a pint of it, and he had only just swallowed it when he, fell his -whole length upon the floor. Bob and I took him up and laid him on the settee, and put an old cushion under his head, and I guess he will sleep till morning." "Well, Joe, get the house still as soon as possible." "Don't- worry, there shall be, no more noise to-night; but you look pale and sick, Agnes, you bad better go to bed." "Not to-night, Joe, for Ashbel needs, a great deal of care."  Agnes returned to the room, and      108 found the child in a sweet sleep. Mr. Willard was by the table writing, and the mother had fallen asleep in her chair. When she awoke she urged her husband to lie down; he con- sented, after looking at his watch and finding that it was near one. Agnes and the :mother were left alone with the child. Mrs. Willard's deport- meit during the day and night had done much to establish herself in the confidence of her husband and nurse. They had drawn the cradle near a large open window, where Mrs. Wil- lard had seated herself, enjoying the quietude of the house as she gazed upon the waters of the lake which were spread out before her; she re- solved in her own heart to rid herself of the restraint and gratify her uncon- querable appetite. She had, in part, accomplished this; her husband was in a sound sleep. ' But how shall I dis- ,  .   .s   109 pose of Agnes She watches me every step I take." She laid plan after plan, but in her own judgment she was thwarted. She had now hit upon the right one; her eyes flashed with fiendish pleasure. She arose and went to Agnes, laid her hand kindly upon her, head and said, "How pale you look, Aggy; you are ill, are you not ." "Oh, no! Mrs. Willard, I am only  weary." "I wish you would lie down, I can take care of Ashbel." -"It will be too much for you-I will sit with you." "Then I will make a-julep; which will you have, Aggy, lemon, winter- green, or mint?' I will take the mint if you please,' and I would like it pretty sweet." Going to the table, she prepared two glasses, and added to Agnes a strong decoction of opium. She said, Lrj^; f10     "O as she handed the glass to Agnes, "We shall both be the better for drink- ing it." The unsuspecting girl drank the most of it without tasting; taking the glass from her lips she said, "Mrs. Willard, I was not aware that mint was so-bitter." "Mine is a little bitter, but it is very good; you had better drink all of it." Agnes did so, and ate the sugar from the bottom4 Mrs; Willard seated her- self by the window, waiting the result of her iifernal deed; a short time showed that it was effectual. She saw that it was impossible for her faithful nurse to keep awake, and again weni to her, patted her playfully on hei cheek, "Come, dearest, you must lie down, you will fall out of your chair: let me lead you to your bed." Agnes stupified, yielded to the entreaty, and suffered the monster to almost carry   her to an adjoining room, where she lay till late the next morning in a state of unconsciousness. Mrs. Wil- lard, being leftto herself, stealthily took from the pocket of her husband the key of the bar. She lost no time in unlocking the magazine of death, taking from the shelf a large decanter well filled, and returned to, the side of her babe and commenced her de- bauch.     "2 CHAPTER VI. TAE INEBRIATE WIFE. "Man sinks bedfath misfortune's blow, And hope forsakes his breast; His boasted powers are all laid low, His strength is swallowed up in woe, When not by woman blest," P. J. Waters. THE sky, that had been clear the fore part of that memorable night, had suddenly become overcast, and th( fair face of the moon was veiled in t drapery of gloom; and the distant thunder told of an approaching storm, By the red glare of the lightning, the pale face of the sufferer could be seen, as he lay near the open casement. The midnight lamp remained untrim- med, shedding a sickly light upon a scene that baffled description. Mrs. I.           i'  1   -     113 Willard continued to drink till she was too much intoxicated to attend to the wants of her suffering child; he was often disturbed by her clumsy hands rummaging about for she knew not what. Emptying her glass again, she sank back in her chair, and was insensible to what passed around her. The rain was now pouring in torrents, a strong wind was blowing in at the window, carrying in large drops which fell upon the cradle, until the thick blankets were wet through  and through. The inebriate finally lost her equili- brium, and fell heavily upon the floor. The noise awoke Mr. Willard, who rushed from his room. For a moment he stood horror-stricken at the scene before him; his wife made an attempt to rise by seizing upon the edge of the cradle. Before the distracted father could reach- the cradle, it was turned     "4 over. He sprang forward, took the child in his arms, and with one blow he sent his wife to the floor, to all appearance lifeless; for a moment silence reigned unbroken save by the death rattle of the child. Joe and Bob hurried to the scene of suffering. They were frightened by the maniac glare of Mr. Willard, as, grating his teeth,- he ordered them to take the monster out of his sight. She was immediately borne to another part of the house. Mr. Willard continued to pace the apartment with his dying child folded tight to his bosom, and was deaf to all entreaties. His deep groans and distorted features told of  the dreadful tempest within. At length Dr. Livingston came as he had been requested. Alighting from his sulky, helmet several gentlemen com- ing out of the house. The Doctor bade them a polite "good morning," adding,  115 I did not expect to meet so many of you at this early hour.' One of them told him that they had been called to hold an inquest over the body of Dr. Spencer,  The astonished Dr. started back. "What was your verdict?" "Died in consequence of intemper- ance"  Joe led the way to a scene still more agonizing. The Doctor entered the room unobserved by the bewildered father, who was still walking up and down with long unmeasured strides, folding close to- his heart the lifeless body of his child.. The Dr. turned pale as the sepulehral voic -repeated, Darling, you are not dead--you will not die." It was iome minutes before Dr. Livingston had strength of nerve- to speak to him* Laying his hand upon his shoulders, he endeavored to call back the mind that had wandered       "6 in a labyrinth of thought unaided by reason. He seated him in a large arm chair, and took from him the body of his child which for the last two hours he had folded convulsively to his bosom. Dr. Livingston saw strong symptoms of brain-fever; after bleeding him copiously, he ordered a  large blister upon the neck, he watch- ed him closely through the day, allowing no one to enter the room but his nurse. The body of Dr. Spencer was carried to his own house. Preparations for Ashbel's funeral were made. Bob and Joe were faithful to perform every duty that devolved upon them. Agnes was unable to do anything about the house till late in the after- noon. She then found enough to do. Mrs. Willard did not insult any one with her presence. When Agnes inquired of Bob for her, he said she   "t        ' was alive, but it was a pity she had not died instead of Blitz; ' for she is  not worth three hundred dollars, and that is what Mr. Willard paid for him, less than a week ago." "Oh,Bob, Mrs. Willard has a soul to be saved or lost."  "Don't talk to me of her soul; she drowned that long ago." Mr. Willard so far recovered, that they ventured to ask him who he would have to preach the funeral ser- mon; he was unable to make a re- ply, for the first time since the cruel tragedy his bursting heart found re- lief in tears. He was confined to his room for several weeks, -and during this time no reference was -made to his wife or child. The Rev. -Charles Bradley, as he journeyed home, called at the hotel of .his unfortunate friend. Hoe en- deavored to administer to him that L L...      . ..  L or     "8  consolation that the world cannot give. He saw that the wound he had re- ceived, was deep, but he assured him, "That there was a Balmn in Gilead, and a Physician there, and that Christ  was an high Priest, that would be touched with the feelings of--his in- firmities." The bereaved sufferer listened in tearful silence. The faithful mgn of God continued, "Jesus Christ came not into this world to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. ' Though thy sins be as  scarlet, they shall be white as stowe- though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool'  Mr. Bradley said, "I would advise you to close your bar as soon al pos- sible, and discontinue the use of ardent spirits in any form, and add to thy knwledge, temperante  ' They shall receive the reward of unrighteousness   - -   that count it pleasure to riot in the day time; spots they are, and blem- ishes; sporting themselves with their own deceivings.' Decision of character sir, is what you need, and without it you are lost, lost for-ever.'" "I am lost already; the last tie that bound me to earth is severed, and what have I to live for now?" "You have everything to live for, sir; live that you may add to your knowledge temperance, and to tem- perance patience, and to patience godliness, and to godliness brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness charity, and with this combination of virtues, you will be enabled through grace to live the life of the righteous; and at last to come off conqueror, yea, more than conqueror, through Jesus Christ, whose pity and forgive- ness are commensurate with your re. pentance."     120 "Mr. Bradley, I have no objection to your theology, and your reasoning ought to commend itself to the judg- ment of every reflecting mind. I have long since learned from the-word of God, that the happiness of two worlds must be derived from a cheerful acqui- escence in the truth whichis alone cal- culated to elevate and sanctify our fallen natures. I have found the way of the transgressor hard; ithas blight- ed my future prospects, and rendered my own existence loathsome. When I met you on your way to Roselle, I had something to live for; my ex- pectations had failed in one, but in another I had hoped to more than realize them; man appoints, but God disappoints."' "Mr. Willard, in the general accept- ance of that, it is true, 'therefore3 saith the Lord; behold I lay in Zion for a foundation, a stone, a tried stone, ,   it :-    121 a precious corner stone, a sure founda- tion-; he that believeth shall not make haste.' You see, sir, that the worldly expectations of the righteous and the unrighteous are alike cut off. "The little a righteous man hath is better than the riches of money.' "' He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man,' "' He that loveth wine and oil, shall not be rich.' "I would not, my friend, be a-prophet of, evil to you; but if you continue your present business, your riohes will take to themselves wings and fly away; and God hath declared, 'that judg- ment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the plummet, and hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters shall overflow the hiding place? I have prolonged this interview with you, sir, beyond my ex- pectations, but I leave the result in the "        j k     122 hands of- one who is able to bring light out of darkness. I shall return to my people in the city of B-- bet- ter prepared to labor for the cause of temperance, than when I left. I resolved in Roselle to be valiant in this work." Mr. and Mrs. Bradley had more than once wept over the desolation that this evil had already made in their native village. On the evening of their arrival in Rosellet they had gazed with admi- ration upon its quiet beauty. They had for years thought and talked of it, as it was in the days of their child- hood. As the carriage rolled along its al- most deserted streets, they could see by the clear light of the crescent moon, that time had wrought its changes upon many an old familiar way-mark. The elder Mr. Bradley turned his   123 horse into the avenue that led to his own door; the tall cedars that over- shadowed them, waved their luxuriant branches, welcoming them  to the quietude of their happy home, The eyes of Charles filled with tears as he thought of his then sainted mother, whose blessing and smile had4 so often- greeted him, as he had re- turned from his boyish sports, or the arduous duties of a student; but a grateful resignation filled his heart as he thanked God for blessing him with a praying mother. As he entered the house, his eyes fell upon objects still more familiar. Late as it was, he could not retire until he had gone from room to room; everything seemed just as it did when he was a boy. He told Amelia, that he heartily rejoiced in New England's stereotyped mode of house-keeping. On entering his former study, they     124 found his: old slate hanging upon the wall where he had placed it eleven years before, and a sentence written upon it by himself was still legible. Amelia read without any trouble, "He that loveth father or mother more than Me, is not worthy of Me." "Amelia, read the sentence under it. My dear mother wrote it with her own hand." "'Go ye into all the world, and preach the Gospel; how beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of those that bring glad tidings!'" "Amelia, these words to me have been and are yet, like 'Apples of gold in pictures of silver."' There was one spot sacred to him he had not as yet visited-that-was his mother's room. His father led the way to it-there hung his mother's portrait at full size, with her mild blue eyes looking down   125 upon them, with  all their wonted loveliness. Mr. Bradley continued to / weep over the portrait of his mother,  until his father reminded him of the lateness of the hour. With hearts of gratitude, they bowed together around the family altar, and thanked God for his persevering care, after singing, "Thus far the Lord has ledme on, (Thus far his power prolongs my days, And every evening shall make known Some fresh memorial of his grace." They ascended the old stair-case that led to their room. Wearied as they were with their long journey, the past and the present were alike for- I gotten. They arose early next morning, and after a thorough reconnoitre of the old -homestead, observing  and  ad- miring every improvement that had been made during their absence, the "* !      126 carriage was brought to the door, and they drove to the house of Mr. Rad- ford, who received them with his usual bland welcome; while the two sisters mingled in silence their tears and ca- resses Mrs. Bradley had many incidents of interest to tell her sister, who had as many to relate in return-what in- terested one interested the other. Their brother William was in all their thoughts, but they ventured not that- day to mention his name. Mr. Radford busied himself by driving from farm to farm, accompa- nied by his brother-in-law, and telling him how many thousand dollars he   paid for this or that piece of ground, congratulating himself upon his 'luck," as he called it, to foreclose the mort-  gage before the owner was able to redeem it, by saying, "I was sorry, but was obliged to oust them, for I    w ,    n .    F  -- 127 I could not have my money lay idle.  ,Mr. Bradley sighed as he saw several familiar farm-houses tenanted by strangers. As they neared the vil- lage, he discovered a dense smoke in a remote part of it, and inquired of Mr. Radford what it was; he informed him that it was the smoke from his dis-  tillery: "And whether you believe-it or not, that brings me in more cash than all my landed property. But I suppose you would have some misgiv- ings of conscience about this affair." "My conscience Aould not allow me to have anything to do with it, and-God will bring ydu to judgment for this. 'What profiteth a man if he gain the whole world and lose his own soul " "Oh, pshaw! Affie has Jingled that in my ears ever since I laid the founda- tion to that distillery. Yes, she pitch- J     128 ed the tune before we were married; but she has not found me a very tractable scholar. She gave me that very same problem to solve almost the first time I ever saw her. As you have more time, and are a better ma- thematician than myself, I will make a transfer of it to you,; you will have time during this and Sunday, to study it all out; you will no doubt have the blessed privilege of preaching in our new church before you leave town." Mr. Bradley gravely said, "I con- sider it a blessed privilege to preach the Gospel, which Christ came into the world to establish, teaching men to do unto others as they would have others do to them, commanding them to love their neighbors as themselves. These principles adopted and practised would check the tide of intemperance, and rend the dark veil of selfishness that covers your heart, which keeps you t   -        - x i !-   from   t  w129 from seeing the woes that you are causing others to fee.  If the evil servant shall say in his heart, 'My Lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to smite his fellow-servants, and  to v eat and  drink with the drunken; the Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in  an hour that he is not aware, and shall cut him asunder and appoint him his portion with hypocrites, there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.'" "Well, brother -Bradley, I have heard that before, for old Mr. Graham and Lieutenant Morse have been for the last five years throwing, bomb- shells into my encampment, charged with just such passages of Scripture  as you have just repeated.   But I manage to- keep out of their way as much as possible; but when Theodore Williams comes squibbing about, I     130 try to give him back as good as he sends. He had the impudence to tell me a few days ago, that he that hardeneth his neck or heart, I don't know which 'twas, for it was all the same to me, only one is a little higher than the other, should be de- stroyed, and that without ; remedy. He is a smart fellow, but I don't like him, he meddles with that which is none of his business." "Mr. Radford, you probably think that all who talk to. you on this sub- jePt do the same." "Well, I generally let folks talk as they please, and I do as I have a mind to. -If- I did not manufacture the article, somebody else would. Col. Bertram is as deep in the mud as I am in the mire; he retails as much or more than I do; and Walter tends his bar in spite of his wife or Josephine. He has in his hotel a   1a1 pretty- good tenant. by the, name of Swinton. Walter boards at home, so that he can be under his mother's eye a little more. I am told that he already draws pretty hard/upon his father's purse-strings, and I think he will still harder, if he keeps on as he cop- menced; it is  necessary to hold him with a close rein, but the Colonel is very indulgent. Shall we call at Lieutenant Morse's "' "Not until to-morrow; what lit- tle girls are those just outside the gate?" "The one with the pink sun-bonnet is Florence Bertram, the other is Odora Morse-- Odora is the idol of her father and mother. Poor child! she will soon be left without a father, bht she will always find friends." Mr. Bradley said," God has promis- ed to be a father to the fatherless, this promise will be fulfilled." \            . .; I      132 Mrs. Radford had waited tea a full half hour, when the gentlemen arrived. As soon as the cloth -was removed, 'Mr. Radford proposed a walk to his new house; the two sisters were soon bonneted and on their way. Mr. and Mrs. Bradley admired the loca- tion; the building was- indeed a superb one, no pains or expense had been spared in its architecture. Mrs. Bradley asked her sister what lads those were playing ball opposite them. Mrs. Radford told her that 'they were Theodore Williams, George Morse, and Walter Bertram. "Why, I thought they were men, from what I had heard of them." "Walter thinks he is, since his father has taken him from school and placed him in the hotel; tall as he is, he is not seventeen." "Dear Affie, I am astonished at Col. Bertram pursuing such a course;   133 and I should think it would break  Mrs. Bertram's heart." "She does feel very badly; but Walter does not attend to his studies, their motives were good in taking him out; and his father's were no doubt good in' making him his bar- keeper. Mr. Swinton does most of the businiess but Walter has'the credit; he is simply employed in the com- pounding of slings and punch." "Oh, Affie, he is in the direct road to ruin!" "I am convinced of that, Amelia, and I think his mother has fearful apprehensions, but -she will do all in her power to counteract the influence. They talk of sending him away to school, but unless there is a change in him, it willbe useless. He takes as much pride in showing the key of the bar, which he carries, as Theodore does in reciting his Greek and Latin, 12     134  or as George in discharging the duties which devolve upon him, in conse- quence of his father's sickness. George is one of the best boys to his parents. He is often on his feet from morning till night; when he is not, he is engaged in posting his father's books. Look at him, Amelia, for you can see that he looks pale and care-worn; different entirely from the other two." "How long is it, Affie, since Mr. Morse lost his health ." "It will be two years next month. ' He patiently kisses the rod and the hand that appoints it. He has for a long time appeared entirely weaned from this world, waiting for his master to say, come up higher. I have visit- ed him during his illness, and have always been  spiritually benefited. His sick room is the vestibule of heaven."   j          135 CHAPTER VII. TI DEPARTED. "We laid him in his quiet grave, A rural, soft retreat; And turned our-faces from the spot With slow, unwilling feet; We raised no'graven monument Above his humble sod- My father was 'an honest man, The noblest work of God!' "-B. Ce. ON their return home, Mrs. Bradley inquired for her early friend, Julia Mason, then Mrs. Forsythe. "She returned to us last August in a confirmed consumption, brought on by her unceasing labors and exposure among the Indians of the North-West, where she and -her husband were sent as missionaris.  Two of the natives became so attached to them that they could not be induced to be left be*  .  . * 8 *,      :1 /136 hind; they, therefore, came here with them and remained till after her death in November. She, indeed, went forth weeping, bearing precious seed; af- terwards returned rejoicing, bringing her sheaves with her." Mr. and Mrs. Bradley, accompanied by their sister, called upon their sick friend. He was unable to converse with them, but a holy smile lit up his countenance; while his friends were standing around his bed, he beckoned his children to his bedside. Laying his hand on their heads, he pointed up, silently invoking a blessing for the last time for them; then took the hand of Mrs. Morse, pressing it to his lips, ut- tered an- audible " farewell," lifting up his eyes and hands to heaven, and, without a struggle, fell asleep in the arms of Jesus. Friends gathered around the be- reaved family, each anxious to give   137         i some expression of love for the de- ceased, and their sympathy for the be- reaved. On the funeral occasion, Mr. Morse's military friends paid that re- spect which was due an officer worthy of their highest trust. The procession which was formed at the church, to follow him to his final resting-place, was half a mile in length. At this time there was assembled a larger concourse of people in JRoselle than had ever assembled on any other oc- casion. Mrs. Morse felt deeply the loneliness of her widowhood, she rest- ed entirely upon the promises of God who saith, "I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him. The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me; I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy. " Leave thy father- less children, I will preserve them alive, and let thy widows trust in me.' 12*         1 s 5      138 Mrs. Morse, in a few months after the death of her husband, according to agreement, sent George to a distant part of the state to, learn a trade, leaving her fatherless child to the care - of Him who had promised to protect him. George kept a journal, and sent it to his mother monthly; by this she was enabled to correct and encourage him when she thought it necessary; and he was kept informed of every- thing of interest that came under his mother's observation. A few months before the time of his apprenticeship expired, his mother wrote the particu- lars relative to Mr. Radford's death, informing him als6 that Colonel Ber- tram had, two years before, built a distillery about a mile from the vil- lage. The circumstances connected with Mr. Radford'sl death were of the most aggravating character. One year   139 before the time above-mentioned, he made an attempt to destroy his own life by taking poison. He arose early in the morning, as was his custom, and walked over to his store and drank what he designed to be his last draught, and returned immediately to his hoiue, and told Mrs. Radford, on entering, that he should be dead in less than an hour, and also what he had done. Dr. Williams was im- mediately sent for, who administered medicines to counteract the poison, proving, in part, effectual in its opera- tions, but a continuation of suffering was the lot of the poor inebriate. He afterwards accomplished his de- sign by opening the'jugular vein. In the character of Mrs. Radford, when passing through this trial, the sustain- ing grace of God was manifested. When she entered the room where her suicidal husband sat, he gave her 4 .,      "a sign of recognition ! No shriek of horror escaped her lips; pale and trembling she knelt by his side and continued to agonize before God in prayer, filling her mouth with argu- ment, urging her suit with confidence until the wearied spirit took its flight. Every eye was filled with tels but hers. " Her lifted eyes without a tear , The gathering storm could see; Her steadfast heart, it knew no fear, That heart was fixed on Thee." Incidents similar to this brought the public mind to realize the necessity of doing something immediately to check the evil with which they were being overwhelmed. Amid the opposition of prejudiced minds a Temperance So- ciety was formed; Dr. Theodore Wil liams was their President. He, la- bored faithfully with Walter Bertram,   I I i i   I   141   and at length succeeded in obtaining his " pledge." Colonel Bertram gave up the manu-. facture and sale of alcohol, and did what he could to repair the evil that he had been the means of bringing upon society. Josephine did all that was in her power- to divert the mind of her brother from his former asso- ciates.  Dr. Williams did what he could to assist her, and success seemed about to crown their efforts,-Walter unexpectedly broke. his pledge, threw off the restraint of home, and re- solved to go south. He told his deter- mination to his sister; she wept and entreated. He was blind to one, and deaf to the other. When Josphbine cormmunicated to her father and mo- ther Walter's inftentiQn, they settled upon him   several thousand dollars, hoping that this would be an induce- ment for him to stay at home; but in     I     .   .....142 this they were disappointed. . As soon as possible he made arrangements to leave for the South, where he could drink from. the cup of pleasure un- mingled by the tears of Josephine, and undisturbed by thy prayers and sighs of his mother. Mrs. Morse and Mrs, Radford often  visited the Bertram family in their affliction. Mrs. Radford read a letter in one of her visits to Mrs. Bertram from her sister Amelia. The contents cannot be uninteresting to the reader; I therefore insert it:  "DEAR SISTER :--It is with mingled feelings of joy and sorrow that I write you. Both are alike designed for our spiritual good; but I must not fill up my sheet with preliminaries, for I have facts to communicate which are of more importance. A few days ago, in one of my missionary rambles, I was directed by a friend- to call on the wife ,  - -. - .- .   ,  - A   "3 of an inebriate who had been confined for a long time to her wretched apart- i ments by sickness. I discovered at once that she was intelligent, and had seen better days. "I endeavored gently to draw from her-something of her, former history. She was reserved, and did, not seem disposed to speak of it. I forbore in- quiring for her husband. Before leav- ing, I read and prayed with her. I put my hand to my purse, and was about to take from it a small sum; meeting at the same time her mild dignified eye, I resolved to send it, thinking we both should be less em- barrassed. On taking my leave of her she politely invited me to call again. I told her that I should be happy to continue my acquaintance. She smiled while the tears came to her eyes. As early as possible, the next day I was at the bedside of my new     "4 friend. She was alone, excepting the 1 nurse which I had sent her the eve- ning before. She seemed more willing to converse, and I ventured to inquire for her husband. She told me that he had been absent for several days. "' 1On business, I suppose,' said I. "'Perhaps so,' she answered, but colored deeply. "I asked how long they had re- sided in B  , She said 'about five years.' I found that her husband was out of business, and she had labored incessantly to obtain a livelihood, until she could no longer endure the strong tide of grief that had been a long time preying upon her. She had loved-her husband devotedly, and was still un- willing to have a shadow of blame rest upon him. "As I was about leaving the house, I met her husband at the door. His coat and pantaloons were ragged and   "5 soiled. As my eyes met his, my heart sank within me; he looked embarrass- ed, an" passed by without speaking. Before I got home I missed my pocket- handkerchief I retraced my steps and re-entered the door unobservedV-,. and overheard Mr. Gilbert ask his wife who I was; being informed, he said he was sorry I had found where they lived. "' I have tried to keep out of their t sight ever since we moved here.' "' I don't see why you should do so, they are good people. Did you ever know them 8' "' When I lived in Rogelle I was ac- quainted with Mis. Bradley.' "I wish, my dear, you would renew your acquaintance.' "'No never; I would be glad to for- get them if that were possible; I have ruined you and myself. I have re- solved, a thousand^ktimes in my heart  13        I     "6 to reform, and you know, Lida, that I have three times taken the pledge+. and have broken it. It is impossible for me to reform while the temptation is before me; if there was -a law to prohibit the sale, there would be some chance for a man to reform, but as it is, it is impossible.' "' During this I had been sitting on a stool in the hall, as curious to listen as I was unwilling to dis- turb; during their conversation, -my thoughts returned to the scenes of our childhood and youth, for there was something in the dark eye of that stran- ger, that I had just passed, and of whose veiled history I had obtained an out- line, which awakened a train of strange suspicion that had never before been awakened on any similar occasion. I had seen poverty stretching out her bony arms, and the poor inebriate clothed in rags. I have heard the cry   "7 of the famished child, and witnessed the tears of the heart-broken mother. : I had seen the bloated and drunken husband stagger thoughtlessly by the lifeles5 remains of his murdered wife- all this without thinking that it was possible that I should ever meet our dear brother. It was not easy for me to do that which I did, leave the house and seek my own home, without an explanation. I related the above to my husband, who proposed to accom- pany me to the house of the Iinvalid. We called the next day, hoping to find Mr. Gilbert in. Biddy, the nurse, said that he had been absent seveval hours; we found Mrs. Gilbert not as well as she was the day before. She. had a high fever, and her cough had increased. I inquired of Biddy the cause; she said, 'this is rent-day, and they have no means of paying.' "Mr. Gilbert did not rest during the     "8 night. He has gone to seek work; their landlord was here early this morning, and threatened to set every- thing out of doors, if the rent was not settled before night. "Mrs. Gilbert was taken with a heavy chill while she was here, and has been growing worse ever since. Just before you came in she took from her bosom this gold locket, containing the likenesses of her father and mother, and wished me to leave it at the pawn- broker's. She kissed it so many times before she could give it up, and said, 'Must I part with this last relic of happier days !"'  When I took it from her hands she raised a large quantity of blood, and it was as much as I could do to keep the breath of life in her. "Biddy's tears said plainly that if she had the money, this treasure should not be taken from the sufferer.   149 " I handed her a sum sufficient to de- fray the demand, and directed -her to return the locket to the owner. She did as she was bid. "On re-entering the room, the eyes of the patient sufferer were closed; one of her pale lady-like hands was raised in a devotional attitude. With a noiseless step I drew near, and wait- ed until she opened her eyes; they rested upon m, beaming with holy gratitude. It was evident she looked beyond the frail instrument, to the Great Author and Giver of every good and perfect gift.-She was too weak to converse. " We left a note requesting Mr. Gil- bert to call on 'his return home; as our invitation was not accepted, we visited his house that evening, and found him too much intoxicated to converse intelligently upon any sub- ject. He lay upon a bench in the 13*   150 kitchen, muttering to himself, 'William De Van has come to this*' Lida, the wife of our dear brother William, suffered a few days, and then. bade 'farewell' to this sin-cursed earth, and her pure spirit returned to the God who gave it. "William is now with us; we are do- ing, and shall continue to do all in our power, for his spiritual and tem- poral good; he has consented to again take the pledge. His judgment is convinced that 'wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whoso is deceived thereby, is not wise.' "Pray, dear sister, that his appetite, which has become a tyrant, may be conquered. From  your affectionate sister, AMELIA." The ladies listened with the deepest interest to the reading of Mrs. Rad- ford's letter. Each had had in their turn the wormwood and the gall   151 mingled in the cup of their blessing; this had taught them to weep with those who - eep, and -rejoice with them- that rejoice. While the ladies were thus engaged in Mrs. Bertram's parlor, a scene of interest was transpiring outside. As Odora and Florence were sporting upon the lawn, chasing their hoops with the elasticity of youth, with hearts as pure as the evening breeze that tossed without compliment the flowing ringlets of Odora, as she bound- ed forward to outrun her more frail companion; she stopped suddenly and exclaimed, "Dear, dear Flory, how beautiful, how beautiful, look yonder I" "Where, Odora, shall I look a "Over to the church," pointing in that direction. " Odora, I do not see anything that is so beautiful,-what is it " Do not see anything! The sun's     152 rays cause -those gothic windows to look like one broad sheet-of burnished gold, and the fluttering of that silver leaf poplar forms the richest- prisms I have, ever seen; the leaves must still be wet from the -recent shqwers, for there could not be such a ridh combi- nation of colors without them." As the girls stood admiring that i which no eye can -look upon with in- difference, unless the heart is veiled in selfishness, they were unexpectedly greeted by their pastor, Mr, Bradley. Ho was pleased to see the silent but intelligent gaze of both the girls!; he asked Odora what it reminded her of. "Of Heaven," she modestly replied. "Why doesit remind you-of Heaven, Qdora!" "I do not know, Mr. Bradley, unless it is because the Revelator speaks of the streets being paved with gold; and I should. think the sun's rays   153 upon them would look something like the scene before us." My child, do you thinkthe mate- rial sun lights up the city of the New Jerusalem?" "No, sir, the Lamb of God shall be the light thereof." "dora, does it say anything of the light of the material sun?" "I think, Mr..Bradley,it says some- thing like this, 'the sun shall not shine by day, nor the moon by night;' mamma told me the other day that the, time would come when thi right- eous should shine as the sun in the kingdom of his Father's glory." "Odora, God has said, that 'he would be a sun and a shield to the righteous; and no good thing would he withhold from those that walk up- rightly.' Do you believe this, OdoraP" With downcast eyes she answered, Yes. *7 v-      154 "My dear Odora, do, you love the Lord Jesus Christ "' '. I think I do." "Why do you love him?" "Because he first loved me." Tears of gratitude ran down the cheeks of the aged pastor, as lhe re- peated, "Youth is the time to serve the Lord, The time-to insure the great reward; And while. the lamp holds out to burn, The trembling sinner may return." He walked away. The attention of the two girls was soon diverted, by sounds unlike that which they had just been listening to. On looking across the street they saw several boys of the lower class hedging up the way of poor David Bertram, as he was returning from the post-office; they had thrown handfuls of dirt into his face until he could scarcely see to go, tripping him up as he turned to make - .  . .   - o   155 his escape; a tall over-grown boy with- a red face and inflamed eyes struck the sufferer as he was about to regain his feet, saying in a rough coarse voice, "Defend yourself, or I will keep-you here till night." Odora as quick as thought rushed into their midst and commanded them to desist, with so much dignity that, the brutal clan stood abashed,  She stooped down, and with the help of Florence assisted David to arise from the ground on which he was sitting; and with their kerchiefs they brushed off the dirt as well as they could from his fine broadcloth. Florence was sobbing aloud; while Odora indignantly told the boys that they ought to be ,ashamed to insult and abuse one that was entirely un- able to defend himself. "He i-a fool,' retorted one. "If he is," answered Odora, "he is     wise enough not to return evil for evil, a knowledge which teaches him not to degrade and demean himself as you have done on this occasion." The tall red-faced boy said sneer- ingly, "I had a hen crow this morning and I killed her, and I think her spirit has entered Miss Odora Morse, the queen of Roselle." Odora, still maintaining her dignity, said, (John Windsor, I fear that you are in the broad road that? leads to destruction." A little boy affirmed what Odora said, by telling her that John had been down to Col. Bertram's old dis- tillery, and had found an old barrel containing a quart of cider-brandy, and had drunk'freely of it himself, and given the others all that they would take. Odora heard with pstonish- ment, and resolved that if hef teacher would let her select her next subject   157 for composition she would write upon the "Evils of Intemperance'  As Florence and Odora led David away, Florence asked her brother, "Why he did not try to get away from those wicked boys?  I did try."  "I should have thought you would have struck them back again'  "That would have been wicked, Flory; Jesus didn't strike when the wicked men struck him.' "I don't know- but they would have killed you, if we had not come and helped you." "The wicked men killed Jesus too 1" The girls wept all the way home. The intellect of David had been in- jured when a child, and' his health so much impaired that they seldom allowed him to go out alone. He sometimes went to the post-office when there was no one else to go, as '1.J   14     158- he had on this occasion; he was kind and affectionate-in his disposi- tion, and so conscientious, that he always chose rather to suffer wrong than  do wrong.    Josephine  had taught him to read some; he was constantly in the society of his mother and sister, and they had been permit- ted to see that the Scriptures were so plain, "that the way-faring man, though a fool, need not err therein." David entered, the tho tI  with his mouth partly open, and handed his mother a letter, sayin  at the same time, "I hope, dear maintma, that it is from Walter."  Mrs. Bertram did not doubtl his as her eye fell upon the post-mark.  Walter informed    his mother that he was about going into business, -nd hoped she would not be anxious about him.   '"The circle which I now move in, is a respectable one. Tell Joe, if she makes up her   mind to take up the practice of medi- cine, that I hope she will be success- ful.  I shall return in about two years.      160 CHAPTER EIGHTH. THE FOREBODINGS. If shadows track our earthly way, To press the spirit's lightness, Heaven can clothe the darkest day In evening Slden brightness." I )    T. A. WOBAL. COL. BERTRAM   was seated -by  the table busily engaged in reading a let- ter that David   had  handed  him. When he laid it aside, Mrs. Bertram handed Walter's letter to him; he sighed, and said it would be a long two years before -he would return.  "But I suppose we may as well hope for the best. The letter I have just received is from Champlain; our old friend Mr. Willard has thought of us again, but it is evident from the contents, that ,A      F      161  there are others whomn he thinks still more of; he has been a widower se- veral years. Mrs. Bertram said 9he should think he would be afraid to marry again, as he was so unfortunate in his last wife. "Matilda, he is on the right track now, if he can gain the prize." "My-dear, what prize has he in view?" "It is no less than our dear Mrs. Morse." After a few moments' silence, Mrs.  Bertram said, "That would never an- swer." "I know, Matilda, there is a differ- - ence between the former character of Mr. Willard and that of Lieutenant Morse, but I am credibly informed that there is' a thorough' change in Mr. Willard; he looks entirely differ- eat from what he did seven years ago," "'     he did you se hm "When did you see him ." "The last time I went to Montreal, I met him, he told me that after the death of his wife, which happened about four months after that of his child, that he rented his hotel, and Ioved upon a farm; he spoke in high commendations of the Rev. Charles I Bradley, and said that his last inter-  view with him had proved a great blessing; he has just informed me that he has corresponded with Mrs. . Morse." "And you think, Matilda, it wont answer at all I'" "I do. not know, I am sure; I know  that Mrs. Morse is very anxious to educate Odora, -and Alpheus needs a father. Mr. Bertram inquired if Alpheus was not a good boy? "His disposition is selfish and stub- born."    163 Does Mr. Willard wish you to nego- tiate for him?"  "'-It is pretty near that; he wishes me to speak a good word for him, and I think I shall." "Why, Matilda, he is worth twenty- ; five thousand dollars, and what a home that will make for her and her fa- mily." "Mr. Bertranm, Mrs. Morse will ne- ver have a pleasanter home than she has now; throw back the curtain be- hind you, and look out at the window." "We do have a fine, view of the cottage from this window, but those beautiful shade trees, those full blown roses, nor that luxuriant brier, that has climbed to the eaves of the house, will not educate her children, nor support her in her old age." - "I see, my husband, that you are fully in favor of Mrs. Morse becom- ing the wife of Mr. Willard." ;          .     .       164 "It would be hard to be sepa- rated from her, and the village needs her society and influence; and Odora will soon be a young lady; our Florence is very much attached to her, I wish she could always be her com- panion." Mr. Willard visited Roselle, several times during the summer, and again in the fall,--carrying away a prize which had been appreciated there for more than twenty years. Odora was very sad when she took leave of her friends, and when the car- riage drove away from what had been her happy home, through her tears she bade it "farewell." It was a cold bleak November's day, and sometimes Odora's heart sank within her, when she thought of what she had left behind. Alpheus sat by her side, but it hap- pened to be one of his cross days, so he paid but little attention to his- sister. ,jI   165  Odora pointed to a large spreading tree that was stripped of its foliage, and in an under-tone told. her brother that she was-like it. lHe pugnaciously answered  her, "I don't -know how you are like that great tree, unless it- is because you feel so big." Her dark blue eyes filled with tears as they mildly rested upon him. "Don't talk so, dear brother, I only meant that we had left all our dear friends in Roselle." "Well, if that is what you meant, I should think you are more like the leaves under the tree than any- thing else; that large beech has got large roots, and it is very evident that our roots were not very deep; if they had been, this Champlain wind would not have hpset us and blown us so far from our native soil." Odora laughedmore to make her      166 brother good-natured, than because she was happy, and said, 'Oh, you include yourself, you use the plural I see." She leaned over and placed her arms around his neck, and kissed the brow that had been all day frown- ing upon everything his eyes rested upon, and gently said, "Dear brother, if we are only rooted and grounded in Christ, these changes will lead us to place our affections on that God that changeth not. We shall no doubt be happy in our new home; Mr. Wil- lard looks very pleasantlyupon us; he told me this.'morning that he intended to send us to the best school in the state." He will probably send us back to Roselle then,"* was Alpheus's reply. ' He told me this morning, that he designed to send us to the Academy at Mount Hope." "Well, brother, that is the very ,     . .=....   167 place I have wanted to go to for a long time, and how pleasant it will be if we can be- there together." "That if has blighted the hopes of a great many, Odora,-if mother had not taken it into her head to get mar- ried, we should have been at home, and if she had sacked him we should not have been lashed into shoe-strings by this north wind, that almost freezes my ears, with no prospect of its abat- ing, for the clouds are as black as, night." "Dear brother, let me repeat to you  Shelley's beautiful poem upon tle cloud, and the wind wont blow half so hard, nor the clouds look half so black." "Well, let us have it then ; anything to kill time. You will no doubt do it justice, seeing you are a poetess." I'll do my best, so we will have it.     168 "I bring fresh showers for the thirsting flowers, From the seas and the strea-is; I bear light shades for the leaves when laid In their noond ay dreams. From my wings are shaken the dews that waken The sweet buds every one, When; rocked to rest on their mother's breast As she dances about the sun. I wield the flail of the lashing hail, And whiten the green plains under, And then again I dissolve it in rain, And laugh as I pass in thunder. "I sift the snow on the mountains below, And their great pines groan aghast; And all the night 'tis my pillow white, While I sleep in the arms of the blast, Sublime on the towers of my skiey bowers, Lightning my pilot sits. In a cavern under is fettered the thunder, It struggles and howls at fits; Over earth and ocean with gentle motion, This pilot is guiding me, Lured by the love of the genii that move In the depths of the purple sea; Over the rille and the crags and the hUls, Over the lakes and plains, Wherever he dream under mountain or stream. The spirit he loves remains, And I all the while bask in heaven's blue smile, Whilst he is dissolving in rain.   1f9 6"The sanguine sunrise with histietebr eyes And his burning/plumes o6tspread, Leap 'ona the back ofk a sayling rok- When the mtorningstar shines dead. As on the jag of a mountain-rag, Which an earthquake rocks and swings, An eagle alit one momient may sit In the light of his golden wings, And when sunset may breathe from the lit sea be. neath, Its ardours of rest and of love, And crimson pall of eve may fall From the depth ofheaven above. With wings folded I rest on mine airy ites As still as a brooding dove. "That orbed maiden with wiite fire lade/n Whom mortals call the moon Gildes glimmering o'er my fleece-like floort,  By the midnighft breezes strewn; And whenever the beat of her unseen feet, Which only the angels hear, May have broken the Woof of my tent's thin roof, The stars peep behind her and p eer And I laughed to see them whirf aid flee, Like a sw/rm of golden-m, {   ... ehen I Widen fhO rent in iy wrnd .bllttent. Till the calm rivers, lakes, and seas, Like strips of the sky falei thr6ugh me andd high, Are each paved with the moon and these. 15     170 V.           I "I bind the sun's throne With the burning zone And the moon's with a girdle of pearl; The volcanoes are dim, and the stars reel and swim, When the whirlwinds my banner unfurl, From cape to cape, with a bridge-like shape, Over a torrent sea. Sunbeam proof, I hang lWke a roof, The mountains its columns be, The triumphal arch through which I march, With hurricane, fire, and snow. When the powers of the air are chained to my chair Is the million-colored bow  The sphere-fire above its soft colours move, While the moist earth was laughinghelow. VI, "I am the daughter of earth and water, And the nurseling of the sky, I pass through the pores of the-ocean and shores, I change, but I cannot die, For after the rain, with never a stain The pavilion ot heaven is bare, And the winds and sunbeams with their convex gleamns, Build up the blue dome of air, I silently laugh at my cenotaph, - nd out of the caverns of rain, Like a child from the womb, like ghost from the tomb, I arise and unbuild it again." .   It is b         tif! I1 "Well, Odora, that is beautiful! I almost fancy that the sun is shining. Odora, are you acquainted with the character of Shelley?"  - Not extensively, I have read his poems; are you, Alpheus?" "I read a brief biograptiy Tof his not long since; there were traits in his political character that pleased me, but he was one of those that Dever matured anything, half of his poems are in an unfinished state." "Alpheus, the one that I have just repeated is finished; in my humble opinion there are finished touches in this, that cannot be surpassed,; and there is the poem addressed to the Lord Chancellor on- his removing his children, under the false pretence of his not being capable of bringing them up. While he prays for the blighting curse to rest upon his ene- mies, there is a development of fra- '- -  , -   " ,' -. . .. I " * .     -    -. - .  -" ternal love, though the finest feelings of his .soul had been outraged; it ought to answer as an apology for the strong expressions that are embo- died in that petition. I know that the spirit of that prayer is-unchristian." "I suppose, Odora, when he wrote that, he thought the time had come when there was no virtue in forbear- ance; and I am coming to that con- clusion myself, for I am hungry and cold." Handing his sister a strip of paper, on which he had written-as he had : everal -times during the day-what he dare not speak. "I wonder when our new dad will haul in forthe night." They soon hove in sight of a large hotel, where they were to spend the night. They enjoyed the large fire that was blazing upon the hearth. :While .the supper was being pre-   pared Odora was seated by a small table, busily reading; when her bro- ther interrupted her by asking what book she had. "It is the Champions of Freedom." Feigning great surprise he gravely repeated, ",the Champions of Freedom! What, anovel! I thought you were too pious to read such a book as that; I read it last spring, and while I was doing so you sang Old Hundred' with your faceas long as my arm"-stretch- ing his arm at full length-" compa- ratively speaking, my dear sister." ," Why, Alpheus! how unaccount- ably absurd; I did not know that you had ever read it." Oh, you did not!"Turning away with an air of pleased satisfaction. Mr. Willard during their ride had overheard part of their conversa- tion. He saw there washa difference int the character and taste of the 15*        174 brother and sister; he admired Odora, and did not dislike her brother.  The next day was a bright beauti- ful one, and  they drove rapidly towards their new home. Odora gave her brother a slip of paper on which was written, "I am curious to know how our new home is going to look- I wonder if there are shade trees and flowers, and what kind of a house do you suppose we shall live in ." . "Well, Odora, if you want my ideas I can give them to you. In the first place, we are to be farmers, and I suppose our house will be an old story- and-a-half wood colored building, kitchen and dining-room in front, par- lor in the attic, and our bed-rooms down cellar. It is very probably situ- ated in the middle of a-cornfield, with a potatoe patch in front, the grand en- trance shut in by a pair of bars, a corncrib on each side forming an ar-   cade through which we shall pass when we go to milking-a row of sun- flowers on one side of the walk and broom-corn-on the other, forming a luxuriant shade during the summer months, with dandelions and daisies, occasionally throwing back their green veils looking up to see if their tall neighbors are like to bring in an abundant harvest'. "' Hush, Alpheus, you are too ridi- culous. I am sure I shall like livin on a farm very much, for there fmore kinds of work we shall learnt da:o than we could do if we livedA i Roselle." "Odora, don't mention Roselle again in my hearing, for that has be- come as unpleasant to my ears as my graphic description has to yours." "Well, Alpheus, there will be one thing that we both shall be happy in" "What is that, sis for I am sure that I want to be happy?a     "I am sure that you do not try to make yourself very happy." "Don't stop to preach a sermon, before you tell me what we are to be happy in." "It is dear little Alba, Mr. Wil- lard's adopted daughter; she is to be our sister, she is about five years old." "Is she pretty " inquired Alpheus, somewhat interested. "Mr. Willard says she is -ook yonder, brother, and see that beautiful "sit-es look pleasant at a dis- tance; ; think I should like to live there." In a few moments the carriage stood in front-ofa large arched gate which was opened by a well dressed laborer. Mr. Willard drove up the long avenue, skirted by the tall pines and the more modest mountain ash. Mr. Willard again halted at a small   :      lm t  wI 1 wicker gate that led to the front door, out -4 which ran one of the sweetest little girls Odora had ever seen. "Oh, papa, you have got home, you - have got home." Mr. ,Willard,-as he tookher in Tis arms, kissed her, and turning to assist Mrs. Willard to alight, Paid, kindly to Odora and Alpheus, "Well, my chil- dren, we havegot home. i  Mr. Willard walked up the seps to the piazza, opening the front door into a large pleasant hall, out 3of which they stepped into a well fur- nished parlor, larger than tha one they had left in Boselle. A4ba was soon in Mrs. Willard's lap Iand ;ised her repeatedly. "You are my dear ;mamma, .pap says you are." ' Yes, I am your mamma, and you are my dear little girl, and I have L1     Ave 'I     178  brought you  a  dear sister' and a dear brother,  will you love them?" "Yes, mamma, I love them now, will they love me?" Alpheus and Odora approached the child, assuring her that they loved her, by an affectionate kiss, each taking one of the little hands, and led her to the piazza. "Isn't she beautiful, brother?" "Yes, she is beautiful," was his reply; "she is prettier than you ever were, Odora." "I am glad of that, Alpheus, r hope she is a great deal better." "There is a fair chance for that," retorted Alpheus.  "Isn't this a pleasant place?" in- quired Odora of her brother "Yes, it is very pleasant, but I have seen one thing already that was not very pleasant."   179 "You are apt to see unpleasant things; why is it so, brother. " "I do not know, unless it is because unpleasant things are set before me." "What have you seen that is so un- pleasant P" "I saw 'on the other side of the drawing room a large cupboard with glass doors, and in that cupboard a full set of china." "And that was an unpleasant sight, was it?" "No, the china does not look un- pleasant to me. at all." "Well, Alpheus, tell me what you saw." "I saw more than a dozen of de- canters filled with wine and brandy ;" with his color deepening he continued, "I believe Mr. Willard makes a daily use of it." Odora looked sad, and said, "I ave too much confidence in our mother to     t180 thinkl that sie Couldc marry a man that used alcohol as a beverage." The ringing of the dinner bell broke brotier and sister. Alba was seated beside her new sister, apparently as well acquainted as if they had always known each other. Odora fancied her mother did nof loo1k quite as happy as she did before they stopped,and thought that her fofebodings were in unison with her own. Mr. Willard looked with pride on what he then called his "prizes" that he had brought to Chaim- plain. The dinner passed pleasantly, after which he asked Alpheus to take a *^alk.  Odora aAd her mother, with Alba betWeen them, were seated on the sofa in the palor. Odora looking wish- fully into her mother's face and said, 'IAe you happy, dear mamma?" "Yes, I am quite happy, are you?" ,    1-       . * 4t   "Yes, mamma, only I feel rather strange; but, I wish George was here, when do you expect him?a:  "He will be at home about Christ- mas, and that will be only five weeks." '"Mamma, is Mr. Willard a Chris- tian t" '"No, Odora, he has never made a public profession of religion, but-be- lieves there is divine reality in the re- ligion of Jesus Christ; his theology is correct with the doctrines of the Bible." ' Mam  -a,-is Mr. Willard - member of a temperance society .?" "I should think not, Odora, from the looks of those decanters in the other room, but he was kecommended to me as strictly temperate, and I think, if he is tot, he will be' an easy convert to our temperance principles; we must make him the spedial object of our prayers." i  .-      16     182 The five weeks referred;to were taken up in receiving and returning calls; the new-comers had, little time to be home-sick. Though Odora sometimes longed for her quiet home, she did what she could to assist her mother in waiting on and entertaining company. Mrs.- Willard plainly saw that the sphere in which she was now to move was entirely different from her former one. George came by the way of Ro- selle, bringing with him several letters for his mother and sister, and one for Alpheus, from Henry Radford. An unbroken correspondence was kept up between the friends of Champlain and Roselle for several years. During these years Mrs. Willard did not find her husband as easy a convert as she had expected. Mr. Willard was away-mnuh of his time, always having  anapology for his absence. Mrs. Wil- lard and her daughters did all they   183 :could to make his  - home attractive. Odora often found-her mother looking very sad, and sometimes in tears; this always 'ccasioned her great pain, she did not venture to inquire the cause. Alpheus, less sensitive than his sis- ter, on one occasion made a' direct' re- 'ference to Mr. Willard's course of con-. duct. Odora rebuked'-her brother, and begged him not to do the-like again;- he was very angry; he had. always been jealous of his elder bro- ther, and' sought to lower him in the estimation of his sister, and told Odora that George would bi:as bad as Mr. Willard'ifhe stayed there. At thisshe turned deadly pale, her brain whirling so much that she was scarcely able 'to get to the window; hard a  s was Al pheus's heart, it was a little softened -when he saw the distress he had caused his sister, and he said in a kinder voice than'usual-.         . ' * ' .     184         1 "George is going to New York soon, 0 v so he will not be under Mr. Willard&s  influence any longer." That night Odora was attacked with an epidemic that was prevailing, which threatened to deprive her of life, and her mother of the last tie that bonnd her to earth. Her disease at length abated, but she had been made an:in- valid for life, She saw her hopes for future usefulness blighted, and when she was alone, where no eye could see her, she looked upon her blighted pros- pects, and sometimes in agony she would ask, Who is sufficient for these  things." At first Odora could not see  the justice of (Tod; while time was  'making its changes in her temporal prospects, grace was making a greater in her spiritual. Odora found that  God tempered the winds to the shorn of his flock, and while she looked into the far distant future of both worlds, th fa .'t .  ,       ld   185 faith stretched out its trembling hand, Testing -upon those promise,that will remain while "the elements melt with fervent heat, add the heavens be rolled together as a scroll." It was more easy for her to be re- conciled td her personal affliction than the disgrace she felt was every day in- creasing in consequence of Mr. Wil- lard's intemperance. Those graces that were always- bright in prosperity or adversiy were blended in the cha- racter of Mrs. Willard; lighting up the dark path which she was now travel- ling. The word of God was indeed the shadow of a great rock in a weary land; and her soul .rested upon these words. "In a little wrath I lhid my face from thee a moment; but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee;'" My loving kindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness: to fail.  16* f     186  Thus strengthened 'by the word of God she was enabled -to endure the wreck of fortune "without a murmur. Mr. Willard, made    up his mind to move west             - , - H. TER  . XX  . itm OHMSTIANWS rAITIL Shield us, O Lord, from dark temptation's power. And guide out footsteps lest they erring stray; Deliver us in the dark and evil hour, ,. And tun urn night, O Father, into'day, hlelter us in thine all-protecting arms, From specious sin's attacks-from pleasure' gilded 'harms.' -ff. 1Welo. SOME of Mrs. Willard's friends advised her not to accompany him; to this she paid no attention, but made such pre- t fl    18 7 parations as were necessary for the journey. They started, for, what was. then thoVghtvthe "far off west.' Their first stop was in the city of D. The-dark muddy stret, tlhrou gh which they were compelled to pa s, were in keeping, Odora thought, with their future prospects. Mr. Willard took his family to a public ,house, so low and degraded in its character, that once, Mrs. Willard would not. have allowed a servant: to have entered it. But now she was obliged to stay there with her husband and children, for at least a week, the roads being so bad that it was impossible to get teams to, carry them into the country. During their supper, for which  they .had waited a full -hour and a half, -the, landlady tried to entertain them by giving the full history of a man, who- was to be hung that week for the murder of- his wife.     "They-were both drunk," she add- ed; "he only lived a few miles from'  here ; he has been at our house a great many times. Only just the day beforee he illed her, my husband sold him a half barrel of whiskey. I presume thev were both drunk on that when the quarrel comdienced. The ' hanging bee will be to-morrow; we - can all of us go,-it's only down here to the jail.  A gruff voice just behind Odora's chair  cried out, "I should like  to be your escort then.'  Alba and  Odora both looked around and -shrieked as their eyes fell upon the most degraded 'piece of humanity they had ever seen, each 'taking tremblingly hold of ' their mother, and hastened to an- adjoining room, where they hoped to  be quiet. In this they were mistaken; there lay one in a state -of intoxica-      '  .   189  tion, while another sat reeling by his side, looking as though he would fall upon the floor the next minute. What was to be done? The oaths from the bar-room accompanying the loud and clamorous talk, forbade their going there. Mrs. -Willard seemed' para-. lysed -by the scene before her. She was undetermined --what course to pursue. Odora and Alba stood weep- ing by her side; but Mrs. Willard had no tears. Becoming almost des- perate, she tore herself from the girls; with a firm step, and a dignified air, she entered the bar-room. The first person she met was the bloated form that frightened them from the kitchen; he had just drawn back his arm to strike a man that stood near bhim. Mrs. Willard seized it, and commanded him' to desist. Making -her Way- to her husband on "the other side of the room, she asked him to accompany     lO her. She took his arm and led :him- to,. the sitting room. As she passed out she heard one exclaim, "There, Jack Windsor, you have been floored once." Odora: heard the name, and knew it to be the one that used to persecute poor David.. As soon as. the door was closed, Mrs. Willard ppinted to the two drunken men-both then being asleep-and. asked her husband what was to be done ..  Why, you must do the best you can," he indifferently answered. "Isnt, there another public house in the city we can go-to?" . "The're are at hundred, I presume, no better than this, and some a great deal worse." "My- husband, I, think that impos- sible. , I wish you to speak for a car- riage to take myself and daughters to a-respeotable hotel ..   I shall not do any, such thing,"! he-sharply' replied, "Itiis as goodfor you and your daughters as it is for:! me.    . The girls. turned pale, and looked frightened. Odora approached him and laid her hand. gently upon his' shoulders, and, looked indly into .hi face, and said," Do not think, that we want- togo. without, you." The ,muscles of his face gave 'way. a little, and ahe told them.-that it, as; eleven -oclock, and that it would be impossible for them to leave that night. "You, had better call the landlady, and have her. show you to bed ' He turned and wenti into the bar- room again. The landlady lighted them up a. rickety flight of stairs, showing them into a' small room con- taining two beds, They were soon left alone, each. striving to hide her ,.      . hid.-.-     VI      192[ own grief while they vainly tried to administer to the sorrows of the other. The question was not asked kow did father come to bring us here? that I was unnecessary. He had lost his pride of character, and the finer feel- ings of his soul had become seared. Hope, they had ceased to cherish; and the heart grew sick at their present prospects, not daring for a moment to think of the future. Wearied with fatigue and excitement :the travellers lay down on their miserable bed; ex- hausted nature was soon looked in the arms of sleep. About two o'clock in the morning  they were suddenly aroused by the cry of "Murder! Murder 1" terrified, they sprang from their beds and threw open a window, I where they heard one man ask an- other; "Who stabbed him?" the answer was, "Jack Windsor." "1Have they got him 8"   193  "No, nor they wont, for he will be in Canada in fifteen minutes t" ' "Will Sheffielddied de  "No, I think it is. only a flesh wound,"  as the answer; but he did die in consequence of his wound, after lingering ten days. Mrs. Willard and herdaughters did not venture to get into bed again that night.     : At length the long wished   for morning came, but it brought with itl no relief. Everything without and within wore the same aspect of deso- lation, and the dark pall of death seemed to spread itself over-everything on which the eye rested. Few were the words they spoke, their looks were bordering on despair. Alba looked first at her mother and then at her :sister, then buried her face in her sister's lap and, wept aloud. The fountain Of, tears' that refused to 17 ,  .   .     come to the relief of Odora and Mrs. Willard, was" now unlooked-theirl heads were buried in each other'a o- soms, as they sat on the side of the bed, for tierere wre no chairs- in the room. Odora at length said, "Dear mamma, 'Weeping endureth but for a night, joy eometh in the morning;' here is another preious promise from which we can derive consolation." Odora opened her Bible, and read the first verse of the thirtieth Psalm, "Wait on the Lord, be of good courage and he shall strengthen thy heart: wait, I say, on the Lord." Mrs. Willard was in a measure com- forted with Odora's words; she thought of the words of Mr Morse, on that me- morable occasion:  "In your dear little Odora, you will be blessed." The mother and daughters bowed before God, and- their: full hearts foundc relief not only from his word, but by   7195 pouring out their co, plaints into the ear of one that could be touched by the feelings of their infirmties. Mr. Willard' entrance interrupted their devotions; he knew that he was not worthy of the welcome fsmile- they gave him. -Seating himself upon the side of the bed, he told them that he was about mailing a bargain with the Landlord :to become his partner.- To avoid the distressed looks of his fa- mily, he walked to the!dirt-begrimed window, and took from it an old hat that looked;as if it had suffered mar. tyrdom in the causeand asjiie' looked out, continued-"The few i hundreds that we have wit:hus wsill Fmak this a .iry diffeirent pace frontwihat it is now." -:Not-venturitig to 1looi:at Mrs Willard, -(: I  thnl; wife, yoWwill make a very df- ferent landlady firomthe one we have -down"stai rs; san -wur twg ilrillaske everything look so nice and:tidy."      196 They were now summoned to their breakfast. While they were sitting at the table, little disposed to eat, the bar room door was thrown open into the kitchen; the landlord unceremo- niously entered, saying, "Here are all the Willards that. I know anything about.' At this Mrs. Willard looked around, and to her utter astonishment, Alpheus stood before her. In theoy of the moment, her troubles were all forgot-' ten, notwithstanding Alpheus looked as cross as they had ever seen him. Odora asked, "Why are you here . Where did you comrnfrom?l' I -think, sis, you had better wait and let me ask-how you came here," setting his teeth as he glanced around the room. "You all of-you look as if you had been sick a month, and it is only ,fourten. days. since you left Champlain."   I     ,            I   ! 197       ! "My son, how many days since you left there?" "I stayed long enough to receive se- veral letters from Roselle and one from George.  "Where is George?" inquired Odora. "He wrote to me while he-was visit- ing the Rev. Mr. Bradley, in the city of B- -.-, George thinks of moving to the West as soon as he can arrange his business." "What business has he to arrange a" inquired Mrs. Willard.  - Well, mother, I don't know what   it is ; perhaps it is delivering tempe- rance lectures; for he has. informed me that he has been induced to take the  pledge." '"What news from  RoselleV" in-  quired Mrs. Willard. "Only Theodore Williams has mar- ried Josephine, and they are going to visit Walter. Mr. Henry Radford is    48 delivering temperance lectures; I be- lieve that is all the, news; have -you any more questions to ask t"  "One question, myy son, has been asked, and you have not answered it. What brouight-you here?"e Alpheus looked gravely at his mo- ther, and saw that she was waiting for a -reply. "It was-for 'you, my dear mother, and my sisters, that I came." Alba exclaimed, "How we will fall love you, if yiu will take us back to our pleasant home'." "I wish, Alba, you had never left it. I have one question nomwto ask you. Mother, will you returtn to- New England with me? I think'you have enough of Western life; so I think you may as well make up your mind to return first as lasf." "The evils -which follow-in the train of Tntemperant6e have blighted my "hcpes, in the Eastern states, and   199 threatened to overthrow me; HEcaI-  ,ot consent to return. When I look  upon the broad territory which is spread out before us, and see the monster Alcohol lifting up itscresed  head,- I am ledto inquire,-' iord, what will thou have me to do-.'-' And sinee e main has ttrned away from his God, as a, souree of enjoyment, and ,ron *- his service as a meanstof-obtaititng tt, he has: been prone to seek it mi some improper bodily or mental ga- 'tification. If I ean be useful in any -dgee,--in the war whieh -has been de- elared against the kingdom-of AlcohoI,  I  shall have obtained my object."  "-think,; mother, your chanee for usefalness in this place is very small", "Alpheus,I shall not 'depise th day of small thiags; :the tall; oak sprinn  from ithe lite acn."  ' This lis true, m -ther, but you will find it-uplill bimness. ,Charateta d - . - .         :     200 money, two essential properties, you will find necessary to- make out your composition for future usefulness, It will be many years before this terri- tory will be adopted into the. Union as a State; but in time she will no doubt become one of the first. Men hoe --emigrate tthis country, have something else to do besides laying plans to organize societies; and then i every reform there must be leading spirits, and I ,am led to ask who will lead the van in the western wilds, and hundreds, my dear mother, will find a drunkard's grave beforo you. or my sister can make one successful effort in the needed reform. It is impossi- ble for you to open wide jenough the gates of mord suasion to let one of the miserable bloats that lie -in yonder bar-room, pass through. I do not doubt-that you and Odora are both icapable of writing--upon this subject, 4   ]f1  ,   6 201 but who are to be your publi;hers? There is not t printing office west of   this city, sdO what will you do?' "Well, my son, I will put my trust in Him who has promised to hear his people in the day when they-call on his name. The Lord is my Rock and :my Pasture, -and my Deliverer - the Gomd-of my Salvation, in Him will I trust. He is my Shield and the horn -of my salvation, my high tower ard my refuge and Saviour. Thou saveSt me from violence. The Lord shall be my buckler, in Him will I put my' trst.           -  "Alpheus, I wish you would pro- cure teams to take us into the country as soon as possible." Early in the afternoon of the same -day they left the city of D.; the roads  were so bad that they made but-little progress; theywere four days going fiftymiles. The bad roads over whice I. .     they were obliged to pass, and the heavy rains in which they were fre- quently drenched, were pleasant com- pared with the miserable lodgings they had left. The confidence of Mrs. Willard and Odora was strengthened when- they, thought of their providential deliver- ance from infamy and shamie. Mter a i ong, thoughtful silence, Qdora asked ?her mother-" if she did not think they had been very wicked in distrusting the goodness of God?" "I thought, my -hild, I had for many years believed the hairs of my head were numbered, and not even a sparrow should fall to theground with- out my Heavenly Father'xs notice. I - tl, for the future, when I think I be- lieve confidently, be led to-cry JOtt, L.(3ord, help thou my imbelief.'" X Mr. .Willard had been very :angry wit(h Aipheus the morning aevioas,   2(4 and refued. to ide. with him, therefore 'theo mother and daughters rode by 'themselves. Alpheus did all in his power, to make the journey easy and pleasant. -He was more kind and f- fectionate than they -had ever seen him. He was now all that they could wish or desire. Alba playfully told him : one'Sday, that the Lord sent him to take care of them, just as he sent the ravens to feed Elijah. '"Yo9unaughty sis, -yoS think mO the raven and you the- chosen of the Lord, do you not?" "No, I don't think just so-; I think you were the chosen of the Lord-- chosen just to take care of us." ' I see you want to get away with- out having a quarrel with me, but you don't escape, for you have called me a raven." ' No, Alpheus, I only said you were like o0ne."     204 "Well, I don't feel much flattered at that, for the Bible says, 'the ravens shall pluck out their eyes and the young eagles shall eat them ;' and I an sure that I don't feel like pluck- ing out eyes, but more like opening them." "'What would you open them to see, Alpheus?" inquired Odora.  s"I would fain open the eyes of in- telligent men and women to see, where Alcohol is used as a beverage, that death is in the pot." The girls could not help but laugh when they looked up and saw what a queer expression he h-d given to his face. "Well, my dear sisters, there is one thing that I hope your bright eyes will not be open to see.' "What is that " inquired Alba. "I hope you will not live to see the i birds soar away to their cosy nests,   205  shaded and guarded by the green hangings of nature's own pronvdinig, nor the little foxes scampering away to their little burrows to shelter them- selves from the approaching storm;" in lowland tremulous tones he added, ' and you left with not the where to lay your head."          - His last words had filled the eyes of both the girls with tears. At the same time striving in vain to hide his own  emotions, after a moment's pause he continued: "Thi8 will be the case if you follow that ignis fatuus that is ahead,?' pointig to Mr. Wil- lard, who was before them in a wagon. "We will not follow him," said Odora. "We will follow the Eastern star that guided the wise men of Israel to the Babe in Bethlemem, and to them in the stable, who offered up their gifts of frankincense and myrrh. So will our dear mother, our sister, 18 : * .  . mmI     206 ai na myself, offer the few precious jew- elswe- gathered in the Eastern states here sin the Western wilds, asking God to make diamonds of them." Alpheus remained several days with the family after the: arrival in what was then called Aiiierst, doing what he could to make them comfortable in their new log-house.  By the time Alpheus got ready to leave, Mr. Willard had made up his mind that Alph. was not so bad -a fellow after all. As to himself he had no " malice to heart," although he had talked very unkind to him. Alpheus took his leave, and they were left to contend alone with the inconveniences of a new country, and they contended valiantly, in doors and out, showing that the hand of industry had been at work; their household inconveniences were 'nothing to be- compared with being deprived of books !I   207 and' papers. Mrs. Willard mana to remove the latter obstacles byjbi.: responding with Eastern editors and becoming their weekly contributor. Odora soon joined her mother in this. They wrote under assumed names and upon subjects nearest their hearts; they corresponded with temperance societies, East, begging them to send- their champions into the western val- ley where the fields were already white -for the harvest and laborers were few; and filled their mouths with arguments. Their faith rested on the immutable Word, and they leaned upon the strong arm that was able to deliver. The light that had irradiated the Eastern; hemisphere promised to shed its irradiating beams, and to roll back the moral cloud of darkness that brooded over the West- ern world. It was a long time before much good was evidently done. De-     208 spiring not the day of small things they pressed on to the mark of the prize of the high calling. Mrs. Wil- lard and Odora were unobtrusive in their characters, so they toiled on, not letting the left hand know what the right hand did. -      - Not known: but as indigent farmers, their circumstances were so straitened that they were .obliged to labor with their hands to obtain a livelihood. Mr. Willard in the mean time lost-his health, and his intellect became, so much impaired that he was a source of anxiety, as well as an additional expense, but this did not discourage them; though they were obliged to drop some of their correspondents, they had seen the great work in which they were engaged prosper in their handU, and thse wer e :all the laurels they desired. They rejoiced eyen when they saw at a distance the trembling I .         ,   ..   209 of the leaves in the top of the mul-' berry trees, and then how their hearts rejoiced when the soft aeolian sounds of the temperance song floated amid Iits gladdened branches, they saw the sun rise in the distant East,-though the day might be long and dark, they knew it must go down in the Western horizon; their hearts some- times for a moment grew sick at hope so long deferred; .but this did not deter them from the great work in which they were engaged. The hearts of those in the same great work were often cheered by them as they jour- neyed Westwaird.  - Odora's bedroom looked indeed like a temperance- studio; -her table was covered with books and papers.: Mrs. Willard and Alba were often there reading and writing and devising plans how they could most 'advantagebusly advance the cause in which they were. 18"  ,  . .  .  I  .  . v-  , (     210 engaged. In consequence of constant mental exertions, Odora lost her health, and resolved to visit her native State. It took her but a little while to get ready for her journey. They were comfortably seated in a railroad car, and in two hours and a half they accomplished a journey which twelve years before they had been four days in effecting. Their journey was a pleasant one, and in five days they were in Cham- plain. Alba and Odora did not stop to weep over the past; they had a two-fold object in visiting their native - State-one for the benefit of health, the other tovisit temperance societies and to obtain such statistics as would be of service to them after their return. Odora spent several days in Roselle, where she was most cordially wel- comed. by all that knew  her, and among her large circle of acquaintances '- - . .  .  t .  * *,* Hi   2" ;-io e gave her a more hearty welcome than Mr. and Mrs., Bertram, who were still living, though enfeebled by age and bowed by. the heavy hand of sorrow that had long rested upon ; them. In Roselle Odora heard the unhappy fate of poor Walter. Mrs. Williams went- South soon aft-her hemarriage. She found Wal ter living far beyond his means.. She remonstrated, begging him to lessen his expenses, the only means that would save hhim from becoming a tankrupt. This he could not berint'  du'ied to do He was then considered a wealthy' New England gentleman, and was engaged to be married to a  respectable young lady possessing quite , ^-fo^tue.' The story had beenoircu-  lated, several times, that Mr. :Bertram wM' intemperate; but -this had- been attributed to envious persons who would fain rivalhim in -his love, The "     ;12 day for the marriage was fixed, upon, and- a magnificent outfit was in wait- ing. Among the guests that were invited were two, gentlemen from-the West by the name of. McMartin, with whom Walterhad become acquainted. The oldest was in some - degree a kin- dred spirit of Mr. Bertram. He had become an invalid in consequence of intemperance., His brother, several years-younger than himself, was like a guardian angel, shielding him always from public disgrace, and as much as possible from private. He had seen the growing intimacy between Ber- tram and his brother, and determined, as soon as. the wedding festivities were over, to return to Amherst. Two days before the wedding was to take place, strangers were seen about the store, and then all was still, a writ of injunc- tion was served, and the story went as fast as busy tongues could carry it ,..   213 that Mr. Bertram was a bankrupt, and his intended must know the fact. His pride was -wounded, and, he became desperate. He managed to get the 4 elder McMartin from under the eye of his brother, and drove out of town to a neighboring village, where they spent the night in- drinking and oarousing. There Lewis McMartin found them so inebriated that they were unable to take care of themselves. Inthis state, he had his brother borne to the near- est steamboat landing, and in a few hours took passage for their home.. But where was poor Bertram? Alone in his room, withoutva friend to advise or direct him. -He awoke, but despair rested upon his heart. He attempted to drown his grief, but this was impossible. Several weeks were spent in a state of fearful determina- tion. On examining his purse he found that he had but a few dollars  lll- Ill ZI.     214 left. With this he paid his passage to Oharleston,:-where he hoped to find some friends to aid him in -this hour of trial. On his arrival he found himself a stranger and penniless, so he walked up and down the streets, look- ing occasionally into the brilliant sa- i loons that once had attraction for h;m. At length, wearied and sad,-he lel6d his head against a lamp post and wept.- He stood, he knew not how long. A hand was laid upon his, shoulders, and he was addressed by a tall, dark complexioned; black-eyed man. ' He asked him in a foreign ac-e cent, 'What he was snivelling there or!" "Because, sir, -I have nowhere else to snivel, as you please to call it." "Then if you haven't you had better come with m'e; Hwill give you' better lodgings . Reaching his arm, which Walter took inmmediately, they waund thir war, arm in a in, thv, t gh severaI    215         streets, till they came to a respectable looking building inclosed by a high iron fence. They passed around to the back part of the building, and en- tered a side door into a long dark hall, out of which several doors opened. A shudder of fear came over Walter as he followed his guide, and as the hand of the Stranger opened one of the -lower doors, dark forebodings again settled upon the heart that had  once been alive to hope and happiness. They entered a small room evidently fited for the accommodation of only A^n e person The black-eyed stranger knew what was necessary to rally the spirits of his new guest. "Make yourself at home, sir; you are with your friends. You will stay here to-night; I shall be engaged- so -you will have to entertain yourself ; until morning, unless some of my boys I a     - 21 : ill drop in, and spend an hour with youi this evening. I have a little'-of the good stuff here. Will you take a glass,8" Opening a cupboard that was handy by, he gave him a decanter and told himto help himself. "When you wish your supper you can"ring for it there *ill be; fervant- to wait--upon yoU"^ Bowing low  he bade himn 'good night," and he left the room. Walter, being alone, asked himself repeaedly, "What does this mean? I have no acquaintance with this gentle I man. Perhaps it is a French gent:iia man with whom my father has- lai an acquaintance, and I don't see how  this ean be either' " After taking a second gfass of Jam! aica, he concluded that it was a2 good  place, and there was no use of puzling  his brain to find out who or what- hii host was. -He at length rag the beUl for supper. A comfortable melt: ws j I               - . --L.. 217 soon in readiness for him, and he was in a state to enjoy it, for he had not taken any nourishment during the day. He did not want any one to come to entertain him. In a state of bewilder. ed astonishment he threw himself on his bed, where he slept soundly till morning. His host called on him and gave his name as Brown, that h  was captain of a vessel that then lay in port bound for the East Indies- If you would like a berth, on board I n, accommodate you, but I shold like to make such a looking fellow ,'ia, you a common sailor, f your name is Walter Bertram, I shall take the liberty to enroll you a: Washing, ton Axcelle." "It is immaterial to me, Captain Browwn, by what name I am called'," "Then just keep your real name to yourself, sir, andI will make a man of *         19 '!-J1     you yet, and you will have no occasion to wash the lamp post with your tears again. We are to have a sailors levee to-night, and I wish you to be in attendance, Mr. Axcelle." Walter drew a long breath, knowing that he had no means to make prepara- tions to appear in public. As Captain Brown left the room he threw a purse of gold upon the table, saying, 4-Cheer up, my boy, there are better days coming." Walter had never thought of being- a sailor, but this new idea pleased him; he spent the day in malkingig preparations for the evening. He wasm introduced to several of Captain Browa's men, and visited the vessel in which he hoped to sail in a few days, and be enabled to forget the past. Evening at length came; in company with several of his new comrades, he went to the place of  .,   219 entertainment. Walter was at first bewildered by the brilliant appearance of everything. The hearty welcome he received from those present soon made him forget everything but the good cheer that was spread out before him; the party was not as large as he had expected, but more showy and brilliant,  the tables were richly spread, around- which old and young were sitting or standing. Music and dancing were soon introduced, in which all partici- pated. ^ :Thiere were a few ladies present, as  lter thought them to be, richly ssed, but not in as good taste, he thought, as he had seen before. At first there was a reservedness that I pleased him. But this was soon thrown aside, and a familiarity as- sumed that disg ted him. He was quick to see that he was not among the most chaste  As he became in-  -           v.    -  .     220 tfaed -wth the charged w ines, his X disgust lessened; though unaccustom- ed to scenes of licentiousness, it did not take long for him to become initi- ated in what a few hours before his nature revolted. He never possess- ed a reflecting -mind, and we could not expect that he would have taken up a serious train of thought. His eyes -now beheld strange women, and his heart uttered perverse things. CHAPTPR X., TIE DECEIVER AND TIE DECEIVED, "Farewell! that seal is set, In life unbroken; Thou hast witth he heartless tranger mEt With the quivering lip, the eyelid wet., R had agaip looed upon the. WALTER had agaip looked upon the  . . .a a .   221l wine when it was red, and was soon to ,reeive its serpent-like sting; but thei loud over his mental vison was hourly becoming more dense, inso- much that it was impossible for him to see the monster encircling him in its crested folds. He saw not the forked tongue -as it neared his vitals, and -felt not the poison :fangs, as it buried itself in- the fountain of is moral existence, diffusing its poison in the deep recesses of his souL :The giddy dance went on, until the poi- d aed atmosphere dried up the last g of self-respect. The debauch t lued until late at night. At ngth Captain Brown drew near, and with a satanic smile, said, i"Wake up, Axcelle; we are, to take up-a collec- tion to settle this -bill; set your name to this paper; never mind-te - um ; I'l-pay that." Walter took up the pen that was   -   19s     222 handed, and wrote, "Washington Axcelle." The Captain was much pleased, and expressed it by slapping him on the shoulders and calling him a "good fellow'    . "This deception," thought he, " has worked like a charm. I have another name enrolled on the pirate's list." Walter was carried to his room in a state of intoxication. Several weeks were spent in making preparations for the voyage; every night bringing its debauch, in which Walter was a hear- ty participator. At length the dayit arrived for them to set sail, and.. last cry, "All on board," was give and Walter was not slow to obey i ' They weighed anchor, and were soon  out of sight. Early next morning all hands were summoned on deck,-where! the laws and by-laws were read, during which the scales fell from Walter's eyes; he found, to his utter horror and   223 astonishment, that he was on board of a pirate ship. Oaths of th e most startling character were being admi-  nistered. "What -was to - be done?" he asked himself -again and again. Cap- tain Brown, in a sterner voice than he had ever heard him speak before, com- manded him to step forward, but he moved not; his feet seemed riveted to the deck. "Don't stand there, you chicken heart; step forward-show yourself a come, hurry along,-I have. rtedl you a month, giving you all :" Fgood cheer you wanted, and here -a chance to cancel the bill I have :- against you."' 'Walter moved not-the Captain or- dered him not to delay-at length h moved mechanically forward and took the oath ; in a few moments that part of the business was completed. The dark     224 froebodingsof -Walter's mind, Together with the dissipation in which he had indulged'during the last month, pros- trasted him; he was violently attacked with a nervous fever, and for several weeks was unable to leave his state- room.  During this time they had given chase to several vessels, but had been unsuccessful. One bright beau- tiful morning he crept on deck and sat down, endeavoring to find something on which to rest a hope of escape. Everything on which his imagination could fix was shrouded in black-i, , darkness and despair, at wh grew faint and sick. He thoub first that he would throw himself ov  board; but he was afraid to destroy that which he had sworn to rob others of. The prayers and tears of his-mo- ther and sisters came up before him like so many spectres to drive him to despair; he thought of his own happy *tK i ..  .,   225 home, together with th :smiles and caresses which ;had in vain;een lav- ished upon him; he thought of his mother's last gift,-the Bible-and at that moment -he would have given worlds to have redeemed it. But it! was gone,--he had pawned it for a. single glass of that which had proved his ruin. Wearied with thinking, he lay down upon deck and slept until he was aroused by the loud cry of " ship ahoy." The next sound that fell upon -  i.:earr, "All hands on deck,"-every as armted. Under fullsail they the distant vessel chase, every :  ment gaining ground upon her. rders were given to board her at i, once. The stranger ship sailed along- side without appearing to notice them. Orders were given to fire upon her, and no sooner was it obeyed, than the merchant ship carged back with re- doubled fury. Captain Brown found     226 that he was like to have his match; the grappling irons were soon made fast. The next moment Captain - Brown was run through with the bayo- net of an American seaman, and he fell dead upon the deck. The crew on board the Blackbird were panic- struck, and soon cried for quarter, which was conditionally granted. Wal- ter, with the rest of the wounded per- sons, was carried on board the "Elk- hart," where his wounds were found to be mortal. The dying man was ,Q scious that a kinder hand than worthy of was wiping the swe his brow. He opened $S eyes saw Lewis McMartin standing by hI  side.-To him, with his dying breath, he told his story. Mr. McMartin tried to point him to the Lamb of God, that taketh away the sins of the world, but despair filled the soul of the wretched man; the vital spark flickered and then    227 went out. His- body was consigned to a watery grave to shimber among the coral caves until the last trumpet shall sound which will awake the dead 'to a reunion of the soul and the body. Mr. McMartin had found that it was impossible in America to keep his brother from scenes of dissipation. He, soon after leaving the South, pro- posed to his brother a sea voyage, faintly hoping in some degree to re- fto'eo himm o health, knowing that on s hip he would have him more tely under his control. . He la- d to direct his mind, and by -  t ndestA and most conclusive argu- ments to convince him of the great risk he was running in trifling with his life and health. Mr. McMartin did not seem to live for himself, but for his brother's spiritual and temporal happiness, for'which he was constant- i ly laboring. Sometimes his hope ........!, .      228 would beeome brightened, and he would for a moment indulge the thought that-Augusts would at length become- temperatemarn  Herelated to his brother the unhappy fate of poor Bertram, hoping that it would be a warning to him, - Nothing of in- terest transpired during the passage, 8sve their 'entouater with the Black- bird. The brothers spenta few weeks in Liverpoo, and then visited the great 'Metropolis, where every placeei:  terest was visited by them. Martin was -alwys carPeful\ thl- pcewhere hi brotheri    1 tempted more than he wotikl   7 able tobear. - Wineswerenot allow : ou his, tible; if thy were nvited to d ? dinela-with xi frieudhe -only cosented on c&ndin on that this evil should not be- aong the varieties- After a pleas- aiF--   --f severa- weels'- in London, 1tiw te. p  ^ f r for er neboth   eqpaaly desirous of visiting Parisian aeti ties: Their voyage across the ehannel was a pleasant one. ,On their arrival-in France, they lost no time in' procuring a suitable gride, with a full determination, to visit every place of interestf that was- accessible. Lewis soonI foundu that it would be necessary to keep a. closer watch over'his broth- er thanu when he was in England, for, - .:f .rhe -found -the enemyheo -o muo  preading snares for their feet,  heir polite courtesy endeavor- ntraj them. At first the el- r w .MeMartin- was interested, as sited from -place to plwe the tientlre of r France. One bright beautiftl morning they were conduct* ed--by their guide to the Louvre. As they' traversed this almost never end- ing building, gazing upon the innu- ; erab lepijcire they were lost in ad- miration Mr. MgMarti 'said in a let  , S ,      IJ     230 ter to his friends, that- the long gal- lery was one thousand three hundred and twenty-two "feet in lengh, and forty-two in breadth, and the wall cov- ered with;pictures, which were divided into four classes: French, Italian, Flemish, and German, containing one thousand four hundred and eight pic- tures, and none but the works of de- ceased masters could be admitted here. Mr. McMartin was told that, t over the whole building wo a full mile., Mrs. Nicolson, in her  Gleanings  a work which evt  isian visitor should avail the of-says, 'She has twice been -over: the buildings, and. she would pr-' fer walking five miles. on a plain road - to a walk through the Louvre, if her eye must take in the pictures as she proceeds." As Mr. McMartin gazed upon the relics of past ages, his heart -..         o r  -    231  was deeply afected, as he thought of the thousands, yes, millions, who had been endowed by nature with intel- lect and taste, sufficient to erect for them monumentsof imperishable hon- ors,-but had, in consequencee of al- coholic liquors, made shipwreck of Nature's richest gift; and was more fully determined than ever, by the help of God, to' assist his brother so much loved, to add to ,:?gl  edge, temperance,; and to tini; cei and to patience, d to godliness, brotherly i nd-to brotherly kindness, wo gentlemen now left the and repaired to .te Jardin Plantes. They found I begin- zi ig was in 1635 by Louis XH They visited its botanical garden and gallery. of anatomy, menagerie, a library and amphitheatre, where public lectures are I        . ^ . ,  ,     232 given.  They had no time to exam- ine these; but strolled on among the tall trees, then entered some of the glass houses,- saw -the cedar of Le- banon planted in 1734, measuring ten and a half English feet in circum- ference, -six feet from the ground. Mr. McMartin said, as he looked upon this native of Palestine, that he was led to think of these beautiful lines- "The cedars wave on Lebanon ,  Btt Judah's statelier maidj  So now we wander withiji In other lands to die '; !' And where our fathers' ashe Our own shall never lie."^  Though they had been in   t two  days, it was evident that-i brother was becoming weary of sigSig seeing.. He dreaded to see the list-; less indifference with which he looked upon what so deeply interested him- self, and hastened as fast as possible *&   283 ' from one place of interest to another, drinking in at a glance all that his haste made it possible. Unexpectedly le came up in front of the obelik of I Luxor. For a moment the mind of Lewis McMartin was lost in a laby- rinth of thought. He then advanced to examine more minutely its antique history; its hieroglyphics were not to be decipheed by him,but -he learned by its superscriptions thit A : w W   ;nDative of Egypt, and had been x';   t  bh y the .Erench .Govern- -vt1: pii18 6, and placed upon this -8P  Whereits proud head was lifted i:ft-oaird high Heaven. This obelisk is seventy-two feet in height, seven feet 'j,, six inches broad at the base, and five ' feet four inches at the top, weighing five hundred thousand pounds. Lewis McMartin and his brother were invit- ed by an American, to a large party, where he knew. champagne would be 20o     234 in abundance. He was glad he could yvoid the politeness of his country- man, for every hour of his time was engaged, as he had resolved to embark for the United States by the next steamer. He lost no time forwarding his excuses, and' early the next day they were passing the Quai de Hor- logue, their attention was attracted by a pile of buildings, which from out- ward appearances was evidently in- tended for public utility; on entering they found that in the fourteenth cen- tury, it was used as a palace. It still stands as a bold monument of strength, being two hundred and sixteen feet in length, by eighty-four in breadth. It contains many rooms, all marked in history by interesting and many painful events; in one room stands the statue of Saint Louis against the wall, guarding a will of Louis Four- teenth, which is closed in a recess, and    2385 bricked up that it may never be .exe- outed. Here are the galleries contain- ing. the statues of the Chancellors aud portraits of the Lawyers. -The court of Assizes is ornamented with rich paintings upon the ceilings. Mr. McMartin strove in vain to arouse his brother and fix his restless mind upon objects which were worthy of his notice. Finding this impossible, they bade "farewell" to Paris, and were soon on their way to the United States. Lewis had only seen enough of Paris to make him want to see more;- but as he was not living for himself, he cheerfully made such sa- crifices as he thought would be for his brothers interest. On their arrival in New  York it was found necessary that Lewis McMartin should leave immediately'for the country to transact business for his brother. The first time for many months he left his     286 brother to himself. Though he was in all his thoughts, he felt in some degree relieved from the harassing caprices of one who was laboring under mental as well as bodily- diseases. During his journey he net with Odora Morse from  whom  he. gained some interestinaif relative ) to the progress of temperance, and of the great effort some of the States were making to obtain an Anti-liquor Law. At the large collections of statistics which this lady was in possession of, he was indeed somewhat astonished, for he had only heard of her as a private person; and thought her cir- cumstances must confine her to a limit- ed sphere of action. He listened with interest while she told him of the un- happy fate of Henry Radford, who had labored valiantly in the tempe- rance cause. He learned that Mr.   :     237 Radford had been giving a couse of lectures in one of the principal towns of his native State, and effi- ciently assisted in framing a petition to send to the Legislature, praying them to abolish the use of liquors as a beverage, which has since been granted, and that State is now enjoy- ing the blessings of the Anti-Liquor Law, for which we are now so ardently contending. Mr. Radford being ill one evening, called at a Diuggist's, and requested the clerk to administer to him a small portion of Morphine. Mr. Radford swallowed the drug, and instantly dis- covered that he had taken a portion of strychnine. He only had time to inform the clerk of the mistake he had made, and in a few moments was a corpse. It was found that the clerk was in a state of intoxication, when the drug was administered.  Mr.     238 MoMartin was pained that such an accident should befall one who had been, and was qualified to be emi- nently useful. As he was about finishing up his business, he received a letter informing him that his brother was very ill, and needed his presence. He returned immediately to New York, where he found him   in a state of insensibility, and was told by his friends, that some of the former associates of his brother, hearing of  his arrival, called on him, and he was persuaded by them to again indulge in his former habits of intemperance. Mr. McMartin, in a few days, was called to close, the eyes of one, over whom he had carefully watched, and guarded as tenderly as a mother guards a helpless infant. He had the body conveyed to the West for inter- ment; where Mr. McMartin is now laboring for the law for which the   239 masses have petitioned our legislature, and for that which should, during this campaign, call intaction every philan- thropist.  Odora still lives unobtru- sively to cheer her fellow laborers in this great cause.  The few last years of Odora's life have been- an unbroken scene of trial.  Death  has deprived her of her mother, who had been for years her fellow laborer, to whom she was bound by the most tender ties of sympathy and love.   Her dear Alba has found a home far from her, yet she sometimes assures her that she still loves her by tokens like the fol- lowing. TO ODORA: "I miss thee, sister, eve and morn, And often sigh to see thy face; To hear thy greeting pure and warm, To feel again thy fond embrace, I miss thee, sister, when my heart Is swept by sadness' heavy wings, L-               Hll     240 And to my eyes the tear drops start As memory back thy image brings, I miss thee, sister, oft when cares Their shadows o'er my spirit flings; For thou my grief wast wont to share,  And bear me on thy firmer wings. And oh! when pain has laid me low, Sister, I miss thy soothing tone, And gentle hand to press my brow- A lonely stranger here I roam. When friendship crowns the passing hour, Made glad by those I've met with thee, E'en friendship loses half its power, Dear sister, then I think of thee, Thy love my early cares beguiled, And dearest then thou wert to me; Now others round my heart have twined,  Yet, sister, there is room for thee." Aba. In tracing the most favorable lines of the  few  families and  individuals with whom I have been confidentially acquainted, I have had no occasion to exaggerate, but have been obliged to lay aside some of the darkest shades   241 in their history in consequence of the unbroken friendship, which has long, and still exists between us. I have not found it necessary to call to my aid the pen of fiction to delineate the evils which follow in the train of in- temperance. Though the reader of these pages may be one of limited observation, he will be obliged to ac- knowledge that the half cannot be told. Writers upon this subject are often charged with choosing language too strong, and figures and metaphorl too terrific for the refined and sensitive tastes of the present age; but we wh( have waged war with the power o darkness, dare not cry "peace" unti the enemy that has long since beei routed and driven into his own den shall there be bound with legal chains condemned to suffer the full penalty o our laws, and then wait for the mor dreadful tribunal when they shall cr 21     242 for the rocks and mountains to fall on them and hide them from the face of him who has said, "I will laugh at their calamity and mock when their fear cometh." "When this fear cometh as desolation, and their destruction cometh as a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon them, then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer. They shall seek me early, but they shall not find me; for they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord." The floodgates of opposition have long since been opened upon us; but the everlasting arms have been under- neath us. We have no flag of truce to present to our enemies; for a com- plete victory must be obtained. "Vic- tory or death' should be the watch- word of the masses, into whose hands the power is now given to obtain the prize which we have petitioned our   243 Legislature to grant us. Shall I say that they possessed not moral courage suflieiet, to contend with our mighty foe, and. say thus far shalt thou go, and no farther? They have left the great question for us to answer. Lovers and friends of human happi- ness, delay not to set down the right foot of that power with which you are now invested, with your hands ' upon the unfailing Truth of Him who lias provided a ransom, and swear by your united efforts that you will break the striong arms of Alcohol-wait not till the bbttles containing the tears of murdered wives and orphaned children are poured out upon us as so many vials of wrath, engiilphing us in its saliniferous flood. We will not loan money, nor give bonds to the legal mur- derer, when he shalf purchase Sahara's boundless esert for a burying place, for the murderer and the murdered,     244        I and then sigh because theie is not room enough. If -we  , itis to make alive-alive toia tn "  n this ! world; and alive to- impishable honors beyond the grave. Wre there ever responsibilities of greater magni- i tude imposed upon a people than are now resting upon us as ata e?5 We, . from the most;c t,^- ,sses of the  soul, cry out, "iho is sufficient for these things 8? But we are answered, ,. "Lo i I am with thee to the enril f tie world." Speak, Almighty God, and " itshall ' be done-" command, and it shall stand fast." Let the oice of millions  cry out, "Lift up ir heads, ye gates,  and be ye lifted -I, ye everisting  doors ;" and let he full 'ti: of gloi that i's in store-^ r tu to o-hoose: be poured in upon us. We will not dash from our lips the full cup that is  poured-out for us, nor- tun: away fromI   245 ,&:  the inexhaustible fountain and say the :, i  key has not beengiven us to unlock it. We , have 'heard the agonizing cry of widows and orphans 'when we had not "power to deliver. The'moral night has been a long and dark one; ' and rwe have waited patiently for the dawning of this day-the glorious wings of the morning have been un- pinioned, and with its purple plumes it has fanned into life some of our a -atern. States; and from its ever ex- panding wings the pearls of civil and religious love have filled the hearts of thousands with the rich boon of hope and happiness. Shall we command the sun to stand still and wrap around him the mantle of our shame, while we pinion the wingaof the morning, and chain the ha;rt wheels of sal- vation, and cover the face of the full blushing moon in a drapery of death? No! we will not! but we will say to 21*     246 the Queen of the night, shed around us thy softest beami while we admire the full girdle of pearls which encircles thee; and we will say to the God of ,' the day-roll on, chariot of fire, stop not in thy meridian height to lay aide thy irradiating beams, but pour out upon the Western skies the full tide of thy matchless glory, until the East and the West shall blend their strength and form one inseparable equilibrium. THE END.       
         
      
   
