
    ----CITATION----
        Hazel, Harry, (1814-1889). Jack Waid, the Cobbler of Gotham .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6936
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               JACK WAID, 
               THE COBBLER OF GOTHAM. 
             
            
                
             
            BY HARRY HAZEL.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               A. WINCH, 505 CHESNUT STREET.
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by JUSTIN JONES, In the Clerk's office of the District Court of Massachusetts. 
          
       
      
         
            Jack Waid, the cobbler of Gotham 
             
            JACK WAID, THE COBBLER OF GOTHAM. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                  THE COBBLER IN HIS STALL-AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR--RECOGNITION--JACK AND ROB WELL MET-METAMORPHOSE-THE COBBLER A GENTLEMAN-A GREAT PROJECT CONTEMPLATED-COCKNEYISM VS. GENTEEL PAT-ISM. 
                
               JACK WAID was a very unpretending knight of the awl and the last; in truth, cobblers as a class are generally unpretending, notwithstanding the lasting benefits they confer on human understandings. Our Crispin's shop was very unpretending, too; it was situated in a narrow, dingy, dirty looking street of the great metropolis of New York, on the confines of the district known as the "Five Points;" a poor place to thrive, one would say, by honest industry. A plain white sign hung over the door, and when it so happened that the wind did find its way into this pent-up street, it swung to and fro, like the pendulum of a crazy clock, and the creaking, dismal tones it almost shrieked out, gave the shop more notoriety than did the letters painted upon it, which simply announced 
                     JACK WAID, BOOT AND SHOE MENDER.
                  
                
               In the line of furniture, the shop could boast of one leather-bottomed chair, a cylinder stove, a bucket, a tub, a cobbler's bench, with the usual utensils thereupon for sewing, pegging, cutting, hammering, and stretching leather; and in one corner a rough deal bunk, in which it was supposed the worthy tenant slept, for it was understood that he was not encumbered with that sometimes useful, and sometimes useless member of one's household-a wife. 
               When the cobbler closed his shutters for the night, he took good care to lock himself in, and that was the last his nearest and most intimate neighbors saw of him until he reopened on the next morning. No wonder that their curiosity was excited by this fact; no wonder that they talked over the matter, and came to the unanimous conclusion that it was strange that he never went out after dark, and would not answer a summons from friend or foe after once locking himself in for the night. But as some little boys had heard him, on one occasion, reading aloud from the good book, and then uttering a fervent prayer, it was supposed that he spent his evenings in preparing for another and a better world, a subject which was seldom talked of, thought of, or dreamed of in "Cow Bay," "Murder Lane," "Black Alley," or any other noted section of this district of infamy, of crime, of woe. 
               The Crispin of the Five Points had gained among his few customers the appellation of "the honest cobbler," clearly showing that they knew there was such a thing as honesty, assumed at least, in the world, however little of it was practiced in their haunts; but it may be presumed that the cobbler was called honest from the fact that they had never cause to charge him with meddling with other people's business. 
               In personal appearance, Jack Waid was not a handsome man, according to the general standard of beauty; his iron grey beard hung down over his broad chest, and his thick, matted hair hung down upon a pair of broad shoulders; his eyes were dark, and deep set, and from the fact that he wore a pair of iron bowed spectacles, it was supposed, of course, that his eye-sight was somewhat impaired. His left shoe being propped up by a sole some three inches thick, gave him an awkward, limping gait, and indicated that either one leg was shorter than the other, or that the knee joint, from some cause or other, had become stiff. His lips and chin were almost hidden by a hard, grey beard, and his forehead was shaded by bushy eyebrows, which altogether gave him that peculiar aspect to be seen in some of the portraits of the old masters. We have thus been particular in describing this humbly appearing individual, because appearances are often deceptive, and because he has something more than a supernumerary's part to enact in the strange, mysterious drama it is our task to write. 
               One stormy, wintry night, when the interiors of those infernal abodes of the infected district swarmed with the congregated misery and wickedness of the great metropolis, and when none were abroad unless by necessity, a hard, coarse-looking son of Neptune was beating against the snowy blast, through the narrow, dark street we have alluded to, evidently seeking a port in which to shelter his hulk for the night. Our friend, the mender of soles, was just shutting up his shop, when the sailor, in one of his short tacks, he having too much liquid ballast aboard, brought up all standing against the cobbler, and in the next moment, both were floundering in the filthy gutter. 
               The latter first regained his feet, and commenced discharging a volley of oaths upon the head of the "d-d awkward booby" who had so unceremoniously run him down, which profanity, had it been heard by his neighbors, might have changed their opinions somewhat in regard to his religious character. 
               As soon as the sailor, whom we have authority for calling Rob-for he was styled on shipboard "Cockney Rob"-had got upon his legs, he squared away for a set-to, without gloves, in true Tom Hyer style, for one of the effects of his overthrow was partially to sober him. The cobbler wishing to avoid a street fight, endeavored to escape into the shop, and to keep his assailant out, but finding that impossible, as he was hard pressed by the belligerent sailor, he suddenly assumed a scientific attitude of defence, and parrying a blow leveled at his head, with his left hand, with his right he struck his antagonist beneath the chin, which again laid him in the gutter; but Rob was on his feet again in a moment, and darted into the shop just at the heels of the cobbler; and when once inside, they had another more desperate encounter for the mastery. Old as Crispin appeared, Rob was but a child in his muscular arms, and crowding him down with his whole weight, he held him there powerless. 
               "There, besotted wretch!" exclaimed the cobbler, fiercely; "dare but raise again your hand against me, and by the powers of hell, I'll annihilate you!" 
               "Bless my hies! vot a change!" exclaimed Rob, gazing with unfeigned surprise into the countenance of his antagonist; "vy, vot a change! Vy, my old covey, if I'd known 'twas you 'ang me if I'd be the man to 'arm you!" 
               "If you had known 'twas who!" demanded the cobbler, returning the inquiring gaze of the sailor. 
               "Who? Vel, now that's a good un! Don't vish to be known, eh? And I 'sposes you don't know me any better than you knows yourself. Vy, I knows you as vel as ever I know'd the figure 'ead of the old War'ick Castle convict ship!" 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Waid, shuddering, and he gazed silently for a few moments at the stranger. "Now do I remember," he at length said; "there was a nobleman's child robbed in Regent's Park, of its pearl eardrops, and diamond necklace; you was convicted of the petty theft, and transported for twenty years; and your name is--" 
               "Cockney Rob now-formerly Rob Rodney," said the sailor, jogging the other's memory. "And you are Bill Buckles, who vas transported for life, for burglary, and for killing the vatchman of the 'ouse of--" 
               "No more of that," interrupted the cobbler. "I am Jack Waid, now; and hark'ee, let me be called by no other name here, or I'll blow your brains out! You know me well!" 
               "Vel, I duz," answered the cockney. "Now I thinks of it, you and I cleaned out the goldsmith of Regent gent Circus, on the same evening you borrowed Lord Argle's vatch, and forgot to return it to him. Oh! crackey, vot luck! vosn't them jolly times?" 
               "Hush! talk not so loud," cautioned the other; "I'll fasten this door to keep out intruders. There-now speak low. We each of us understand our mutual positions?" 
               "Vel, I'opes so." 
               "Well, Rob, by what fortunate occurrence did you escape from that accursed colony?" asked the cobbler. 
               "By no fortunate occurrence-I got hoff by my vit, visdom, henter-prise, an' hactivity," replied Rob. 
               "How was it? You are off fifteen years before your term of sentence will expire." 
               "Vel, I'll tell you, Bill-Jack I mean-it vas a wery 'ard job, but I hovercome every hobstacle. I 'ad, in the first place, to slip the vind of an ole voman, hexchange clothes vith the corpse-hexchange is no robbery, yer know-and then I padded it all the vay to Wictoria, vhere I 'ired myself out as maid of all vork to a rich LAG, 'elped myself to a pocket full of the ole fellow's guineas, and took leg bail for Melbourne, vhere I harrived vith a posse of police at my 'eels. But I give 'em the slip, swam off to a Chinese junk, 'alf a mile from the shore, bribed the captain, who kindly shaved my 'ead vith a razor, stuck a braided 'air tail on to my crown, then rigged me up in Chinese toggery, and I vas nothing helse but a Chinese tar, till Botany Bay vas far be'ind us. Nine veeks after that, ve hentered the port of San Francisco, vhere I left my useful friend, John Chinaman. I vent ashore, prigged a sailor's toggery, shipped on board a Yankee clipper ship, and 'ere I is, Cockney Rob, vithout a brad in my pocket, but in as good a condition as a racer hafter trainin', ready and villing to hact any part, vether in the line of a pot-boy or a gentleman; but I halvays prefers the gentleman, cos vy, it's more natural-I'm at 'ome hever as a gentleman." 
               "Your escape was more lucky, and much less eventful than mine," said Waid; "but since you haven't a brad left, here's a Yankee 'sovereign' for you;" and he tossed him a half eagle, which he took from a well-filled purse. 
               "A friend in need is a friend hindeed," remarked Rob, as he pocketed the gold piece. I likes a friend who 'elps one in hadversity, and ven I can do hanything for you, say the vord; but, Buckles-I mean Jack-'ow 'appened it that you hescaped from the Bay?" 
               "That's a long yarn." 
               "Vel, spin it out." 
               "Not to-night, Rob; some other time you shall hear it; I have a business engagement, and I should like a little confidential privacy on that subject." 
               "Vith me!" 
               "Yes, I said with you." 
               "Anything in the hold line?" 
               "That depends upon how you may stand affected, after your many ups and downs in the world." 
                
               "Oh, I'm all right-the same Rob Rodney vot I vas in old London. I 'ave never practiced my profession among the Yankees, but I think the old guys, the tricks, and the dodges vill do 'ere. At all hevents I should like to try to get my 'and in vonce more." 
               "You shall have an opportunity," replied the cobbler, scrutinizing closely the countenance of the cockney. "I think I may trust you?" 
               "Vel, you may." 
               "I stand in need of a confederate just now-ay, this very night." 
               "'Ow lucky. Show me vot to do, and the tools to do it vith, and you'll find Rob Rodney to be no bungler." 
               "You'll swear, under no circumstances, not to peach?" 
               "Not to save my neck from the 'angman! Peach! me peach!" reiterated Rob, assuming a mixture of dignity and indignation. "Me peach? Vot should put sich a hidea in your 'ead? D'ye think I'd disgrace the profession I vas born and bred to by sich a scurvy trick? No! 'onor, sir, the 'onor of a Rodney vould prevent me, if nothing helse vould." 
               "Enough, Rob, I'll trust you," said Waid; "but, by all that's infernal, if I detect you in any treachery towards me, I'll blow your brains out as quickly as I would kill a rabid dog that had bitten me." 
               "Vel, I should deserve no less if I didn't hact upon 'onor." 
               "Then follow me," said the cobbler, "and I will let you into my secret; I will show you how I carry on two trades; how I sustain two distinct characters besides my real one; and in how much better society I move by night than by day." 
               While speaking, he threw off his leather apron, his iron-bowed spectacles, his long, grey beard, and grey wig, and then changed the boot with the three inch sole for one with a sole of ordinary thickness. Then extinguishing the tallow luminary, he took Rob by the hand, and bade him follow. There was no noise made, not even the opening of a door or window, and yet they moved on stealthily and noiselessly, Rob knowing not whither. 
               They descended one flight of steps, and after turning many angles and curves, sometimes stooping down as if to avoid a collision of heads with a beam or a stone, and then again descending or ascending a few steps in their mysterious path, they reached a thick stone wall, which served as a part of the foundation wall of some large building. He pressed his shoulder but slightly against what appeared to be a massive block of granite, but it was easily turned aside, revealing an opening of some three feet in height, and two in breadth. Having passed this mysterious doorway, they crossed a dungeon-like apartment, and another secret doorway was revealed, which having passed, they stood in an apartment which the cobbler designated as his "private study." 
               With a match, the cobbler lighted a dark lantern, and revealed to the astonished cockney fugitive some of the peculiarities of this subterranean "study." 
               "My hies! vot a snug place!" exclaimed the cockney, as he was shown around the room by its proprietor. "No doors, no vinders! 'ow do you wentilate?" 
               "There-twig that fire-place," said Waid, pointing to one corner; "look up that spacious flue; do you see notches cut all the way up?" 
               "Vel, I does, now you 'old the glim right," said Rob, taking a survey of that which Jack considered a very convenient internal arrangement. 
               "I will convince you presently that that is a very useful contrivance; and, as for these other matters, I doubt not that you will understand their utility without any explanation." 
               "My stars! vot a wery fine set of tools to do a nice job vith!" ejaculated the cockney, observing and admiring the skeleton keys, watch-spring saws, wrenches, files, pries, and other utensils of peculiar style of manufacture, which were neatly arranged in a rack made for the purpose. 
               "Yes; you may well say that;" answered Waid; "there isn't a finer set of implements in America. I had them sent out from London by Kit Slybird, a worthy descendant of Dick Turpin. I may have use for some of them to-night, unless I obtain easier means of accomplishing my purposes. If you are disposed to join in an unusually interesting enterprise, you have now a glorious opportunity." 
               "Vel," replied the cockney, "I'm yer man, if 'taint hextra 'azardous. You see, I'm hout o' practice now, in doin' the delicate business, but I don't mind gettin' my 'and hin agin as soon as possible, for my pockets are clean out o' brads. I 'ope the hoperation is a safe von? 
               "'Tis nothing more nor less than to walk into a banking-house, enter the vault, and bring away a few bags of gold, and as many current rags as we may find it convenient to carry." 
               "Vot a stunnin' job!" exclaimed Rob. "Vy, that's a hoperation vot belongs to the wery 'ighest degree of our profession!" 
               "'Tis, however, perfectly feasible," replied Waid; "and if successful, ten thousand dollars shall be your share of the plunder. Will you accept, or shall I seek a confederate who would feel himself highly honored to join me in this expedition." 
               "Of course I haccepts, though I vish I had my 'and in little better trainin'." 
               "Never fear," resumed the other; "everything is well planned, and never was a more golden opportunity offered to gentlemen of our profession. But first, let me tell you, it is necessary for us to partake of the hospitalities of a rich old gentleman, a friend of mine up town. I shall take you to a mansion of almost regal splendor, where we shall encounter only the rich, the aristocratic, the fashionable; where sparkling diamonds, bright eyes, sweet smiles, and friendly greetings will meet us at every step; where we shall see life-life in New York-life among the Upper Ten!" 
               "Vel, now I knows you're joking," said the cockney. 
               "I never was more sincere in my life," 
               "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed Rob. 
               "What do you find to laugh at?" 
               "Crackey! I vas thinkin' vot a pretty figure you and I vould cut in company with the Hupper Ten, as you calls 'em, in this style of toggery," said Rob, taking a survey of his own and the cobbler's soiled and tattered habiliments. 
               "Oh, ho! I d'ont wonder you smile! but I am always prepared for emergencies; for in these days, and in this land, tailors make more gentlemen than accident of birth, education, or wealth," remarked Jack, as he opened a large chest, in which were several suits of fine wearing apparel, far better suited to adorn a Broadway exquisite, than a Five-Point cobbler. "I have one suit here which will fit you to a charm," he continued, measuring with his eye his new confederate. "It was made for a friend of mine, of your height to an inch, and I should judge, of about your weight and figure." 
               A selection of garments was made from the cobbler's wardrobe, and having tied them up in two parcels, he gave one of them to his confederate, and the other he placed beneath his own arm; then selecting a few of the lighter implements of his illicit trade, he extinguished the light. 
               "Oh, crackey! vot a dark 'ole!" exclaimed Rob. 
               "Never mind," said his leader; "we shall have plenty of light after we have climbed the flue." 
               "And a plenty of black, too," added Rob; "by the shadow of St. Giles! vot vould my old comrades say, if they should know that a Rodney 'ad condescended to hascend a flue like a chimney sweep? Ven ve get to the top, ve shall look for hall the vorld like a pair of Sweep-Ho's!" 
               "No danger of that," said his companion; "this is a virgin chimney; there isn't soot enough in it to soil a white kid glove. Fire and smoke will not contaminate it so long as it is in the hands of its present proprietor. There, now, I'm fairly in, and as soon as I mount so that you can feel the heel of my boot, you follow." 
               Rob did as he was directed, and as soon as he had got fairly into the flue, and turned his gaze upward, he saw a glimmer of light shining upon several projecting bricks, and he also saw notches at equal distances, which had undoubtedly been made for the purpose of an easy ascent and descent. They ascended some thirty feet, when they entered another flue or tunnel, running diagonally a length of some twenty-four feet. Having traversed this in a crouching position, Waid touched a spring; a little door or pannel flew open, and passing beyond, they found themselves in a well furnished sleeping apartment, where a small jet of gas was burning. 
                
               "This is my sleeping chamber," remarked the cobbler, "and although I do not always tarry here at night, it is quite indispensable to me, in the support of a character which, to say the least, is more genteel than that of a knight of the last and leather apron." 
               The cockney gazed around him in mute astonishment, but at length gave vent to his surprise. 
               "Vel, I'm blowed! vot next?" 
               "Let me say to you," said his leader, with a stern and serious aspect, "that you must not, while with me, no matter what occurs, exhibit the least surprise. This is simply an apartment of a fashionable boarding-house, and altogether outside the boundaries of the Five Points. Here I sink the cobbler, and become a gentleman. You are to sink the sailor, or whatever you please to call yourself, and become likewise a gentleman, and as you are to be introduced into genteel society this evening, you must wear a genteel exterior. So peel off that tarry looking toggery, and be metamorphosed, while I perform a similar agreeable operation." 
               A long hour was occupied in the business of shaving, washing, donning the fashionable garments, &c., when both stood forth, so far as appearance goes, as polished gentlemen of the most approved manufacture. 
               "You'll do, nicely," said Waid, surveying his new companion; "yes, admirably; and now if you could only leave off that infernal Billingsgate style of speaking, you might pass for five hundred per cent, more than you are worth; that is, you might pass off for a gentleman, and what is of more importance to both you and me, an honest one. Can't you speak the dialect of one educated on the west side of Temple Bar?" 
               "Not vith hentire success," answered Rob; "but there is one style of gentleman that I could henact vonce, but that vas afore government gave me that long woyage free of hexpense." 
               "And what is that?" queried Jack. 
               "Och! bedad! it's an Irish jintleman, to be shure!" answered Rob, giving a tolerable imitation of the Milesian dialect. 
               "The very thing," said the other; "the Irish brogue is tolerated in all grades of society, and a genuine Irish gentleman is received cordially, even among the most aristocratic. Billingsgate won't pass current anywhere except among the lowest order of people; it is even considered here in New York a certain indication of low breeding for one to speak in cockney style. Now, do you believe you can play the Irish gentleman a whole evening without betraying your cockney origin?" 
               "Och hone! thunder and thurf! to be shure I can," asseverated Rob; "it comes as natheral as lying, or the putting of mee 'and into anither jintleman's pocket 'stid of mee own." 
               "Bravo!" said the other, approvingly. "Now remember, so long as you are in a gentleman's dress like that, and in my company, without forgetting that you're an Irish gentleman-not one of those ditch-digging, hod-carrying Paddies, but a true, well-bred, gentlemanly Irishman; you understand?" 
               "Arrah! by St. Pathrick! ony thrust me, and ye'll sae how iligantly I'll do it;" and Rob struck an attitude to show that he had some claim to be a gentleman. 
               "Very well; but it'll not do to be constantly swearing by the saints," admonished Jack. "Leave off vulgar exclamations, and use language befitting a gentleman, and don't give it so much of a brogue that none but a newly imported Pat can understand you." 
               "Troth, I'll remimber; niver fear for me; I'll sink the saints, ivery mither's son of 'em," said Rob, with enthusiasm. 
               After a few other less important instructions from the cobbler to the cockney, touching the adventures for which they were fully prepared, the former unlocked the door of his apartment, opening into a large entry. Descending two flights of stairs without being particularly noticed, they issued into a well-lighted street, not far distant, though outside the infected locality which we have several times alluded to. 
               It was now between the hours of nine and ten. Proceeding a few steps toward the great avenue of New York, they halted for a moment. 
               "My coach not here!" said Jack, consulting his watch. "Ah! it lacks just two minutes of the time; Davy never disappoints me." 
               "My hies! 'eres another vonder. Do you keep a coach and a coachee!" asked Rob, momentarily forgetting the character he was to personate. 
               "Come, come; this will never do; you have already forgotten that you are an Irish gentleman," whispered the other in his ears. 
               "Blood and ouns! so I 'ave!" said Rob; "but I'll not be cocht that same way agin, shure; but by the houly mither of Moses, 'tis thruly surprisin' what I have already diskivered this blissid night. I'll not be surprised if I meet a ghost nixt." 
               "Ah, here's Davy," remarked the other, as a coach drove up and stopped. The driver leaped from his seat, opened the door of the really handsome carriage, into which our two worthies quickly seated themselves. A whisper from Jack, and the coachman mounted his box, and the vehicle rolled away towards the aristocratic mansions of Gotham's Upper Ten. 
               "My hies, 'ow nice," remarked Rob. "I 'aven't 'ad a carriage ride since the day I vas sent aboard the conwict ship." 
               "Silence!" commanded his comrade, fiercely; "have you lost your memory?" 
               "Och! bad cess if I forgit to remimber that I'm a thrue son of the Imerald Isle agin," replied Rob, humbly. "I ax yer 'onor's pardhin, I do. By my sowl, it's so long a time since I've been a son of houly St. Pathrick, it'll take a little time to get my tongue in good workin' condition." 
               "I forgive you this time," said his companion; "but be on your guard for the future. We shall soon be in the presence of ladies and gentlemen, where I am known only as Colonel Belleville! mark that. I shall introduce you as my friend, Brian O'Regan, Esq., recently from Galway, Ireland. Now remember!" 
               "Faix! may I lose my power of spache, if I forgit to remimber that same!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                  THE UPPER TEN-THE BANKER'S LEVEE-OUR OLD FRIENDS IN CLOVER-THE BANKER'S CLERK-VIRGINIA THORNOLIFFE-MISS AGATHA'S JEWELS-THE IRISHMAN FALLS IN LOVE WITH THEM-COLONEL BELLEVILLE-A SUSPICIOUS MOVEMENT. 
                
               THE spacious, elegant and gorgeously furnished mansion of Morris Thorncliffe, Esq., the great banker, was brilliantly illuminated on the evening of the important events narrated at the close of our introductory chapter. The wealthy, the beautiful, the fashionable, and the aristocratic of New York, were largely represented at the first levee of the nabob Thorncliffe, who, it was said, had suddenly become rich, and from an humble residence "down town," had transferred his wife, his daughter Clara, his beautiful niece and ward, Eugenie, (leaving everything of a plebeianish look behind them,) to the large, palatial apartments of his newly purchased eighty thousand dollar residence on--Avenue! This, as we have said, was his first grand levee-the entering wedge into Upper Tendom-the entree of himself and family into the circles of mammon, fashion, luxury and extravagance, which, in these enlightened days, are strangely admitted to be aristocratic; circles made up principally of stock and land speculators, note shavers, patent pill and sarsaparilla manufacturers, oppressive landlords, an occasional merchant, with a sprinkling of adventurous El Doradians recently returned. And these pass current as the aristocracy, by almost general consent, of the great metropolis of the new world! 
               It was the ambition of Madame Thorncliffe, and the determination of Mr. Thorncliffe, not to spare pains or expense, nor to leave a stone unturned, that could in any degree contribute towards making their guests acknowledge that "SUCH a party," either for style, sumptuousness, or costly magnificence, surpassed everything of the kind hither-to attempted in modern Gotham. If the lavish expenditure of money, the consultation of newly formed acquaintances in the U. T. circle, the issuing of hundreds of invitations only to the acknowledged "exclusives," barrin' one or two exceptional cases quite necessary, could accomplish the grand end and aim, certainly the occasion, so far from resulting in a failure, must eclipse all previous attempts in New York, at party getting up. 
               Between the hours of nine and ten o'clock the guests poured in, and there was a line of carriages extending an entire square, their elegantly apparelled occupants waiting with impatience for their turn to alight at the grand entrance of the new nabob's palace. 
               The spacious and brilliant saloons were soon made brighter by dazzling gems and sparkling eyes, and made merry with light and witty converse, ringing laughs attuned to every note of the scale chromatic, accompanied by the enlivening strains of the largest and most noted quadrille bands of the metropolis. 
               Among the announcements, which came thick and fast, were the names of Colonel Belleville, and Brian O'Regan, Esq. The dignified and seemingly satisfied host pressed towards the entrance, as if desirous of paying especial attention and honor to this brace of worthies. Seizing the soi-disant colonel by the hand, and giving it a cordial shake, he said, in a half inaudible tone, 
               "Of all my guests, Colonel, none are more warmly welcome than yourself and--" 
               "Ah! permit me to present to you, Brian O'Regan, Esq.," said the colonel, presenting his friend. "Mr. Thorncliffe, Mr. O'Regan, my worthy friend." 
               "Mr. O'Regan, I shall be proud of your acquaintance," said the host, taking the genteel looking Irishman by the hand, "and I am gratified that you honor me with your presence to-night." 
               "Now, by the sowl of an Irish jintleman, I thank you," replied O'Regan. "Little did I drame of the 'ospitality of the Hamericans, ven I vas cooped up in the con-con-I mean in the O'Regan Castle." 
               "You must know, Mr. Thorncliffe," interposed the colonel, looking daggers at his comrade, "that my friend of O'Regan Castle is a descendant of the illustrious King, Brian Boroihme!" 
               "Yes, yer 'onor, on my great grandmither's side," said O'Regan; "but niver mind the ould King, for I'm thinking the worms haven't lift so much as a toe nail of his kingship by this time." 
               More guests being announced, the colonel and the descendant of the old Irish monarch passed on, and entered the brilliantly illuminated and chief apartment of the establishment. 
               "My hies! vot a stunnin'--" 
               "Hush!" fiercely whispered the colonel into O'Regan's ears, at the same time pinching his arms; "would you expose yourself in the outset." 
               "Pardhin! I was tuk altogether by surprise," said the incautious one by way of apology. "Niver did the eyes of O'Regan aspire to sae sich an iligant sight as this. Vile I vore the livery of Lord Glendoodle in Vestminster, never did he give such a slap-hup hentertainment as--" 
               "There you go again," interrupted the colonel, sharply. "Hell and furies! I shall be provoked to throttle you, if I hear another cockneyism from your lips!" 
               "I'm dumb as a sarpint!" acquiesced O'Regan. "Och! by the powers! look now! sae what iligance! D'ye iver sae the likes o' that now? That iligant lady has diamonds enough on her buzzom and arms, to make the fortune of even an O'Regan." 
               "Yes; and you be careful that the practice of your old propensities here don't betray you, and compromise me," cautioned the colonel. So beware! 
               The guests had now nearly all arrived, and dancing commenced. The colonel left his comrade, and sought a partner in the dance, and was honored with the hand of Virginia Thorncliffe, the rich heiress, the niece of the great banker, who was also her guardian. With her, the gallant colonel passed through the mazy changes of the quadrille, much to the envy of several importunate suitors who aspired to that honor. 
               Virginia was the only daughter of Captain Thorncliffe, who was one of the many heroes who fell in that victorious war which carried our star spangled ensign to the towers of the Mexican capital, and planted the cannon of the North American republic in the plaza of the Montezumas. Virginia was in her eighteenth year, only; but, young as she was, she had already tasted the cup of sorrow, for she had been bereft of father, mother, brother, sister, indeed, of her own family she was the only one living. Time, however, had done much towards assuaging the afflicted heart of the lovely orphan; and this was her first appearance in society-the grand occasion of her "coming out," as it is termed in aristocratic parlance, and the indomitable pride of those who assumed parental care and control had left nothing undone to make the occasion one of extraordinary magnificence. Although simply, but prettily attired, without conforming to the general display of jewels, laces, &c., which surrounded her, yet she was the observed of all observers-the cynosure of all eyes; and though modest as the lily, and beautiful as the blushing rose, her education had been such as to give her sufficient assurance to deport herself becomingly, even in the midst of those who claimed to rule in matters of etiquette and fashion. She had been conversing with a gentleman-with whom we shall soon make the reader acquainted-when Colonel Belleville approached, leaning upon the arm of her guardian, who introduced him. The gallant colonel took advantage of the introduction, and engaged her hand for the opening of the festivities. A cloud of disappointment suddenly rested upon her features, as she gave her hand with reluctance to the "distinguished stranger," as Mr. Thorncliffe styled him. That look of disappointment did not escape the penetrating gaze of the nobly appearing youth, with whom she had been for a few moments conversing, and by whom she confidently hoped to be led to the floor for the opening quadrille. 
               Albert Mandeville was a young man of much promise. Not that he had any fortune, or any expectations of a fortune, but that he was richly endowed with one of those practical minds which is ever available, and which seldom fails to place its possessor above the wants of the world. He had received the education and discipline only of a New England common school, but all that was there taught he had become master of before he ceased to be a pupil. From school, he was transferred to a New York banking house-the princely house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co.-where, from the humblest position, he had, in the brief period of three years, risen to the post of chief and confidential clerk. He had become slightly acquainted with Virginia, while in his humblest position, even before she had been sent to the famous female seminary on the Hudson, in a city bearing a name celebrated in classic song, to finish, or rather to obtain an education. 
               When Mandeville met the gaze of the fair Virginia, as she was led away by the gallant colonel, and saw the unmistakable expression of disappointment upon her radiant countenance, the thought flashed to his brain that perhaps even he was not indifferent to the heart of the beautiful girl-perchance that she loved him. The contemplation of this sudden, heart-born conception, more than compensated for all the pleasures or honor that was to be gained in gliding with her through the figures of a dance. He had ever regarded Miss Thorncliffe as a most lovely, amiable, and unusually intelligent girl; as one who might grace the most exalted stations in life; as one who was undoubtedly destined to be the bride of some millionaire's son; and other than this he had scarcely ventured to think. But a sudden change had come over his spirit, and he indulged for some moments in giving thought to the pleasing phantasy. To aspire to her hand, he thought, would be paramount to aspiring to the seniority in the great house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co. Why? As she passed near him in the dance, her features radiant with love and beauty, she cast upon him a single glance-a peculiar glance from those large, bright blue orbs-that kindled a bright, hopeful spark in his bosom, and suggested to him the mighty question-Why not? Yes, why not? Stranger things have happened. 
               The soi-disant and eccentric O'Regan was, at his particular request, introduced to a young lady, whose charms, though ungallant to say it, were not of the highest order, but whose person blazed with rich jewels. Pearls, diamonds and rubies had a greater charm for O'Regan than bright eyes, dimpled cheeks, rosy lips, or dark curls playing wantonly on a neck of alabaster. What were freckles on the brow of Miss Agatha Fernald, when partially concealed by a tiara of blazing diamonds-a moderate fortune in itself? What signified those pimples, those embryo carbuncles on that immense proboscis, when rich carbuncles hung like wine-drops from her oyster-shaped ears? What cared he for that goose-fleshed neck, when around it glittered a superb carcanet of gems of divers hues? What signified to him those orange-red arms, when his eye was only fascinated by those massive serpents of gold and jewels which encircled them? What heeded he that rotund waist, when encircled by a chain of pure pearls, pendent to which was a locket or watch, ornate with precious stones? 
               As O'Regan led this valuable piece of personal property through the varied changes of the dance, he scarcely saw the individual; but with what covetous admiration did he fasten his eyes upon her sparkling parure! for he was a connoisseur in valuables, especially portable ones. 
               The dance over, O'Regan led his brilliant partner to a tete-a-tete couch, partially concealed by brocatelle and lace casement hangings; and really, he was so enamored by the charms she displayed he could not resist the inclination to enjoy her society a little longer, so he seated himself beside her. 
               Miss Agatha, too, was pleased, and she did her prettiest to entertain the agreeable foreign gentleman; she even went so far as to descant in no flattering terms upon American gentlemen, New York gentlemen, especially. They lacked, in her judgment, the elegant manners, and the engaging powers of conversation that distinguished educated foreigners. 
               O'Regan agreed with her in every particular, however absurd; and he, in turn, disparaged the same characteristics in the ladies of his own country, and contrasted most favorably American ladies, New York ladies particularly, with the most accomplished of foreign extraction. Of course this courteous couple were on the best of terms, because they made such mutual magnanimous concessions. So much were they engrossed in each other's society, that well-bred gentleman in search of partners passed the lady by, considering that it were indelicate, and even uncivil to disturb a tete-a-tete so manifestly agreeable. Possibly they might have spent the entire evening together, had not Colonel Belleville caught his comrade's eye, and walking up to him, reminded him of his promise to join a party in the billiard room, to which apartment several of the male guests had already retired. 
               O'Regan excused himself to Miss Agatha, and hoping for the pleasure of again meeting her during the evening, he followed the colonel into the billiard room, where they tarried sufficiently long to be observed, and then left the mansion by a side door. As they left, a faltering voice whispered in the colonel's ear, "Be cautious!" and a trembling hand placed within his grasp a small leathern bag, in which there was no gold, but that which was the "open sesame" to a mine of wealth! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  A DARK NIGHT AND A DARING BURGLARY-THE TREASURE VAULT-SUCCESS OF THE VILLAINS-QUIETING A POLICEMAN-RETURN TO THE LEVEE--A NEW PARTY SCENE-TRIUMPH OF ROGUERY. 
                
               "DAVY," said Jack Waid, alias Colonel Belleville, as he emerged from the rich banker's residence with his cockney comrade, "show us now the mettle of your boasted bloods-you know the route." 
               "I've told the animals," was the coachman's reply, as he mounted his box and seized the ribbons. 
               Crack went the whip, and on went the animals as if on a race. Down one of the centre avenues, and through several streets running parallel, west of Broadway, then crossing Broadway into Cedar Street, and entering a short street a little distance below, the carriage halted, and our brace of midnight adventurers alighted. The night was extremely dark; there was no moon, and the stars were veiled by dense black clouds, while a cold, cheerless fog hung like a death-pall over the almost deserted streets. The street lamps afforded but a dim, sickly light, scarcely sufficient to reveal the outlines of two human figures which moved along with rapid gait upon the opposite side. Turning a corner, our worthies darted down an alley unfrequented by night, though swarming with human beings by day, and having threaded this, they reached a massive stone edifice, behind the pillars of which they ensconced, until a night policeman had walked by with drowsy air and lagging gait. 
               "Now to our work," whispered Belleville into the ear of his willing confederate. 
               It required no extraordinary means to accomplish their purpose; no picking of locks, no breaking of bolts and bars, no gunpowder explosions, no false keys, though they were prepared to overcome almost any obstacle. The leathern bag contained the more convenient and easy "open sesame" through a multiplicity of heavy iron doors, into the very HEART-the golden heart-of the great house which controlled so much of the wealth of the mighty mart of mammon, and gave vitality and strength to a thousand speculative operations. 
               Undisturbed by mortal hands, unseen by mortal eyes, was that depository of vast treasures despoiled-treasures that had required years to accumulate; treasures that had been wrung cent by cent from the toils of the lowly millions; treasures that had cost suffering and crime more incalculable than the hoard itself. Yes, in the space of five minutes, the despoilers had loaded themselves with gold, (silver was too gross a metal for their hands,) and with several caskets of costly gems which had been deposited there for safe keeping; also, with various packages of bank notes, representing in themselves a half dozen ordinary fortunes! 
               Scarcely had fifteen minutes elapsed, from the time the burglars had entered, when they made their exit, locking the massive doors behind them; for the daring leader seemed as familiar with the premises as if he had been for years the guardian of this mine of wealth. Once more safely outside the walls, heavily laden with booty, they again ensconsed themselves behind the huge pillars, to avoid being seen by the night policeman, whose especial duty it was to patrol before this and one or two adjoining monied institutions. 
               Whether this bank guardian heard any unusual noises, or whether he saw by the dimly burning street lamp any suspicious object, or had a sudden presentiment that all was not right, we cannot determine, but certain it is that he mounted the steps and satisfied himself as to the security of the outer entrance of the edifice; then perceiving a dark figure crouching behind one of the pillars, he rushed forward to seize it, but it quickly glided around, and as the policeman attempted to follow it, he was struck a blow from behind, by a bag of gold, which felled him senseless to the steps. 
               The robbers quickly made off, and in a few moments were seated in the carriage, which had awaited their return. Jehu-like, Davy turned into and drove through William street, thence into Chatham, and on towards the locality of our acquaintance, the Cobbler of the Five Points. Here the foaming steeds were reined up, the occupants of the carriage alighted, and darting down a filthy street, where sounds of revel yet came up from hells below, they finally disappeared down the steps of an unoccupied cellar, next to that beneath the cobbler's shop. A secret door enabled them to reach recesses into which we have before introduced the reader. A vault, less strongly guarded, but quite as secure as that which they had visited in Wall street, became the receptacle of their spoils. 
               "Once more to the banker's levee, and our night's work is done?" remarked Colonel Belleville. 
               "My hies! yer duzn't mean it? Vot, go back there?" ejaculated Rob Rodney, alias Brian O'Regan. 
               "Yes-there's safety in returning." 
               "Vy, consider-ve shall be detected, and get 'anged!" said the cockney, the vision of Miss Agatha crossing his mind's eye. 
               "And see the lady vot I--" 
               Without finishing the sentence, the expert cockney, thinking he had done a very clever thing, produced several articles of rich jewelry, which he had abstracted from the coiffure, stomacher and arms of Miss Fernald, and held them up to the astonished gaze of his leader, who, with anger suddenly kindling in his eyes, clutched the hilt of a dirk which he carried beneath his vest. But his judgment quickly getting the better of his anger, he withdrew his hand from the weapon, and exclaimed, 
               "Fiends and furies! what have you done? Did I not warn you, you petty thieving scoundrel, against any temptation of this kind? I disgrace myself by taking you into good society! What possessed you to do so mean an act as to rob a lady of her trinkets?" 
               "Vot of it! hisn't they pure? hisn't them real diamonds? hisn't them genuine pearls? hisn't that snake vith the green eyes solid gold?" queried Rob, quite astonished at his comrade's disapproval. "And you calls that petty thieving, duz you? Vel, I duzn't. Vot I styles petty thieving, is vhipping the vhipes out of countrymen's, and little boys and girls' pockets, and prigging ribbins, tapes and thread from the retailers?" 
               "Pshaw! they are worth a few hundred dollars-not more," said Belleville, tossing the rich baubles into his treasury, and assuming a less irascible air. "Remember hereafter, Rob, that we are not thieves on an insignificant scale; we are to steal only by thousands-tens of thousands-ay, hundreds of thousands! I despise petty larceny; but there is to me something grand and exciting, something of the spirit of adventure in making, for example, such a haul as we have made to-night. Let me tell you, there's no more punishment in this land of liberty for stealing a princely fortune, than there is for stealing sufficient to keep a poor devil from starvation over one day. There is even less chance in convicting a big rogue, than there is a petty one. Should the latter get nabbed, he is sure to go to Sing Sing, Blackwell, or some other snug asylum for gents of our profession. Should it so happen, (but I deem it next to an impossibility) that we are arrested, why, we've got the means of sustaining a vigorous defence. We can retain the ablest counsel-contrive to have a disagreeing or acquitting jury, and if necessary, bribe the government's counsel, and the judges, too; in fact, with plenty of money, nineteen out of twenty arraigned rogues may go free. Now, Rob, always be governed by this rule: when you steal, steal enough to compound with the hounds of the law, if detected; or enough to bribe a whole court; then you are just as safe as the purse-proud speculator, who gets his money by legal, and in many cases by immoral means." 
               "Vot a hargument! I gives in," acquiesced the accomplice. "'Enceforth your hadvice is my law-speak, and I hobey." 
               "Then sink the cockney again, and remember that for the remainder of the evening you are Brian O'Regan." 
               "Och! be gorra, I am that same respectable jintleman at your service; the same that stole the heart and the jewels of as oogly a piece of feminine humanity, as iver these eyes looked at oot of ould Ireland." 
               "No more of that," commanded the leader; "but follow me." 
               The brace of burglars emerged from the subterranean haunt, by the same means and way that they had last entered it, and reaching the carriage, they aroused Jehu, who was profoundly snoozing on his box. They leaped into the vehicle, the door closed, and in fifteen minutes they were landed at the banker's mansion, where, among the immense assemblage, and amid the joyous festivities, they had scarcely been missed; in fact, their absence had not been protracted beyond an hour and thirty-five minutes. 
               No one, excepting the proud host, and perhaps Albert Mandeville, had even thought that they had retired from the happy scene. 
               Of Brian O'Regan's absence, there was one who noticed it particularly-Miss Fernald-with whom the hour and a half passed most wearily, and when she again encountered the descendant of the ould Irish monarch, she smilingly said, 
               "Ah, sir truant; methinks you are too fond of billiards ever to gain the approbation of the ladies." 
               "Belave me, Madame," said Brian, with all the suavity he could command, "it was far from being the fault of mee own; for these Amirikin jintlemen are the divil's own for enticing one into little vices. Wud you belave it, now-afther playing two strings, they induced me into dhrinking a bottle or two of champagne with 'em-then to smoke a cigar or two; and then, if I had not almost rudely broke from their company, faith, they'd have made me make a night of it. Bedad, Madame, your countrymen are gallant fellows, as fond of sport as my countrymen are of pratees. We staid jintlemen from ould Erin are not up to their irresistible fascinations." 
               "Ah! upon my word, here comes my aunt-permit me to introduce you," said Agatha; "Aunt, this is Mr. O'Regan-Mr. O'Regan, Aunt Thrasher." 
               "Mee dear Madame, it gives me pleasure, great as the honor, to become acquainted with one who commands so much the love and admiration of your niece." 
               The ancient feminine of course felt flattered at Brian's courteous speech, and had nearly framed a suitable one in reply, when her eyes suddenly dilated with amazement, and she exclaimed, 
               "Agatha! where is your diamond tiara?-and your ruby and emerald bracelet?-and your diamond brooch? and-and-good heavens? my-your-carcanet? You had them on when you entered, for I particularly observed how well they became you. What can you have done with them?" 
               During these startling inquiries, Agatha's hands and eyes were busy in ascertaining the extent of her loss! She darted towards the mirror. Sure enough-she had been despoiled of her chief attractions-her darling jewels, and she held up her long, skinny arms, and her features looked the very picture of despair! 
               "Gracious heavens, Aunt!" she exclaimed in the old lady's ears, with a whispering screech; "the real jewels are all gone! only the imitations remain! And your--" 
               "Oh! they must have been stolen! and in this very room!" said the old lady, who, if possible, was quite as excited, and more fidgetty than her niece. "Thieves! thieves! police! police!" she shouted. 
               Such a scene of disorder, we apprehend, was never witnessed before, in an assemblage like that. A crowd quickly gathered around the two unfortunate ladies, among which were Thorncliffe and Belleville. 
               An unwilling thought suddenly forced itself upon Miss Fernald's mind. No one certainly had been in such proximity to her person as the agreeable Irish gentleman. No one had taken and pressed her jeweled fingers, but he. Yet he must be innocent of so mean a crime. Oh, yes; for there he stood before her, as anxious to discover the daring thief as any one present; and therefore, this disagreeable suspicion she banished from her mind. 
               But as she discarded the unwelcome idea, a gentleman boldly advanced towards O'Regan, and patting him with an air of familiarity on the shoulder, said in a firm, but respectful manner, 
               "Some one of the guests, sir, must be suspected of this contemptible larceny; and perchance the thought may be in your mind that I am the guilty party. Then pardon me, if I declare to you in the presence of these ladies and gentlemen that a strong suspicion has entered my mind that you are the thief!" 
               "By mee sowl, Mr. Smith, or by whativer name you may be known," said Brian, with admirable presence of mind; "you're mighty complimentary, now, you are; perhaps you wud be afther giving me a raison for making so bould a spache." 
               "With pleasure, sir," said the stranger, civilly; "I observed you for some time paying the most marked attention to this lady, and as this unfortunate occurrence has happened, think not that I draw too deeply upon my imagination, if I add that your eyes were fixed with especial delight upon the sparkling jewels, which do not now appear to be glistening upon her person." 
               "Och! by the blood of my ancistor, Brian Boroihme," replied O'Regan, "you do express your maneing in the perlitest manner possible, and your iligant manners deprive me of the power of spachifying to you as ye desarve. Parmit me to obsarve, however, that a jintleman so smooth of spache may possibly be light and dexterous with the fingers. Now, it's no fancy iday of mine that I intertain the belafe that you're the thafe afther all; and if ye wud but consint to an examination, I'll wager this thrifle against that sparkler on your finger, that the lady's jewels may be diskivered aboot yer own person." 
               "That's fair," said several of the lookers-on. 
               "Not exactly," interposed Colonel Belleville; "I introduced this gentleman into this goodly company, and with a view to satisfy all, beyond a doubt, that Mr. O'Regan has been unjustly suspected, I propose that he be searched likewise." 
               This proposition from the gallant colonel was approved of by the company, and cheerfully assented to by Brian, who took from his shirt bosom a jeweled pin that his accomplice had loaned him for the occasion, and placing it in the hands of a bystander, who had received the first accuser's ring, they, with a party of gentlemen, retired to an ante-room, where O'Regan and his antagonist, without any hesitation, submitted to a thorough examination of their persons, in search of the missing gems. But, as the reader is already aware, it was a fruitless process; and Brian and his accuser-the latter begging ten thousand pardons for acting upon an ill-founded suspicion-parted the best of friends, and with a hope that they should often meet and become better acquainted. 
               According to the strict terms of the wager, O'Regan lost his brooch, but his opponent, declaring that it was a drawn game, refused to receive it. 
               Belleville and O'Regan, after bidding their host good-night, called for their carriage. Before it reached the door, Mr. Thorncliffe found an opportunity to exchange a few private words with Belleville, in a dark recess beneath the hall stairs. The leathern bag was returned to the hands of the banker, and as he came forth to mingle again with his remaining guests, there was a visible air of satisfaction upon his features, in place of that forced complacency that his anxiety compelled him to assume during the earlier hours of the evening. 
               When the last guest had departed, and the brilliant jets of gas had been extinguished, the proud host retired to his lone apartment, (it having become fashionable for Mister and Madame to occupy separate apartments,) and before seeking the arms of the drowsy god, he thus soliloquized: 
               "Thus far all is well. I have escaped that which is most to be dreaded-bankruptcy! A bold operation, indeed! but, if less legal, just as honest as hundreds of transactions executed daily in Wall street. I shall yet laugh at those who have had the insolence to predict my downfall. My downfall! ha! ha! just as though Thorncliffe, the reputed millionaire, who affords five thousand dollar parties, is to be proclaimed on 'Change a bankrupt! Oh, no, that would never do-no, no, no-never to be thought of for a moment. Let those who believed themselves all powerful yesterday, awake to the dread reality of the morrow! But, caution is the word-the power of my accomplices is almost impotent! Waid might betray me. No, no, he dare not! for I can crush him in a moment!" 
               With these implicative words, spoken inaudibly, the great financier crawled into his downy couch, and strange to say, soon fell into a deep slumber. 
               His more lowly, but not less guilty accomplices, were driven to the mansion they had started from early in the evening. Here they separated, the colonel to the room where both had metamorphosed themselves, and Brian sought lodgings at a hotel on the east side of the Park, both firm in the belief that they had done an evening's work worthy of the most skilful financier of the age. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                  GOTHAM FINANCIALLY DISTURBED-THE DISCOVERY-THE BANKER AND HIS CLERK-THE MYSTERIOUS PAPERS-ALBERT AND VIRGINIA-STARTLING AND WELL-FOUNDED SUSPICIONS. 
                
               GOTHAMwas in a state of intense excitement, especially that portion of Gotham south of the Park and east of that lofty spire which stands like a grim, giant sentinel, at the head of Wall street, on Broadway, overlooking the grand monetary centre of the commercial emporium. Rumor, with her thousand tongues, spoke of all sorts of commercial calamities: broken banks, broken merchants, disasters abroad, defalcations, robberies, &c., &c.-nothing positive, nothing tangible, nothing traceable, but everything vague, contradictory, indefinite. 
               About two o'clock, however, "the murder was out." 
               "'Ere's the 'Erald, Express, Mirror and Times! all about the great bank robbery last night!" yelled the newsboys, with startling emphasis, and in tones that surely denoted that they were honest this time; that they were not endeavoring to sell the green ones with "mung" intelligence. 
               Everybody on 'Change seemed simultaneously to be supplied with a paper containing the only reports that could be relied on. The first sentence that met the eye of the reader, was the following, in staring capitals: 
               "Immense Robbery Last Night!" 
               "A Million and a Half of Dollars Stolen!" 
               "The Safe of the Great Bankers, Messrs. Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co. Entered and Rifled!" 
               "No Clue to the Bold Burglars!" 
               Such were nearly the captions of the articles in all the extras and evening papers. The particulars which followed were as correctly stated as could be ascertained up to that hour. But we must relate the events of that morning in the banking house, in our own way. 
               Albert Mandeville was punctual at his desk at quarter before ten o'clock, notwithstanding he did not leave the levee, and say good-night to Virginia, until the second "little hour" had struck that morning; and after he had reached his lodgings, and gone to bed, he could not, by any possible means, persuade himself to sleep, for a beautiful vision hovered over him, and he could not, had he so desired, shut it out from his mind's eye, or exorcise it. As may therefore be presumed, he looked dull and heavy, and apparently ill-prepared for even his ordinary routine of duties. 
               A few minutes before the business hour, a faithful man-servant of the senior partner, who was frequently entrusted with the errand, entered the 'banking-house, and placed in Mandeville's hands the keys of the establishment, enclosed in a leathern bag-the porter having charge of a duplicate key to the outer entrance. Mandeville's first duty was to open the treasure vault. He leisurely unlocked the several doors, and entering, he uttered an indistinct, despairing exclamation, and staggering backward into the counting-house, with both hands raised as if horror-struck, he fell, fainting, to the floor, to the utter consternation and amazement of the clerks and tellers, who had all assembled to resume their posts of duty. 
               Before rendering any assistance to their fellow-clerk, they eagerly sought to discover the cause of his singular and sudden affliction. The truth was quickly learned, and intense was the excitement among them. However, they managed to restore their prostrate comrade, and before he regained strength to sit upright, the junior members of the firm came in, and the startling truth was revealed to them! 
               "We're ruined! we're ruined!" was the exclamation of both. 
               In their great tribulation, however, they had the good judgment to order the bank to be closed, and officers sent for, who were made acquainted with the robbery, and as nearly as could be hastily computed, the amounts missing, with a nearly accurate description of the treasures, in writing, were given to them. 
               Mandeville, who soon recovered from the shock he had experienced, was charged with the unpleasant duty of carrying the news of the great calamity which had befallen them to the senior partner. 
               The purse-proud and guilty banker had but just partaken of his sumptuous breakfast, and was seated in a luxurious arm-chair, in his library of a thousand tomes of elegantly bound, but seldom read books, enjoying a fragrant Havana segar. 
               "Well, Albert, be seated," said he, politely. "Ah! you look concerned! Has anybody failed? any shipwrecks reported? any fire? any--" 
               "I am, sir, greatly concerned," replied the young man, with a tremulous voice, "but have no knowledge of any of the disasters such as you speak of." 
               "Then, pray, what can have brought you here at this unusual hour of the day? what can be the nature of your business? Is any one of our house sick, or dead, or run away? Come, speak out-I am impatient to know your errand!" 
               "Sir-sir-your banking house," stammered Mandeville, "your banking house was last night entered and robbed of an--" 
               "Robbed!" interrupted Thorncliffe, starting from his seat, apparently in the extreme of agitation and alarm. "You do not mean to say that the treasure vault has been entered and money stolen?" 
               "Such, it grieves me to say, is the fact, sir, and from it more than a million and a half of treasure has been purloined." 
               "Oh, God! then I'm undone!" exclaimed the hoary-headed villain, acting his part with exceeding tact and skill. "It is enough to bankrupt the house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co. Over a million, said you?" 
               "The sum, it is feared, exceeds a million and a half." 
               "How in the name of mischief robbers could enter the bank, and penetrate that secure vault, is past my comprehension," said Thorncliffe, abstractedly. 
               "It seems almost incredible," replied Mandeville; "not a lock, hinge or bolt was broken-not even marred. The rogues, whoever they were, must have possessed full knowledge of every fastening; they must have had keys fitted to every lock; for everything this morning, outside the vault, presented precisely the same appearance as usual." 
               "I'm all amazement! The robbers cannot, must not escape!" exclaimed the banker, as he bustled about the room, in an apparent state of great excitement and alarm. After three or four rapid journeys around the centre table, and pressing his hand upon his forehead, and performing several other very affecting feats, he violently pulled the bell-cord. A servant appeared. 
               "John, tell Richard to get the carriage at the door immediately-immediately, I say," commanded Thorncliffe, who had succeeded in working himself into an admirable state of frenzy. 
               The carriage was quickly announced, and as he was about to rush out of the house, followed more moderately by his clerk, he turned upon his heel, and said, 
               "Ah! dear me! I had quite forgotten an important piece of business. Albert, come to my desk. These papers must be examined carefully. The necessary papers for transfering the property herein described I wish to have drawn up by one o'clock, for the parties concerned have promised to be here punctually at that hour. These memoranda will give you names, amounts, &c. I shall return by one. No calamity whatever must prevent the transfer of this property to-day-for to-morrow-well, never mind to-morrow--" 
               Thorncliffe, without uttering another word, seized his beaver, crowded it on to his head, rushed from the house, and headlong into his carriage. 
               "Richard, set me down at the banking house as quick as possible!" 
               With extraordinary speed, the horses were driven to the scene of the banker's great financial operations, there to enact a most violent part in the scene of the day; but, without attempting to describe that which every reader can probably picture to himself, let us return to the magnificent mansion of the proud nabob. 
               Albert Mandeville sat at the desk, busily engaged in performing the task that had been allotted him-a species of work which he was familiar liar with, for he had often drawn up the requisite papers for the transfer of real estate, but never under any other roof than the capacious one in Wall street, where all his business knowledge was acquired. His mind was so actively intent upon the discoveries of the morning, that he could scarcely give that attention which was due the task before him. Besides, no sooner had the banker departed, than Mandeville bethought him that he was under the roof which also sheltered the angel of his heart, the "bright peculiar star" of his being. More than once he turned with longing gaze towards the door, thinking, perhaps, either by accident or design, she might visit the library. But she came not, and he plied himself diligently to the metes, and bounds, and conditions of the instruments to be put in legal form. Scarcely had he commenced copying the first instrument, than his eye fell upon the loved name of Virginia Thorncliffe. It was, in fact, an estate belonging to her, which her uncle, as trustee and guardian, was to convey to another party. 
               Involuntarily he let drop his pen, and sank back in the easy arm-chair in which he was sitting. The thought at once struck him that all was not right; that perhaps his employer was in danger of bankruptcy, in consequence of the immense loss he and others had just sustained. If so, might not the property of his ward, held in trust by him, be sacrificed in the general wreck of the banker's estates? It was possible-aye, it was probable; and would it not be right for him to make known to her that which had transpired, and that which was contemplated. 
               "How do I know," whispered he to himself, "that she has not given her full assent to this transaction? And what possible business is it of mine, whether she did or did not? Under any existing circumstances, what can possibly justify me in giving any thought or heed to the matter?" 
               He raised himself to a more erect posture, and reached out his arm for the pen to resume his duties, when suddenly, in the mirror before him, was reflected the beautiful image of Virginia Thorncliffe. He had been so absorbed and perplexed by his conflicting views of what would be right, and what would be wrong in the premises, that he did not see or hear the light footsteps which had intruded upon his solitude-but a more welcome intruder he could not have chosen. 
               "Good morning, Mr. Mandeville," said she, greeting him with a modest and graceful demeanor, which was responded to in a proper, but more embarrassed air. "I saw you come in with rather a disturbed countenance, and perceiving my uncle go away in a state of unusual excitement, I ventured to come in to inquire if anything serious has occurred?" 
               "Yes, Miss-no-that is-I may as well confess-something HAS occurred," said the clerk, stammering out the sentences. 
                
               "I thought so-I was sure of it," said she, while an expression of painful anxiety rested upon her beautiful face; "and, oh Heaven! would that it were impossible for me to tell what that something is!" 
               "Relieve yourself of that thought," said Mandeville; "for as yet the calamity is scarcely known outside the walls of the banking house; or was not when I left." 
               "Yet for all that, the banking house has been robbed!" said she. 
               Mandeville started back with astonishment. 
               "Robbed last night!" 
               "Your knowledge of this matter, is most surprising," said he. 
               "No bolts or bars were broken; the thieves had easy ingress, and an easy egress," she added, firmly, but sadly. 
               "Amazement! how is it possible that you can know?" ejaculated Mandeville. 
               "I do not know positively," she answered; "but I conjecture thus much, and I apprehend much more. Have I not conjectured rightly?" 
               "I must acknowledge that you have stated precisely what has taken place," said Mandeville, gazing upon the beautiful being before him with feelings, just at that moment, more of wonder than of affection. 
               "I conjecture also that the amount stolen is large-very large," she remarked, inquiringly. 
               "Yes, a sum sufficient to shake the most powerful banking house in Wall street; and if the stolen treasure be not recovered, ruin, utter ruin stares our firm in the face." 
               "Is no one suspected of being concerned in this daring exploit?" she answered. 
               "Not that I am aware of," he answered; "I was the first to discover that the vault had been rifled, and there were no traces, except the missing treasure, to indicate that the bank had been entered." 
               "I think I have a clue to this mystery," said Virginia. 
               "You, Miss Thorncliffe! I am more surprised than ever." 
               "I may be mistaken, possibly," she continued; "but I saw that last night which has led me to more than suspect." 
               "That YOU saw?" ejaculated the astounded clerk; "but you were here, entertaining the guests?" 
               "I did my best to obey my uncle's behests," she replied, "for Clara, my cousin, was too ill, and Aunt was too busy in giving directions to the servants; but among our guests there were thieves!" 
               "True; I learned that a lady lost some of her rich jewelry; but that can have no possible connection with the bank robbery." 
               "Perhaps not," said Virginia; "but you are well aware that the keys of the banking house are sent here every night for safe keeping?" 
               "Ah! now do I perceive some remote reason for your suspicion. You imagine or suppose that the keys were stolen from your uncle's apartment during last evening's festivities!" 
                
               "I do certainly think that they were taken from there; but not-strictly speaking-stolen," said Virginia. 
               "They must then have been returned, for I received them this morning from Mr. Thorncliffe's most trusty servant." 
               "Yes, they were returned; and that, too, before the party broke up; in fact, that leathern bag was not absent from the house two hours." 
               "Your information is most astounding," said Albert; "there is in your very looks a mystery which I cannot fathom." 
               "Mr. Mandeville," said she, approaching the clerk more closely, "I think you may be confided in!" 
               "My life should be forfeited, ere I could abuse any confidence that YOU might desire to repose in me." 
               "Thanks; but oh, sir, think not less of me, that I impart a secret to you which I dare not lisp to any other human being," said Virginia, in low tremulous tones; "one which I cannot longer keep locked in my own breast, even though the revealing of it should be my ruin. I have known you for some time, and have not been an indifferent observer to your scrupulous faithfulness to your employers; and I feel that to you I may say that which I might well hesitate to lisp to another." 
               "You do me much honor, Miss Mandeville, in your opinion of one who is unwor--" 
               "Nay, nay," she interrupted; "listen to what I have to impart. Do you remember the stranger who was my partner in the first quadrille last night?" 
               "It was he who is known as Colonel Belleville?" 
               "The same. And did you not note the peculiar appearing gentleman whom he introduced as his friend?" 
               "He who spoke a half Irish, half cockney dialect?" 
               "Precisely-Brian O'Regan, Esq., as he was styled." 
               "I did note him," said Albert; "and if he had not been in the society of gentlemen no one would have suspected him of being one." 
               "He is not only no gentleman, but I think him to be the thief who stole Miss Fernald's jewels!" 
               "Can it be possible?" 
               "Yes, it is more than probable," she replied; "and moreover, as he is the companion of this proud Colonel Belleville, it is almost certain to my mind, that to these two of my uncle's guests may yet be traced the great robbery of last night." 
               "Your every word astonishes me," said Albert; "but, Miss Thorncliffe, I cannot conceive the remotest cause why your suspicions should be kept a secret." 
               "I have not yet told you half; and the most disagreeable part is yet to come. These robbers had an accomplice; and that accomplice, although it grieves me to admit it, was none other than my uncle, your employer!" said Virginia, while tears rolled down her beauteous cheek. 
               "God of Heaven! what revelation next!" he exclaimed; "your words amaze me!" 
               "Hush!" she cautioned in a whisper; "you now know my secret-you will not reveal it, unless with my consent!" 
               "The tortures of an inquisition could not extort it from me," replied Albert; "but you have not yet told me on what facts you ground your suspicions." 
               "True; but you shall know all," she replied. "I saw, and Heaven knows how unwillingly, my uncle slip into the hands of this Colonel Belleville that which I took to be a small bag known to contain the banking house keys; and then I noted the sudden absence of the Colonel and his friend. To make sure that my eyes did not deceive me, I stole away to Uncle's private room, and looked in a drawer of an escrutoire, where I have frequently seen him place this bag and take it therefrom. As I suspected and feared, it was gone! A dread suspicion flashed across my mind, and I could not, during the evening, divest myself of the mischief which seemed to be brewing. Two hours elapsed, and these men returned, and I heard O'Regan excuse himself for his absence by asserting that he had been in the billiard room, &c., when it is absolutely certain that he had absented himself from the house, and did not return much short of the time stated. Soon after their return I again stole away to my uncle's private room, and again looked into the usual receptacle for the bag of keys, and as I apprehended, it was there! and not two minutes before my uncle was seen to go in and come out of this apartment! On these circumstances, Mr. Mandeville, do I found my suspicions." 
               After this narration, the clerk stood for several moments in deep thought, without uttering a single word. His mind reverted to many peculiar circumstances connected with his chief employer, which now, for the first time, assumed a suspicious shape. He had seen this Belleville frequently holding private converse with Mr. Thorncliffe, and more than once had seen his employer pass over to him money, without any receipt being returned, or any note made of it in the private cash book of Mr. T., and various other little circumstances, every one of which tended toward his condemnation. 
               "You seem incredulous of my revelation," said Virginia. 
               "No, Miss Thorncliffe-I believe every word that you have uttered, but it gives me pain to admit it," answered Albert. "But what is to be done? what is my duty? Unless this treasure be recovered, the house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co., will be declared bankrupt in less than thirty days!" 
               "Oh, Heaven!" exclaimed Virginia; "would that my uncle's ambition was not solely to be a millionaire! to outstrip his neighbors of this aristocratic avenue. Ruin-utter ruin-ruin worse than bankruptcy stares him in the face. Oh! that some means might be devised to recover this stolen wealth, and save him and his family from a disgrace, far, far greater than poverty." 
               "Perhaps-perhaps," said Mandeville, musingly. "Yes-there is hope! the money can and must be recovered. You have at least given me a clue to the burglary; and henceforth be it my task to discover the haunt of these robbers; and if they refuse to give up their ill-gotten plunder, they shall be brought to condign punishment." 
               "Thanks-thanks, Mandeville," said Virginia. "Of all persons, I knew that you could be trusted in this matter. But let me entreat you to be cautious; and above all, Albert, place not yourself in peril!" 
               These last words were spoken in such sweet tones of loving kindness, that they thrilled to the very heart of the noble young man. She, for the first time, had addressed him by the more familiar part of his name, and he felt as if he could pass through any ordeal, severe and dangerous as it might be, for her sake. Some moments elapsed in silence, when his eye turned towards the legal documents before him. 
               "Know you," asked he, "the import of the task which your uncle gave me before he left the house?" 
               "I do not; I seldom trouble myself about his business affairs, unless they have relation to his trusteeship." 
               "But this is a matter which must deeply interest you," said Mandeville, as he took in his hand the several documents. 
               "My uncle is my guardian," said she; "perhaps it relates to some of the property which he holds in trust for me." 
               "Precisely; these are documents which, when executed, conveys a very large estate in--street to another party, which he has the leave of the Probate Court to dispose of." 
               "What! our old homestead! impossible!" she exclaimed, running her eye over the description of the property; "this is too monstrous! why have I not been consulted in this matter? He would not dare to sell--" 
               "But he does dare," said Mandeville, as she hesitated in her speech; "and to me has been assigned the task of preparing the papers in time for his return, for the party to whom the estate is to be conveyed is to be here with him to perform the conditions of the contract." 
               "But I shall protest!" said Virginia, as her eyes once more became bedewed with tears. "'Tis too cruel! what, sell our dear old homestead! the place where I was born-it must not-it shall not be!" 
               "But he has the authority of the Court," said Mandeville. 
               "Yet it shall not be sold!" she declared with energy; I will entreat him not to sell it-I will protest against it before all parties! My uncle knows that it was my dear father's latest desire that it should descend to his heirs! Oh, monstrous! Uncle Thorncliffe must be mad! Should he refuse to listen to entreaty, then shall threats be resorted sorted to! Give me the papers, Albert; I promise you shall be shielded from all harm. This is my affair, and on me shall rest the responsibility!" 
               Mandeville cheerfully placed the papers in her hands. He felt that if an axe were suspended threateningly above his head, he would not execute the task that had been given him, under the peculiar circumstances. 
               "You are right in this matter," said he; "but I fear, Virginia, that harm will befal you." 
               "Fear not; for, thank Heaven, I have now formidable weapons in my own hands, that shall make my unscrupulous guardian deal justly by me." 
               "Listen! a carriage stops at the door!" exclaimed Virginia, as she ran to the window. "Two men alight-my uncle and Mr. Augustus Langdale, my foppish would be--" 
               "Ah! what's to be done?" asked Mandeville, eagerly. 
               "Follow me, and I will conduct you down through the basement, and out of the side door. Come, quickly." 
               "But--" 
               "There's not a moment to be lost," said she, interrupting him. "Fear not-I can manage this affair alone." 
               Mandeville followed her, and in a few seconds he was out of the house, bewildered, confused, and undecided which way to turn, or how to act. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                  A NEW CHARACTER-THE FOP AND THE BANKER-AN AWKWARD PIECE OF BUSINESS. 
                
               THORNCLIFFE and Langdale entered the library by one door, as our hero and heroine made a precipitous exit out of the other. The import of the conversation between them during their ride from Wall street, notwithstanding the whole city was in a state of excitement because of the great robbery, related chiefly to a matrimonial arrangement which the unscrupulous banker wished to see consummated, and of which arrangement Langdale was the one party, and Virginia Thorncliffe, if by any means her consent could be gained, was to be the other. Langdale had been for some time a persistent suitor for her hand, and she had repulsed him from time to time with such significant demonstrations, that he became satisfied that the well established and well approved method of courtship was not the one by which he was to arrive at the goal of his hopes. Her aspiring uncle favored the suit, because it was known that the suitor was at least the indisputable heir to millions, and he, too, was resolved that they should be wedded, if by any means it could be brought about. He had not come to this determination, however, until he had failed in every artifice and inducement to persuade Langdale to become a suitor to his own daughter, Miss Clara Thorncliffe, who though an agreeable, unassuming, and intelligent lady of twenty-five, possessed not the brilliant, fascinating, and irresistible charms of her much younger cousin; indeed, in loveliness of person, and in qualities of mind, Virginia surpassed her as much as the stars of the first magnitude surpass in brilliancy those of the sixth. 
               Notwithstanding the politic banker failed in his attempt to make Langdale his son-in-law, he would make him the next best thing, and that was his nephew-the husband of his niece and ward-and he was not long in discovering that his affections were centred in that direction. In addition to his almost insane ambition to have his family connected with the most wealthy and aristocratic, for in his mind wealth constituted the only aristocracy, he knew full well that over such an intellect as that of Langdale's he could not fail, in the event of a family alliance, to have unlimited sway. 
               One of his devices was, to place in Langdale's possession, as absolute owner, the old homestead of his deceased brother, which was a valuable piece of property, and for which, under the circumstances, Langdale had stipulated to pay an exorbitant price, knowing, if his views were carried out, the purchase money would return to his hands. The old banker supposed that whoever held possession of this estate must wield an influence over his niece, for well he knew that of all the spots on earth, it was the one she most dearly prized; so much so that she had even entreated her guardian not to allow its hallowed apartments to be occupied by strangers; but he, the man who worshipped gold above everything, could not listen to such a proposition, though she did finally succeed in keeping one apartment free from intruders. This was the room in which her mother died, and upon its walls still hung the portraits of both her parents, of her beloved brothers and sisters, who one by one had been snatched from earth, and of herself, the only survivor of that once happy family. Even the furniture was permitted to remain undisturbed. Of this room, so sacred in her sight, she held the key; and it was indeed a sweet, a blessed privilege to visit it as frequently as she desired. 
               And now it was the cruel, hardhearted policy of the man who was her father's brother, and also her legal protector, to perpetrate an outrage; an outrage that humanity would shudder at; but little could he judge of a heart like that of Virginia, in supposing that such an act could overcome her antipathy to a man who had no impulses in common with her, with whom she could never sympathize, and one she could never love. Never would he have contemplated this act, could he have known fully the character of his niece; but he was one of those who judged all humanity alike; the same impulses which moved him to a certain course of action, in others would produce like results. In a word, judging all mankind by himself, was a principle on which he had always acted. 
               During the ride of Thorncliffe and Langdale from the mart of mammon to the mansion of the former, as we before intimated, the principal topic of their conversation was in relation to the pending negotiations; as to the final results, they were of precisely the same opinion. In entering the library, the banker was somewhat surprised to find that his faithful clerk, whom he intended should witness the hands and seals of the parties, had absented himself; and supposing, as a matter of course, that he had finished the task assigned him, he commenced looking over the various papers on the desk for the deeds, which he had no reason to doubt Mandeville had left there. But his search was vain. 
               "Strange-strange!" muttered the banker, as he overhauled the loose papers a second time, more carefully. "Strange-my clerk could not have misunderstood my charge-he is usually very exact in his duties; but everything goes wrong to-day. I'll inquire into this matter," said he, as he pulled a bell-cord. 
               Pete, the black servant, protruded his shining face through the doorway. 
               "Pete, is Mr. Mandeville about the house?" 
               "I tink not, sah!" replied the darkey. 
               "Did you see him go out?" 
               "No, sah." 
               "Is Miss Virginia at home?" 
               "Ees, sah." 
               "Send her to me. Stay-no-you may go about your business." 
               "Ees, sah!" and Pete vanished. 
               This order was countermanded by the banker, as the thought suddenly struck him that it were not wise to summon his niece into the presence of her obnoxious lover, just at that particular juncture. 
               "This is very provoking," exclaimed Thorncliffe. "Mandeville is usually so prompt and precise in whatever he has to do. To be derelict in his duty, or mistake my wishes in this highly important matter, is unaccountable; it's very, very annoying." 
               "Oh, it's dem provoking," added Langdale, twirling a small cane, with a carved Venus's head, in his fingers. "If he were in my employ, I should say-'Mister Clerk, go-retire-your services are dispensed with-I want you no longer-demme.'" 
               "I suspect he has returned to the banking house, and taken the deeds with him," said Thorncliffe; "we can go back and execute them there; or, we can wait until to-morrow, though the sooner this matter is disposed of the better." 
               "Aw! yes, precisely-I incline to your opinion," said the fop, yawningly. "I hate business-business will never do for me, never. This transaction we'll complete to-morrow. So, I'll bid you a very good morning, my good friend, and go home and take a nap before dinner. To-morrow, I shall be here at this hour, positively and punctually. Let's not have another failure, for if there's one thing I hate more than another, 'tis business. Au revoir! au revoir!" 
               With these expressions, our Fifth Avenue dandy bowed himself out of the presence of the banker, giving the latter an opportunity to ponder over the exciting events of the past twenty-four hours. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                  THE COBBLER AGAIN IN HIS STALL-THE WATCH STUFFER-THE LANDLORD COLLECTING HIS RENT-A VISIT FROM THE UNKNOWS-THE PLOT THICKENS. 
                
               OUR acquaintance, Jack Waid, was an indifferent cobbler, yet he appeared to drive a thriving business. His work, if not well done, was cheaply done, for he seldom charged his customers more than half the price that his fellow cobblers charged, thereby causing considerable grumbling among his craftsmen, who did not hesitate to declare that he was a "botch," and not much better fitted to cobble the soles of shoes than the souls of men. 
               Towards the latter part of the day subsequent to the great robbery in Wall street, our Crispin's lapstone resounded with the strokes of his hammer, plied in rather quicker time than usual; and to the inquiry, why he worked with so much energy! he replied that he had lost so much time in reading all the particulars of the wonderfully great robbery last night, in the Extra, to every body that came in, he must make up for so much valuable time lost, or his customers would be after him with a sharp stick. 
               "A reg'lar whoppin' affair that," remarked the cobbler's last visitor, who was none other than Bill Stuffer, who probably derived his name from the fact of his being a notorious watch stuffer; he was also an expert with the thimble ring, and a thief on a small scale. "I'd gin a month's airnins to know the coves what did that clever job. Oh! wouldn't I like a shear in that plunder!" 
               "Stuffer, I thought you an honest lad!" said the cobbler. "You wouldn't accept stolen goods, would you?" 
               "Wouldn't I! why not, ole 'onesty?" 
               "Simply because the receiver is considered as bad as the thief." 
               "Then it's my 'pinion, 'onest folks is scurse in New York. I knows hundreds what sells stolen goods, and they passes for spectreble peeples; and I knows them what prigs too, and they passes for gentlemen swells." 
               "Perhaps those who sell stolen goods are not aware of their being stolen," suggested Jack. "In that case they are not guilty." 
               "They alus purtends not to know, but I says they duz," answered Stuffer. "York is a wery vicked place, much vickeder than is gener'ly s'posed. Oh! I could tell of some goins on that I vouldn't be concerned in to save me from the Tombs, but I is no peacher. I is as secret as a dumb Jimmy. Helloa! as my name's Bill, there comes ole Closefist, the lan'lord. I owes him for six weeks' rent for my suller; I'll jest guv the ole fellar the slip;" and out slipped the watch stuffer. 
               It was Mr. Thorncliffe, to whom Bill had alluded, who was approaching, for the purpose of making his monthly visit to his miserable tenants of the Points, for he held in his possession a large estate in that quarter, consequently an almost innumerable number of tenants, and as "hard" a rent roll as any proprietor in Gotham could boast of. Among the most prompt of his many tenants, however, was the "honest" cobbler, into whose shop he now stalked, and was not sorry to find that Crispin was quite alone. 
               As there were many people passing and repassing, the form of collecting the rent was gone through with, while in fact, they conversed in low tones upon the more ostensible object of the landlord's visit. 
               "It is all right; the hounds are on the wrong scent, and not a word of suspicion is directed towards the right quarter," remarked the banker to an inquiry of the cobbler. "It was well and safely done." 
               "You may well say that," remarked Jack. "'Twas no bungling job, and I must say that I feel proud of it. Though I am considered a bungler in cobbling soles, I am no bungler in my profession." 
               "When will be the safest and most convenient hour for the division?" asked the rascally old aristocrat of the avenues, whose mind as naturally reverted to spoils as a confirmed inebriate to his bitters. 
               "I propose half past ten o'clock this evening, in the room of Colonel Belleville, entrance No.-street," replied the cobbler. "The colonel will be there; Mr. O'Regan will be there; and the-you know what, will be there, too." 
               "The hour and the place are agreeable," replied the banker. "I shall be punctual;" and after a few casual observations, he strode out of the shop-with his usual lordly air-and with an intention of visiting some of his less interesting tenants. 
               "I beg pardon," said Thorncliffe, as he ran afoul of an individual, just as he left honest Crispin's door. He did not stop to scrutinize the fellow closely, or he might have detected features not wholly unfamiliar to him. But he was a shabbily dressed man, and a loafer in appearance, and therefore, further familiarity or acquaintance with him was undesirable. 
               "Ten and a half o'clock this evening, in the room of Colonel Belleville, entrance from, &c. I must not forget that bit of information," thought the shabby stranger. "But I'll pay the cobbler a visit, at all events; cobblers are a gossip-gathering and news-seeking class; who knows that he may not have some connection with this affair?" Thus ruminating, the stranger, after walking on a few rods, turned and retraced his steps, and entered the cobbler's shop. 
               "Walk in, walk in," said Crispin, as the man halted after crossing the threshold, at the same time scanning, with a professional gaze from above the glasses of the iron-bowed spectacles, the rusty boots of the stranger. "I've just paid my last dollar for rent to old Closefist, and as those boots look as though a thick sole wouldn't hurt 'em, I crave the job." 
               "But they're all the boots I possess," suggested the stranger. 
               "That's bad, certainly; but I don't mind, since you're honest looking, lending you a pair of brogans until I get the job done." 
               "But when will that be?" 
               "To-morrow, 4 o'clock P. M., to a minute. Oh, you'll find me the most punctual of all punctual cobblers, if my cobbling doesn't look quite so genteel as that of my brother cobblers." 
               "What will be the charge?" 
               "Let me see," said Jack, examining the boots critically; "yes, it will be really worth about five shill'ns; but as I go on the principle of 'live and let live,' I shall charge you seven shill'ns. That's a genteel boot of yours, in spite of the hard usage they've had-Broadway cut-a seven dollar article; perhaps YOU didn't give quite so much?" queried Jack, with an arch expression. 
               "No; I couldn't afford any such price; the fact is, I've been standing in others' shoes; I purchased them of a second-hand dealer," replied the stranger. 
               "Capital fit, though; couldn't have been better had they been made for you," remarked Jack. 
               "Yes, a very good fit; and if you will have them repaired at the time mentioned, I shall be here for them, and pay you, too." 
               "Well, now, that's better than all my customers do in this ragged locality. Sometimes, I have to wait months for my pay; sometimes I never get paid; but if I should neglect to pay old Closefist for one week after rent day comes around, he'd pitch my bench, tub, lapstone, pegs and awls into the street." 
               "Who's old Closefist?" asked the stranger. "I don't know anybody by that name." 
               "Neither do I; we only call him so; a sort o' nickname; his real name is Thorncliffe; he's a banker, and as rich as mud; but the papers do say that his bank was broken into last night, and any quantity of specie and bank bills stolen. Well, the rich have their troubles as well as the poor, and we who have to work for bread naturally feel glad at the misfortunes of those whom fortune, or perhaps, crimes, have placed so far above us that practically we are their slaves. But I'm above such feelings; I don't envy anybody, especially those landlords who have to collect their rents in this quarter of the town. Hang me! if I was the sole owner of the Five Points, if I wouldn't warn the inhabitants out, and make one grand conflagration of the whole district! It would make a magnificent bonfire, one o' these dark nights, eh?" 
               "A fierce and terrible one," replied the stranger; "you hate the district, and strange to say, you come here, voluntarily, and hire a shop." 
               "Therein you're mistaken." 
               "Wherein?" 
               "Not voluntarily." 
               "How so?" 
               "Compulsion's the word." 
               "Compulsion?" 
               "Aye, I said compulsion; I should starve at my trade elsewhere!" 
               "But why? I can't see the possibility of such a case." 
               "Well, that's driving a man pretty close to the lapstone; but, I'll gratify your curiosity, and tell you why. The fact is, I'm sich a poor workman, that better people than live hereabouts, wouldn't have my cobbling at any price. I'm a bad shilling, and I don't like to pass for more than I'm worth; and if I did try to pass for more than I'm worth, I couldn't. You understand, eh?" 
               "I do," replied the inquisitive stranger; "and there are but few men in the world who will estimate themselves for what they know they're worth. In fact, forming a just estimate of one's self, is a species of honesty which is very rare." 
               "That's why I'm styled the 'honest cobbler' by all my customers, and, indeed, by all who know Jack Waid. My work, though rough, is strong, and what it lacks in finish, I make it lack in price." 
               "Not only an honest principle, but a generous practice," said the stranger, rising; and, after slipping his feet into a pair of brogans, he bade the cobbler good evening, and left the shop. 
               He had scarcely passed the threshhold, when an uncouth, outlandish looking fellow, dressed in a sailor's garb, came reeling down the sidewalk, and entered Waid's shop. There was something so peculiar about the appearance of this last comer, that the attention of the individual who had just left his boots to be tapped, was attracted thereby, and, accordingly, he tarried for a few moments on the sidewalk near the cobbler's door, and overheard the following conversation: 
               "Vel, ole fellow, 'ows trade," said our old acquaintance, Rob, the cockney sailor. "Vy, vot a muss they does make about that little bit o' wery clever financiering last--" 
               "Hush! silence!" hissed out the cobbler, between his closed teeth, with terrific emphasis. "Are you drunk?" 
               "Vel, I duz feel wery comfortable, I thank you." 
               "Hark'ee, Rob," said the cobbler, gazing at his accomplice with a look of ferocity, "let me warn you, once for all, that if you are not more cautious, and keep sober, I'll slit your windpipe for you just as readily as I would that of a wharf rat!" 
               Rob was subdued, and almost sobered by the ferocious and determined manner in which this threat was uttered. He sank back upon a stool, looking as humble and docile as a whipped cur. 
               Having silenced his accomplice, the cobbler laid aside his hammer and lapstone, threw off his leather apron, and proceeded to close the shutters of his shop, and bar its door. 
               It was nearly dark, and many lamps were already lighted in that district of vice, poverty and crime. The curious and inquisitive stranger walked briskly up the street, that he might not be suspected of having played the part of an eaves-dropper. His quick ear had, however, heard enough to awaken suspicion. He had resolved, even at the peril of his life, to devote himself to the dangerous task of bringing to light certain deeds of darkness. "Ten and a half o'clock this evening," he muttered to himself; "entrance from--street. I shall not be far distant." The idea that these words formed another link in the chain which would lead his efforts to a successful issue, flashed upon his mind. 
               The unknown continued his walk into Broadway, and for the purpose of avoiding recognition, he went into one of the common saloons, where his acquaintances would not be likely to visit, for the purpose of regaling his appetite, and to pass away two or three hours as agreeably as his impatience for the flight of time would permit. 
               Slowly, indeed, did the hours and the minutes seem to pass away; never did the chariot wheels of Time appear to revolve so slowly. But the hours and the minutes did pass away, and the wished-for time arrived. At ten o'clock and fifteen minutes, precisely, he sauntered forth, and in ten minutes more he stood opposite to a fine looking, but old-fashioned mansion, once situated in a fashionable part of the town; but wealth and fashion had taken their flight up town, and the nabob deserted mansions were now chiefly used as boarding houses of good repute, and houses of a doubtful character. The house designated by the cobbler to the banker, however, was of the former class. 
               Precisely at ten and a half o'clock a carriage rolled heavily down the street, and drew up before the dwelling alluded to. It was not the banker's carriage, nor was the coachman that of the banker, but it was the banker who alighted, notwithstanding; he was not attired in the habiliments he usually wore, but he was instantly recognized by our patient watcher, for old men cannot disguise themselves so successfully as younger ones. Our unknown character darted across the street, and stealthily crept near the street steps, which the banker ascended, and on which he now stood, awaiting the summons he gave by pulling the bell-knob. Presently a servant appeared. 
                
               "Colonel Belleville--my card--I desire--," were parts of sentences only which fell upon the listener's ears. 
               Mr. Thorncliffe was admitted, and the door closed after him. The name of Belleville was one the spy did not expect, but was glad to hear, and gave him an additional matter for speculation and suspicion. What connection, thought he, has Belleville with the apparently honest cobbler, and why should Thorncliffe ask for the former, when the appointment, if it were an appointment, was with the latter. Here was a mystery, and where there is mystery, there is usually mischief, thought the unknown, and be it my duty to unveil it. He recrossed the street, and stood again opposite the mansion. In the third story there was but one room lighted, and that but dimly; besides, the blinds were closed, and the curtains were drawn down; while, in the first and second stories all the rooms were lighted, the blinds open, and in most of them the curtains were either rolled up or drawn aside. This circumstance attracted the unknown observer's attention; and he shrewdly came to the conclusion, that if there was any mischief brewing or being done, it was in that upper room. 
               Eleven, twelve, one o'clock, struck before the banker re-appeared. He proceeded towards Broadway, and availing himself of a carriage, he was quickly conveyed to his residence, situated among the palatial domicils of the Upper Ten. 
               Not altogether disappointed with the results of his watchfulness, the unknown repaired to his own more humble lodgings, with a determined resolution to pursue his investigations on the next night. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                  MANDEVILLE AGAIN VISITS VIRGINIA-THE SINGULAR REQUEST-THE COBBLER AND HIS STRANGE CUSTOMER-THE CATASTROPHE. 
                
               WHEN Mandeville, the banker's faithful clerk, appeared punctually, as was his custom, at his post, on the morning of the second day following the robbery, his mind was completely absorbed in the matter of the conveyance papers, which was his task to prepare, and in the neglect of which he had for the first time been disobedient. What apology could he make to his employer? He could frame a dozen apologetic excuses for his conduct, but to resort to any one of them would be perpetrating a wilful falsehood, and to be thus guilty was impossible; it was more than his conscience could sanction, notwithstanding the ends might possibly justify so contemptible a subterfuge. To decline making any apology, he knew must subject him to be discharged from his situation, a contingency which he wished to avoid, for to be discharged from the bank, would be virtually to exclude him the blessed privilege of visiting the mansion of the senior partner, a privilege he could not bear even the thought of losing. 
                
               The usual hour for Mr. Thorncliffe's visit to the bank had nearly arrived. On a sudden impulse Mandeville arose and asked permismission of a junior member of the firm to be absent for the remainder of the day. His pale countenance, and the nervous manner in which he made the request, gained him an affirmative reply. Seizing his hat, he rushed forth into the street, without having fixed in his mind any well-defined course of action. On reaching the crowded thoroughfare, he saw the banker's carriage approaching in the never-ending Broadway procession of vehicles, and in that carriage sat its proprietor, as lordly as if he were the monarch of all he surveyed. 
               "I'll make a call upon Virginia, before proceeding further in this business," said Mandeville to himself. "Of course I shall not be suspected of visiting there at this hour of the day, unless to execute a commission for my employer." 
               Hailing an omnibus, he leaped in, and in twenty minutes he had reached the Fifth Avenue, where he alighted, and made his way on foot to the banker's mansion. Virginia, who was seated at a boudoir casement, saw him approaching, and before he had an opportunity to ring the doorbell, she stood upon the threshhold to bid him welcome. 
               "I am glad, Albert, you have come this morning," said she, after escorting him into the library; "but have you seen my uncle since you were last here?" 
               "Not to speak with him. I saw him down town, and that is the reason why I am now up town." 
               "It is fortunate, and you must study to avoid him, for the present, at least," said she; "he is greatly annoyed at your conduct, which puzzles him exceedingly." 
               "Was he not absent from home until a late hour last night?" asked Mandeville. 
               "True; but how is it possible that you have knowledge of such an unusual circumstance?" 
               "My information is derived from eyes that saw him enter and come out of house No.---street." 
               "Why, that is the house in which I was born," said Virginia; "that is the dear old place my guardian would sell;" and large tear drops bedimmed her beautiful eyes. 
               "The estate he desires to transfer to the possession of your discarded lover?" asked Mandeville. 
               "The same." 
               "Singular, that I did not identify it as a part of the estate described in the instrument, but now I recollect--" 
               "You say that you have information that Uncle was there?" 
               "Yes, Virginia; from ten and a half o'clock till long past midnight. There can be no possible mistake as to the fact of his being there; and moreover, I have been made aware of another fact; that Colonel Belleville is an inmate of that house, either as boarder or lodger." 
               "Then rely upon it, Albert, that visit of my uncle's has something to do with the robbery," said Virginia. "All these things tend to confirm me in my first suspicions, that Belleville was the leader in that bold piece of villainy, and also, that he has implicated with him, and it shames me to confess it, a relative of mine. And it grieves me too, to the heart, that my once joyous home should be made a rendezvous for desperate outlaws! But, I thank Heaven, there is one apartment that they cannot-dare not desecrate with their presence. Of that apartment I hold the key, and no one can enter unless with my consent." 
               "Virginia," said Mandeville, after musing a few moments, "a thought strikes me. If you would but give your assent, perhaps through that apartment, so sacred to you, the great mystery which is now hanging about us may be unravelled." 
               "If through that apartment a good and noble purpose may be subserved, I could but deem it to be my duty to permit it thus to be used, however reluctant I might feel in giving my consent." 
               "Then entrust to me the keeping of that room for a brief period, and be assured it shall be held as sacred as if it were a holy temple," said Mandeville, entreatingly. 
               "To you, Albert, I will entrust it without the least reluctance, for in you alone can I repose unlimited confidence." 
               "Thanks, thanks, Virginia." 
               "Yet," said she, after a few moments hesitation, "you will be sure to encounter danger, should your purposes be discovered." 
               "Entertain no apprehensions on my account," said Mandeville. "It is to avert the danger which is pending threateningly above you and me, that I make so bold a proposition. But I must not tarry here longer, lest Mr. Thorncliffe might return; besides, I have much to accomplish." 
               "Tarry, Albert, but for one minute." 
               Virginia retired hastily from the library, and soon returned, and placing the precious key in Mandeville's hands, he bade her good morning, and left the house. 
               It is now four o'clock in the after noon of the same day. The cobbler, in his humble stall, was hammering away at his leather as busily and as happily as on the preceding day. The unknown customer, who had left his boots to be cobbled, called to obtain them. 
               "Oh, ho! my good friend; I am glad to see you; sit down; you are punctual to the hour and the minute; men of your class are not wont to be so very exact," were the greeting remarks of Jack Waid, as he eyed his customer with a searching gaze. "But you see a poor devil of a cobbler can be punctual, too. There are your understandings, and if they don't look well, they will wear well. Now, fork over the number of shill'ns I told you; the cobblers of Broadway would have charged more than double my price." 
               "Certainly, your charge is very reasonable; a miser could scarcely complain of the price," said the unknown known, as he paid over the shillings, and then proceeded to draw them on, after having shuffled off the borrowed brogans of Crispin. 
               "Excuse me, sir; I hope you came honestly by those boots!" suggested the cobbler, with owl-like gravity. 
               "Sir, do you mean to insult me?" ejaculated the unknown, with offended dignity. 
               "I ask pardon, sir-a slip of the tongue-nothing more," apologized the cobbler. "I meant not the slightest disrespect, sir. You see, sir, it so frequently happens in this quarter of the city, that I have boots to repair which have the names written inside, of gentlemen who never condescend to patronize the poor cobbler of the Five Points. For instance-I don't suppose that you ever observed it-there, on the uppers of YOUR boots, is written the name of 'Albert Mandeville,' and I have assurances that he's a gentleman born and bred in better society than any within these wretched purlieus." 
               The unknown looked embarrassed; his face suddenly became suffused with a deep crimson hue, and he hesitated for some moments, ere he attempted a reply; meanwhile, the deep-set, sharp eyes of the cobbler gazed penetratingly into the countenance of his confused customer. 
               "Poor men," at length essayed the unknown, "are frequently compelled to wear the cast-off boots of their betters." 
               "But even gentlemen," suggested Waid, "do not often cast off so good a pair of boots as those; they are much better than they appeared at the first glance." 
               "That may be; but rest assured I came honestly by them; and if I did not, it is the business of magistrates, and not of cobblers, thus to question me." 
               "You are severe in your reply; but," said the cobbler, rising from his bench, "it is ever the duty of a prudent general, when a spy enters his camp, to arrest him!" 
               The stranger turned and darted towards the door, but by some hidden machinery it was closed in an instant! at the same moment he received a blow upon the head, which knocked him senseless upon the floor! While in this state, he was dragged to a trap in the floor, and quickly sank beneath it! 
               Gloomy, indeed, was the place into which the victim was dragged. When he recovered his senses, he found himself surrounded by massive walls of stone, in a cellar or dungeon. A candle, which had been but recently lighted, burnt dimly in one corner of the cell; and as he gazed around, he saw a slab of stone, apparently revolving into its place, and his ears caught the sound of human footsteps retreating. It was undoubtedly, thought the prisoner, the steps of the cobbler, whose double character he now seemed, indistinctly however, to comprehend; and who, supposing his victim to be dead, or in a state that must soon terminate his existence, had even a minute before left him; but in leaving him, he had left the great secret of the dungeon, namely, the place of egress and ingress. 
               The victim attempted to regain his feet, but the injuries he had received caused his head to swim, and his eyes to grow dim, and he sunk back again upon the damp, stony floor, unconscious even of life. 
               Hours passed away-how many he knew not, for when he again revived, all was darker than midnight; the candle had burnt to the socket, and its last flickering ray had expired. 
               "Oh, God!" he exclaimed, "is this to terminate my efforts, so well begun? Is there no help for me? Must I, oh, Heaven! must I die here?" 
               Even his own voice, in that dark, gloomy, subterranean vault, appalled him. He strove to shake off the despairing horror which made his blood course coldly through his veins, causing his whole frame to tremble! The victim was no coward, and for the first time in his life he found himself in a situation that made his soul quake with fear! Who is the mysterious cobbler? Is he man or demon? thought the prisoner. Alas! whatever he is-I am his victim! 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                  DIVIDING THE SPOILS-THE MISSING CASKET-A DISAGREEMENT-SYMPTOMS OF A QUARREL-RECONCILIATION-AN UNINVITED VISITOR. 
                
               IN a dimly lighted room, at a late hour of the evening, sat the banker, awaiting, in a state of almost feverish excitement, the reappearance of two persons, who had left him nearly an hour previous. 
               "Ah! they come at last!" he exclaimed, as the secret panel was noiselessly moved aside, and Colonel Belleville, followed by Brian O'Regan, appeared, laden with heavy bags, together with sundry packages, of much less weight, which they deposited on a table before the gloating eyes of the banker. 
               "You have tarried long?" remarked the latter. 
               "Yes," replied Belleville, "it is a short, but extremely awkward journey; besides, we return heavily and richly laden." 
               "Have you brought all?" asked the banker. 
               "ALL!" repeated Belleville. "Is not there enough? We did not take a dray to your bank. If you are not satisfied, lend us the keys again, and we will make another visit to that wealthy mine." 
               "No, no," dissented Thorncliffe, "'twould not be safe-it is too closely watched now. But are you certain that every package is here?" 
               "Sir! do you take me for a low, pilfering wretch, or an honest financier like yourself?" demanded the colonel, with offended dignity. "If there is to be no confidence, no honor, between gentlemen of our profession, it is time we had abandoned it. Where is our safety, if we can't rely upon each other's integrity? There, sir, is every rag, and every coin!" 
                
               "I beg pardon," replied the banker, obsequiously. "I did not question your integrity. I simply put the question, thinking that perhaps you might be obliged to return to your vault, thus causing further delay." 
               "'Pon 'onor, there's every brad!" said Brian, forgetting that he was to be an Irishman in the presence of company. 
               "Silence!" commanded Belleville. 
               "Well, well; let us proceed to the division," said Thorncliffe, impatiently, and he took from his pocket-book a memorandum, in which was noted down and enumerated every package of bank notes, each bag of gold, &c., that was found to have been abstracted from the vault of the house over which he presided as senior partner. 
               "Och! by Saint Pathrick! there's no getting ahead of your time," remarked Brian, by way of retrieving his forgetfulness. 
               "I'm a man of business-I never make any transactions loosely," replied Thorncliffe. "Let us see-the terms of our enterprise are thus-I am to receive two-thirds of the entire amount, and you and your confederate are to receive the other third, which you are to divide as you have agreed." 
               "Precisely," replied the colonel, as he proceeded, with the aid of the banker, to separate the many packages of bank notes into three equal parcels. 
               This was no small task, for the packages of bills varied in amounts, from fifty dollars to ten thousand, according as they had been deposited by the customers of the bank during the business hours of the day preceding the robbery. 
               This part of the labor being accomplished to the satisfaction of both parties, the bags of gold were arranged in a row upon the table. Belleville opened one of them, and was about to pour out the contents. 
               "That is wholly unnecessary," suggested Mr. Thorncliffe; "the amounts are all named upon the outside. It will take all night to count each coin." 
               "I should not have thought of it," said the colonel, "did you not appear to be so very exact. I supposed that you wished to ascertain that every piece is here, because you're aware that it would have been a very easy matter to have abstracted a few eagles," said Belleville, ironically. 
               "I have confidence that we shall deal HONESTLY with each other," was the quiet reply of the banker, emphasising, however, the word honestly. 
               The bags were all told, and parcelled off in three divisions, by the hand of Belleville. 
               Thorncliffe compared the total amount with his memorandum. 
               "I do you but justice in saying, that so far as the notes and bills are concerned, all is correct," said he, suggestively. 
               "Of course it's all correct," repeated Belleville. "You didn't think, I hope, to find it otherwise?" 
               "No-no." 
               "Your manners, your language, and mode of expression, have a peculiarity which I do not understand," said Belleville. "What do you mean by saying that so far as the gold and notes are concerned, all is correct?" 
               "I mean precisely what I have said," said the banker, looking inquiringly into the colonel's countenance. 
               "Well?" 
               "WELL?" 
               "I do not comprehend-you look mistrustingly, doubtingly," said the colonel. 
               "Well, to be plain, I am waiting now only for the--" 
               "For THE-what?" 
               "Come, come," said Thorncliffe; "you know well enough what I mean." 
               "Upon my honor I do not; explain yourself; in your very aspect there is suspicion." 
               "No suspicion, sir," said the banker. "I am but tarrying here for you to produce that casket-that casket of jewels! It was stipulated between us, that that should remain undisturbed in the vault; but, on examination, we discovered that it was gone. Of course you must have taken it." 
               "I did not touch it!" declared Belleville, looking towards Brian, as if he might possibly explain the mysterious disappearance of the casket. 
               "Bad 'cess to me, yer 'onor," said O'Regan; "but I think I can be afther explainin' to ye. My ould mither always tould me that policy was the best hon--no, I don't mane that shure-I mane, 'onesty is the best policy. Yis, sir, 'onesty is a jewel!" he continued, looking as innocently as if it would have shocked his sensibilities to have stolen even a penny. "Ye see, sir, Jack-I mane the colonel, av coorse-didn't tell me not to take the casket, and thinkin' it sich a pity to lave the sparkling jewels behint, I natherally put the casket into mee pocket, and that's the last I've seen av it. I'm afther belavein', on mature reflection, that I must have drapt it from my pocket at the time we silenced the night policeman." 
               "Liar! scoundrel! thief!" exclaimed Thorncliffe, darting, in a sudden paroxysm of rage, upon the counterfeit Irishman, and seizing him violently by the throat, would have choked the life out of his body, had not prompt interference prevented such a catastrophe by separating them. 
               "Hold! imprudent man!" exclaimed Belleville, in an inaudible tone, and seizing the banker by the lappels of his coat, he tore him from his accomplice, and sat him down, violently, in an arm-chair, and held the struggling and enraged man, with an iron hold, in his clutches. "Another word-another act! and, by all the fiends! I'll send your soul to hell!" he threatened, and he drew from beneath his vest a glittering blade, which flashed murderously before the eyes of the discomfited banker. It had the effect to subdue him, in a degree, and he apologized thus: 
                
               "Pardon! pardon! I beg ten thousand pardons; but, oh, those jewels! those jewels! those precious jewels! those family jewels! I would not have lost that casket for twenty thousand dollars!" and he groaned, as if suffering almost the tortures of the damned. "Lost! lost! forever lost!" 
               "Peace! no more of this!" commanded the colonel. "If it is gone past recovery, it's little use for an old man to worry himself to death about it; but the casket may yet come to light! My friend must have dropped it, and of course somebody has found it. If it has fallen into the hands of an honest and conscientious man, he will advertise for its owner; if into the hands of the man who is honest as this world goes-I mean he who would not risk doing an illegal act-why, all that will be required, will be the offer of a handsome reward; if, however, fortune has placed it into the hands of any gentleman of our profession, I'll see that it be restored to you for a moderate compensation, to be paid to the fortunate finder." 
               "But, Colonel, are you sure, very sure, it is not in your--" 
               "Damnation!" interrupted Belleville; "do you yet doubt?" 
               "No-no-" he answered, faintingly. "It's gone, gone, gone. Better to have become bankrupt, than to have had anything to do with this villainy!" 
               "Chicken-hearted, white-livered fool! cease this croaking!" commanded Belleville. "Let's have no more of it! Our success has been great; and what is the use now of making such a d--d hue and cry over a few trinkets, only worthy of a weak woman's care." 
               "Ah! you know not--" 
               "Cease this foolish babbling! I command it!" said Belleville, placing himself in a threatening attitude, and clutching the hilt of his dagger. "My safety, and that of my friend here, may require your life, if we are to endure this scene much longer. I am not a fool, to be trifled with in this manner, because of an accident that cannot be helped. Now let me warn you, that, to ensure our safety, I'd hold your life no more than I would that of a faithful, serviceable dog who, after years of service had turned to bite me! So beware! Let no enmity exist between us; let us still be friends; we can yet be of much service to each other! There's your share of the plunder! take it! It will not be prudent for us to remain together here much longer!" 
               Thorncliffe tarried not for a kick, but very amiably took the hint. He gathered up his spoils, stuffing his capacious pockets with the many parcels of bills; then putting on his cloak, and loading his hands with the bags of gold, he said, in low, mild tones, 
               "I ask your pardon, Colonel-I meant no offence; but the shock of losing those family jewels almost deprived me of reason. We'll be friends-yes, friends-we must be friends, of course!" 
               He was conducted down the two flights of stairs, to the street door, by Belleville, who whispered in his ear, as they separated, 
               "I shall be on 'Change to-morrow!" 
               "Then, for Heaven's sake, be cautious," replied the banker, tremulously; and he took his way, almost staggering beneath his load of gold, to the corner of the first street west, where a carriage had awaited his coming for more than two hours. 
               The driver leaped from his box, opened the door, and assisted the poor old gold-laden banker into the coach, without discovering the cause of his apparently decrepid condition. He then re-mounted, and drove with all speed towards Upper Tendom, and once more the banker was soon beneath his own proud roof, and in his own private apartment, his body, but not his mind, divested of that which had weighed so heavily upon him. Gotham that night scarcely held a more miserable wretch than the banker! That casket of jewels haunted him, as if it had taken the aspect of a ghost of some wretched murdered victim, and he the murderer! 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" laughed Belleville, as he rejoined his confederate; "that scene was far more violent and interesting, than I had anticipated; but the silly old dupe was easily subdued. Wonder if we made him believe that we were such egregious asses as to leave that valuable treasure behind us? So portable, too. Oh! he's verdant yet, old as he is." 
               "He's vot ve Lunnoners vould call a reg'lar spooney!" remarked our cockney. 
               "Let's see, Rob," resumed Belleville, "I am your debtor in the good round sum of ten thousand dollars-a nice little night's job for you, eh?" 
               "Vel, 'tis wery nice!" answered Rob, "but I say, could'nt you make it fifteen, consid'rin the wal'able jewels?" 
               "Ten thousand was the sum agreed upon," said the colonel; "but-yes-well, I don't mind being generous, though I couldn't think of going fifteen;" and he counted out the sum of twelve thousand dollars, in bills of various banks, selecting some from each package, and then thrusting his hand into the open bag of gold, he took out a handful of the yellow coin, all of which he passed over to an outlaw, who, three days previous, was a tattered vagabond in the streets. 
               "Make no display of your money," counselled the colonel; "and be careful how you offer these bills to any person, especially those of large denomination, until the excitement caused by the robbery is well over." 
               "Vel, your hadvice is wery good, but an old prig like me, 'ardly needs any," replied the accomplice. 
               "And above all, while you have money, behave and dress like a gentleman, and not like a fop," pursued Belleville; "but, as for me, it is quite necessary that I should continue the humble, but honest occupation of cobbler a little longer. It is possible that I may need your services again." 
                
               "Vel, I shall be most 'appy to receive any horders from a gentleman vot pays so wery liberal," was Rob's courteous reply. 
               The cockney deposited his ill-gotten treasures in the several pockets of his wardrobe, and then took leave of his old acquaintance. He needed no one to conduct him to the outer door, for he had traversed up and down the way several times, and he was known to the servants only as Mr. O'Regan, the particular friend of the generous Col. Belleville. 
               As soon as he had finally rid himself of his confederate, the colonel gathered up his share of the plunder, and with it left his chamber, through the entrance known only to him, his cockney confederate, and the aristocratic banker. 
               One hour elapsed, and he returned. He threw himself upon the couch, and, unlike the novice in crime, he slumbered as quietly as if he had done naught in his life but that which would have been perfectly consistent with the sobriquet he had gained at the Five Points, to wit: "the honest cobbler." 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                  COCKNEY ROB'S PRIVATE PROFESSIONAL ADVENTURES-THE ATTRACTIVE PORTRAIT-"STOP THIEF"-TAMMANY HALL-"BEWARE OF PICKPOCKETS!"-OPERATION AT THE BOWERY THEATRE. 
                
               TWO days subsequent to the events narrated in the foregoing chapter, Rob Rodney, alias Brian O'Regan, stood before a long toilet glass, in his comfortable and even luxurious apartment, at a noted up town hotel, examining at full length his rather well-proportioned figure, now arrayed in a handsome, genteel suit of black broadcloth, which he had that morning received from a fashionable up town tailoring establishment, patronized almost exclusively by the "Upper Ten." After adjusting his fanciful cravat, and poising a new beaver tile at precisely the genteel angle upon his head, then throwing a talma cloak, with its graceful folds, over his shoulders, and re-surveying himself once more, with sundry jerks of the neck, and striking a few favorite attitudes, he picked up his corn-colored gloves, and a slim walking-stick, with a gold and gem-studded head, and twirling the latter, he sauntered forth from his fashionable quarters. With an air of consequence and independence, he walked down the fashionable promenade, occasionally halting at those shop windows where the attractions within assembled groups of starers without. 
               Opposite the Park, Broadway side, he elbowed his way into the midst of a score or more of well-dressed, respectable looking citizens, who were gazing with intense admiration and interest upon a beautiful, fresh picture-the portrait of a lovely lady-which had just been placed there, probably for two reasons: to show the talent and skill of the artist, and to exhibit the brilliant charms of a woman, then a resident of the great metropolis. 
                
               A good picture in a window of a great thoroughfare, always attracts more attention than any other work of Art. But this had more than double attraction. It was not only a splendid triumph of the Art-genius who had executed it, but the subject was the most attractive of all subjects, certainly, to the ruder sex; a likeness, an accurate, life-like likeness of one of the loveliest maidens whose lineaments were ever transferred to an artist's canvass. It was, too, the "counterfeit presentment" of a lady who on that day had promenaded Broadway, and had been seen by thousands, in that identical dress. Not that she had been publicly exhibited or had made any unusual display. On the contrary, she had passed up and down the street but once, seeking no notice from the throngs which passed her, and modestly dropping her eye-lids, whenever she chanced to meet the gaze of any person of the opposite sex. Yet she had been observed by thousands, and hers were features, once seen, seldom could be forgotten. No wonder was it, that before the shop window a crowd of gazers stood; no wonder was it, that Rob Rodney should be particularly attracted, for he had an eye to beauty as well as jewels, and here he could not only gratify his eye, but find employment for his dexterous fingers-fingers that understood sleight of hand, as well as most of our professional magicians. 
               "Beautiful! by Jove! a goddess on canvass, by all that's fascinating!" exclaimed our cockney, who stood squeezed between two very respectably appearing old gentlemen, who were surveying with an almost abstracted gaze, the wondrous beauties of the portrait. 
               "The coloring is exquisite," said one. 
               "The drawing is faultless," said the other. 
               "What a harnsum gal, I swow!" said a lantern-jawed Yankee, fresh from the rural district, whose height enabled him to look over the heads of Rob and the two very respectable aged gentleman. 
               "I say, Slickey, look here," said a Bowery boy to his comrade, "isn't she a pooty 'un. I should like that picter to 'ang up 'longside of der masheen." 
               "Vondrously lovely!" again essayed the cockney. 
               "Very, very beautiful!" were the simultaneous responses of the two afore-mentioned very respectable old gentlemen, who stood their ground manfully, notwithstanding the unreasonable and unnecessary crowding, pushing and elbowing of the dense group of gazers. 
               "I'd like the 'onor of knowing the hartist; he's wery clever; he deserves patronage;" remarked our adventurer, as he elbowed himself out of the crowd, and proceeded leisurely and dignifiedly on his way, occupied in twirling his cane. He had not proceeded more than one square, when he heard behind him the cry of 
               "Stop thief! stop thief!" 
               Turning about, he beheld men and boys running, some in one direction, and some in another, creating a very general commotion with their cries. 
               "Stop thief! stop thief!" halloed Rob, as loud and as fast as the most zealous. 
               On came the two very respectable old gentlemen, puffing and blowing with exercise and vexation. Rob hailed them. 
               "Vich is the thief? vere is he? vot's stolen? and who's the wictim?" were the questions he hurriedly put. 
               "I've lost my gold repeater!" was the only answer the first old gentleman could make. 
               "And my pocket-book's gone!" answered the other. 
               Then came the tall Yankee, swinging his arms, and giving utterance to some most diabolical threats, in a manner that clearly indicated he was not joking. 
               "Gall-darn'd that dod-rotted skunk of a scurvy thief!" he essayed. "Ef I once git my claw-hammers on him, may I be barbacued ef I don't skin him alive! Skin him as I would a goslin-stealin' woodchuck! Five dollars reward, ef any man'll show me the measley scamp!" 
               "Vot's missin'?" asked Rob. 
               "A hull roll o' bank bills, done up in a pig bladder-skin pouch. Taken right eout my trousers, too. Look there, now," continued the victim, exhibiting a hole cut through his unmentionables, into his pocket, as nicely as if it had been done with a pair of scissors; "who'd a thought it could hev ben done without my knowin' it! Right thro' them six dollar trousers, too! bran new-bort 'em a purpose to wear down to New York. Wal, I've hearn tell of the inginewity of pickpockets, but cuss my picter, and that picter up in that winder, tew, ef I b'lieved that human fingers could do a thing like that, when I'm wide awake! Wal, the money's gone for a hull drove o'pigs, and here I am with a cross shill'n and tew cents to git hum agin. I guess dad's eyes'll stick eout, when I tell him how dod-rotted meanly the money was stolen!" 
               "Vot a pity!" said Rob, sympathizing deeply with the misfortunes of the pig-drover. "Vot a pity, too, that New York 'asn't a police like hours in Lunnon. Seldom such a haudacious robbery hoccurs there. I'll go back, first steamer. There's no safety 'ere for property or life!" 
               "Who the-ll are you?" shouted a representative of Young America, who questioned the cockney's right to condemn any of our institutions. 
               "I'm a Hinglish gentleman, I 'opes," answered Rob. 
               "Well, I 'opes you hare," said Young America, imitating Rob; "but I tell you what it is, ole hoss, seven-eighths of the pickpockets in this city are countrymen of yours." 
               "Vel, that proves vot I says," answered the cockney. "It's because of the hextraordinary hefficiency of the Hinglish police; they 'ave driven all the rogues out of the country, and most of 'em 'ave hemigrated to New York." 
               "And you among the rest, perhaps," retorted Young America, turning ing upon his heel, and marching off, whistling "Hail, Columbia, Happy Land." 
               "Himpertinent fellow! I ought to chastise him!" said Rob to the by-standers; he then marched off in a contrary direction. 
                
               It was a raw, chilly November evening. Promenaders stepped more briskly, and buttoned their coats more closely about them, than during the day. There was to have been a "monster mass meeting" of the democratic party, in the Park, and flags, displaying the names of the great standard-bearers of the democracy, together with the campaign watch-words, floated in almost every direction in and about this favorite spot for mass meetings. 
               Thousands of people were assembling, but in consequence of the raw, gusty state of the atmosphere, it was deemed expedient to adjourn the meeting to the "Old Wigwam," ever a hospitable place for the democracy; in fact, Tammany Hall may be regarded as much an institution of the democratic party, as is old Faneuil Hall, of Boston, an institution of American Liberty. 
               Thitherward did our adventurous cockney take his way, to mingle among those who claimed to be the only party which held the principles of true American republicanism. The hall was packed to overflowing, and a vast multitude stood beneath the window. As soon as the meeting was called to order, the first announcement that was made to the assemblage was, to "Beware of Pickpockets!" and placards had been put up in various parts of the wigwam, with the same precautionary advice, printed in bold letters, "Beware of Pickpockets!" as if it were certainly known that the pickpocket fraternity was to be strongly represented on this occasion. 
               "I never hattends political meetings, vithout leaving my pocket-book and vatch at 'ome," remarked Rob Rodney to the gentlemen who were densely packed around him. 
               There was no answer made to Rob's suggestive observation, but it certainly reminded several purse-proud looking democrats that they had not taken the wise precaution of the gentleman who had spoken, and several hands involuntarily found their way into their owners' pockets, so as to reassure themselves that all was right thus far. 
               These movements were so apparent, and so general, in the immediate vicinity of Rob, that he could have made some capital hits at Yankee guessing as to who had valuables with them, and who had not, and in which particular garment and pocket said valuables were deposited. 
               The meeting was a very exciting, and a very enthusiastic one. As the political career of the renowned Sage of Ashland was contrasted with that of Young Hickory, (Mr. Polk's so-briquet,) to the immense advantage of the latter, by one of their most powerful and eloquent orators, there was a series of deafening rounds of applause, which lasted for more than a minute, during which the wedged-in mass of human beings swayed to and fro like the billows of the ocean; and amid all this democratic thunder and commotion, a murmur arose from one quarter of the hall, and the cry was distinctly heard, that a gentleman had fainted. 
               Presently, the sea of democracy divided, and a man was safely carried upon the shoulders of two others, through the passage thus readily made. As soon as the faint individual reached the open air, and a goblet of Croton had been dashed into his face, he began to recover, sat up, then got upon his feet, and finally walked off without assistance. 
               No sooner was the excitement allayed, caused by this not unfrequent circumstance, than other and louder cries arose from the same part of the hall: 
               "Thieves! Pickpockets!" 
               "Somebody's stolen my watch!" 
               "My pocket-book is gone!" 
               "So is mine!" 
               "Police! police!" 
               "Close the doors!" 
               "Let no stranger pass without being examined!" 
               These and other cries and orders rapidly succeeded each other. The police rallied to the scene, and every stranger, and every person who had a suspicious look, who retired from Old Tammany that night, was compelled to subject himself to a search for stolen valuables. 
               Thus were the democrats, for once, subjected to rather a humiliating ordeal. But the result was precisely as the reader has undoubtedly anticipated. Not a purloined article was recovered, although more than a score of noted pickpockets-graduates of houses of corrections, jails and penitentiaries-passed the ordeal triumphantly. 
               "Vel, now, that's vot I calls a hingenious dodge, vorthy of Dick Turpin or Jack Sheppard," remarked Cockney Rob, as he wended his way through Chatham street, to the Bowery. "They thought I 'ad fainted-vel, it vas a feint! and vith-out it I should never 'ave got out o' that crowd vith a whole skin." 
                
               It was not yet late. The Bowery Theatre was open, and Hamblin had just finished his great character of Arbaces, the Egyptian, in the play of the "Last Days of Pompeii." 
               Most of the audience, especially the male portion, had retired to the various grog saloons in and about the theatre, when our adventurer appeared at the box office, shoved his "half" through one of the circular apertures, and received a box ticket in exchange. He then mounted a flight of steps into the first tier of boxes, just as the favorite danseuse of the establishment was giving the finishing pirouette to the Sylph pas seul, and receiving a glorious round of applause from boxes, pit and gallery. The audience was a large one. Rob, after having taken a careful survey of the dress circle, stowed himself in the only vacant seat in a box occupied almost exclusively by a Southern planter and his wife, with four full-grown daughters. This family had come to New York to see its wonders, and as the Bowery Theatre was then a prominent feature among the dramatic temples, their visit there at that time was perhaps more a matter of taste than it would be at the present day; and, therefore, our southern friends dressed in the same rich and recherche style that they did on the previous evening at the Park, where the attractions of Mr. and Mrs. Charles Kean drew a much smaller, but more select and fashionable audience. These people did not hesitate to make a display of their diamonds and other precious jewels, even at the Bowery. 
               The concluding drama of the evening, in which an unusual quantity of gunpowder was burned, soon terminated, and the throng, especially the ladies, manifested extreme eagerness to escape from the brilliant lights, and from the disagreeable smoke and odor of exploded saltpetre and brimstone. Our southern friends were as eager to gain egress as the rest, and they lost not a moment's time in donning their outward apparel; during which our cockney acquaintance appeared to be one of the party, but before they reached their carriage Rob had disappeared with the out-going throng. 
               Then there was a sudden excitement raised in and about the carriage of the Southern planter and his family. He had just then missed his valuable gold-hunter, chain and seals. Madame's great diamond, encircled with pearls-an eight hundred dollar brooch-had disappeared in a manner most unaccountable. Miss Julia's diamond pendants no longer hung to the knobs in her ears. Miss Celestina's diamond necklace, too, was gone! Arabella's bracelet no longer graced her white, polished arm! Evelina's pearl-headed hair-pins and jeweled comb were also among the valuables missing; and the father felt for his pocket-book; luckily, that remained; but on examination, after he had reached his apartments at the hotel, the few hundred dollars he had in bank-notes had disappeared likewise! 
               This was the most unaccountable, the most mysterious robbery ever heard of, thought each member of the planter's family. How could it possibly have been done? and who could possibly have done it? were queries a thousand times made, but there was no one to make answer. Certainly, during the whole evening, none but gentlemanly, civil-appearing men had entered the box which they occupied, and the four young ladies declared and persisted, and so did their mamma, that all their jewels were in their possession not ten minutes before the curtain dropped. The several articles must have been abstracted from their persons sometime during the bustle and confusion of retiring from the theatre. This was the only conclusion that they could unanimously agree upon, but, even to this late day, it has failed to afford them the slightest satisfaction. 
               We have no doubt that the authoress of "Uncle Tom's Cabin," would say that the loss of these valuables was but a deserving judgment upon the proud planter and his prouder family; because, to obtain them, he had parted with three of the best slaves upon his plantation; but he did not "sunder those whom God had joined together," nor did he dispose of any servant that was born and reared upon his domain. 
               "O, crackey! vot a splendid lot of sparklers and time-tickers!" soliloquized our wonderfully successful adventurer, after returning to his rooms after his expedition of the day and evening, and had placed his plunder in dazzling array before his gem-loving eyes. "Vy, there's a snug little fortune to begin the vorld vith," he continued. "Vonder vether the haged gentlemen told their vives of the dangers of looking at picters of 'andsome vimmen in shop vinders? Vonder if some of the politicians don't vish they belonged to tother party? Vonder 'ow the ladies bear the loss of their dear diamonds? Vel, they shouldn't ha' been so hanxious about lettin' people know they vore diamonds. Vot a pity! 'Twas 'ard-wery 'ard-hin-deed, it vent halmost agin my conscience, vhile depriving them of these beautiful sparklers, vich their 'earts quite vorshipped! Vel, they should not place their haffections on sich bawbles; for, hafter all, hall diamonds and pearls are fit for, is to shove up spout, or sell to some old miserly, misbelieving Jew." 
               Thus quieting his conscientious scruples, he examined carefully all his plunder, and calculated its aggregate value. Then concealing it in a secret apartment of a very ingeniously constructed trunk he had himself planned and ordered, he sallied forth in search of adventures of altogether a different nature. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                  THE BANKER AND HIS NIECE-THE INNOCENT SUSPECTED-THE COBBLER'S VICTIM-IMPORTANT DISCOVERIES-MIRACULOUS ESCAPE. 
                
               THE absence of Albert Mandeville from the banking house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co., for two days, gave rise to many grave surmises and suspicions. He had gained permission to be absent for a part only of one day; that passed, another succeeded, and another still was partially gone, and he was yet absent. No one knew for what he had gone, or whither he had gone. His employers and fellow clerks began to talk freely of the matter, to interchange opinions, which finally led to the employment of emissaries to search the city for his whereabouts, or to ascertain whether or not he had fled the city. Every circumstance, in which he was in any manner connected, from the morning when the robbery was discovered, up to the moment when he had left his post of duty, was discussed freely; and even those circumstances which should have allayed suspicion, were now made to weigh heavily against him. The results of their conference were that he, in some manner, must be connected with the purloining of the treasures of the bank. Even Mr. Thorncliffe, although he at first seemed to believe in his innocence, finally, as a mere matter of policy, of course, felt obliged to admit that circumstances were decidedly against him; and to give a show of consistency to his wavering opinion, he alluded to the matter of Mandeville's disobedience on the day succeeding the night of the robbery, in not performing the task which he had given him to perform. 
               Yes, it was now quite certain to his mind, that his model clerk, he who had borne an untarnished reputation for integrity, honesty, faithfulness to his employers, and for his many other virtues, had fallen from his high position, and leagued himself with outlaws and felons, and was now strongly suspected, and even charged with burglary and grand larceny. 
               Notwithstanding the partners of the house strictly enjoined it upon all in their employ not to speak of their suspicions outside of the banking house, yet, before the close of business on that day, it was rumored among his immediate friends and acquaintances that he was accused of the great crime, and that he was probably a fugitive from the city to avoid arrest. 
               And this foul rumor reached the mansion of the banker. The ears of Virginia Thorncliffe had heard the foul slander. 
               "Uncle," said the heart-grieved maiden, as the family were assembled at the tea table that night, "what means this story that one of the servants has brought home to-night, concerning Mr. Mandeville?" 
               "Oh! then the murder's out, is it?" replied the banker. "For the young man's sake, we had hoped to keep the matter quiet until we had some more substantial testimony of his guilt." 
               "His guilt, Uncle?" she repeated, gazing with earnestness into his countenance. "His guilt? Surely you cannot for a moment give credence to this idle rumor, that Albert, your confidential clerk, is guilty of this bold, high-handed crime?" 
               The manner in which this question was put somewhat disconcerted the banker, and he had to summon to his aid all his self-possession to conceal the feelings which agitated him. 
               "I cannot say-I believe-that is to say, Virginia, I do not know how to answer your question," he replied, stammeringly. "He has ever had my confidence; but there are certain strange circumstances--" 
               "Strange circumstances!" she repeated, as he hesitated in his speech. "Prithee, Uncle, tell me, what is there that is strange, touching him?" 
               "You seem singularly interested in Mandeville!" he remarked. 
               "Yes," said she, coloring slightly; "and I should feel interested in any human being who was unjustly accused of a high crime!" 
               "But, my dear niece, how can you possibly know what he may or may not have done?" he asked. 
                
               "I do know, Uncle, that Mandeville could not, by any possibility, have committed the crime which you seem to be striving to fasten upon him!" said she, with firmness. 
               "Nay, Virginia, you mistake me; I would not fasten any crime upon him," he replied, in kindly tones; "but his conduct since the robbery has been singular-nay, unaccountable; and until he makes his appearance and explains his conduct satisfactorily, suspicion at least will rest upon him." 
               "His appearance?" she ejaculated, somewhat startled. "You do not mean that he has concealed himself, or fled the city?" 
               "I mean simply to say that he has not been in the banking house since the day before yesterday." 
               Virginia, at this intelligence, was considerably alarmed. Not that she feared he had gone from the city, but that she apprehended he had fallen into the hands of villains. Perhaps-and the thought for a moment bewildered her-they had assassinated him. 
               "Moreover," resumed Mr. Thorncliffe, "he, for the first time while in my employ, has been unfaithful in the discharge of his duties." 
               Virginia made no reply to this last observation. Full well she knew that he alluded to a particular duty. 
               "One question, Uncle, I desire to ask: Is it ascertained at what hour of the night the robbery was committed?" 
               "Between the hours of eleven and one." 
               "How is that fact determined?" 
               "Because the watchman who was on duty during those hours was assaulted by the robbers." 
               "That is sufficient," said she, in an exulting manner. "If no one else can establish his innocence, I can." 
               "Nonsense, Niece; you can know nothing of the matter; and you are silly, girl, to trouble your head about the matter." 
               With a flushed cheek, and a beating heart, she arose from the table, and fixing her gaze upon her uncle, she said, with emphasis, 
               "I know that Mandeville is innocent of any crime whatsoever! and that knowledge, if needed, shall be used in his behalf!" and she retired from the room. 
               The old banker winced and writhed, and he extremely regretted that this matter should have been thus prematurely talked of in his own house. He immediately changed the subject, and conversed with other members of his family upon more congeuial topics. 
               We have too long neglected the hero of our drama. In that dark and dismal dungeon he was yet confined. Since he had a second time come to a full realization of his situation, he began to calculate the chances of escape from so vile a place. He remembered the hole in the wall, and remembered also to have seen it closed. Though weak from severe bruises, and even faint from fasting so many hours, yet he began to grope around the cold, damp walls of his prison. It was his only hope; for there was no possibility of a rescue, since no one, except the cobbler, knew of his incarceration. He must gain an egress by his own individual efforts, or absolutely die of starvation. 
               Thrice had he felt of every stone and every crevice of the four walls which encompassed him, without making the least discovery; and he sat down to rest himself for a new effort. Again he commenced the task, and then, after he had well-nigh exhausted his remaining strength in striving with his shoulder to start one of the stones, his foot accidentally struck something hard, projecting from the floor, among the rubbish, in which it appeared to be concealed. He bent down over it, and by the sense of feeling alone, he found it to be a bolt of iron, running horizontally under or near the base of the wall, and upon the end of it was affixed an iron ring. He strove to pull it upward, but it was fast; he then tried to push it towards the wall, but it still remained in its place; then drawing it outward, he found it came with the greatest ease, for the space of about six inches. The idea naturally occurred to him that this bolt had something to do with the entrance; then bracing his right shoulder against a block of granite some four feet over the bolt, it yielded readily, and swung back noiselessly upon its well-oiled hinges. 
               Success gave him hope, joy, strength and courage, notwithstanding there appeared naught but gloom beyond. He leaped through the opening, without calculating the chances as to whether he should land on a firm footing, or be precipitated into a bottomless pit. But he alighted on a deal floor, which at all events, was unlike the flooring of a dungeon. He groped about this underground apartment to ascertain if there was any door leading therefrom, but he sought in vain. His hand came in contact with various curiously-shaped implements, and with a lamp, trimmed, but not burning. But where were the matches? Where there is a lamp, he thought, there should be matches; and his search was now intent upon the discovery of this indispensable trifle of domestic use; and in searching for these, he discovered the chimney with the spacious flue, and looking upward, he saw a gleam of light, like a single star by night, but it was a gleam he could not, unfortunately, make available for present use, and he continued his search for that which to him, at that moment, was worth more than a constellation of stars. "Oh, for a match! a fortune for a match!" he soliloquized. "I would give more, in proportion, for a match, than King Richard offered for a horse!" 
               His appeal was more successful than that of the crook-backed tyrant, for fortune at length came to our hero, without giving a fortune. He found upon the hearth that which he so much desired, and eagerly ignited it, and lighted his lamp. He gazed wildly around that strange place, as if he expected to behold hobgoblins and spectres in every corner, but nothing met his eye to create alarm, only that he felt himself the occupant of the secret room of a burglar, afterwards ascertained to be the most notorious of this or any other country. Although our hero had never before seen the tools of the burglar's profession, it required no explanation to tell their uses. 
               "If these," said he, "will enable a man to frustrate the ingenuity of the locksmith and the blacksmith, and to defy all manner of fastenings, I suppose that there is virtue enough in them to allow a man egress from such a place as this:" and he commenced search for the most vulnerable point to commence operations upon; but, instead of discovering this, he found the robber's treasure vault, which was simply a square hole of some three feet in diameter, and about the same in depth, covered by a trap door. Raising this, his eyes fell upon familiar treasures! There were packages of notes with his own chirography upon the bands, and there were bags of gold which had their several amounts on the canvass, also marked by his own hand. And there was, likewise, a casket, which he had seen a hundred times in the place whence it was stolen, and which he knew belonged to Virginia Thorncliffe. He had never seen its contents, but he knew that it must contain valuables, or it would not have been deposited by her guardian and trustee for safe keeping. This he felt it to be his duty to take, and placing it beneath his waistcoat, he shut down the trap, which appeared to cover a mine of wealth. 
               Scarcely had he done this, than he heard a noise, as if some living thing was in the chimney. Looking upward, he was somewhat terrified at beholding, by the gleam of light above, a man slowly descending the flue. 
               Our hero's first impulse was, to seize some heavy implement, with which to knock him senseless before he could turn to defend himself; but he felt that he had not sufficient strength to do him even a slight injury. His next thought was to close the dungeon entrance by means of the secret bolt, which he found extended to this side of the wall, which he easily accomplished; then extinguishing the light, he concealed himself behind a bench in one corner of the room. The mysterious comer at length stood upon the floor of the room, and thrusting aside the slide of a dark lantern, the well-known form and features of Colonel Belleville were discernible by our hero. The colonel, without making any survey of the apartment, or entertaining a suspicion that there was anything wrong, proceeded to disrobe himself of a genteel suit of garments, and to substitute those of altogether another style, and when his toilet was finished, he was metamorphosed into the "honest cobbler." The secret entrance to the dungeon he then opened, and through it disappeared, when it again closed. 
               Quicker than thought our hero emerged from his hiding place, and sought the secret bolt, and taking one of the implements, the first which he could lay his hands upon, he thrust it through the ring, and so affixed it to the floor that it could not by any possibility be drawn through upon the opposite side of the wall. 
               "If there is no other means of egress, the rascally cobbler may enjoy the fate he had elected for me," muttered our hero to himself, as he found his way to the chimney, thinking that where so stout an individual as the colonel could come down, he probably could go up, and he commenced the ascent. He soon discovered the convenient arrangement made for climbing, which greatly facilitated his feeble efforts. The chimney abruptly narrowed to a space so small that he found he could proceed upward no further. The little light from above, however, disclosed to his view a square opening of some eighteen or twenty inches diameter, roughly cut through the chimney. Crawling through this, and feeling about him, he found himself in a low and narrow passage. Slowly he groped his way along, feeling his way at each step. To him it seemed almost interminable, but with the conviction that it must lead him to freedom, he continued on, almost at a snail's pace. Soon, however, his progress was arrested for a moment, by a flight of rude steps, which, after examining, he ascended. Here his hopes appeared once more to be entirely frustrated, for he found that he was before a brick wall, and there was no passage either to the right or to the left. He sat down to rest, for he was weary in body and mind. For what purpose, reasoned he, can this flight of steps, and this passage be, if they terminate here. There may be another apparatus similar to that in the dungeon, but on examination, he discovered nothing of the kind, besides, the walls were of brick. While reclining on the platform of the steps, his hand accidentally came in contact with the projecting part of a hinge, and feeling along, he found another, its mate. Reaching his hand to the back part of the platform, he grasped the edge of it, and raised the lid, for such it appeared to be, with a slight effort. Through the opening thus made, he lowered himself until he gained a footing. Another examination, directly beneath the steps, revealed to him the secret panel. On tapping it with his knuckles, it gave forth a hollow sound. There was no latch, no hasp, no key-hole, and no spring upon its surface, nevertheless he felt confident that there was a means of opening it, if not, it would not require a very great effort to break through it. He began a diligent search of the wall, immediately around the panel, and finally his finger rested upon a smooth surface, not larger than a dime. Not being able to draw it forth, he pressed it firmly with his finger. It yielded; then trying to move the panel from the side on which the spring was, it glided back almost without an effort. 
               A blaze of light that almost dazzled zled his vision, burst upon him; for his eyes, so long inured to impenetrable darkness, were extremely sensitive, even to the ordinary light of a room. 
               Our indefatigable hero passed through the no longer secret entrance, and stood, to his surprise, in a well-furnished sleeping apartment. But whose? He looked forth into the street, and a new revelation was made to him; for he discovered that this was the identical room which he had watched from the opposite side one night, with more than ordinary interest. Upon the table were several envelopes, all of which bore the address of the now hated Colonel Belleville. 
               "Ah! I have their secret now," said he, inaudibly, as the whole mystery seemed now to have unveiled itself to him. "Thank Heaven for even what I have suffered! for through my sufferings I have gained proofs, undeniable proofs, of some of the operations of as bold a gang of outlaws as ever infested a civilized community." But it pained him to know that his once respected employer was in any manner leagued with burglars and cut-purses. 
               Another thought now took possession of his mind. This was the once loved and happy home of Virginia Thorncliffe, and immediately adjoining must be the sacred, the unoccupied apartment of her he cherished deeply in his heart. Of this apartment he had the key now in his possession. He would satisfy himself, not out of mere idle curiosity, for he had a more worthy motive. 
               He opened the door which led into the hall, and heard people passing to and fro, in the rooms below. Passing on, he stood before the door designated by Virginia. Softly he inserted the key, turned the bolt of the lock, and he entered the apartment, and closed the door after him. An awful stillness seemed to pervade around him. Through the rich curtain hangings a soft light entered and diffused itself throughout the apartment. It was richly furnished with furniture of antique pattern, and a thick oriental carpet covered the floor. Placing aside one of the curtains, several beautifully painted portraits of her he loved were revealed to his gaze, which seemed to look down upon him with an approving look. Finally his eye rested upon the portrait of a sweetly beautiful girl of some eleven or twelve years of age. It was the semblance of Virginia-there could be no mistaking the lineaments of one so angelic, although the fair reality had now passed from girlhood into womanhood. 
               The stranger felt himself an intruder, yet he tarried. Though sore with bruises, and faint from exertion and long fasting, yet he tarried. Though his enterprise might be endangered by his dilatory movements, yet he tarried. There was a fascination about that uninhabited, yet hospitable-looking apartment, which enchained him, and still he tarried. 
               But the magic spell at length was broken. Turning around, he beheld, in the long toilet mirror, the whole length figure of a coarsely attired man. He shrunk back in amazement, even to the wall. But the figure moved correspondingly. He assumed an attitude of defence. The figure did likewise. 
               Marvellous! it was but his own shadow in the glass! but so unlike himself! 
               The fact that he was disguised, had not occurred to him since he visited the cobbler's shop; but now he saw that he was metamorphosed into a loathsome, seedy-looking individual; his garments soiled with blood and filth-his hair uncombed-his face unshaven and begrimed with dirt; and he shrank from himself with disgust. 
               "I'll disgrace this apartment with so foul a presence no longer!" said he to himself, and he retired therefrom, taking good care to lock the door after him. 
               Boldly he descended the stairs, running the hazard of being detained for a house thief. Fortunately, he reached the street door without being observed, and once more stood in the open street. Onward, as fast as his weary limbs would carry him, he hastened, bending his course towards his own lodgings, but the sight of food upon the street stand of an old woman arrested his steps. He partook of her refreshment, which he swallowed with a greediness which quite astonished the vender, and when he threw her a four shilling coin, and started rapidly off without receiving the change which was his due, she was convinced that her customer was a lunatic just escaped from some mad-house, where they had been endeavoring to starve him into sanity. 
               Once more, to his infinite joy, our hero entered his own room, the first time for three days. His first task was to divest himself of the beggarly-looking habiliments he had so long worn, and to partake of the luxury of a warm bath. Then stretching his weary body upon a couch, he enjoyed a long, a sweet, and refreshing sleep. When he awoke it was quite dark, and the street lamps were lighted. Making a hasty toilet of his accustomed apparel, and placing the casket in his pocket, he went forth, resolving to make Virginia a visit, and narrate to her his wonderful discoveries, and all that had befallen him since he had last visited her. On a second thought, however, he deemed it more prudent to go to a magistrate's office, and there enter a complaint against Jack Waid, the cobbler, alias Col. Belleville, gentleman. On his way thither, he passed several of his acquaintances, whom he saluted as usual, but received no sign of recognition in return. This struck him strangely-he certainly could not have so much changed in three days that his friends could not recognize him. 
               On entering the Park he met several policemen, who scanned his features with a suspicions gaze, and on entering the office of a magistrate, he found half a dozen officials dogging his footsteps. He explained to the magistrate the nature of his errand, but before he had entered into particulars, an officer approached him, and said: 
               "Your name is Albert Mandeville!" 
               "It is a name, sir, I never had occasion to deny," was his reply. 
               "Then, sir, I am under the disagreeable necessity of informing you that you are my prisoner. I hold here a warrant for your arrest!" and the official, unfolding the warrant, read it to the accused. 
               "Sir!" said Mandeville, astonished and amazed; "there must be some mistake--" 
               "No mistake," interrupted the rogue catcher. "A mistake? Oh, no! every culprit I arrest, says there must be a mistake. You must go along with me. Great charges against you; evidence said to be conclusive!" 
               "It is an accursed conspiracy!" protested Mandeville. "If you will but permit me to finish my business with this gentleman, (pointing to the magistrate,) I shall put a very different phase upon this unfounded charge." 
               "Impossible!" answered the officer. "You are now under arrest; the magistrate will tell you that he has no jurisdiction over the matter, at least, for the present. When your examination comes on, you can make such defence as you please, but now you must submit to the demands of this warrant-peaceably, or forcibly, as you will." 
               "I shall not resist your authority; I must bide my time;" said Mandeville. "Take me whither you will." 
               While he spoke, a pair of handcuffs were placed upon his wrists, and then, with the assistance of another official, he was searched! and lo! a valuable casket of gems was found upon his person, and taken from him. No other proofs were discovered; "but this," said the officer, "is conclusive!" and as he took it from his person, he called upon the magistrate, and others who were present, to bear witness that it was found upon the prisoner. 
               That night Albert Mandeville slept in a felon's cell. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                  A SCENE IN THE TOMBS. 
                
               ON the following morning all the dailies published the interesting piece of intelligence, that Albert Mandeville, hitherto the confidential clerk of the house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co., was arrested on the charge of being concerned in the recent great robbery of his employers. All the particulars which in any manner connected him with the transaction, were detailed at length, and in the usual startling style. 
               There was one paragraph, in one of the journals, which we quote: 
               "Mandeville is a young man, of not more than twenty-four years of age, and hitherto his conduct has been most exemplary, and among all who knew him he has hitherto borne an irreproachable character. He was arrested only on evidence of a circumstantial and presumptive nature-the strongest of which was his voluntary absence from his post of duty, and the fact of his having been seen in disguise; but, after his arrest, some of the stolen treasures were found in his possession, which appears to fasten guilt clearly upon him." 
               On the day after Mandeville's arrest, and before his examination, Colonel Belleville, who was instrumental in getting out the warrant against him, gained permission to visit the prisoner in his cell; and great was Mandeville's surprise to be intruded upon by him he knew to be his arch enemy. 
               "Villain! miscreant!" said Mandeville, his eyes flashing with indignation. 
               "Spare me these ungenerous invectives!" said the visitor, somewhat disconcerted at so rude a reception. 
               "Why this intrusion?" demanded the prisoner. 
               "I came here to be of service to you, but after such a reception I will go again," said Belleville. 
               "The sooner the better!" replied Mandeville. 
               "Nay, then, I will not go," said the visitor, seating himself upon a wooden stool. "I came here to serve you, as you shall be convinced. It is within my power to release you from the unfortunate position in which you are now placed." 
               "I doubt it not," answered our hero, who seemed to penetrate at once his persecutor's design, and he therefore determined to be wary, and not impart any information he possessed, especially that knowledge regarding his visitor's identity with the cobbler. 
               "You understand," again said Belleville, "that I have the power to release you from this durance." 
               "I understood your remark perfectly." 
               "And I also possess the power to crush you!" added Belleville. 
               "Indeed! you surprise me!" 
               "I repeat-I can save you from ignominy and a dungeon!" 
               "Your power is great-greater than that of justice itself!" replied Mandeville, evasively. 
               "You do not appear to understand me," said Belleville, somewhat nettled at the replies of his victim. 
               "Oh, yes I do; your mode of expression is perfectly intelligible." 
               "You are aware that you are arrested for committing a high crime?" 
               "Charged with committing, &c.," said the prisoner, correcting him. 
               "Well-charged with committing, if the phraseology suits you better. You're aware of the fact?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "And I am your accuser." 
               "I so understood from the officer." 
               "I have damning proofs of your guilt." 
               "Have you? I shall not undertake to controvert that point here." 
               "You will be examined before a magistrate to-morrow morning." 
               "The sooner the better." 
                
               "Your case will be sent up to a higher tribunal." 
               "That is the usual course." 
               "You will not be admitted to bail." 
               "I shall not ask it." 
               "The grand jury will find a true bill against you." 
               "Possible." 
               "You will be tried." 
               "Doubtless." 
               "Convicted!" 
               "Certainly-if there really are 'damning proofs' against me." 
               "Sentenced to the penitentiary for twenty years at least." 
               "Twenty years!" repeated Mandeville, as if in deep thought; "I shall then be forty-four years old-just the period of ripe manhood; the period when men are wisest." 
               "Why, you seem to take this matter with as much unconcern as if you were here for some petty offence," said Belleville, astonished at his coolness. 
               "Oh, sir-much less-much less." 
               "You do not consider the everlasting disgrace?" 
               "I have often thought," replied the prisoner, "that the culprit who steals a loaf of bread to keep him from starvation, or a garment to cover his nakedness, is thought much less of here in New York, than the man who purloins a million." 
               Mandeville's replies, so entirely the reverse of what Belleville expected, completely frustrated him. His grand object was to effect his acquittal, providing he could gain from him in return a solemn pledge that he would maintain inviolable secrecy concerning anything which had occurred to him, or that he had discovered, from the time he had entered the shop of the Cobbler of the Five Points, until he had effected his almost wonderful escape. But he had failed thus far to accomplish what he had hoped, and was now quite at a loss how to deal with the man he thought he held within his clutches. Pausing for a few moments, he resumed: 
               "The proofs of your guilt are entirely in my possession. No other person can bring forward a scintilla of testimony; for as to the matter of the jewels which were taken from you, I can produce positive evidence to show that they were placed in your possession, for safe keeping, by another person." 
               "The man who thus swears, will be guilty of perjury!" said the prisoner. 
               "Nevertheless, it will be the means of your acquittal." 
               "Can it be possible?" 
               "Without a doubt!" 
               "You can make those jewels, then, perform most wonderful things," said Mandeville, sarcastically. "You can cause them to convict, and you can cause them to acquit!" 
               "I do possess that power, in spite of your sneers," said Belleville, in somewhat angry tones. 
               "Most miraculous jewels!" exclaimed the prisoner. 
               "I perceive," said Belleville, rising, "you desire no assistance of mine?" 
                
               "You perceive very rightly." 
               "You, then, will let the law take its usual course?" 
               "I do not possess that power in dispensing law that you appear to possess; therefore, it will take its course in spite of me." 
               "Foolish man! your fate is sealed!" threatened the baffled visitor. "I did hope to have rescued you from disgrace and long incarceration in a penitentiary; but you treat all my approaches with sneering replies." 
               "Just, in my judgment, as they should be treated." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because, were you not a villain of the deepest dye, I should have been spared a night or two in the Tombs!" replied the prisoner, in a bold manner. 
               "Villain, though you brand me, let me tell you that I can save you from a thousand nights' imprisonment! for, as I said before, I alone can free you from this charge." 
               "Because you know, positively, that I am not guilty of this crime!" 
               "Yet I hold the most indubitable evidence of your guilt." 
               "I shall not undertake, as I have already told you, to dispute that matter here." 
               Belleville, finding himself baffled in his every attempt to accomplish his object, resolved on trying him on another tack. 
               "That most excellent disguise," said he, "you should have worn a little longer." 
               "It served my purpose," was Mandeville's reply. 
               "You should, also, have kept your place of concealment a little longer." 
               "I feel that I kept it a little too long." 
               "I suppose you are aware that your employers and your fellow clerks, all believe you guilty, and have strong circumstantial evidence to adduce against you." 
               "Well-I'll forgive them," said Mandeville; "but, how is it; didn't you but just now tell me that the testimony was all in your hands?" 
               "True; but you did not comprehend precisely my meaning-I meant to have conveyed the idea that everything essential to your innocence or guilt hinged on my testimony," was Belleville's explanatory reply. 
               "Indeed! quite a qualification." 
               "Now, Mr. Mandeville, unless you will listen to the proposition I have to make, the vengeance of justice shall descend upon your head!" 
               "Of all things, at the present time, justice is what I most crave!" replied Mandeville. 
               "Yes; but law and evidence sometimes overrides justice," said Belleville, suggestively. 
               "Perjured testimony often does; and, from the tone of your remarks, I surmise that your intention is, that criminal testimony shall override justice in my case." 
               "Suppose your intimation to be true, have you no desire to avoid such a result?" 
                
               "I desire only justice, and that is a prompt acquittal." 
               "Will you concede nothing to bring about so desirable an end?" 
               "Nothing to villains!" 
               "I will not bandy epithets with you; but you will regret this course." 
               "Be it so!" 
               Belleville departed hastily from the cell, his infamous design completely frustrated. 
               "I'll crush him! 'tis my only safety!" he muttered, inaudibly, as he emerged from the Tombs! 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                  THE TOMBS-ANOTHER UNEXPECTED VISITOR-AN INTERESTING INTERVIEW-STILL ANOTHER VISITOR-A NOVEL SCENE. 
                
               THE prisoner sat in his gloomy cell of the much-dreaded "Tombs," pondering over the strange events which had befallen him, and especially upon the singular interview with the daring villain, who he fully believed was the author of the severe and unwarrantable ordeal through which he was passing, but which he felt must soon have a termination. It was this which buoyed his spirits up, together with that "bright particular star" which brightly shone before his vision, despite the gloom which surrounded him. The thought of this loved "star" was beaming upon him, when his cell door again opened. A female, closely veiled, entered. The prisoner started from his revery in surprise! the concealment of her features did not make her unrecognizable to his eyes; he knew that Virginia Thorncliffe stood before him; for no fair one throughout all Gotham, in his estimation, had so faultless a figure as her's. 
               "Virginia! I cannot be mistaken," said he, in diffident, but respectful tones. 
               She threw aside the veil. 
               "I need not conceal my face from you, Albert," said she; "but in being conducted through this rude place, I must confess a veil is becoming to one of my sex. Moreover, on entering, I saw that hateful Belleville conversing with one of the keepers. I shuddered, lest I should be recognized by him; but I passed on unobserved." 
               "Be seated," said Mandeville, offering to her the only thing that bore any resemblance to a chair in the cell; "you perceive that my cell is but scantily furnished; this iron cot serves me for a seat." 
               "Oh, Albert, you know not how much it grieves me to find you in this terrible place; but it grieves me more to know that throughout the city you are believed to be guilty of a crime, of which I happen to know you are innocent." 
               "Grieve not then for me, Virginia," said our hero, striking his hand upon his heart; "I know that I am all right here, and when I shall have finally triumphed over my enemies, and brought their deeds of darkness to light, as I feel assured that I shall, then I may be amply repaid for my trials and sufferings; then I shall compel the world to do me justice." 
               "I am glad to find you so buoyant in spirits," said Virginia. "But why have you so long absented yourself from our house? I read in the paper that you were not arrested until last evening. You know not how much I have desired to see you, to confer with you in relation to those matters which we have already conferred upon." 
               "Alas! Virginia, it has not been for want of inclination. I have been forced to encounter difficulties and dangers which I had not anticipated. My story is a somewhat lengthy one, and if you can tarry in this vile cell for fifteen or twenty minutes longer, you shall hear all." 
               "Tell me! yes, tell me!" said she, earnestly. "Your presence makes me forget the rudeness of the place; the story can lose none of its interest by being listened to here." 
               Mandeville looked towards the grated door, and perceiving that the turnkey stood at a respectful distance, he gave a lucid and interesting account of his mysterious experience since their last interview, and of the discoveries he had made, not omitting the matter of the jewels, nor his visit to that apartment so sacred to Virginia. 
               She listened with the most profound attention and interest, and when he described the assault, the scene of the dungeon, and his sufferings while immured there, many tears fell from her eyes. 
               "'Tis all over now," said he; "I escaped the horrid fate which the wretch intended for me." 
               "All over! and you still incarcerated in a vile prison?" 
               "I am not now," said he, as I at least think, in the power of a ruthless villain, as he would have me believe, but in the hands of those who are bound by their oaths, and by all their obligations to society, to do me justice; and justice, Virginia, insures my triumph and my acquittal." 
               "The result cannot be otherwise, though I am persuaded that every means will be used to make it appear that you are the guilty party, for on that depends their own safety. But, Albert, my chief object in visiting you is to tell you to be of good courage, and also to warn you against my uncle. I have knowledge that it is his purpose to come here soon to question you about those papers. Be on your guard, and give him no information whatever; but know you, that they are in my possession; and if, after his interview with you, I do not succeed in causing him to relinquish his absurd expectations in reference to whom I shall marry, then, Albert, I have my remedy. I desire that the guilty be punished, but for the sake of his family, I would, if possible, save him from disgrace." 
               "Virginia, I shall be guided by you," said Mandeville, as he gazed with rapture upon her beautiful and animated features; "and how can I express my deep gratitude for the great interest you have manifested in one so much beneath you--" 
                
               "Nay, nay," interrupted the maiden; "talk not to me in this strain. You speak as if we were strangers, and had not met more than twice in our lives. Why, we have known each other for three long years; and have I not ever--" 
               She hesitated and blushed deeply. He could not resist the temptation, for the first time, in taking her fair hand, which, as a coquettish maiden would have done, she did not withdraw. The ardent lover saw in her very looks that now was the auspicious moment-the golden opportunity he had long sought for-for revealing to her his deep and abiding love. He gazed fondly into her angelic countenance, while her eyes seemed fixed upon some undefined object. With a desperate effort, he essayed to make his voice audible. 
               "Virginia," said he, a little above a whisper, "pardon my bold presumption; but I have long earnestly wished for the time when I might dare to speak you of my--alas! I cannot-I have not the courage-and yet-one word of encouragement from your lips, is all I can ask, Tell me, Virginia, may I hope?" 
               "Yes, Albert! in the Spring time of life all may hope!" she replied. 
               "Then, Virginia," said he, in tones which thrilled to the maiden's heart, "I love-long have loved-deeply have loved-and never can I cease to love! My affection for thee is--" 
               "Hush! some one comes!" said Virginia, hastily. 
               Oh! most untimely interruption! The cell door was turned aside by the turnkey, and Mr. Thorncliffe stood before his niece and the prisoner! 
               "Virginia!" exclaimed the surprised banker, "I am confounded to find you here. In the name of virtue what could have brought you to this prison of felons?" 
               She hesitated. 
               "Answer me!" he demanded, in an authoritative air. 
               The question he had put, together with his harsh manner, drove all fear and diffidence from her, and aroused only a spirit of indignation, to which, however, she saw no occasion to give vent. 
               "Uncle," said she, with emphasis, "though I have dared to enter the prison of felons, duty and inclination brought me to the cell of the innocent!" 
               "Tush, tush, girl!" said the banker; "you interfere in matters that cannot concern you. It is not for you or me to judge of the accused. And you, sir," addressing Mandeville, "by what arts have you induced this silly, romantic girl to visit you here without my consent-here, in this vile place?" 
               "Sir!" said the prisoner. 
               "Let me answer," interrupted the maiden. "I came here of my own free will and accord, without any previous knowledge of his or yours, and without asking anybody whether I was doing right or wrong." 
               "The more shame to you!" retorted the banker. "Just think for a moment-you, a young girl-alone! in a dungeon! with a man who stands, at least, in a very doubtful and unenviable position. Why, I'm amazed at your conduct; it is enough to destroy any young lady's reputation. Foolish, romantic, boarding-school miss; but I shall talk to you of this hereafter. Now, sir, a word for you," he continued, turning to Mandeville in no amiable mood; "give an account of your doings. Why have you absented yourself from your post of duty?" 
               "To serve the house of which you are the senior partner," he answered, in a respectful manner. 
               "A marvellous pretty way, indeed, to serve your employers; to run away, conceal yourself, and go about town in disguises!" 
               "Whatever motive you please to attribute to me, I am not accountable for, but I reiterate the answer, that I have been striving to serve the house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co.; and time will prove even to you, sir, the truth of my assertion." 
               "But your whole conduct has been of a character to bring down upon you the strongest suspicions of being concerned in the robbery of the house you claim to be striving to serve in a manner most unaccountable." 
               "But you very well know, Uncle," said Virginia, "that he is innocent." 
               "Silence, girl! how dare you!" exclaimed the banker, menacingly; then turning again towards the prisoner, he resumed, "I shall not pretend to say what I think in regard to your guilt or innocence; all I know is, that your conduct, if not guilty, has been most unaccountable. I did not come here to make any accusation; my chief object being to make inquiry about those papers which I placed in your hands, to copy, a few mornings ago." 
               "I have not seen them since the hour I left your house on that morning," was the reply. 
               "Where are they now?" 
               "I am unable to inform you." 
               "Liar! I demand those papers!" said the banker, fiercely. "Give them to me, instantly, or tell me where they may be found." 
               "Were you a man of a score less of years, you should not brand me with that epithet with impunity," said Albert, mastering his insulted feelings. "I tell you once more, the papers are not in my possession, nor where I can find them!" 
               "Where, then, did you leave them?" 
               "At your house." 
               "I cannot believe it. I searched for them in every nook and corner, but without success." 
               "Nevertheless, I did not take them from your library." 
               "Mandeville," said the banker, calming his rage, "I have ever placed in you the most implicit confidence; but now I am constrained to believe that you are deceiving me; and if you do not give me such information as will enable me to recover them, I shall be under the necessity of lodging another criminal complaint against you! and my word upon it, it shall go hard with you." 
                
               "I have nothing more to say in reference to them." 
               "Then you positively refuse?" 
               "I do!" and as the prisoner answered, he met the approving look of Virginia. 
               "Then my business here is at an end," said the banker. "I leave you to your fate. Virginia, you will come with me, and never more disgrace yourself and your connexions by clandestine meetings with men, especially those confined in prison cells." 
               "Uncle!" said Virginia, looking defiantly into his face, "I will not brook these insults any longer, though you are my legal guardian. And let me here tell you that those papers, which you are so anxious about, are under my control, and beyond your reach. I it was who took them from your library. Notwithstanding your relations to me, I protest against any supposed right you may have of selling our old homestead estate; for you well know that it was my parent's wish that that estate should not be sold, so long as there was a survivor of the family." 
               "I know nothing of the kind," said the startled banker. "Come with me." 
               "No, Uncle. Unless you can treat me with more civility, I will never enter again beneath your roof! and you dare not drag me there by force!" 
               "Wilful girl! this is base ingratitude after all I have done for you!" 
               "For which you have doubly and trebly paid yourself out of my fortune, as I happen to know," said the maiden, with an undaunted look. "But you would do more for me, and then complain of my ingratitude-you would sacrifice me to that foppish libertine, Langdale! But your plans are defeated. You thought me a silly, imbecile girl, and that you could do with me as you pleased, but, thank Heaven, I have a little of my lamented father's spirit, and will not submit to be trampled upon by him who should be my friend and protector." 
               The banker's countenance under-went several changes while his niece spoke. He was now for the first time convinced that he had no longer a child to deal with. Anger, astonishment, and even fear, were expressed upon his sordid features. 
               "Truly," said he, affecting to disregard the unpleasant truths she had told, "this is a sort of conspiracy! yes, a very pretty conspiracy against me! got up, doubtless, by you and your would-be lover. Shame on you! your prating is too ridiculous." 
               "Can you deny," asked Virginia, unheeding her uncle's sneering words, "that you have been striving to betroth me to that hateful Langdale?" 
               "I have endeavored to carry out the desire of my late brother, your father--" 
               "Who always counseled me," she interrupted, "to wed the man of my choice!" 
               "And as this would be an extremely eligible match for you, I have approved of it," said he, finishing his reply. 
                
               "And I," returned Virginia, "the party immediately interested, do protest against any third party's selecting a husband for me!" 
               "Langdale, whom you affect to despise, is a millionaire!" suggested Thorncliffe. 
               "A millionaire! Yes, you would sacrifice me to a contemptible puppy, because he has the reputation of being wealthy. I would not wed the man you would choose for me, had he the combined wealth of all the millionaires of New York. And that you may understand me, I again declare that I despise him, and will not, under any possible circumstances, be his wife." 
               "Headstrong, wilful girl!" muttered Thorncliffe. "These romantic notions you will soon get over; you've been reading trashy novels, issued under cloth and gilt, instead of yellow covers. Come with me. I had not thought of marrying you off without first consulting your wishes. I thought any sensible girl would jump for joy to marry a man of Langdale's standing. You may marry any man you choose, providing he is a white man, and not a beggar Come!" 
               "I will go with you, Uncle, cheerfully, on one condition," said Virginia, who saw that her guardian's temper was considerably mollified, "and that is, that you will no longer treat me as you have done, and not use such provoking language to me." 
               "Come with me." 
               "I shall not accompany you until I have your promise!" said the maiden, firmly. 
               Thorncliffe felt himself defeated, and somewhat in her power, as the idea for the first time flashed upon his brain that she possibly might know more of certain other matters than he would have made public. He therefore came to the conclusion that a conciliatory course was now the wisest. 
               "You have mistaken my motives altogether," said the banker. "I desire your welfare, and shall do all I can to promote it; and I promise you now that all shall be according to your desires, if within the bounds of reason." 
               "Then, Uncle, I am ready to accompany you," said Virginia. 
               "Mandeville," said the banker, turning towards the only witness of this most singular scene, "Virginia has satisfied me in regard to those papers, though you should have known my wishes better than to have left such an important matter where any one might have had access to it. My remarks were harsh, and I made them too hastily, and as I now know, on too slight grounds. Believe me, my most earnest wish is to see you out of this vile place, and may you be equally successful in dissipating all the suspicions which have placed you in this dilemma, as you have been in regard to the papers. I hope you will pardon me. Though severe, I meant not to be unjust. Farewell." 
               Mandeville merely nodded an assent to his lame apology, as the banker and his niece departed, the latter not without turning upon him her radiant countenance, in which was expressed sympathy for the present, and hope for the future. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                  THE PALACE OF THE PROCURESS-ONE OF THE PHASES OF GOTHAM LIFE BEHIND THE CURTAIN-PRICE OF BEAUTY AND VIRTUE. 
                
               MADAME EWERTON was the proprietress of a large, palatial-looking residence, situated in M--street, on the west side of the city. The apartments of her mansion were most gorgeously and luxuriously furnished, and when her grand saloon was illuminated, it would vie in richness and splendor with that of any of the more aristocratic mansions belonging to the Upper Ten. Many truly fine works of modern Art adorned the walls, the niches, and brackets of this, and indeed, of all the principal apartments, and the only criticism which we have to make is, with the taste of the person who made the selection. They were nearly all of that peculiar character which appears, now-a-days, to be the mania of painters and sculptors to produce, viz: Venuses, Cupids, Nymphs, and other nude figures, in almost every conceivable posture, displaying all that's beautiful and charming in the "human form divine." 
               No wonder-in these days of sudden fortune-making, when the vulgar and ignorant, as well as the refined and accomplished, become nabobs in a year, and set up establishments alongside of those families which have enjoyed the luxuries that ample wealth provide for generations-no wonder, we repeat, that the vulgar wealthy should demand of Art that only which they can appreciate, that only which gratifies the sensual nature. 
               Whatever there is a demand for will be produced, whether in literature, art, science, or in anything else. If Heaven-born Art condescends to gratify the vulgar rich, what may we not expect from sources of a less divine origin? Truly, we are all "of earth, earthy," and there is but little grace in us. 
               Madame Ewerton's famous establishment fully exemplified our position. She was rich and vulgar-sensual and proud. She had been the doubtful wife of a captain of a successful slaver, and when he died-in a most mysterious and suspicious manner, by the way-she was left in possession of an ample fortune, enough, one would have supposed, to have lived comfortably, and even luxuriously, without committing the most enormous crimes to attain to greater wealth. She was a gross woman, physically as well as mentally; "fat, fair, and forty" was a term frequently applied to her. She had been quite a beauty a score of years before, and even thought herself a reigning belle; and now, despite her grossness, she could boast among her especial worshippers some seven or eight hoary-headed sexagenarians narians, who could yet revel in her charms-"respectable, elderly gentlemen," from the ranks of the parvenues of the avenues; fathers, ay, grandfathers, who had fulfilled, as the world thought, their several destinies in raising their respective progenies and were now vainly striving to make themselves appear young again, to recuperate, by madly imitating the worst follies of their youth. We can scarcely conceive of a more despicable and melancholy spectacle, than to observe men "sowing wild oats" at sixty. They are more prudent and secret in their amours, than in their more youthful years; and what is somewhat remarkable, they dote more fondly upon the attractions of sweet sixteen, than on the more voluptuous charms of a maturer age. 
               But, without further digression, we must proceed with our story. The saloon of Madame Ewerton was brilliantly illuminated-indeed, so it was every evening-and the shutters were closed as usual. Scores of visitors came, without being acquainted, or without a friend to introduce them. Some contented themselves with paying for a bottle or two of champagne, at double the usual hotel price, drinking the health of the gaily-dressed and highly-rouged Cyprians, and gazing for a few moments upon the undraped works of Art, and then departing, satisfied with having seen sufficient of "the elephant" without further cost. Others there were, who were enticed further into the mysteries of this "whited sepulchre," and regret it even to this day, if they yet dwell among mortals. But there were others who despised the nightly attractions offered at this establishment, for of such as these they had had a surfeit, and they now sought for exceedingly rare possessions, which could be had for a price-an almost fabulous price. 
               Augustus Langdale was one of these latter seekers after pleasure. The clock had struck one, two; the chandeliers were no longer illuminated, still an occasional visitor appeared even at this late hour-or rather early hour of the morning. In a snug, cosy ante-room of the grand apartment, sat Madame Ewerton, and the young roue, Langdale, enjoying a delightful tete-a-tete over a bottle of sparkling Heidsick. Madame was extolling, in glowing terms, the charms of some young lady, in whom she appeared to manifest more than ordinary interest. 
               "I tell you, Langdale, she's a divinity-a goddess-an angel--" 
               "Oh, now, Madame! that's too good-too good, indeed it is!" interrupted Langdale, with an air of pleasantry. "Don't talk to me about your divinities and goddesses-that sort of creature isn't to be found hereabouts. Oh, no! that is not the sort o' thing neither. Let us hear of a beautiful, voluptnous being, of real flesh and blood, with sweet, delicious lips-an inviting eye-cheeks like the roses-a neck and bust rivaling the Medicean Venus-small, soft hands, and a foot and ancle such as even the great connoisseur in female loveliness could not find a blemish to criticise. Tell me of such a creature, and say that she's mine at any price, and I, my dear Madame, will be your most obsequious friend, &c." 
               "Really, Mr. Langdale, for the possession of such a creature there would be great competition," said Madame. 
               "I would outbid all competitors, 'pon my honor, I would." 
               "I have already a bid of a thousand dollars for just such a one as you have so glowingly described." 
               "I'll give twelve hundred, demme," said Langdale, emphatically. 
               "Make it fifteen hundred, and the prize is yours." 
               "Let me first behold her charms." 
               "Impossible!" 
               "Her picture, daguerreotype, or-" 
               "Have you not walked Broadway, to-day?" she interrupted. 
               "Aw, yes; I'm confounded sorry to say I did take a stroll," said he, in a drawling tone. 
               "Why sorry?" 
               "Because I found it a demn'd expensive walk. Some infernal rascal stole my gold repeater, and my porte-monnaie, containing somewhere between three hundred and sixteen hundred dollars; I can't tell exactly the sum, for I don't trouble myself by keeping a cash account." 
               "That's unfortunate; but did you not observe in your walk something interesting and attractive?" asked the procuress. 
               "Not a handsome woman on the street, 'pon honor-all artificial-made up, as I'm a Christian. Ah! now I think of it, I did see something quite attractive-a picture in a shop window, that I stared at for nearly an hour-fell quite in love with it!" 
               "What was the subject?" 
               "A woman! pray what else could attract so many admiring gazers? But not a portrait-oh, no, a mere fancy affair. Such a bust, such features, such a complexion, only came from some demn'd clever artist's imagination." 
               "Was it not in the window of--'s picture store, opposite the Park?" 
               "Yes; and I strongly suspect that that painting cost me my watch and money, for I missed them soon after I had done gazing." 
               "That picture, let me inform you, is a portrait," said Madame Ewerton. 
               "Impossible!" 
               "And let me astonish you more, by saying that is an exact likeness of a lady I have under my care, and of whose charms I have endeavored to give you an idea. It was placed there at my request, and to-morrow it will adorn my gallery of beauties." 
               "By all that's divine, you surprise me. Let me behold the reality. Is she now in your house." 
               "No matter where she is at present," replied Madame. "Place the fifteen hundred in my hands to-morrow night, at eleven o'clock, and you may feast your eyes upon her charms, to your heart's content." 
               "Depend upon me-I shall be punctual at the hour and the minute," said Langdale. "Aw, Madame, that was a capital dodge o' yours-the picture, eh?" 
               "Yes-an original idea of mine," replied Madame, with an exulting air; "I saw what would be the effect. More than a dozen gentlemen have spoken to me of that picture this evening; but I let only one, a rich married gentleman, into the secret. He is my thousand dollar bidder; but your fifteen hundred wins. One thousand dollars! I really couldn't afford it; why, let me tell you that I paid five hundred dollars to the artist to paint that portrait from a photograph. Dear advertising; but goods won't sell readily now-a-days, without advertising." 
               The conversation of these two worthies was here interrupted by the ushering in of a third person. He was a stranger to the house, but none the less welcome on that account. Madame was always happy to receive visits from strangers, especially from those who sported a rich and fashionable exterior. This person was finely clad; a costly cluster of diamonds glistened from his shirt bosom, and a mate to it sparkled from one of his fingers; a certain passport to such society. 
               Langdale arose to depart. A nod of recognition passed between him and the stranger, for they had met at the nabob's levee, and at least once since. Neither expressing a desire to cultivate a further acquaintance, at that time and place, Langdale retired, leaving Brian O'Regan, Esq., in undisputed possession of the field. 
               "The top o' the marning to ye, Madame, if it isn't too airly," said Brian, consulting the identical gold repeater which Langdale missed in his walk on Broadway. 
               "To whom am I indebted for this visit?" asked Madame Ewerton. 
               "Brian O'Regan, from O'Regan Castle, Ireland, at yer sarvice, Madame. Quite a stranger, belave me, in your beauthiful city, saeking pleasure and recreation." 
               "Welcome, sir; I have no doubt I am greatly honored by a call from you. Pray, take a seat." 
               "Many thanks to yer ladyship," said Brian, placing himself in a comfortable position in an easy chair; then taking from his finger a diamond of the first water, he said, as he placed it in the hand of Madame, "Please accept this thrifle, as an airnist of my great frindship, Madame." 
               "Oh, thank you, thank you!" she exclaimed, as she placed the jewel on her finger; "your generosity is only exceeded by your great gallantry." 
               "By my sowl, now, that's a complement a man don't git ivery day," said Brian; "but, Madame, my business here has riference to-you know what." 
               "I cannot know until you tell me." 
               "Why, the beauthiful crathur, to be shure!" 
               "Who do you mean? My house can boast of many beauties." 
               "Who do I mane? None o' yer common beauties, belave me. Who can I mane but the most iligant lady in the world, to be shure? Haven't I heard about her? ah! that I have! she's a jewel! Haven't I sane her picture, too?" 
               "But--" 
               "Och! by the houly vargin, now, ye'll be afther tillin' me she's spoken for. But niver mind that, Madame. I've plinty o' the nadeful, and that's what ye're all afther. Name yer price for this darlint pearl." 
               The temptation was great, and Madame began to regret that she had set altogether too low a figure for her most marketable piece of goods. She had pledged her word to the fop. Langdale; but what of that? she could tell him that the girl was sick. or dead, or had escaped, or invent some such story, that he would believe and be satisfied with. 
               "Five thousand," she answered, after some hesitation. 
               "Dollars or poonds?" 
               "Pounds, sir, of course," answered the cunning, avaricious woman, though the thought of pounds had not entered her mind. 
               "Och! by all the powers, thin, I must be afther takin' my lave of ye, Madame," said Brian, rising. "Had ye made it dollars, I wud have proved to ye the best customer ye iver had in yer life. Say five thousand dollars, money down-but not another cint, 'pon the honest sowl of an Irishman!" 
               "She's yours," said Madame. 
               "Whin?" 
               "To-morrow night; but half the money must be paid now." 
               "The divil it must! ah, but ye're a shrewd one, now, ye are, shure," said O'Regan, as he took from a well-filled pocket book, two bank notes of the denomination of one thousand dollars, and one for five hundred, and passed them into the hands of Madame, who, after scrutinizing them carefully, placed them in her purse. 
               "Are ye perfectly satisfied of their genuineness, Madame?" said Brian O'Regan. 
               "Perfectly." 
               "Because, if ye're not, I'd be after tillin' ye that I drew those notes from the bank myself. Name the hour, Madame, and I shall be here with the utmost punctuality." 
               "To-morrow night, at ten and a half o'clock, and all shall be as you wish," replied Madame. 
               "Thin, good night, and pleasant drames to ye," said Brian, as he politely bowed himself out of Madame's presence. 
               On the next day, at the fashionable shopping hour, a lady, in appearance, at least, was arrested in Stewart's Broadway dry goods' palace. She had purchased a bill of finery, and tendered a one thousand dollar bank bill in payment. This bill answered to the description, fully, of some of the notes that were stolen from the vault of the bankers, Messrs. Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co. On searching her, another bill of the same denomination, and another of five hundred, were found. 
               Madame Ewerton was marched off to the Tombs, charged with being, in some manner, concerned in the great robbery of the house of Thorncliffe, Ternay & Co. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                  A BRIEF CHAPTER AND A BRIEF TRANSACTION. 
                
               THORNCLIFFE was seated in his spacious library, reading the morning papers. It was on the day after his visit to Mandeville in the Tombs. The news, not even fresh advices from abroad, nor the price of stocks, absorbed his attention; for his mind was on the peculiar state of his private affairs, especially in reference to the critical and dangerous position in which he stood. While thus engaged, the door-bell rang, and a seedy-looking individual was ushered into his presence. 
               "Well, sir, who are you, and what is your errand?" said the banker, on beholding one who certainly had rather a repulsive appearance. 
               "Who am I?" ejaculated Bill. "Jess as though you don't know Bill Stuffer, one o' yer tenants. You alus knows me rent day, ole hoss, yer duz. I comes to settle up our account." 
               "To be sure-I see now-I didn't recognize you-let's see, you are somewhat in arrears for rent," said the banker, taking his rent roll from the desk, and looking at Bill's account. "Yes, exactly-you owe me forty dollars-but, I'll not complain this time, as you are honest enough to call and pay up, though I should have been better pleased had you called at my place of business." 
               "I hasn't got no money," said the watch-stuffer; "but I reckons I has that as'll answer the same purpose." 
               "No money! well, what is your security?" 
               "I has a deal of information." 
               "Curse your information," said the banker, angrily. "I want none of your information." 
               "Duzn't yer?" 
               "What is your business here, I ask, if not to pay me what is my due?" 
               "Well, I comes 'ere to make a compromise," said Stuffer, with provoking coolness. "I knows a thing or two wot you orter know, I knows; and I has the faculty of keeping a secret, or blowing it, that I has." 
               "Insolence! what do you mean? Speak! or I shall order my servants to kick you into the street." 
               "I means that wot I knows you wish to keep mum about these days," suggested Bill. 
               "I wish to keep nothing secret-I have no secret-my transactions I wish always to be made known to the world." 
               "Then I s'pose I'd better be off," said the watch-stuffer, turning upon his heel. 
               "Stay! What do you know?" 
               "I knows the chaps wot robbed your bank!" 
               Thorncliffe was startled. Stuffer saw the effect of his words. 
               "Ah, indeed!" said the banker, reassuring himself. "This is information, truly; a rich reward is offered." 
               "I knows that, too; and I knows you'll come down harnsum, when I let's you know all I knows." 
               "Proceed," said Thorncliffe, agitated with apprehension. 
               "I knows Jack Waid, the cobbler, and I knows that grand Colonel Belleville. You knows 'em, too." 
               "Certainly; the colonel is a rich gentleman, and the cobbler is one of my best tenants; always prompt in making his payments." 
               "Well," resumed Bill, "I knows that Colonel Belleville is Jack Waid in the day time, and I knows Jack Waid is Colonel Belleville in the night time." 
               The banker manifested only astonishment, but his soul was quaking with every word which his visitor uttered. 
               "I knows Brian O'Regan, the Irishman, and Rob Rodney, the cockney," continued the watch-stuffer. "Brian O'Regan is Rob Rodney, and Rob Rodney is Brian O'Regan, whenever he likes." 
               "Can it be possible! You amaze me!" exclaimed Thorncliffe. 
               "Duz I?" said Stuffer; "then I reckon I shall 'stonish you more. They is the chaps wot made sech a haul at the bank?" 
               "Ah! what is your proof of all this?" demanded the banker. 
               "Why, duzn't I live next sullar to the cobbler? hasn't I ben a long time 'spishus on him, and hasn't I watched him to some purpose? hasn't I drill'd a hole through the wall o' my sullar into hisn? hasn't I eyes and ears, and didn't I see and hear? I reckons I knows all the cobbler's doins for the last eight days; and I knows somebody else who had a hand in that big robbery business, besides he and the cockney." 
               "Who?" inquired the banker. 
               "I duzn't like to tell; can't you guess?" 
               "How should I know anything of these burglars?" 
               "Well, I thinks as how the man wot keeps the keys that opened the bank and the vault on the night of the robbery, orter know the rascals what did it?" 
               "What can you mean!" asked Thorncliffe, looking at Bill, as if he really did not comprehend. 
               "Why, hasn't I told you? won't you understand? Well, 'tis diffikilt to make some people understand sometimes. I guess as how I'd better be goin'-wot I knows, 'll be more valuable and better understood by somebody down town." 
               After this remark, made in a most significant tone of voice, Stuffer started towards the door. 
               "Stay! come here-sit down in that chair-draw up a little closer. There, that will do. Now speak softly and plainly," said the banker. 
               "I duzn't like to say that my very respectable landlord had, in the leastest degree, anything to do with that robbery! Oh, no! I wouldn't like to say it to his face, that he gave the keys to the cobbler-I means the colonel-and that he got the lion's share o' the money, coz as how some on't was hisn afore. You understands that?" said Bill, in a shrill whisper. 
               "Yes, yes-I see-I--" replied Thorncliffe, faintingly. "Eh! yes, well. I comprehend all. No more, eh, no more words-name your price-your price for inviolable secrecy!" 
               "Let's see," said Stuffer; "a reward of five thousand dollars is offered to any one wot'll gin information that'll lead to the detection of the villins, and ten thousand more for the finding of the money. Now, ole fellow, you can afford to cum down harnsum, you can-wot say yer to twenty thousand dollars." 
               "Merciful Heaven! have I come to this?" said the old man, groaningly. 
               "Well, you has, ole boy; but wot's done can't be undone. Keep your spirits up; I'm yer friend wot'll stick by yer through all yer troubles; for just twenty thousand, and no discount! Make up yer mind quick, coz I's a man o' business." 
               "Twenty thousand curses I could bestow with a hearty good will," muttered the discomfited nabob. 
               "Fork over the dollars first, and then, ole hoss, cuss away like blazes." 
               "It's no use; I'm fairly caught. I'll pay your outrageous extortion, on one condition; you shall promise, under oath, to attend the examination of Mandeville, and swear to whatever I shall dictate." 
               "Well, I duzn't mind to do you a good turn now, we're sich good friends." 
               "Curse your friendship. There is one other condition. I have but a thousand dollars with me, now, and the balance I will pay in weekly instalments." 
               "All right, ole boy-I duzn't mind trustin' you," acquiesced Bill Stuffer. 
               The banker then dictated the evidence that Bill was to swear to before the magistrate. It was, of course, directed against Mandeville, and if not impeached, would go far towards his conviction. The perjurer then subscribed to a solemn oath, that this testimony he would give as directed. 
               The watch-stuffer received his thousand dollars, and went on his way, rejoicing as he had never rejoiced before, leaving the guilty and conscience-smitten banker writhing in the agony of his thoughts. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                  ANOTHER BRIEF CHAPTER WITH A TRAGICAL TERMINATION. 
                
               WHEN the news reached the ears of Augustus Langdale that Madame Ewerton was under arrest, he forthwith visited her in the Tombs, and having listened to her story as to the manner in which the stolen money came into her possession, adroitly leaving out the purpose for which she received it, he generously resolved to procure her bail, not so much out of regard for her, but he well knew that if she were not released he should be deprived of his much desired interview with the charming maiden in charge of Madame. He therefore went to the office of the magistrate, and entered into heavy bonds for her appearance, and Madame was released from custody. It may be also proper for us to state in this connection, that in consequence of Madame being charged with being an accomplice of Mandeville's, the examination of the latter was postponed for two days, when they would be arraigned at the same time and place. 
               Precisely at ten o'clock and thirty minutes, Brian O'Regan was again seated in Madame Ewerton's luxuriously furnished boudoir, where Madame had been waiting in a state of feverish anxiety lest her ten and a half customer should have got wind of her arrest, and the cause thereof. 
               "Welcome! thrice welcome!" said the delighted woman; "you, of all gentlemen in the world, are the one I most desired to see; and there is another equally impatient to behold you-to embrace you-to load you with love's chains--" 
               "Och! by all the vargins, yer ladyship is too kind! you do me too much 'onor! you fill me with joy inexpressible! by my sowl, you do!" said Brian, in ecstacies. "Bedad, you're the lady for my money!" and Brian drew forth his purse, and gave into her hands, bills to the amount of twenty-five hundred dollars, of the same denominations she had before received. 
               "Now, Mr. O'Regan, it gives me joy, such as I never before experienced, to lead you to that charming person who is so desirous to greet you," said Madame, with a most wicked smile. "Once entwined in those lovely arms, may you never forget the person who placed you there." 
                
               "Arrah! by the saints, Madame! niver can I be afther forgittin' the frind who loads me with such civility. Lade on," said he, rising, "I'm impatient to behold my sowl's delight." 
               Leading him into an adjoining apartment, Madame threw open the door of a closet, when a police officer, with a pistol in one hand, and a pair of handcuffs in the other, stepped forth, and confronted the amazed O' Regan. 
               "You're my prisoner," said he, coolly. 
               Two other policemen simultaneously appeared from behind the door on the opposite side of the room, and seized the caged culprit by the arms, and before he had thought of making the slightest resistance the iron ruffles encompassed his wrists. 
               The prisoner was almost petrified with terror, and he turned his eyes towards the exultant procuress for an explanation. 
               "Ha, ha, ha!" she laughed, most heartily, to behold the success of her trap. "Isn't it a charming person," said she, tauntingly; "isn't it most happy to embrace you? Ha, ha, ha! the goddess of justice has you hard and fast! May you have a merry time with her." 
               "But, Madame, you shure don't mane this? It's all a joke, isn't it, Madame?" said Brian, weak and trembling with fear. 
               "Oh, no joke!" she replied; "away with him! to the Tombs! it's a delightful residence! I slept there last night, solely on your account." 
               "You cursed old hag of h-!" exclaimed the prisoner, his fear giving way to his anger. "Give me back my money." 
               "Your money! ha, ha! that's a good 'un! the stolen money!" said she, shaking the bills in his face. "Captain," addressing the chief policeman, "I place these in your possession, as evidence against this thief. Now, away with him! take him out of my sight! Good bye, Brian O' Regan, from O'Regan Castle, saking pleasure in this beauthiful city," she continued, imitating him. 
               "Curse ye! curse ye, ye d-d old--" 
               The closing of the outer door cut off his profane speech, and the policemen marched him off to that great receptacle of rogues, the Tombs. 
               The excitement which this scene produced at Madame's was hardly allayed, when Langdale arrived, to whom she communicated the success of her little stratagem. 
               "Capital! capital! 'pon 'onor!" said Langdale. "You're a wonderful woman; more than a match for most men. Let's see," he continued, consulting his watch, "just eleven, to a second, 'pon honor!" 
               "Ah! then it will give me unbounded satisfaction to lead you to happiness," said Madame. 
               "I trust it will be a different kind of happiness from that you have led one poor devil into to-night! eh, Madame?" 
               "I hope to surprise you as much with the fair Minerva's charms, as that thief was with the ugliness of his captor!" said Madame. 
               She ascended two flights of stairs, followed by Langdale. Tapping at the door of the front room, it was soon opened by a woman of about her own age, and whose bloated appearance indicated too evidently the lewd life she led. This person closed the door after her, and stood in the hall. 
               "Is all as it should be, Flora?" questioned Madame Ewerton. 
               "Yes; I managed to give her the draught, and she is now quietly sleeping," replied the intended victim's attendant; "but it will not require much to awake her." 
               "Then, Langdale, good night, and much joy to you!" said Madame. 
               She opened the door, and after he had entered, she softly closed it, and the two hags descended to the gaudy apartments below. 
               The libertine took the precaution to turn the key upon the inside, and remove it from the lock. 
               We dare not, if we could, enter that apartment. We dare not describe, in detail, the tragic scene enacted! But we give the terrible sequel. 
               Scarcely ten minutes had elapsed, after the foolish, heartless libertine had invaded the sanctity of that apartment, wherein no man should have entered; the loud cry of, "Murder! Murder!" startled the inmates of that house, and people in the immediate neighborhood. The watchman took up the fearful cry, and sprang his rattle. Men rushed from all directions, to the house whence the cries proceeded; and from that infamous dwelling men and women rushed, as if pursued by fiends. 
               Amid shrieks, and cries, and groans, and other terrific noises, a window in the third story was suddenly raised, and a female arrayed in robes of white appeared, and precipitated herself headlong into the gathering throng below. There went up one dismal, pitiful cry from the multitude, as they beheld the reckless plunge. She struck upon the granite pavement, an apparently lifeless form. She was immediately taken up, and conveyed into a respectable mansion adjoining that of Madame Ewerton's. 
                
               Meanwhile, several policemen had rushed into the house where the tumult was first raised, and ascended to the third story. They tried to open the door of the chamber whence the unknown woman had precipitated herself, but it was fastened upon the inside. Bracing their shoulders against it, and pressing all together, the bolt yielded, the door flew open, and they entered. 
               What an appalling spectacle was there revealed to them. Gasping and struggling in the last agonizing throes of death, with a dagger plunged to the hilt in his breast, lay the libertine wretch, Augustus Langdale. A few moments more, and he had gone to his final account. 
               His intended victim-Minerva Elmere-a lady of remarkable personal beauty, of great accomplishments, and of spotless character-who had been inveigled into that splendid den of infamy under the full belief that it was a boarding establishment of the highest respectability-had preserved her honor by taking the life of the wretch, Langdale, and by sacrificing her own as an atonement for the just act. The angels rejoice at the former, and weep for the latter. 
               Miss Elmere had been under the roof of Madame Ewerton but one week, and during that time she had been quite ill, having been out but once, and that was to take an airing in a carriage with Madame, who professed to be the landlady of the house. Miss Elmere's attendant was but an accomplice of Madame, and her illness was owing to deleterious drugs being secretly administered to her in her food. 
               She lingered but an hour after the tragic deed. Skilful surgeons were called, but they shook their heads; there was no hope. Not a word fell from her lips. She died as she had lived, spotless. 
               "Her tale untold-her virtue dearly proved!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                  THE LAST ACT OF OUR DRAMA. 
                
               "YES! it must be! It is his own folly! Crush him! crush him! I have said it! 'tis my only safety! he must be dealt harshly with, or my game is blocked!" muttered Colonel Belleville to himself, as he crossed the Park on the morning to which was assigned the examination of Albert Mandeville and Madame Ewerton, charged with being concerned in the robbery which had created so much excitement in certain quarters of Gotham. 
               The magistrate's office was thronged with interested and curious spectators. Within the bar sat the two prisoners, accused of the same crime, who, singularly enough, had never before seen each other until now. Madame Ewerton's lawyer was there, ready to undertake her defence, but there was no one to appear for Mandeville. Appeals had been made to him by divers hungry attorneys, to be employed as counsel, but he declined their services by the invariable answer, "the innocent need no counsel." 
               The usual preliminaries having been disposed of, the attorney for the prosecution briefly stated what he expected to prove, and that so far as Mandeville was concerned, his guilt could be shown beyond a doubt. 
               Colonel Belleville was the first witness called to the stand. He stated that he knew the prisoner; met him at the banker's levee; knew of his absenting himself from the festivities between the hours of eleven and one o'clock, and knew of his return; had since seen in his possession large amounts of money, principally in bank notes, answering to the description of those advertised as stolen; had also seen him recently in the disguise of a beggar, and had also seen him in company with those who were known to be notorious thieves. 
               The second witness was one of the clerks of the robbed banking house, who testified simply to the prisoner's strange conduct on the morning of the discovery of the robbery. 
               The watchman who was assaulted on the night of the burglary, swore only to those facts which are already known to the reader; he could not identify the person or persons who assaulted him, but the time of the robbery was clearly fixed. 
               The next witness called was Bill Stuffer, he who had mulcted the banker, in no trifling sum, for agreeing to suppress the truth, and to swear to a series of gross lies. 
               "What is your name?" asked the prosecuting officer. 
               "Villiam, but they calls me Bill." 
               "Your surname?" 
               "I duzn't know for cert'n, but they calls me Stuffer." 
               "William Stuffer, then, I suppose?" 
               "I s'pose so, too." 
               "What is your occupation?" 
               "I occupies a sullar." 
               "You do not understand. I mean what do you do for a living?" 
               "For a liv'n? Oh, yes; well, I gits odd jobs, I duz; I holds hosses, sweeps crossn's, blacks boots, sells toothpicks, digs clams and oysters, runs arrants, goes fish'n,--" 
               "Stop! that will do," interrupted the counsel. "Now tell what you know about either of the prisoners' connection with the robbery of the bank?" 
               "I knows that covey, there," answered the watch-stuffer, pointing to Mandeville; he's a rum, he is, in spite o'them fine clothes; he 'sociates in the wustest siety, he duz; has piles o' money; bets high among the shakers, and they do say he's the famousest burglar in New York." 
               "Now, what do you know in reference to his being concerned in this particular robbery?" 
               "I was jess agoin' to tell. On the night afore the thing was done, I seed him with two or three chaps wot I knows steal for a liv'n, and I over-hears one on 'em tell wot heaps o' money there was in a cert'n vault down Wall street. When I hears o' the robbery, I knows who did it, and that covey was cert'n one o' 'em; then, I've seen him disguised all sorts o' ways. Oh! he's one on 'em; and that's all I knows about it;" and the watch-stuffer was dismissed from the stand. 
               The next witness was the officer who arrested Mandeville, and found upon his person the casket of gems. This was produced and identified by the clerk, as the one which had been for a long time deposited in the bank vault. 
               The attorney here signified that he deemed it unnecessary to call any more witnesses, as the evidence, both positive and circumstantial, was ample, in his mind, to warrant the magistrate in remanding Mandeville to prison, for trial before a jury. 
               Mandeville here arose and asked that a subpna might be issued, summoning "Jack Waid," as he is called, the Cobbler of the Five Points. 
               Colonel Belleville, whose eye the prisoner met, looked much disconcerted certed. He manifested so much uneasiness, that in order to conceal it from the court, he arose, stepped to the window, where he stood for some minutes gazing into the Park. 
               The subpna was made out, and an officer despatched for this witness. In the course of fifteen minutes he returned, and stated that Waid was not in his shop, and that his immediate neighbors declared that they did not know where he was to be found. 
               "Just as I anticipated, your honor," said Mandeville, addressing the magistrate. "This honest cobbler, as he is styled, is, in some respects, a fabulous character; that is to say, the accuser and chief witness in this case, Colonel Belleville, is the man who has so long and so successfully personated the character of the cobbler, and I therefore request that he may again be put upon the stand." 
               This statement produced quite a commotion among all present. Belleville was called, but no Belleville answered. He had disappeared a moment before, through the crowd at the door, and an officer was despatched in quest of him. 
               The excitement consequent on what had just occurred had scarcely been allayed, when there was again a sensation produced, in consequence of the appearance of two ladies in the court room, one of whom advanced towards the magistrate, and expressed a desire to testify in the case. Throwing aside her veil, she revealed the charming and intelligent countenance of Virginia Thorncliffe. 
               She held up her hand and took the accustomed oath. Her story was brief, but conclusive, and fully implicated the accuser instead of the accused, and one Brian O'Regan, the accuser's accomplice. She testified to the fact that during the entire evening of the levee, until past one o'clock, Mandeville had not absented himself from the house, and therefore could not have committed the crime of which he was charged; but that Belleville and O'Regan were absent during the hours when the robbery must have been committed. In reference to his absence from the banking house, it was by her request, in consequence of a disagreement with her uncle in relation to the conveyance of a piece of real estate; and as to the disguise he had assumed, it was solely for the purpose of ferreting out the real robbers, and regaining the treasures, that the house thereby might be saved from bankruptcy. 
               When she had told her simple and truthful story, Mandeville arose and stated that he was sorry his accuser had seen fit to make his exit so suddenly because he had asked that that most singular character, "the cobbler," might be summoned, for it went far to substantiate what he had before intimated, that Belleville and Jack Waid were one and the same person, but which was his true character he would not presume to decide. He moreover stated that he proposed, as he intended at the time of his arrest, to lodge a complaint against him and one Brian O'Regan, as soon as he had obtained his own discharge, which he thought must be the result of the examination. In reference to the casket which was found upon his person, he would only state that instead of taking it from the vault of the bankers, he had taken it from among the concealed treasures of the robbers, which he had fortunately discovered, and that, through information he had communicated to a certain party, a portion certainly of the plunder was, by that time, probably, in the hands of its lawful owners. 
               This latter statement was fully corroborated by the timely arrival of Mr. Ternay, junior partner of the banking establishment, who, after warmly greeting his faithful clerk, stated under oath that the secret haunt of the robbers, together with their stolen wealth, had been discovered, and was then in the possession of the Chief of Police. 
               The magistrate, after a few minutes' consultation with the prosecuting officer, arose and stated that the evidence was not sufficient to sustain the charge against the prisoner, and he was acquitted. With reference to the other prisoner, he would stay proceedings for the present. 
               Mandeville then entered a formal complaint against Belleville and O'Regan, and warrants were ordered to be issued for their arrest. An officer here approached the magistrate, and informed him that O'Regan was already in prison, and gave some of the particulars attending his arrest, which went far to show that Madame Ewerton, however guilty she might be of crimes of a worse nature, could not have been an accomplice in the robbery. These facts being also made known, her accuser previously did not appear against her. She was accordingly discharged, but immediately put under bonds to insure her attendance as witness against O'Regan. No Augustus Langdale appearing as surety, she was again marched off to the Tombs. 
               Mandeville was also ordered to recognize to appear as witness, but in his own surety. After receiving the congratulations of his friends, Mandeville left the court room with Virginia and the lady who had accompanied her, and proceeded directly to the mansion of the banker. The result of the trial was made known to that individual, who expressed, if he did not feel, much joy at the result. But when, on a private interview held with his released clerk and his niece, immediately afterwards, he was told by the former that he had lodged a complaint against Belleville and O'Regan, he sank back in his chair, and exclaimed. 
               "Alas! alas! then am I forever ruined! Belleville will not fall without carrying me with him!" and the wretched old man groaned most piteously. 
               "Uncle, be calm," said Virginia, in tones of affection; "all may yet be well with you." 
               "Never; never! I feel that I'm a lost man! It is but just-I deserve it all!" 
               "Despair not, Uncle!" said she; "it might have been much worse, had it not been for Mandeville's exertions, and even sufferings, to serve you; and while he possessed the power to crush, he has withheld the blow, at the risk of his own life and liberty." 
               "Alas! my fears told me too true! You know, then--" 
               "Yes, Uncle; Mandeville knows all; I know all!" and she related to him our hero's adventure on the night of the division of the spoils, and his adventure of the night following, when murderously assaulted by the cobbler, and of the chain of strange events that followed. All of which Mandeville will swear to, and clearly substantiate, on the trial of the robbers, who, Uncle, I am certain, have made a dupe of you." 
               "Would to God, Virginia, that were all!" exclaimed the old man, whose conscience began severely to smite him. "Alas! I am not only a dupe, but a wretched criminal! And why did you, Virginia, and likewise you, Albert, spare me, after the unkind, ungenerous, even guilty treatment you have received at my hands?" 
               "It was to save your family from disgrace!" replied Virginia. 
               "And yourself, also," added Mandeville. 
               "Oh! Heaven! what shall I, what can I do?" exclaimed the banker, appealing, in an attitude of prayer. "Ah! I have it. Virginia; Albert! keep such knowledge as you possess of my transactions, and I will first make all the restitution in my power, and then, after making provision for my family, I will seek some secluded spot, and hide myself from the face of men." 
               "Nay, Uncle, do not speak so despairingly," said Virginia; "that which you have intimated touching leaving your home cannot be necessary." 
               "Ah, Virginia! you know not the character of this Belleville," resumed the old man; "this accursed cobbler, of whose daring criminal acts I have too long been cognizant, and who holds a greater power over me than I could have believed one week ago. Yes, my determination is fixed. If you would spare me still, and my family, from utter ruin and disgrace, you will aid me, as none but you and Mandeville can, in furthering my plans. Thanks be to God! I have it in my power to save the bank from the loss of a shilling. Albert, you must assist me; you shall be well rewarded. The guardianship of my niece I resign to your hands; wed her, if all is as I suspect; you are well suited to each other." 
               From that hour active arrangements were going on in the business affairs of the banker. Nearly all of the treasure stolen from the banking house was clandestinely restored, and Thorncliffe, through Mandeville, made up the deficit. Sundry papers were placed in the hands of the faithful clerk, with written instructions how to proceed, together with a power of attorney; and in three days after, Thorncliffe, the great banker, took leave of his family, and sailed for the old world as a passenger in one of the ocean steamers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                  THE FINALE. 
                
               COLONEL BELLEVILLE, alias "Jack Waid, the cobbler," was yet a fugitive from justice, although scores of officers were actively on the alert for his apprehension, but, through an ingenious disguise, he had contrived to elude their vigilance. When he left the court room, he proceeded to the shop of a Jew, a dealer in old clothes, and purchaser of stolen goods generally, and a good patron of "the honest cobbler." Moses readily afforded him-"for a compensation," of course-the second-hand costume of a marketer, and when he emerged from the shop, it would have been difficult for even one of his most intimate acquaintances to have recognized him. One hour afterwards he might have been seen in a crazy old market wagon, urging with whip and voice an old, spavined Rozinante through the crowded thoroughfare of Broadway, in a northerly direction. That was his final exit from Gotham. In this disguise he escaped to Canada, and in two years afterwards, he recommenced his "cobbling" operations in Montreal, making, however, frequent profitable incursions into Vermont, where he was finally arrested for passing counterfeit money, found guilty, and sentenced to the penitentiary for a term of years, at the expiration of which he went to California; and if rumors can be relied on, he finally met his just deserts on the scaffold, quite recently, through the daring, prompt action of that celebrated rogue-dreading association, the "Vigilance Committee." 
               Rob Rodney, alias Brian O'Regan, was tried and found guilty for being concerned in the most gigantic robbery ever committed in this country, and was sentenced to the penitentiary at Auburn. He, too, at the expiration of his term, emigrated to California, with a herd of rogues. Whether he ever came under the notice of the Vigilance Committee we are uninformed; but a man answering fully to the description of the great cockney thief, was shot in the mines not long since, for making too free with the "dust" of his mining neighbors. 
               Of Madame Ewerton, and of Bill Stuffer, we have only to record that the former ended her career among the most wretched beings of the Five Points, and the latter at Blackwell's Island. 
               Thorncliffe died abroad a few years ago, but as he had adopted another name, the circumstance was only brought to the notice of his immediate friends and relatives. 
               Mandeville, after carrying out most implicitly the instructions which had been given him by his former employer, was taken into the firm, where he remained an upright and much honored member for several years, and retired, it is said, a millionaire; but, unlike most millionaires, he is a charitable man, and disburses thousands every year to objects of benevolence. 
               But there was a more permanent partnership, and one of a far more interesting nature than that of the financial one, that he also entered into soon after he had closed up most satisfactorily Mr. Thorncliffe's affairs, a matrimonial partnership, with whom, our readers are all Yankees enough to guess, and a happier or more estimable couple does not reside in all Gotham; nor are there parents who can boast of five more promising children-three girls and two boys. Mandeville will, we know, pardon us for revealing this portion of his history; but he must remember that he has often told us that the scenes he had "passed through, afforded almost sufficient material to make a readable novel." We took the hint, and have told the story as nearly in accordance with the facts as a romancer would be warranted in doing; for, if we should record some actual occurrences of "life behind the curtain," the book would be condemned as a second edition of Baron Munchausen. In verity, there are deeds done in Gotham, surpassing all belief, and verifying the trite adage that "Truth is stranger than fiction." 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            FANNY, THE LITTLE MILLINER; 
            OR THE RICH AND THE POOR. 
            THIS soul-stirring novel is a work of intense interest, and will create a greater sensation in the reading world than any novel that has been published for years. It is essentially of a popular character, and some idea of the plot and character of the story may be anticipated from a perusal of the following table of 
             
               CONTENTS: 
               CHAPTER I.-The rich man's table-After dinner talk-Aristocratic notions of marriage-An embarrassment-The begging letter-A few words on charity-A revelation. 
               CHAPTER II.-The search-Police information-The pursuit. 
               CHAPTER III.-The condition of the poor-The old man's resignation, and the young man's indignation-The White Woman's Pit A Stranger in sight-Dangers of the moor-The peasant's bravery. 
               CHAPTER IV.-The Journey-The Tidings-The Inn-Black Will-Danger. 
               CHAPTER V.-The Laborer's meeting-The Sufferings of the Poor-Rebecca-A desperate Project-An unexpected intrusion. 
               CHAPTER VI.-Rebecca's wrongs-The revelation of the plot-Lord Sarum's peril. 
               CHAPTER VII.-The White Woman's Pit-The child-The virtues of the poor-Reflections-Resolves-Little Fanny. 
               CHAPTER VIII.-Nature stronger than fashion-The father betrays himself-Wandering wits have often sharp eyes. 
               CHAPTER IX.-The landlady of the White Bull-The Village in a ferment-News of the Soldiers-The trooper. 
               CHAPTER X.-Descent into the pit-The soldiers-The cow-boy the most important personage of the tale-Unexpressed thoughts on the value of historical testimony-Accounts in the newspapers. 
               CHAPTER XI.-Grandborough Castle-Lady Eleanor-Scorched hearts, like burnt tinder, soon catch fire again-In well-conducted families, the marriage comes first, and the christening after-Omens. 
               CHAPTER XII.-Contrast-A happy pair-Practical charity-Lady Eleanor visits a poor woman-Strange Information-Horrible suspicions-Despair. 
               CHAPTER XIII.-Those who are most envied are sometimes most to be pitied-Lord Sarum's melancholy-Repentant reflections usually made too late-Riches and rank cannot cure the pangs of conscience-While the wretched mourn, Time moves on-The Daughter of Francesca mingles with aristocratic scenes as Fanny, the little milliner. 
               CHAPTER XIV.-Lord Sarum in London-Fanny at home-Explanations. 
               CHAPTER XV.-Fanny's story-The privations and sufferings of the poor-News. 
               CHAPTER XVI.-Hope and disappointment-A kind resolve-A good action seldom goes unrewarded. 
               CHAPTER XVII.-Dinner party at Lord Grandborough's-The exquisite-The conversation-Sudden disturbance. 
               CHAPTER XVIII.-Lord Sarum recognizes the mysterious picture-A plot in progress. 
               CHAPTER XIX.-The poor have compassion for one another-A victim to the neglect and the selfishness of the rich-The plot thickens. 
               CHAPTER XX.-Mr. Snob continues his pursuit-A night chase-Activity of the police. 
               CHAPTER XXI.-The midnight vigil-The sleep of death-Fanny's terrors. 
               CHAPTER XXII.-Life and chapter of accidents-Lord Manley makes a new acquaintance-He finds himself in love with a picture-His dream-A visit of charity. 
               CHAPTER XXIII.-A discovery-Love at first sight-Struggle between honor and passion-Lord Manley resolves to go abroad. 
               CHAPTER XXIV.-Mr. Snob in trouble. 
               CHAPTER XXV.-Lord Grandborough's travels in town-Mistaken charity-Embarrassments of good nature-Lucifer matches, brick bats, and canary birds. 
               CHAPTER XXVI.-A supposed recognition-Fright-Fanny's wonder-An explosion. 
               CHAPTER XXVII.-Interview between Lady Sarum and Fanny, the little Milliner. 
               CHAPTER XXVIII.-The golden cross. 
               CHAPTER XXIX.-Mystery. 
               CHAPTER XXX.-The old man of the pit. 
               CHAPTER XXXI.-Coming events cast their shadows before. 
               CHAPTER XXXII.-Fanny's song. 
               CHAPTER XXXIII.-The illumination-Mrs. Buckram's disaster-Fanny's danger-Her rescue-Rebecca-Revelations. 
               CHAPTER XXXIV.-The letter. 
               CHAPTER XXXV.-Love and jealousy. 
               CHAPTER XXXVI.-The picture. 
               CHAPTER XXXVII.-Fanny alone. 
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.-Fanny's pilgrimage-Hopes confirmed-Dreams and omens. 
               CHAPTER XXXIX.-An exile's return-Discourse of the laborers-Modern version of an old story. 
               CHAPTER XL.-Old Matthew. 
               CHAPTER XLI.-The absconder. 
               CHAPTER XLII.-A night of terrors. 
               CHAPTER XLIII.-New friends. 
               CHAPTER XLIV.-A surprise. 
               CHAPTER XLV.-Francesca at the Castle. 
               CHAPTER XLVI.-A declaration. 
               CHAPTER XLVII.-Letter from Lord Sarum-The beginning of the end. 
               CHAPTER XLVIII.-The physiognomist. 
               CHAPTER XLIX.-Lord Sarum and Col. Lacey. 
               CHAPTER L.-The original of the picture. 
               CHAPTER LI.-Mother and daughter. 
               CHAPTER LII.-The secret revealed. 
               CHAPTER LIII.-Joy and sorrow. 
               CHAPTER LIV.-The curse fulfilled. 
             
            PRICE TWENTY-FIVE CENTS. 
            Philadelphia: A. Winch, 505 Chestnut St. 
            Copies sent by Mail, on receipt of Price. 
          
       
   
