
    ----CITATION----
        Friend, Julia M.. The Chester Family, or, The Curse of the Drunkard's Appetite .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6484
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The Chester family, or, The curse of the drunkard's appetite
             
                  THE CHESTER FAMLY; OR, THE CURSE OF THE DRUNKARD'S APPETITE. BY JULIA M. FRIEND. Moderate drinking is the source of all drunkenness. BOSTON: WILLIAM WHTE AND COMPANY, 158 WASHNGTON STREET. NEW-YORK AGENTS-THE AMERICAN NEWS COMPANY "9 NASSAU STREET. 1869.     Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year x869, by HENRY C. WRIGHT, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. BosToN: Stereotyped and Printed by William White & Co.  To MY FRIEND, AND THE FRIEND   OF HUMANITY, IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED BY THE AUTHOR.      CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. A Letter from Henry C. Wright to Julia M. Friend . . . . 13 LETTER I. Early Life of John and Mary Chester . .   .  .     17 LETTER II. THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE. The Drunken Lover saved by his Affianced Wife   .  .   24 LETTER III. THE DRUNKARD'S CHLDREN. Can Children love and honor a Drunken Father?--The Patient, Crippled Child .....         .37 LETTER IV. THE CHRISTMAS STORY. Drunken Father stealing his Child's Money to buy Liquor. -Sur- prise Party. - Christmas Dinner. - The Cripple gets her Crutch- es despite the Theft of her Drunken Father .. 53 LETTER V. DEATH OF LITTLE LIZZIE. Result of a Drunken Father's Neglect.- A Drunken Father at the Death-Scene of his Child, and at the Burial of her Body  . 70 LETTER VI. THE RUMSELLER AND HS VICTIMS. The Drunkard's Wife and Children face to face with the Rumseller. - Demanding the Husband and Father. - Made Drunk by him . 82 LETTER VII. THE RUM-VOTER AND HS VICTIMS. His Responsibility for Drunkenness and its Results . . . 94 5     6             Contents. LETTER VIII. MODERATE DRINKERS. A Father and Child drowned.-All Drunkards come from Moderate Drinkers. -The Gutter and Poor-house Drunkards come from the Parlor and Fashionable-saloon Drunkards . .    . 102 LETTER IX. SELF-SACRIFICE. Iong-suffering Patience of the Drunkard's Wife , ,    116 LETTER X. PRE-NATAL INFLUENCES. k Mother consigning her Child to the Drunkard's Doom before it is born. - A Mother getting rid of Disease by entailing it on her Child . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .132 LETTER XI. FIRST VOYAGE TO SEA. The Young Sailor's Welcome Home.-A Son pleading with his Drunken Father to know and welcome him Home  .  .  . 155 LETTER XII. HOPES AND PLANS OF JOHNNY, To get a Comfortable Home for his Mother . . .  .  .  . 166 LETTER XIII. HOPES AND PLANS ACTUALIZED. The Mother and her Children in their New Home. -Noble Conduct of Johnny.- Beautiful Character of Ellen.--Father too Drunk to share their Joy. - Silent Prayer and Agony of the Wife . . 181 LETTER XIV. The Drunkard redeemed       . - .  .    .  .  . 191 LETTER XV. CONCLUSION. Cost of the Drunkard's Drink to National Wealth, to National Mor- als, to Human Life . .  .  .          .  . 207 APPENDIX. STATISTICAL TABLES, Showing the cost of the Drunkard's Drink to the Industry, to the Morals, and the Lives-of the People          . 220   PREFACE. THE man who has a thirst for intoxicating drinks is on the road that leads direct to the gutter, the poor-house, the insane or idiotic asylum, to the dungeon or the gallows. The time he will take to get there depends solely on the extent and frequency with which it is indulged. The one great object of the following pages is to show the effects of this thirst on family relations; especially as it bears on the wives and children of its victims. It is no ele- mentary part of human nature. It is created solely by alcohol, which, in all its forms, is most appropriately called byY the author, "TIIE DRUNKARD'S DRINK ;" and the thirst for it, with equal propriety, she terms, "THE DRUNKARD'S APPETITE." He who occasionally or regularly uses alcohol as a bever age, or as a medicine, or as a religious rite, no matter ill what form, is sure to be cursed with the drunkard's appetite. Nothing can create this longing, but the drunkard's drink. This, whether taken for sacramental or medicinal purposes,     8           Preface. or at the convivial board, is sure to create it where it does not exist, or stimulate it to madness where it does. Its existence in the human soul is in itself a bitter curse to him who has it, and to all who are associated with him in any way; but more especially to those who hold to him the relation of wife, daughter, mother, or sister. The agony it produces to all such can never be known. While woman remains true to herself, she will love man with a love that would heroically hide his sins even though they break her heart, crush the life of God from her soul, and bury her starved and outraged form beneath the sod. She will go on to toil, to suffer, to starve, and die, and see her children starve and die, before she will expose to the world the horrors daily and nightly enacted by a drunken husband and father in presence of his wife and children. In plain and direct language, the author has shown the husband and father drunk in presence of his wife and chil- dren. The pictures can not fail to reach the heart of every one who shall read the story of the Chester Family. The story is simple and unpretending, in matter and manner. Like its author, it makes no pretensions. Its claim is in its fidelity to human nature, as it manifests itself, when unob- structed by drunkenness, in the sweet affections, the tender endearments, the ennobling relations, and kindly charities and courtesies of home; Though unaffected and unpretending, there is a power and a poignancy in many of the scenes, that will be felt by the heart of every woman who is associated in intimate rela- tions with a drunkard.   Preface.          9 Her rebukes of rum-sellers, rum-legislators, and rum- voters, are keen yet kind, severe yet just; and administered with stern, uncompromising fidelity, yet purified and soft- ened by womanly tenderness and pity. So will every family  judge them, ill which the volume shall find a welcome. And what must be the condition of that family in which it can not find a welcome? No man knowing what it is to be a loving and tender hus- band and father; no woman who has experienced the truly dignified and ennobling cares and anxieties of a wife and mother, can afford to give this little history of the Chester Family the go-by. It belongs to the family-circle. To save our homes from the curse of the drunkard's appetite it has been written, and is now published. Let every father and mother see to it that the story of John and Mary Chester and their chil- dren is made familiar to all who are gathered around them in the sanctuary of their homes. It gives me great pleasure to close this preface with a let- ter from Prof. William Denton, the well-known, highly ap- preciated, and justly popular lecturer on geology, in con- nection with the proress of man in knowledge, goodness, and happiness. HENRY C. WRIGHT.     10          Preface. WELLESLEY, MASS., Sept. 23, 1869. HENRY C. WRIGHT. My Friend, - The story of the Chester Family, which you put into my hands, is one admirably calculated to show the wickedness of those who deal in intoxicating drinks, the terrible consequences that flow from the drunkard's appetite, the almost irresistible power with which it holds its vic- tims, and the necessity for the adoption of such measures as will result in giving a death-blow to this demon that so curses society. Since you and I first met on the temperance platform in London, July, 1843, much has been done. The bottle has disappeared from the pulpit and the vestry; the rum-jug is but seldom seen in the harvest-field; the side-board and its glasses are no longer considered necessary to generous hos- pitality; boys can learn a trade without paying footings to be spent in making their fellow-workmen drunk; the Method- ist society, in conference assembled, no longer considers it necessary to pass such resolutions as they did in England about thirty years ago, forbidding the use of their churches for temperance meetings, their ministers to lecture on tem- perance outside of their own circuits, and any other than intoxicating wine to be used for sacramental purposes. No church at the present day would so dare to outrage the moral sentiment of the community, which, since that time, by the labors of Ihe once-despised temperance advocates, has taken a much more advanced position. -   Preface.          1 Temperance is a word that can now be found in the poli- tician's dictionary. Before her altar the would-be represen- tative and senator bows and offers propitiatory sacrifices; and though, like many other worshippers, his hope of reward is greater than his love for the object of his worship, yet his very attitude is evidence of the amazing change that has been wrought in public opinion. Much, however, remains to be done. Hence I hail-suck books as this of our friend Julia. Our children are to be warned; our young people, soon to become the creators of a new human world, must be taught the horrible consequences of implanting an alcoholic appetite in their offspring; anm a single glass may do it. Alcohol in all its forms must be denounced, and its use, even as a medicine, discarded by al who have the highest welfare of the community at heart Those thinly-disguised drunkard-making compounds, th4 various bitters, whose advertisements disgrace as well a disfigure the land, must be exposed; and their makers sellers, and advertisers classed with the rumseller ane the murderer, before temperance can reign in ever home. We are in danger, in these days of political temperane agitation, of exchanging the temperance reformer for th policeman's staff, and depending upon the ever-shiftin, political breeze to blow our vessel into the harbor. Suec books as this may enable us to avert this danger, deepe: the moral sentiment of the community, so that right may b done because it is seen to be best for the welfare of all cor cerned. Nothing can make up for the lack of knowledge     12          Preface. temperance education is the only sure foundation for a tem- perance community; and should this be neglected for more specious but less effective measures, the consequences must be disastrous. Knowing that "The Chester Family" will aid in this most important work, I thank you, in the name of the friends of temperance, for inducing its author to write it for publi- cation. Thy since:e friend, WILLIAM DENTON. a' r   INTRODUCTION. HENRY C. WRIGHT TO JULIA M. FRIEND. BOSTON, Aug. 29, 1869. JULIA, MY FRIEND: I have heard you relate many incidents in the experience of the Chester family. I have never heard a statement of facts which more strikingly illustrates the power and results of the drunkard's appetite. That appetite for alcoholic drinks an- nually lays its hundreds of thousands in the drunk- ard's grave. It desolates tens of thousands of homes, fills our poorhouses and our prisons with untold numbers of paupers and criminals, pierces the hearts of wives and mothers with unutterable anguish, and casts on society numberless neglected, starving, and orphan children. "It is the pesti-     "      Introduction. lence that walketh in darkness, and the destruc- tion that wasteth at noonday." What a legacy of woe do those parents leave to their children, who create in them, before they are born, the drunkard's appetite, and thus. stamp on them the drunkard's doom! But the striking peculiarity of this family is, that not one of the children followed in the footsteps of their poor father. The power of tlho motther saved them. But multitudes ar; i,-.p. i., .I Iu I dr l::' cnness before they are born, because of the intemperate habits of father or mother. Angels might well weep over the birth of the child of a drunken father Though not cursed with a drunkard's a! petite, so appalling in its results to all that can adorn and dignify manhood, yet some of the chil- dren of the family, here alluded to, are physically victimized to it. Having committed the fatal mistake of accept- ing, as a husband, a victim of the drunkard's appe- tite, the great, tender, pitying Human Heart can not but pay homage to the patience, forbearance, the   Introduction.       I5 heroic and sublime self-abnegation, of the wife and mother. That noble son, too, who dedicated his young life to the welfare of his mother, brother, and sisters! Before the devotion of that wife and mother, and of that son, how contemptible seems that glory of the warrior which is born of hot wrath and dripping with blood.! What a sublime and long-continued exhibition of the spirit that once controlled the pitying and forgiving Nazarene! Her life, as a wife, was one noble effort to overcome evil with good; to con- quer by patient, uncomplaining suffering. And the victory was hers. The drunkard's appetite and the drunkard's doom were organized into him before he was born, and made his birthright in- heritance. Poor child, poor youth, poor man! God pity all such! Over such Jesus wept. Over such, all who have his pitying spirit will shed tears of compassion, instead of indignation. Julia, my friend, can you not, in a series of fa- miliar letters, give to the world, for the instruc- tion and benefit of children and adults, the facts     I6       Iztroduction. that are known to you respecting that family? They may powerfully serve to illustrate the bitter curse of the drunkard's appetite, the self-forgetting, heroic spirit of that wife and mother, and the in- famous character of the rumseller's occupation, and of all who, as voters and law-makers, license and protect it, and of those who can live by knowingly and deliberately making drunkards, and by entail- ing on their mothers, sisters, wives, and children, such unutterable woes, and on society so much pauperism and crime. If you could write to me, in your own clear, fa- miliar style, such a series of letters, respecting that Chester family, I could so use them that they might bring light and joy to many hearts and homes, over which now brood darkness and the shadow of death. Thine, HENRY C. WRIGHT.   THE CHESTER FAMLY. LETTER I. EARLY LIFE OF JOHN AND MARY CHESTER. BOSTON, September, 1869. HENRY C. WRIGHT: My Dear Friend, -You request me to give you, in a series of letters, the sad history of John Chester and his family, the particulars of which are so well known to me. I will cheerfully com- ply with your request, hoping that the facts con- cerning this poor family may be the means of helping to save the world from the drunkard's appetite, and from the curses it brings upon indi- viduals, families, and societies. 2          17     18      ThIe Chester Family. This case illustrates most strikingly the fact that our appetites, tastes, and, finally, our whole character, depend essentially on the influences brought'to bear upon us previous to our birth. It also shows the fearful responsibility which a wo- man takes upon herself when she becomes the wife of a manl cursed with a drunkard's appetite. She not only suffers untold agony herself, but she 'also brings suffering upon her innocent children, by creating in them  a thirst for intoxicating drinks, whicl had been the curse of their father, depriving them of his love and care. No woman has a right to marry a man known to be the slave of such an appetite; thus subject- inrg her children to the disgrace which attaches itself to the drunkard's name, and to the suffering which inevitably falls upon them. A father, a babbling, idiotic drunkard in presence of his chil- dren! A  child a witness to such a loathsome manifestation of his own father! It is a sad, sad sight, over which Humanity might well weep! The following facts in the life of Mrs. Chester will call forth the sympathy of every true heart. While she did a great wrong to herself and chil- dren by becoming the wife of a man -known to be   Their Early Life.      19 under the control of this brutalizing appetite, still we can not but feel the deepest pity for her suffer- ings, and admire the noble and beautiful spirit of self-sacrifice which she showed in bearing her trials with such uncomplaining patience and hero- ism. Ever forgetful of self, she strove constantly to save her husband, as well as her children, from suffering,; often denying herself food and clothing that they might not be hungry and cold; labor- ing with her hands early and late, exposing herself to sufferings of every kind, that those whom she loved, and who were dependent on her, might be made comfortable. Such was, in brief, the character of Mary Ches- ter. There are few persons in the world, I be- lieve, who possess the many noble and beautiful qualities that belong to this woman. There are thousands who have suffered as she has, and from the same cause; but very few who have borne their sufferings with such sublime heroism. John Chester was a young man possessed of many noble traits of character, and might have made himself a useful and respected citizen, but for one thing. He was under the control of a demon who ruled him with absolute sway. From early     20      The Chester Family. infancy he had manifested a love for alcohol, which amounted to an overmastering passion. When a very young child, the sight or smell of liquor would throw him into a singular state of excite- ment, which nothing would calm but a draught of the vile poison. When he became old enough to attend school, his teacher was often obliged to have him carried home, he having been rendered help- less by intoxication. He would procure from the village tavern, on his way to school, a quantity of liquor sufficient to rob him of his reason, and lower him beneath the level of the brute. And yet, notwithstanding his sad infirmity, there was not, in the whole village, a youth who was more universally loved than was John Chester. Naturally possessed of a noble, generous nature, he gained the sympathy of all who knew him. They felt that he was the helpless victim of a pas- sion which must prove his utter ruin; and many were the kind words which greeted him, and many the tears of pity that fell as he staggered through the village street, on his way to his father's house. All seemed to regard his fatal appetite, not as his fault, but as his greatest possible misfortune. In the same town, and near John Chester's   Their Early Life.     21 home, lived a young girl named Mary Lincoln. She was an only daughter, and the pride of her parents and brothers, who looked upon her as only a little lower than the angels. Judge, then, of their sorrow and surprise when she told them, in her firm, quiet way, that she was soon to become the wife of John Chester. In vain they remon- strated and pleaded with her. In reply she would only say, - "I love him, and believe I can save him." I have heard my mother say that it was heart- rending to hear Mary's young brothers entreat her not to take the fatal step; but, although gentle and yielding in other things, she remained firm and decided in this. "It is my duty," she would often say. "He loves me; and, for my sake, he will reform." Poor woman! She knew not the power of the fiend that held the destiny of John Chester, and of all who should blend their lives with his, in his cruel grasp. In the innocence and simplicity of her heart, she thought she could trust her happi- ness to a drunkard's love; not knowing that the drunkard's appetite, that permeated and enslaved the soul of her affianced, would assuredly make     22      The Chester Family. him oblivious of his wife and children, and of all his duties to mankind. Mary Lincoln, lovingly self-deceived, could not be made to read her own doom in the experience of the drunkards' wives, sitting sad and forsaken in the drunkards' homes, all over the land. She did not consider that, if she could not keep him from those vile resorts for drunkards of every type and grade, the low grog-shops and fashionable drinking-saloons, as her affianced lover, she could do nothing for him when the lover had become the legal husband. Though wide awake to the fact that he was cursed with a drunkard's appe- tite, which, as a babbling, idiotic fiend, attended his every step, yet her eyes were closed to the ex- periences of all who had accepted drunkards as husbands. She was true to that womanly love that is ever ready to shield its object from every danger, however appalling, and cheerfully meet suffering and death to accomplish its purpose. She deliberately turned away from those who loved her, and would have sheltered and guarded her with tenderest care, and went forth to meet the doom of a drunkard's wife! My heart recoils from the self-imposed task of   Their Early Life.     23 tracing the results, to'herself and her children, of this decision. A loved and only daughter! The tenderly-cherished sister of noble and manly brothers! The brightest ornament of a happy home, now about to link her destiny with a man known as the victim of an appetite for alcoholic drinks, over which he had no control I As the fond friends read the doom of their loved one, written in the thousands of homes of drunkards all over the land, we can not but sympathize with them in their deep anxiety and sorrow. JULIA M. FRIEND.     LETTER II. THE DRUNKARD'S WIFE. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. WRIGHT: MJy Friend, - John Chester and Mary Lincoln were married. No tears, no entreaties of parents and brothers, no warning cries that came to her ears from the thousands of drunkards' homes all over the land; no shame, anguish, and suffering, that might come to the children of a drunken father, had power to avert from her the fearful doom, which, as the wife of John Chester, awaited her. That pure-hearted and inexperienced young daughter and sister passed from the heaven of a father's and mother's love, and the sweet intima- cies of tender and affectionate brothers, to become the wife of a drunkard, and the mistress of his desolate household, and to share, as a wife and the 24   The Drunkard's Wife.     25 mother of his children, the poverty, shame, dis- grace, and heart-desolation of a drunkard's home. An event occurred which should have held her- back from the fearful step. It was as follows:- A short time previous to their marriage, they attended a party some two miles from the village. The season was winter, and the night proved ex- tremely cold. Strange to say, Chester remained sober during the entire evening. A smile of joy and pride lighted up Mary's face, and into her heart there crept a ray of hope that he would no more yield to temptation. The time passed pleasantly; and, at a late hour, the company separated, and prepared to return to their homes. Soon after they had started on their way, Mary perceived that the arm of her lover, on which she leaned so fondly, began to tremble, and his firm step to falter. Before leaving the house, Chester had secretly put the intoxicating cup to his lips; and soon he was completely under-its in- fluence. Benumbed with cold, he sank down on the ground, and fell into a heavy stupor, from which she tried in vain to rouse him. "He must not be left to die alone," thought the noble girl, as she wrapped her own shawl around     26      The Chester Family. him, and hurried away to bring help to save his life. Calling at the first house she came to, which was nearly a mile from where she left him, she begged the neighbor to go to him as soon as pos- sible. "Do, Mr. Williams," she said, "take your horse and sleigh, and come quick! Oh, I am so afraid he will be frozen to death before we reach him!" They found him still insensible. So Mr. Wil- liams, with Mary's help, lifted him carefully into the sleigh, and carried him to his father's house. "Mary Lincoln, I wish you would let this be a warning to you," remarked Mr. Williams as they rode along, glancing at the insensible form lying helplessly on the bottom of the sleigh: "I'm afraid that you will repent it if you marry John Chester. You see what a state he is in to-night; and you have no reason to hope he will do any better after your marriage." But Mary could only weep and remain silent. She knew that no argument she could use would convince her kind-hearted friend that it would be best or right for her to marry a drunkard. Yet, not for an instant, did she doubt that she would   The Drunkard's W[ife.    27 have power to reclaim him. For his sake, she would not shrink from any sacrifice. She was young and hopeful, and trusted with childlike faith in the power of that strong, true, and undying love which filled her heart for the erring one; and, instead of wavering in her resolve to become his wife, her purpose, from that sad night, became firmly fixed. Such was the decision of that truly noble, but erring young girl, in regard to her poor drunken lover. She hoped that his love for her, and her's for him, might be more potent than his love for liquor. She, in her great faith in the power of love to save the world from all sin, fondly trusted that it might and would save her lover and hus- band from the drunkard's doom. She hoped that love for wife and children and home would be stronger than love of rum, of the filthy, loathsome groggery and saloon, and of the babbling, brawling inebriates of both sexes who are ever on hand there. Poor girl! Judge her not too severely. She erred; but long and terrible was her atonement. Love might and would have much sooner saved the poor inebriate lover and husband, had the com-     28      The Chester Family. muni'ty that constitute the Church and State, among whom they lived, backed up her resolution to save her lover, by refusing to furnish food to strengthen his fatal appetite. But, instead of that, they did all they could to blast her hopes, and render her heroic sacrifice to save her lover and husband of no avail. Rum-voters voted for ruml-lawmakers. Rum-lawmakers passed laws to license and protect rumsellers, and to encourage them to furnish John Chester, and such as are cursed with a similar propensity, with the means to feed and strengthen it. They vote to perpetu- ate and strengthen the appetite, and to excite it to madness where it already exists, and to create it where it does not exist. Drum-voters and rumsellers made that lover drunk. They prostrated him in the snow, as he staggered and iell by the side of his loved one. Rtn%-voters and the advocates of a license-law held in their grasp the dagger which, through their agents, rumsellers, was plunged into the in- nocent, trusting heart of that young girl. On their souls rest the responsibility of that fearful scene, which sent that brave girl a mile through cold and snow for help to save her lover from   The Drunkard's Wife.     29 freezing to death. Let every voter, and every lawmaker who casts a vote to license men to cre- ate such scenes, be held responsible to that bar of justice and right erected by God in every human being. It might be of great use and interest to trace minutely the drunkard's downward course step by step; to show the process by which the drunk- ard's appetite triumphs over love for wife and chil- dren; and how the son, brother, lover, husband, and father were buried in the loathsome grave of drunkenness. But I must pass over much of their early married life; though many incidents occurred that told too plainly how the entire man was in the grasp of a relentless demon, that would not let his victim go. For a short time after their marriage, a favor- able change seemed to have taken place. His step became firmer; he attended more regularly to his business, and his friends began to hope that he would not again turn from the path of right. Hope sprang up, and shed its bright beams on the heart of the young and trusting bride. She felt that a love so pure, so self-forgetting, and capable of a sacrifice so sublime as hers, would have power to     30      Tuze Chester Family. vitalize and call into activity the manly and noble elements, which, as she knew, slumbered in the depths of his being. Let no one, who has ever felt the power of that exclusive, concentrated conjugal love, which is all- trusting, and which casts out all fear, blame this young girl for uniting her destiny with that of a drunkard. Think of her tenderly and pityingly; not as guilty and blamewortly, but as mistaken. Life seemed a blank desolation to her without the mate her heart had chosen. She must make a last effort to save him, even, if need be, by the sacri- fice of herself. This she could do only as his wife. Death by his side, to save him, seemed preferable to life apart from him. Though seemingly mis- directed, there was a sublime heroism in her self- abnegation to save her husband, that must ever command the highest homage of every pure and loving heart. But, alas! she knew not the power of the ser- pent whose coils were about him. In less than a year after their marriage he sank again;' and this time so deeply into the dark pit, that it seemed impossible for any power to save him. I pass silently over the first few years of their /   The Drunkard's Wife.     31 married life. Many changes had taken place in the little village. Mary's parents had both died; and her brothers were married, and had pleasant homes of their own. A small hut --it could not be called a house- had been built in a remote part of the village; and in this wretched dwelling lived John and Mary Chester, with their young children. Privation and suffering had wrought sad changes in her once beautiful face; but, at heart, Mary Chester was the same noble, loving, self-sacrificing woman as of old. Her face was pale and care- worn; her eye had lost its brightness; and her once light step had become heavy and slow: but a smile, born of patience and hope, lighted up her thin features; and her voice had lost none of its old-time sweetness, as she caressed the often half- starved children, who clung to her, asking for food which she had not to give them. Amid all her toils and sufferings, she was never heard to complain. When, day after day, her hus- band dame home staggering with intoxication, no word of reproach escaped her lips. Patiently she toiled, with all her feeble strength, to supply the wants of her little family; self-forgetting, self-de-     32      The Chester Family. nying, and giving up her life for the comfort and happiness of those sle loved. The neigllbors were generally kind, and in many ways alleviated, in a degree, the sufferings of the afflicted family. Occasionally, some one, losing all patience with the inebriate husband and father, would upbraid Mrs. Chester for her uniform kind- ness and patience. One of the neighbors, a Mrs. Wilson, often took it upon herself to dictate to Mrs. Chester regarding her treatment of her hus- band. "Why don't you try it?" she said one day: "be harsh and severe with him, and see what effect that will have. If John Chester was my husband, I'd soon break him of coming home drunk, and teach him to treat his wife and children better."' "I do what I believe to be my duty, " replied Mrs. Chester, in her low, mild voice. "Duty!" repeated Mrs. Wilson: "I shouldn't think you were doing your duty to go without food and clothes while your husband is making a beast of himself in a bar-room! It is your duty to let him know that you resent such treatment; and it's my opinion, that the sooner you begin the better."   The Drunkard's Wife.     33 I heard, one day, a conversation something like this between them; and after Mrs. Wilson, who was known to be a very tyrant in her own horoe, had, in the manner I have described, given a piece of her advice, Mrs. Chester, in her own quiet way, replied,- "Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox, and hatred therewith." Whereupon Mrs. Wilson became silent, and was never known to allude to the subject again. It was right and noble in Mary Chester, after hav- ing placed herself in the position of a drunkard's wife, to meet her trials as she did. This trusting wife has often been heard to say, that, in the darkest hours of her sad life, she never gave up the hope that he would reform.  It seemed as though some angel walked constantly by her side, comforting and sustaining her, whis- pering words of consolation to her when she was ready to sink down under the weight of her sor- rows. When, again and again, he would awake for a moment to a consciousness of his terrible con- dition, and on his bended knees promise to do better, and the next hour forget his resolutions and break his promises, she did not lose heart. 3     34      The Chester Family. "I will be patient, and treat him kindly," she would say. "I will wait; and, in God's own good time, his better nature will triumph, and he will be saved." She knew that a true and noble manhood was there ; and though, for the time being, it was en- tirely crushed by the appetite that controlled him, she had a sure faith that it would ultimately tri- umph, and that she should live to see him in his right mind. He was the father of her children; and, for their sake, she was resolved to do all she could to save him. She was his wife, made such by love; and she could not and would not give him up, whatever might come to her. And well she knew that kindness was more potent than unkindness, and gentle words than harsh ones. Though he inflicted on her and her children the greatest possible wrong and outrage, she felt that she had no right to be unkind to him because he was to her; that there was no power in resentment, impatience, and harshness in words, looks, or deeds, to win him from the brutal com- I)anions and foul conversation of the bar-room and the grog-shop, to the sweet smiles, the tender caresses, and the pure hearts and words, of his wife and children at home.   The Drunkard's Wife.     35 Mary Chester well knew the value of good to conquer evil; of kindness to conquer unkindness. She knew that gentle words could turn away wrath, even the insane drunkard's wrath. She felt that there was power in good, and in nothing else, en- tirely to overcome all evil. In this grand and only power to redeem man from sin, her faith was un- wavering and everlasting. "I knew my husband's besetting sin," she said, "before I became his wife. I knew he was cursed with the drunkard's appetite, and I married him to save him. I laid my life on the altar of sacrifice to save him from the demon that held him in his grasp. I knew that only patient, uncomplaining self-forgetfulness on 'my part could aid him to achieve his redemption. Shall I now give up in despair? I know that the elements of a pure and manly character are in him. The image of a loving God can not be effaced from his soul. I will never cease to appeal to it. I feel assured, that even in his case, though seemingly so hopeless, the God in my husband will be called into efficient action, and will surely triumph over the demon that now enslaves him. Though I die under my sufferings as the drunkard's wife, I will persevere     36      The Chester Family. in the use of the only true means to save my hus- band from drunkenness, -GOOD FOR EVIL." There speaks a brave woman! Mary Chester is a moral hero. Her wifely and motherly heroism, in her obscure and desolate home, is worth more to the human race than the glory of all the mili- tary heroes that emblazon but to disfigure the historic page. Theirs is dripping with innocent blood; hers is radiant with all that is beautiful and divine in womanhood. J. M. F.   LETTER III. THE DRUNKARD S CHLDREN. H. a. -. ]BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend, - John Chester had become, in a few years, so changed in appearance, that no one who knew him in his boyhood and youth would have recognized him. He no. longer felt shame for his cruel conduct toward his wife and children. His self-respect was entirely gone; and it seemed impossible for him ,to sink lower than he already was. The town grew rapidly; strangers were moving in, more liquor was sold, and every cent he earned went into the hands of a rumseller. The drunkard's appetite predominated over rea- son, conscience, and affection, sweeping away all that was true and noble in his nature. In his better moments, he would struggle hard to gain the mastery over the evil spirit that possessed him, 87     38      The Chester Family. and resolve to do better; but the next hour his resolutions would be broken. Ellen, the eldest of the Chester family, was a sweet, sensitive child; with her mother's pleasant face, and tender, kindly heart. How plainly I remember her devotion to her brother Johnny, whom she always led by the hand, and watched over with loving tenderness! The two children attended the village school when the weather was warm enough to make their thin and poor clothing comfortable. How many, many times I have seen Ellen's face flush, and her eyes fill with tears, at the thoughtless or malicious remark of a sclool- mate concerning -her father. At such times, she would run away by herself, and weep as if her heart would break; and when I would follow her, as I always did, and try to comfort her, she would sob out, "Oh! isn't it too bad? My father would be real good if he didn't drink rum!  God pity those innocent children who are taunted by their playmates for the drunkenness of their parents! God forgive those cruel children who mock at such unfortunate little ones! I had rather be the child of a drunken father, than the   The Drunkard's Children.    39 wicked and cruel child who could laugh at me for being so. Better to suffer wrong than to do wrong; better to be ridiculed for being the child of a drunkard, than to. ridicule one for being so. No good and generous boy or girl will taunt another for having a drunken father. All such suffering little ones deserve our tenderest sympathy, not our coarse and cruel taunts. How lost to self-respect must be that parent who can subject his children to such treatment, by entailing on them the curse and shame of the drunkard's appetite! How many children could say with Ellen, "My father would be a good man if he did not drink rum!" Dear, trusting child! God bless, thee for thy beautiful faith in thy father! Thou art right: he would, indeed, be a good man, and a loving, ten- der father, but for the drunkard's appetite, and those who deal out to him the foul poison, by which he becomes a terror to his little ones, and a curse to society. Let the indignation of the world be upon the rumsellers and their occupation! They live by robbing helpless women and children of their bread, and by sending sorrow and desola- tion into our hearts and homes.     40      The Chester Family. But Johnny, dear little fellow! instead of cry- ing when bad boys would taunt him about his drunken father, the old clothes he wore, or the hut he lived in, would declare, stoutly, that he meant to be a rich man when he grew up, and build a big house, and have a gold watch just like the schoolmaster's, and then see if they would laugh at him! The third child, little Mary, was a cripple from her birth, the result of her father's drunkenness. But, though misshapen in body, her spirit was most beautiful and perfect. There was a gentleness and purity about this child, that seemed not of earth, but of heaven, - a certain sweet, magnetic power, that every one felt who came into her presence. She could not walk; but her mother would carry her in her arms every day, when the weather was fine, to the door of their humble dwelling. And there she would sit for hours, and gaze up at the blue sky, and out upon the green earth ; and some- times the children would stop, on their way to school, and place fruit or flowers in her lap: then she would look up with a grateful smile in her blue eyes, though she seldom uttered a word. It was my delight to run across the field to that   The Dtunkard's Children.    41 lowly home, on days when there was no school, and teach little Mary to read. She was an apt scholar; and, by the time she was six years old, she could read and spell very well. While Ellen and Johnny were at school, she would help her mother all she could, by taking care of Frank and Lizzie, the two youngest chil- dren, Mrs. Chester would place the baby in the cradle; and Mary would sit by her hour after hour, caring for, and amusing her, while their mother went from home to work to earn food for them. Mrs. Chester tried, with all her power, to make their poor home pleasant and attractive to her husband, often going without food herself, that she might place a warm supper before him, when he came home at night; and, in many ways, provid- ing for his comfort and happiness.' Sometimes, though not often, he would reward her with a word or look of gratitude or appreciation: then she would hurry away by herself, to fall on her knees, and pray that she might have patience and strength given her to bear all her burdens, and wait for her reward. "The time will come," she sometimes said to     42      The Chester Family. my mother: "I feel that God will answer my prayer, and my husband will be a reformed man. I know not how, nor when; but I will be patient, and wait and hope." And she was patient, and waited and hoped on. And God did hear and answer her prayer. We shall see how and when. I could relate to you many instances, showing the power of alcohol over all that was true and manly in the nature of the poor inebriate; but I shrink from the task. Some of them are so sad and painful, that even now, although years have passed since they occurred, I can not refrain from weeping, as they come up all fresh and vivid be- fore me. I have seen and heard Ellen and Johnny plead with their father to stay at home with them, when, night after night, he would leave his wife and children, and spend his time in the bar-room. "Please, father," Ellen would say, " please stay at home to-night: it is so lonesome to have you gone away all the time." I remember one night witnessing a scene be- tween those poor children and their wretched father, that I can never forget. He had been un-   The Drunkard's Children.    43 usually sober for a few days, spending his evenings at home, to the great joy of his family. It was evident that a severe struggle was going on be- tween the good and evil spirits that dwell in the heart of every child of earth, each striving for the victory. The night of which I speak, he had ap- peared restless and uneasy, getting up and walking about the room, then throwing himself on a seat by the fire again in moody silence. The wife and children watched his movements silently, but with sad faces and anxious hearts. By and by he be- gan to make preparations to go out; and then Ellen and Johnny clung to him, and begged him not to go away. "If you will only stay at home to-night," said Johnny, " we shall have such a nice time." "Yes, father," added Ellen : " do stay, and we will sing to you the new verses we hEve just learned at school. And, father, I want to read you a story in my book too: you will stay, just to please us, won't you, father?" And the little girl clasped his hand in both her own, and looked up pleadingly in his face. At this moment the -baby, in her mother's arms, smiled, and held out her little hands, while she     "     The Chester Family. seemed to ask him in her sweet prattling way, to  take her to his heart and be saved.  For a few momnents he stood irresolute, while the bright-robed algel, battling with the powers of sin and death, whispered of love and duty; then, suddenlly yielding to the dark and terrible power that had so long held him in its grasp, and dashing away the weak hands that would have held him, and led him into the path of righlt, ihe went out into the darkness of the night, and sought to drown the voice of reason, as well as conscience and affection, in the intoxicating bowl. After he had left the house, Johnny sat down on the floor by his mother's side, and, laying his head in her lap, sobbed bitterly. "O mother!" said he, "I did want father to stay at home to-night so much! He has been so good all this week, I thought he would not get drunk any more." His mother tried to comfort him; but, in spite of her soothing words, he continued to weep in bitterness of heart. At last Mrs. Chester asked, - "What makes my little boy feel so very bad to- night? "Because, mother," he replied, "Willie Ben-   The Drunkard's Children.    45 son keeps telling me all the time that'my father is a drunkard, and says he is a bad man, and won't be any better, never! He says his father is good, and buys him every thing he-wants; and I told him, that, by and by, my father was going to stop getting drunk, and then he would be a good man, as good as Mr. Benson. So, when he began to stay at home in the evenings, and did not keep drink- ing rum, I thought he was going to be good right away; and, to-morrow, I was going to tell Wil- lie that my father wasn't a drunkard any more." How his simple, touching words pierced the mother's heart like a dagger. Had she a right to inflict shame and suffering upon her innocent children by becoming the wife of a drunkard? The question shaped itself full and firm in her aching brain; and the stern voice of reason and conscience answered, "2Vo!" So, stifling her own grief, she spoke cheerfully to her little son, telling him that she hoped the time would come when his father would not drink rum, and would love them and take care of them. "Do you think, mother," said the little fellow, when they had remained silent for a few moments, "that God hears me every time I pray?"     "     The Chester Family. "Yes, my son," replied Mrs. Chester: "I think God hears and answers the prayers of all good children." "Then," said Johnny, "I guess he will help my'father to be a good man by and by; for I al- ways ask God, when I pray, to take care of him, and not let him drink rum any more : but I didn't know as he heard me," he added; "for I have prayed for a very great while, and he hasn't an- swered my prayer yet." "Well, dear Johnny," answered his mother, "he has heard your prayer, and will answer it some time, I am sure. But God is all wisdom, and knows what is best for us, better than we our- selves know. So be a good boy; and, when you feel sad or grieved, ask him to give you a pure and patient heart, and you will feel happier." So the boy was soothed and comforted; and, kissing his mother good-night, went to his little bed. But, in a few moments, he called her to his side and said, - "Mother, I want to tell you now what made me cry so hard to-night when father went away. All the boys have got new sleds; and Willie Benson said to-day that I could not have one, because my   The Drunkard's Children.    47 father bought rum with all his money, and would not get me one. I told him that my father would make me a nice sled, as pretty as his; and so I went down to Mr. Smith's shop, and the men gave me some pieces of board. And then I went and asked Mr. Williams for some paint; and, when I told him that I was going to try to get my father to make me a sled, he gave me the paint and some nails, and every thing to make it with. So I brought them all home; and to-night I was going to ask him to make it, if he had not gone away; and then I was going to take it to school, and show it to the boys." Johnny's tears flowed afresh at the thought of his disappointment; but he soon dried them again, as he listened to the pleasant words which his mother spoke to him. Then he lay down on his little bed again, and soon forgot his sorrows in the sweet sleep of innocent childhood. The next day, as he was on his way to school, he met Mr. Williams. "Well, my son," said the genial, kind-hearted man, " how does your sled get along?" "Father didn't stay at home last night, sir," re- plied Johnny, while a flush stole over his young     48      The Chester Family. cheek; "but I guess he'll make it for me some time. I've got it all ready to make," he added, looking up with a bright smile. "Well, Johnny," said Mr. Williams, " you bring all the things over to my house, and maybe I can find somebody to do it for you." Johnny thanked him, and ran off to school with a light heart. "It's no use to wait for John Chester to do any thing for his family," soliloquized Mr. Williams as he walked along. "Now, it's a sin and shame for a man that has got such a smart, likely boy as that, not to treat him any better. By time!" he continued, which was the nearest he ever came to swearing, and a word which he only used on special occasions, and when he was a good deal excited, - "I don't know as it's right, but I'm dreadful certain that I should like to see John Chester put where he could not torment his family to death!" And Mr. Williams walked with a quick and ex- cited step toward the home of the Chester family, whither his wife had sent him with a- basket con- taining some food, which always came acceptable to them.   The Drunkard's Children.    49 That evening, any one entering Mr. Williams's large, comfortable kitchen might have seen-the good man surrounded with various kinds of car- penter's tools, fashioning slowly, and rather awk- wardly, something that afterward proved to be a sled, and a very good one, out of some pieces of board. "Why, father!" exclaimed Mrs. Williams, com- ing suddenly in upon him, and seeing the con- fusion in her neat, orderly kitchen ; " what upon earth are you doing?" "Nothing but making a sled, mother," he re- plied, in his usual smiling, deliberate way. "A sled!" repeated Mrs. Williams: "I'm sure I don't see any thing that looks like a sled here! You're making a good deal of clearing up to be done, I'm sure of that!" "O mother! it is a sled for Johnny Chester!" cried little Netty; who, by the way, was the only child, and the pride and pet of the family, and who had been watching her father with admiring eyes, ever since he commenced the work. "It is a sled; and it's going to be a real beauty too! You needn't mind the shavings, mother: I'll sweep them all up after father gets it done." 4     50      The Chester Family. So Mr. Williams worked away on the sled, with his little daughter to hold the pieces while he nailed them together, and help, and advise him in various ways about the important work. When it was all done, and Netty had painted the name on it, - which, by the way, was a very pretty and romantic one for a sled, - "Flying Cloud," and gotten up by Miss Netty's own inventive brain, - they were well pleased with their work. Netty had conferred with her father many times on the important subject of a name, while the sled was in process of construction. But he told her to use her own judgment about it; so she con- cluded to call it "Flying Cloud." "It's painted almost red, isn't it, father?" she said, viewing it delightedly from all points; "and that'll do splendidly for a cloud! don't you know, father, how the clouds look when the sun is set- ting? Just the color of this sled, some of them are! Then I'm sure it will be a real nice sled to go fast; so that'll be what it means by flying." "Seems to me, Netty, I never see them red sunset-clouds fly much," said her father, trying to hide a smile, which, nevertheless, showed itself plainly around the corners of his mouth.   The Drunkard's Children.   51 "So they don't, do they, father!" answered the puzzled child; " but I don't care, any way! I mean to call it ' Flying Cloud' if it don't come right!" So carefully and nicely marking out the letters with her pencil, a small brush and some very blue paint were brought into requisition, and in a short time the name appeared, plain enough for anybody to read, as Netty herself declared; and then she and her father took the sled over, and gave it to Johnny the same evening. There was great rejoicing in that group of unfor- tunate children, -unfortunate in having such a father, who could sacrifice their happiness on the altar of the drunkard's appetite. His love of rum was more potent than his love for his children. "HONOR THY FATHER AND THY MOTHER." Can children honor their father when they re- ceive from him, not the tender words of wisdom and sympathy of a parent, but the idiotic babblings of a drunkard! Talk to children for ever of their duty to honor such a father! It is of no use: they can not love him ; they can not respect him. They may and should treat him pityingly, and do all in     52      The Chester Family. their power to save him from the fiend that so cruelly holds him; but it is impossible for them to honor, respect, and love him. The most terrible curse of the drunkard's appe- tite is this, viz., AN IDIOTIC HEART,-a heart inca- pable of loving, or creating love in others. An idiotic head, as the result of this appetite, is bad enough; but a heart without power to love or to create love is a far more terrible curse than a head without power to think. To have the love for wife and children, the purest and sweetest of all human loves, extinguished by the drunkard's appetite, as in the case of John Chester, and of hundreds and thousands of others all over the land, is the bitterest curse of all I J. M. F.   LETTER IV. THE CHRISTMAS STORY. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C W. My Friend, - Johnny was two years younger than Ellen, and a noble-hearted little fellow he was. He loved his mother very dearly, and would often tell great stories of what he meant to do for her-when he grew to be a man. "I'll build" you a big house," he would say; "and we will have a fire all the time, and things to eat, and you shall all have nice, warm clothes to wear. I'll get a carriage for Mary to ride in, and she shall have books and every thing she wants." "And you'll buy me a pair of boots, won't you, Johnny?" little Frank would put in. "Yes; and Ellen shall go to school, and have a new hat and dress." 63     54      The Chester Family. "Johnny is a good boy," his mother would say, "to think of doing all these things when he grows up. "You didn't say what you should buy for Liz- zie," says Ellen. "You forgot her!  "No: I did not forget her; but she's so little she couldn't understand if I should tell her; so I thought I'd wait till she could talk before I told her what I should buy for her. I guess she will want dolls for playthings, and then she will want nice dresses to wear, and something to eat." "But where will you get money to buy all these nice things?" says Frank. "Oh! I'll work all the time; and I won't spend my money for rum as father does, but I'll save it to buy what we want." As he grew older, he became a great help to his mother, by doing such light work as he could for the neighbors, always bringing home his little earnings for his mother to use in the family. One autumn, when he was ten years old, he had more work than usual; and the thought came intp his mind to save a few cents from his daily wages, un- til he should get enough to buy a pair of crutches,   The Christmas Story.     55 as a Christmas present for Mary. He told his mother what he wished to do, and she was much pleased with his thoughtful kindness for his crip- pled sister. She gave him a little wooden box, into which he put a few cents every night when he came from his work. The crutches would cost two dollars,- a large sum for him to earn: but 'he thought all the time how pleased little Mary would be; and so he worked away with a light heart on Neighbor Williams's farm, doing all the work the hired men found for him to do. And every'uight he would hurry home, and count over his treasure, and try to calculate how many more days it would take before he would have the re- quired sum. Christmas week came at last. The little box was not quite full; but Johnny counted it over several times, and assured his mother that there were two whole dollars in it, at any rate. "I will take it to Mr. Williams," he said to his mother, "and ask him to take all these coppers, and give me two dollars in paper money." So, that evening, he took the box, snugly wrapped in brown paper, under his arm, and ran over to Mr. Williams's house. He found the good     56      The Chester Family. man seated before a bright fire in their cheerful sitting-room. "Come to the fire, my son," said Mr. Williams kindly, as Johnny stood by the door, cap in hand. Mrs. Williams arose, and placed him a chair, while her husband inquired,- "Well, Johnny, what do you wish for to- night?" "4 Please, sir," said the boy, taking the box from under his jacket and opening it, "I wish to know if you will give me paper money for these cents?" Mr. Williams took the box from the lad's hand; and, looking first at him and then at the money, he at length asked, - "Where did you get all this, my boy?" "I saved it, sir," replied Johnny proudly. "I have been a good while ; but I have got enough at last." "What are you going to do with it?" asked Mr. Williams again. -"Why, sir, I am going to buy a Christmas present for Mary if it is enough; and my mother thinks it is. She says two dollars will buy a nice pair of crutches; and then we are going to learn her to walk with them."    The Christmas Story.     5 Mr. Williams took the box, and placed it on the table without uttering a word. He then went to his desk, unlocked it, and began to pull out first one little drawer and then another; but something dimmed his eyes, so that he could not tell whether that which he drew forth was a bank-bill or brown paper. Something kept rising in his throat and choking him; so that his wife had pulled his sleeve and spoken to him twice, before he could command his voice to answer her. "No, no! of course I shan't take a cent of it! I'd no idea of such a thing!" he continued in a tone that signified that he considered it an insult to intimate that he thought of taking the money. "Here, Johnny," said he: " you take the box again, and carry it home with your money in it; and here are three dollars to buy the crutches be- sides: " and Mr. Williams tucked the bill into the boy's pocket, never waiting for thanks, and giving him the box back again, bade him be a good boy, and run home to his mother, which he did with a heart overflowing with gratitude toward his kind friend. Although late in the evening, Chester had not come in. Mrs. Chester sat holding her infant in her     58      The Chester Family. arms, while the other children slept peacefully in their poor beds. Johnny had told his mother all that Mr. Williams had said to him, and had shown her the bill, which he placed carefully in the box with the coppers. "Now," said he cheerfully, " we will have three dollars to buy something for a Christmas dinner, and a dress for the baby, and perhaps there will be enough left to buy a cap for Lranky too." Mrs. Chester sat long after her little son had gone to bed, thinking of his noble, generous con- duct; and from her heart there went up a fervent prayer that he might be saved from temptation, and led by angel hands in the path of right. Then she kissed each sleeping child ; and, laying her own weary body down beside her babe, she fell at last into a quiet slumber. Late at night, Chester returned home. He opened the door, which had been left unfastened, without awaking his wife; and, drawing near the little fire that still remained on the hearth, en- deavored to warm his chilled and shivering limbs. Of late, his time had been nearly all spent in the rumshop, where he managed to pay for the liquor   The Christmas Story.     59 he drank, by attending fires, and doing such work as the rumseller wanted to hire done. For the last two days, however, he had not been able to work, and that night he had been sent home with- out having drank his usual allowance. He sat by the fire, and tried to devise some means with which to buy a few glasses of liquor. "Two or three glasses," he kept saying to him- self, "just to quench this fire that is burning my brain." He glanced around the wretched room in search of something which he might sell to raise the re- quired sum. He got up, and walked slowly about; closely scanning every article that met his eye. Even the clothes of his wife and children he lifted up, looking at them, and wondering whether he could sell them; but he had sense enough left to know that no one would purchase those poor, patched garments, so old they were and worn. He opened the closet and took down, one by one, with his trembling hands, the neatly arranged dishes, coming at last to the box containing the money. A smile of exultation lighted up his bloated face at the sight. He paused not to think whose hands had toiled for it, nor that he might be rob-     60      The Chester Family. bing his children of their bread; but, taking the box with eager haste, he left the house, and walked with tottering and unsteady steps back to the rum- shop, where, before morning, he had squandered for rum that which was to have brought food and comfort to his suffering family. I can not bear to picture to you the grief and disappointment of poor Johnny when he discovered his loss. It seemed, for a time, as though his lit-  tie heart would break. His mother could say not a word to comfort him. Of course the other chil- dren lad to be told all about it when they saw their brother's tears; and, although they were sorely grieved for his disappointment, and sorry for the loss of the money, still their hearts were most deeply wounded with the  thought that their father was a thief, and had stolen from his own children; for, although no one had seen or heard him enter the house, still they knew well who must have been the thief. What a scene! A little brother earns money to buy crutches for a sister, made a cripple by the drunkenness of their father, and to feed his mother and her other children, left to starve by that father. The father steals his child's money to buy rum to   hez Christmas Story.     6i make himself drunk. The rumseller receives the stolen money. The rum-voters license him to re- ceive it, and promise to protect him in doing so; leaving the helpless cripple without her crutches, and the mother and her little ones to go without their food. It is cruel! it is insufferable! Can not some- thing be done to protect wives and children against such outrages? Must rumsellers continue to be protected by the voters in their cruel and nefari- ous occupation as RECEIVERS OF STOLEN GOODS? A drunken husband and father steals the food and raiment of his wife and children, and the crutches of his crippled daughter (or does what is the same), and takes them to a rumseller, who is licensed to receive them, and to give, in exchange, that which will send him home drunk to his starv- ing family! In every city and town where the drunkard's drink is sold, similar scenes are being enacted. Must these wrongs and outrages against the inno- cent and helpless continue to be licensed and pro- tected? Is there no help? Let the tears and anguish of little Johnny, and of his brothers and sisters and their mother, appeal to every heart.     62      The Chester Family. To the rescue, one and all, who would save the wives and children and homes of our country from desolation and ruin. Kind-hearted Mr. Williams came in amidst the grief that followed the discovery of the loss. He lad just called to say that he was going to the city, and would purchase the crutches if they wished him to do so. Besides, he wanted to make Johnny a little present on his own account. He had been intending, all along, to make him a Christmas present of five dollars; but now, he could not wait for Christmas morning to come, his heart was so full of kindness toward the boy, and admiration of his noble self-denial. "What's the use of waiting, mother?" he had said to his wife that morning: "two or three days won't make any difference as I can see." So, with the money in a small pocket-book, which he also intended to give Johnny, he called on the Chesters, and found the sad scene that I have described. Mr. Williams afterwards said, using his own ex- pressive phrase, that he was a good deal " riled;;" and in his indignation against rum-voters, rumsell- ers, rum-drinkers, and the whole liquor system   The Christmas Story.     63 generally, he so far forgot his usual tender respect for the sensitive feelings of Mrs. Chester, as to launch forth into all the strong epithets he could call to mind, winding up with the assertion that, - "Any man who could steal money from his own children, to buy rum with, was a villain, and de- served to be hung! ' Mrs. Chester had drawn him aside, that the children might be spared the mortification of hear- ing her speak as she felt obliged to do of their father to their kind-hearted neighbor. But Mr. Williams could not refrain, even in the presence of the children, from speaking his mind pretty freely.  "Never mind, though," said he to Johnny: "the secret's out, but Mary shall have the crutches just the same. So cheer up; and maybe there's better days in store for you yet." "Who knows," he added cheerfully: " like as not you'll all be rich yet, and keep your carriage, and ride round as fine as anybody!  Here's Franky, now," -  taking the child on his knee,- "he's bound to be a big man by and by; and what'll you do then, my boy?" "I'll get money and buy me a new pair of     "     The Chester Family. boots and a cap," said Franky, while -all the chil- dren laughed. "So you will," said Mr. Williams, also laugh- ing. "But I fiust be off, or I shall be too late for the stage; " and, bidding them all a cheerful " good- morning," he took his leave, having decided in his own mind not to leave the money he intended to give Johnny, lest it should share the fate of the other, but to take it to the city, and spend it for whatever he thought the boy would like best. "What a good man Mr. Williams is!" ex- claimed Ellen and Johnny, as soon as he was gone. Little Mary sat quietly in her chair for some time, seeming very thoughtful; and at last she looked up, her blue eyes suffused with tears. "Mother," said she, " is it true that my father is such a very, very bad man, because he does not buy us food and clothes, but drinks rum all the time, and does not come home to take care of us? What makes him do so, mother?" What questions for that poor little crippled' child to ask the heart-broken mother! Mary had never spoken so before; and Mrs. Chester knew not what to answer. She looked upon the crippled, misshapen form of her child; and a voice, stern as Death, whispered,   The Christmas Story.     65 "BEHOLD  THE CURSE OF THE DRUNKARD'S APPETITE  Full well she knew that the suffering she en- dured, the heavy physical labor she performed when she should have been at rest; in short, all her unnatural mental and physical conditions pre- vious to the birth of the child, had produced the terrible results which she saw before her. And the first cause, - the voice whispers again, "THE DRUNKARD S APPETITE."  It is that which drowns the voice of reason and affection; sweeping away every thing that is true, noble, right, and just, by its mighty, over- whelming power! Well may'st thou weep in silence before thy wronged child, heart-broken mother! Too late, alas! she sees and bitterly repents the fatal error she committed, when she became the wife of a man cursed with a djcunk- ard's appetite. It is Christmas Eve, -a clear, cold, starlight night. People are hurrying through the streets on their way to their comfortable homes; some with baskets on their arms, laden with turkeys and other good things which are to make up their luxurious dinners for the morrow. Happy fathers, leading 5     "     The Chester Family. their children by the hand, engaged in cheerful talk of the many bright things that Christmas brings to the young and happy. Let us stop a moment on our way, and look in upon neighbor Williams's family. We walk un- ceremoniously into the large fire-lighted kitchen; and instead of finding them quietly seated by the fire, as usual, they are all bustling about as though something very important is going on. The old- fashioned dinner-table, which, when turned up in its place against the wall, serves as a chair, is spread out in the middle of the floor, covered with meat, bread, and pies, enough to last a small fam- ily a week at least. Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Brown, two kind-hearted neighbors, are busily packing some large baskets with nice food, which Mrs. Williams and Netty are bringing in from the pantry. Mr. Williams stands by, looking the very pic- ture of smiling content, while he now and then volunteers his advice and assistance. "I say, mother! -" he calls out suddenly, "I'll tell you what we'll do. Let's take that big clothes-basket you bought t'other day, and put the rest into it. We can put the turkey and all into   The Christmas Story.     67 that, you know. Come! I want you to hurry, so's we can get there!" "Well, father," says Mrs. Williams, "I guess that was a bright thought in you. Netty, run and get the new clothes-basket." So, in a few minutes, the big basket is filled, and Mrs. Brown is putting on the finishing touches, by " chinking in," as she calls it, a few apples and small loaves of gingerbread. "Might as well fill it up," she remarks, shaking the basket a little to settle down the contents. "There, now, Mr. Williams* you take hold of one side, and I'll take the other, and Mrs. Thomp- son and Mrs. Williams may take the other bas- kets; and, Netty, you'd better run along, so's to kinder prepare 'em, you know." Mr. Williams turns to the table in the corner of the room, and, taking from it a queerly-shaped bun- dle, puts it carefully under his arm, and announces his readiness to start; while Netty hastily puts on her hood, cloak, and mittens, and hurries off on the run, to announce to the Chesters that a surprise- party is on the road, and may call on them. So Mr. Williams and Mrs. Brown start off ahead; while Mrs. Thompson and Mrs. Williams, each     68      The Chester Family. bearing a basket of smaller size, but well stored with food and articles of clothing for the children, bring up the rear. I will not attempt to describe to you the scene which I witnessed that night in that home of pov- erty and destitution. My mother and I had been there an hour before/the surprise-party arrived, having carried them a few things such as could be spared from our own family. It was a scene never to be forgotten. The silent, yet eloquent grati- tude of the suffering, patient wife; the bright, happy faces of Elfen and Johnny; the speechless joy of little crippled Mary; the noisy, overflowing happiness of Franky, - all made an impression on my young heart that can never be effaced. The queer-looking package, which we noticed Mr. Wil- liams tucked carefully under his arm, contained little Mary's crutches; also a warm cap and pair of boots for each of the boys, purchased with the money he intended to give Johnny as a Christmas present. My kind mother had nicely "made over" one of my last winter dresses for Ellen, with which she was greatly pleased. Nothing would satisfy Franky but to try at once how the new boots fitted. So Mr. Williams took   The Christmas Story.     69 him on his knee; and, first putting on a pair of socks knit by the skillful hands of Netty Williams, and which, at a significant look from her mother, she bashfully drew from her pocket, the boots were produced; and, after a little tugging at the straps with Franky's fat hands, and a little stamping, first of one foot and then of the other, the boots were fairly on. When Master Frank, with his new cap perched jauntily on one side of his head, marched about the room looking so proud and happy, that all the folks laughed; not without a few tears, however, for the thought would come up in the midst of the temporary joy and plenty, of the curse that hung like a shadow of death over that poor family,-a curse brought upon it by that which has brought suffering and utter ruin to millions of Earth's children, - THE DRUNKARD'S APPETITE. Beware, O my sisters! Beware, lest you be- come the wife of a man who is cursed with this foul appetite I Would you escape the long years of consuming agony of this wife and( mother, the heroine of my story? Then link not your destiny with an appetite so destructive to all that is noble and divine in man, and lovely and God-like in woman!               J. M. F,     LETTER V. DEATH OF LITTLE LIZZIE. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend,--The youngest of the Chester family, little Lizzie, was an uncommonly sweet, intelligent child. I have a beautiful picture, still bright and fresh in my memory, of a fair child with blue eyes and soft flaxen curls, who used to run across the fields to my father's house, every pleasant day during the summer, and ask, in her pretty, winning way, for a flower from our gar- den for " my Mamie; " meaning her crippled sis- ter. I can see her now, just as she used to look in a little blue dress, given her by one of the neighbors, and which she always called her " pretty new dress," as long as patching could make it fit to wear. She learned to read when only three O70   Death of Little Lizzie.     7  years old; and, at that early age, could repeat several sweet poems. I remember, one evening, being present when Mary and little Lizzie were saying their prayers to their mother, according to their usual custom before going to bed. When Lizzie's turn came to say her prayer, she knelt down by her mother, and repeated,-- "Now I lay me down to sleep;" then, stopping suddenly, she opened her eyes, looked up to her mother and said, - " mamma! may I tell God my new verses?" Mrs. Chester smiled, and answered "Yes." She then folded up her little hands, and, with childish sweetness and simplicity, repeated the little poem commencing, "Twinkle, twinkle, little star, How I wonder what you are, Up above this world so high; Like a diamond in the sky." Dear little Lizzie! She was too fair and fragile to tread long the thorny path of life ; so the angels kindly came and took her home. "Of such is the kingdom of heaven."     72      The Chester Famiiy. I can never think but with a feeling of deep sadness of her sickness, and departure from the body. Mrs. Chester had been obliged to leave her young family, day after day, in order to earn, by doing washing and ironing, a little money with which to buy bread to keep her children from starving. Thus being left without her mother's care, the little one had taken cold, which resulted in severe fever. It was a bitter cold night in December. The snow had been falling fast all day; and now the wind blew the sharp sleet against the windows, and moaned piteously among the trees that partially sheltered their wretched home. My mother, with two or three more neighbors, were doing what they could to relieve the little sufferer, as she moaned and tossed on her pillow. Mrs. Chester sat by the bedside, her face pale but very calm; and not a tear dimmed her sad eyes, as Mrs. Williams, hold- ing the child's wrist, whispered that she thought it would soon be " all over." Ellen and myself had noiselessly placed the children's supper on the table; but Ellen, although she had not tasted food since morning, could not be induced to eat. Johnny and Frank took their places quietly at the table;   Death of Little Lizzie.    73 and then we took little Mary from her seat in the corner, and placed her between them. "I am not hungry," she said to me in a low tone; " but mother will feel bad if I do not come to the table." So, to make mother feel better, she pretended to taste the food we placed before her; all of which had been sent in by kind-hearted neighbors, who knew, that, since Mrs. Chester could not procure food herself, the children would be left destitute. Mr. Chester had not been home since morning; but no anxiety was felt about him, as it was not uncommon for him to be absent all day, and some- times all night, when the weather was more mild. He knew that Lizzie was sick; but he had not been sufficiently sober since she first became ill to realize that she was not likely to recover. He had never been cruel nor unkind to his children; except so far as his love for liquor had led him to neglect their happiness and welfare. Sometimes, in his better moments, he would take little Lizzie on his knee, and speak kind and loving words to her. From her birth, he had manifested more affection for her than for the other children; and his wife had sometimes indulged a faint hope, that,     74      The Chester Family. in some way, his love for this child might be the means of making him a better man. The hours of that long night wore slowly away. The little sufferer had been delirious since the first hour that she was stricken down by the hand of disease; but, as midnight drew near, the watchers saw that a change was coming. The fever flush suddenly faded away from the sweet face, the pulse grew slower, the eyes lost their unnatural brilliancy, and all felt that the hour of her depart- ure was near at hand. There were no loud nor vio- lent manifestations of grief around the death-bed of that beautiful child. Mrs. Chester sat silent, pale, tearless, holding the fluttering pulse; while Ellen and Johnny wept silently, kneeling by their mother's side, their faces hidden in the folds of her dress. Suddenly the door opened, and John Chester staggered into the room. For a moment he gazed with stupid wonder on the scene before him; then came toward the bed, and touched with his trem- bling hand the face of his dying child; and, as the truth seemed suddenly to burst upon him, he threw himself on his knees, and cried out in strong agony,.   Death of Little Lizzie.   75 O my God! my God! This is my work!" At the sound of his voice, the little one opened her eyes, and, for the first time during her illness, seemed to recognize the faces of those around her. "Don't cry, papa!" she whispered, reaching out her little hand and placing it on his face. "Did you come home to see me? O papa! I dreamed that I went and found you, and took hold of your hand and led you home." Chester bent over her; and, while his hot tears fell like rain, he moaned in agony of spirit,  "Omy God! my God! I have done this I I have killed her!" Again for a few moments there was silence in that house of death; broken only by the sobs of the guilty and grief-stricken father, as he knelt by the bedside of his dying child. Then the blue eyes slowly unclosed, a smile of ineffable sweet- ness diffused itself over her face, and, putting her little hand within that of her father, she said in a low tone,- O papa! I have come for you to go home with me. I want to lead you right home now." And, with these sweet words on her lips, the loving spirit left its frail tenement of clay, and was     76      The Chester Family. borne by angel hands to the bosom of Him who said,  "Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of' heaven.. Then John Chester rose up; and, with tears streaming from his eyes, he bent over the bed, and kissed again and again the face of his dead child, while he groaned in agony of soul,-. "O my God, my God'! I have killed her " Never can I forget the expression of his face as he uttered these words. Never have I seen a human face express such agony; such full, perfect, utter despair. He turned away from the bed, and walked back and forth in the room, his hand pressed closely over his heart, muttering to him- self, - "I have killed her! I have killed her " No one in the room spoke to him; but all seemed, by their silence, to assent to what he ut- tered. He had killed his child. He had mur- dered her just as really as if he had pierced her innocent heart with a dagger. His utter neglect of his falmily had resulted in the death of his child. Had he supplied their wants, as he should have   Death of Little Lizzie.    " done, his wife might have taken proper care of the delicate child, and thus her life would have been saved. But the power of the death-dealing tyrant, Alcohol, was more potent than reason or conscience: it stifled even the voice of parental affection in his heart; and, undei the dominion of that fearful power, he had been the means of kill- ing his innocent child. I was too young then to reason much about such things, but I have since thought how true were his self-accusations! I had been taught to believe that God sees fit, in his wise and mysterious prov- idence, to remove our friends from earth; but in the instance I have related, and many more of a similar nature, it seems to me like a libel on the character of our Father, to charge him with what our reason tells us is purely the result of human agency. I think some such thought as this filled Chester's mind at the time; for when good Mrs. Williams, in the kindness of her heart essayed to speak a word of consolation to the wretched man, he answered quickly, - "No, no! God did not take her from me: I killed her!" The sad events of that night made a powerful     78      The Chester Family. impression on my youthful mind. I remember seeing Mrs. Chester, her face pale as death, walk back and forth by her husband's side, in the dark- ened room, speaking slowly in a low tone. Once she stopped, and, holding his hand, looked up in is face with her sad, pleading eyes. ThenD he threw his arms around her, and, leaning his face on her shoulder, sobbed out, - "I will, I will, Mary, so help me God!" I afterward knew that she had been pleading with him, for the sake of the dear children that still remained to them, for the sake of his love for their angel Lizzie, and for his own sake, to turn from the path that leads to death, and be a man! When the time came to lay away all that re- mained on earth of our little Lizzie, the neighbors assembled in that home of destitution, to pay the last tribute of love to the body of the beautiful and beloved child. I should not have wept as I then wept, had I known, as long afterward God gave me to know, that the frail body was but the casket which enshrined the glorified spirit, - only the garment which our darling -had worn, and which she had thrown off at the pearly gate through which she entered the golden city. Dear   Death of Little Lizzie.    79 Lizzie! God grant that, when I, too, am called to close my eyes on mortal things, I may be permitted to enter where thou art, and gaze once more upon thy dear face I One by one the neighbors came in, and took their places in the room. The plain little pine coffin stood on a table in the middle of the room, in which lay the body of the child, arrayed in a little white dress. A rosebud, with a few green leaves, was placed in her hand by Netty Williams. "Poor little dear!" said Mrs. Williams, smooth- ing the flaxen hair over the fair temples: "she ha's watched our rosebush all winter, and Netty promised her one of the blossoms." John Chester had been perfectly sober since Lizzie died, completely prostrated by the sudden and heavy blow. He now sat by his wife's side, looking pale and haggard, his head bowed on his hands, and tears of penitence coursing down his pale cheeks. Silently, one by one, the kind- hearted friends seated themselves around the room; and then the minister, an old, gray-haired man, knelt at the head of the coffin, and lifted up his voice in prayer, asking our Father to bless, - not the beautiful child whose form lay before us, not     80      The Chester Family. her who was already free from the darkness of earth, but those who were left behind. It was, as I remember it, a simple, unaffected outpouring of the heart; an earnest petition to him who rules all things, that this severe affliction might be the means of saving the wretched father from tempta- tion and sin, and leading him in the path of right. As the solemn "Amen" echoed through the room, John Chester rose up, and, throwing himself on his knees by the side of the coffin, exclaimed in a voice choked with emotion,- "With God's help, I will be a better man!" Then the pent-up tears of the suffering family burst forth; but they were tears, not of grief, but of joy. Mary Chester knelt beside her husband; and while her tears mingled with his, she uttered fervently, - "Oh! thank God, thank God, for this hour!" I would that I could close here the story of the Chester family. I would like to say, with truth, that John Chester kept the vow made over the dead body of his child, and yielded no more to the fiend that was leading him down to death. I can not bear to think, much less to tell you, of his struggles with the tempter; how, day by day, his   Death of Little Lizzie.     81 power grew weaker and weaker, and how, at last, amid the heart-broken despair of his wife, and the tearful entreaties of his children, forgetting even his love for his angel child, he plunged again into the path of destruction! J. M. F. Ah     LETTER VI. RUMSELLERS AND THEIR VICTIMS. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend,- The penitence of John Chester manifested At the death of little Lizzie inspired the heart of the suffering wife with new hope and courage. She had never seen him so earnest, and apparently strong, in his resolve to break the ty- rant's chain that bound him, as he was at that time. The neighbors, too, felt his sincerity, and thought it possible that the heavy affliction might make in him a lasting change for the better. They spoke words of kindly sympathy and encourage- ment to him, offered him work, and tried in every way to help him in the path of right. His wife watched with painful anxiety his appearance from day to day, hoping, yet scarcely daring to hope, that he was saved. The children, especially Ellen 82   Rumsellers and their Victims.  83 and Johnny, saw the change in their father, and their hearts were filled with happiness. "I guess God has begun to answer my prayers now, mother," said Johnny. "Oh! won't it be nice to have father come home and stay with us evenings, and buy us something to eat, so you won't have to work so hard?" Little Mary had her own beautiful ideas of the cause of the change in her father. "I know what makes him so good," said she: "Lizzie has gone up to heaven, you know; and she has told God all about it, and he is helping father to be a good man." For a few weeks Chester continued sober, com- ing home at night, and placing in his wife's hands the money paid him for his day's work. A new world seemed opening before the poor family. They had comfortable food to eat, a cheerful fire to warm them, and although the appointments of their home were of the poorest description, still they were happy; and the children talked cheer- fully together, as children will, of what their father would get for them when he. had saved money (enouh. Little Mary would sit at the window at night,     84      The Chester Family. and watch for his coming; and, after he had eaten his supper, he would take her in his lap ; and, while her head rested on his bosom, he would smooth her hair, and speak kindly and tenderly to her. Mrs. Chester, her pale face lighted up with a smile such as it had not worn for many a weary year, would sit near her husband with her work, while Ellen and Johnny read aloud from their school-books. But at last there came a time when little Mary watched for her father till the shadows of night fell darkly over the earth, and the stars came out one by one in the blue vault of heaven, and still lie did not come. The food on the neatly-arranged table remained untasted. Johnny had cut and brought in the wood for the evening fire, had stowed it snugly in the box by the stove, and brought a pail of fresh water from the spring near the house; Ellen had been busily engaged in fin- ishing a pair of warm mittens for her father ; while Mrs. Chester prepared the humble supper. Now all was ready; and they sat silently by the fire and waited, hoping soon to hear his footsteps. "He may have been detained," said Mrs. Ches- ter to the children; but her heart was full of   Rumsellers and their Victims.  85 anxiety, lest he had yielded to the evil spirit whose siren voice was constantly endeavoring to lure him on to death. Two or three hours passed away. The bells rang for nine o'clock; and, as the last echo died  away, Mrs. Chester's heart sank within her. "Can it be possible," she thought to herself, "that he is lost to us again!" The very, thought was agony itself. She un- dressed the two youngest children, Mary and Franky, and put them to bed; then bidding Ellen and Johnny prepare to go out with her, she wrapped an old shawl about her, and, taking  a hand of each, she went to seek her husband. They first went to Mr. Smith, the man for whom he had been at work, to inquire for him; and learned that he had left his work at the usual time and started for home. There was one place, and but one, to look for him now. That place was the rumshop. Choking down the grief that swelled her heart almost to bursting, she hurried through the streets, and in a few moments entered the place where Death's potion is sold, and stood in the presence of the rumseller. A few half-drunken men were lounging idly     86      The Chester Family. about; engaged in drinking, smoking, and swear- ing, while occasionally a coarse, brutal laugh, caused by some low jest, echoed through the room. As Mrs. Chester and her children entered, the wretched company instinctively drew back, and allowed her to pass up to the bar. The rumseller, though evidently surprised at the unexpected visit, disguised his astonishment as much as possible, and said in a bland voice, - "Good evening, Mrs. Chester. Is there any thing I can do for you?  "My husband! Is he here?" she inquired in a tone so pitiful, that it must have touched any 4 heart less hardened than that of the rumseller. "John Chester?  Oh, yes I I believe he is. He was here a short time ago. I'll see." And the man disappeared behind a curtain, which screened the back part of the shop from view. Presently he returned, and, nodding his head, mo- tioned to Mrs. Chester to go in. "He's in there asleep," said he; and went to his post again behind the bar. What a scene was that upon which the heart- broken wife and children gazed! John Chester lay stretched on a rude bench, breathing heavily,   Rumsellers and their Victims.  87 in a deep unconscious sleep. He was dead drunk. His hair, prematurely gray, which Ellen had of late taken so much pleasure in coming and neatly arranging, fell over his temples in tangled masses. His face was pale and haggard, his blood-shot eyes partly unclosed, and his whole appearance fright- ful in the extreme. The children shrunk back, crying, into the corner of the room; while Mrs. Chester bent over her husband, and tried to rouse him from the heavy stupor into which he had fallen. But all in vain her tears fell upon his face, and her agonized voice called his name. No word, no motion, no look of recognition, rewarded her efforts. A feeling of desolation, of dark, utter despair, such as she had never felt before, swept over her. She turned away from the sad sight; and, taking the hands of her children, was about to leave the wretched place, when, as she had reached the door, a sudden impulse impelled her to turn back. She walked up to the bar, and once more stood face to face with the rumseller. "Mr. Johnson," she said in her sad, quiet voice, "do you ever think, when you are dealing out rum to those who have no power to resist the fatal appetite, of the misery you are causing, the suffer-     88      The Chester Family. ing you are bringing, to their wives and children? I stand before you a broken-hearted woman. I am the wife of John Chester, and these are his children. We have suffered for food and clothing, while day after day you have taken the money that should have supplied our wants, and given him in return -poison. You, and such as you, have desolated my home, robbed my children of their bread, and crushed their hearts with shame and sorrow. You have caused my husband to forsake his family, and dragged him down to the lowest depths of degradation. The day will surely come when you will have your reward." With these words, spoken slowly and impres- sively, she turned and left the room. Years after- ward, when that man lay on his death-bed, he remembered and repeated the words which the drunkard's wife spoke to him that night. Was not the memory of the wrongs he had committed, the wives and children he had robbed, and the thou- sands he had sent to an untimely grave, his bitter and just reward? When I look back, and recall the misery caused by the sale of liquor in our little village, I feel that I can not denounce the rumseller with too a   Rumsellers and their Victims.   89 much severity. He is the pest of society every- where, and should be looked upon and treated as such. He should be branded as a robber, as he is, and everywhere shunned and despised as long as he persists in selling the death-dealing poison. The one great question now before the people is, "Shall the State license men to make its citi- zens drunkards?" arry this to the polls, make it a political issue at every election, until it is set- tled. Before this, all questions of finance, com- merce, nationality, and international policy, sink into insignificance; for this question involves the existence of the family relations, and the homes of the people, on which depend the existence and perpetuity of our individual, social, intellectual, and national character and happiness. No more governmental protection to rumsell- ers, but a stern and determined prohibition of this dishonest and inftnous business! I will relate an instance which occurred in our village, which, although it has no direct connec- tion with the family whose sad history I am relat- ing, may not be uninteresting to some who may chance to look over these pages. Mr. Johnson, the rumseller, was, as his business r     90      The Chester Family. would indicate, a man devoid of all feeling and principle. He cared not to whom he sold his liquor, nor the misery it caused, so long as it filled his pockets with gold. At one time a party of small'boys, some four or five in number, managed to procure, in some way, money enough to pur- chase a quantity of liquor; and Mr. Johnson, like a heartless wretch, as he was, sold it to them, and they became intoxicated. One of them had a sister called Sally Wilson; a young lady of consid- erable muscular power, and a strong, positive will. She had, moreover, a quick, high temper; which, in connection with her energetic character, ren- dered her capable of performing almost any thing she undertook. When she became aware of the condition of her brother, and learned where he had procured the liquor, her indignation was aroused at once. "I'll learn Johnson to sell h4is rum to little boys!" said she to herself; and, putting on her hat* and cloak, she at once started off to call on the fami- lies to which the boys belonged. Before night, she had collected together about a dozen young ladies, each armed with a hatchet; and, as soon as it was dark, they proceeded to the rumshop' in s   Rumsellers an'd their Victims.  9I regular order, entered it, and with Sally at their head, using their hatchets with vigorous muscles, soon made sad havoc with the liquor barrels ; and, before Johnson could recover from his astonish- ment, rum, gin, and whisky were flowing copiously over the dirty floor. "Cut away, girls!" said Sally, as she herself commenced a vigorous attack on a cask that had escaped her attention. '"Stop! stop!" said Johnson, springing forward, and endeavoring to-wrench the hatchet from her hand; "that's brandy! Confound it all, don't touch that! It's best old brandy, and worth eight 'dollars a gallon! 7 "Don't tell me about your best brandy!" cried Sally, flourishing her weapon : " best or worst, it's got to be spilled. So stand back, or I might hap- pen to mistake you for a liquor-barrel!" And the brave girl went on with her work; and soon had the satisfaction of seeing the costly poi- son mingling with the common sea that flooded the floor of the shop. When   the work was finished, Sally Wilson turned to the rumseller, her eyes flashing with in- dignation and scorn, and said, -     92      The Chester Family. "There, Johnson! go to work and clear up your shop; and if you ever sell another drop of liquor to one of my brothers, you'll get served worse than this I " The rumseller was white with rage. "If you wasn't a woman," he growled out be- tween 'his teeth, " you wouldn't go out of my shop in this shape!" "I'm not afraid of you, if I am a woman," re- plied Sally: " you don't dare to lay your hand on me, and you know it! I donit know as you're afraid of the law; but you're afraid of me, Mr. Johnson! The law is an old acquaintance of yours, you mean old villain! and it always con- trives to clear you somehow, as it does all such scamps; but you'll get something worse than law,' if you don't be careful. Now, mind what I tell you!" And Sally walked out of the shop with a firm and haughty step, and the fire of an aroused tiger flashing from her black eyes. The story was soon circulated through the vil- lage; and a few citizens got together and purchased a dozen silver spoons, on which they had a brandy cask engraved, and formally presented them to   Rumsellers and their Victims.  . 93 Sally Wilson, in token of their appreciation of the service she had rendered the village. "I thought 'twas time for somebody to wake up," remarked Sally, when she received the spoons. "I waited, till I got tired, for the men to do some- thing about it; but I concluded that the women would have to take it in hand, or there wouldn't be any thing done!" It was a severe blow to Johnson's financial con- cerns; and it was some months before he got his infamous business fairly under way again. He also felt a good deal of humiliation and shame when people joked him about it; but his love of money was always uppermost, and he would invariably wind up, when speaking of the affair, with the remark,- "I wouldn't have cared so much for the rest, if she'd only let that brandy al6ne! Confound it! it did come dreadful hard to lose that!" J. M. F.     LETTER VII. RUM-VOTERS AND THEIR VICTIMS. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend,--It is meet that the rum-voter should be placed in close connection with the rum- seller. Who is primarily responsible for the exist- ence and power for evil of the drunkard's appe- tite? Who is responsible for drunkenness and its resulting crimes and outrages, its idiocy and in- sanity? The rumsellers must bear their share of the infamy. But they are the mere tools of a power back of them, whose will they are licensed to execute. Who constitute that power? Talk not of the State. Tell me not of a license from the State or nation. As to accountability, states, nations, and governments are nonentities, -are mere soulless, irresponsible abstractions. We must go to the people who compose the state.   Rum - Voters and their Victims.   95 What part of the people, practically, make the State? THE VOTERS. What part of the voters are to be held responsible for the drunkenness that threatens to sweep away all regard for life, liberty, and happiness? Who desolate our homes as they have done the home of John and Mary Chester and their children? THE RUM-VOTERS AND THE RUM-LEGISLATORS! The rum-voters create the rum-legislators; the rum-legislators create the rumsellers; the rumsell- ers create the rum-drinkers. The rum-drinkers constitute four-fifths of the paupers and criminals of society. The dread responsibility of the pau- perism, crime, and outrages of this State and na- tion rests mainly on the rum-voters. Shall drunkenness and all its resulting miseries be protected, or prohibited? This is the issue, the sole and single issue. Hearken not to the cry of " tyranny," " oppres- sion," or of " interference with the rights of the people to say what, how often, and how much, they shall eat and drink." All this is but an effort to divert attention from the main issue. Has society a right to protect itself against drunken- ness and its certain results? Has the State a right     96      The Chester Family. to protect its citizens against that which takes away the power of self-control, destroys their rea- son, their love and sympathy, their sense of right and justice, and prepares them for, and stimulates them to, deeds of violence and blood?  In a word, Shall drunkenness, with all its essential wrongs, be protected, or prohibited? This is the issue. Let us meet it. at the polls. The right and duty to punish crime presupposes the right and duty to prevent it. A man has a passion for arson, theft, riot, rob- bery, and murder. Shall the State license -and protect this passion in its cruel manifestations, or forbid and prohibit it? What are governments made for, but to protect us from those passions of men which endanger property, person, and life? A man has a propensity for drunkenness, the mother of all crimes. Shall governments license, or forbid it? Shall it be protected, or prohibited? The power to decide this issue is solely with, the voters. The question for every voter to ask him- self is, "Shall I vote for license and drunkenness, or for prohibition and temperance?" Blackstone says, "In every government, how-   Rum- Voters and their Victims..  97 ever or by whomsoever it is formed, there must be a supreme, irresistible, absolute, uncontrolled- authority, in which the right of sovereignty re- sides." In this Republic, in its State and National governments, this sovereignty is vested in the voters. Each voter is a sovereign. Whatever Iis hired men (the representatives) do, he does. The voter is the principal in every act of the Government. The voter is the law-maker, judge, and executioner.  The responsibility of every governmental act rests primarily on each voter. The liquor-dealer creates, stimulates, and perpetu- ates the drunkard's appetite. But who creates, licenses, and protects liquor-dealers? The liquor- voters. The voters decide whether the- land shall be filled with men licensed to make our husbands, fathers, sons, and brothers drunkards.  Each voter who votes for a license law, and against a prohibitory law, votes to create and to perpetuate drunkenness. What we do through others, we do ourselves. Whether we burn houses, murder wives and chil- dren, by our own hands, or by the hand of an- 7     98      The Chester Family. other, the deed and the responsibility are ours, all the same. You wish to have intoxicating drink sold to all who wish to buy. You vote for a man to license its sale. Your agent does your bidding: he passes a law to license a man to make drunkards. Several thousand are licensed, all over the State, to make the people drunk. In every town and city, one man, or more, is licensed to create and stimulate the drunkard's appetite, and utterly to blot out all respect for property, person, and life, in the peo- ple; for the known and certain results of alco- "ol, in its influence on the human soul, is to de- stroy all regard for human rights. In proportion to the quantity of liquor a-man drinks, he loses his regard for the rights of others. One glass of alcohol, in any form, begins the sad work of preparing a man to commit crime; two glasses hastens on the process; three and four carries on the work of destruction, until the poor victim is bereft of all respect for himself or those around him, and he is ready for any and every outrage against individuals and society. Without intoxicating liquor, man seldom commits great   Rum -Voters ,and their Victtns.  99 crimes; but, stimulated and maddened by it, he becomes a terror to all around him. Who divests that husband, father, son, and brother, of all human sympathy, and converts him into a fiend? The voter who votes for men to license the sale of intoxicating drinks! Every drunkard, and drunkard's wife and children, are but the rum-voters' victims. Primarily, they are the guilty parties. They vote to excite this de- mon, the drunkard's appetite, to uncontrollable fury, and then turn it loose to rend and devour.  The voters have power to extinguish this appe- tite; to prevent its existence in those who have it not, and to destroy or control it where it does exist. They have absolute control over it in this nation. Their power over this, the most cruel and fearful of all human passions, is far greater than it is over any other. Hold the voters responsible for the exercise of their power. Forbid them to make drunkards, as you forbid them to make thieves and robbers. Would you, the voters, license men to educate and stimulate the people to steal and rob? Would you license four thousand, men in this State to turn wives and children out of their homes, and rob them of the means of sub-     O0oo     The Chester ktamzily. sistence, and then pass a law to compel the people to pay taxes to feed, clothe, andfurnish homes to those who, by your votes, are made homeless and hungry? You, in voting against prohibition and in favor of protection to rumselling, deprive the people of the power to provide for themselves and families. Then you tax us all to pay for the poverty and crime that you have created. Whatever a man does consciously, he does inten- tionally. For what lie does intentionally, he is to be lield responsible. A man sets a house on fire. He knows that the inmates will be burned to death; yet lie does the deed, and the result is the destruction of life and property. Would any plea for such a crime be accepted before any tribunal of justice? Never! The perpetrator of such a deed would be dealt with as a murderer. A man votes for the sale of intoxicating drinks. He knows that drunkenness, with its sad results, will ensue. No matter what his avowed motives may be, in voting for protection and against prohibi- tion, he knows what the effects will be. Ought not  he, then, to be held responsible for those results? PROTECTION OR PROHBITION TO DRUNKENNESS   Rum - Voters and their Victims.  I01 AND ALL THE CRIMES THAT RESULT FROM IT! This is the great issue now to be decided by the humanity, the religion, and government of the nation. The question of woman's right to use the ballot, to protect herself against wrong and outrage, is now being earnestly discussed by the press and politicians of our country. If the wife of John Chester had had a right to use the ballot, to pro- tect herself and her children against such scenes of agony as they passed through in the rumseller's den of infamy and death, would it not have been a blessing to her and them? Who will dare come forward, and forbid that wife and mother to use the ballot, to save herself and her helpless little ones from the madness and fury of the drunkard's appetite? Who will say that we, as wives and mothers, daughters and sisters, have no right to use the ballot to shield ourselves and our loved ones against the deep, unutterable agony of soul inflicted on us by rumsellers, rum-legislators, and rum-voters, and which we are now obliged to endure in the sanctuary of our homes? J. M. F.     LETTER   VIII. MODERATE DRINKERS. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. Jiy Friend, - In my last letter, I spoke of rum- sellers as being the pests of society, - as thieves and robbers, who hesitate not to bring starvation and angruish to helpless wives and children, while they degrade and ruin their husbands, fathers, and brothers, by feeding that most depraved and mer- ciless appetite, a love for alcoholic drinks. But there is another class, who, it seems to me, are more to be censured and blamed than even the rumseller. That class is made up of moderate drinkers. They are often men of wealth and po- sition in society, who, while they profess to despise the drunkard, and whose voices are often loud in the cause of temperance, are the very ones who really uphold the rumseller. They make the cus- Y  u   Moderate Drinkers.     103 tom of liquor-drinking fashionable by their exam- ple. I mean, especially, those who possess wealth, and therefore have influence in society. Many a promising youth has been ruined, and become a sot in the gutter, who commenced his career by fol- lowing the example of the moderate drinker! "I do not wish to appear mean," I once heard a young man say. "When I am in the company of respectable men, and am invited to take a glass of liquor, I can not refuse." Respectable men, drinking liquor, and encoura- ging the habit in those who are looking to them as an example to be followed! When something can be done to touch the hearts arid consciences of the respectable (?) moderate drinkers, and they shall begin to see themselves in their true light, as the real stumbling-blocks in the way, then there will be hope for the advancement of the glorious cause of temperance.  When liquor-drinking ceases to be fashionable among those who are called the leaders in society, by reason of their wealth; when moderate drinkers are no longer tol- erated in respectable society, then shall we see a great and happy change. "But," says some one, looking over these pages,     104      The Chester Family. "you do not pretend to say that a moderate quan- tity of liquor injures all persons who make use of it occasionally?" I answer, - "YES! I do not believe it is possible for even a very small quantity to be taken into the human system without injuring it in some degree. I be- lieve that total abstinence, at all times, and under all circumstances, is the only sure and safe rule." It is often urged that liquor is sometimes indis- pensable in cases of sickness; but I am quite certain that there are other things that might be used in its place, with beneficial and no injurious results. Where liquor has saved one life, it has destroyed thousands: while, for the time-being, it has been thought to have a good effect taken as a medicine, it has been known to rob and desolate thousands of hearts and homes, and bring blight, sorrow, and shame upon untold numbers of wivds, mothers, and children. The remark is often made by moderate drinkers, that liquor never injures them; and they will even boast sometimes of the great and daring deeds which they have performed while under its stimulating influence. I am here reminded of a sad case in point.   Moderate Drinkers.     105 One of our neighbors, a Mr. Allen, belonged to the class of moderate drinkers. He often boasted of his strength of mind, and his government over his appetite for liquor; often saying, "I always know when I have drank enough, and am not at all afraid of being injured by liquor." He was a sailor, and prided himself on his knowledge of the management of boats and vessels, and his ability to handle them skillfully in the roughest weather. "But," he used to say, "I always like to drink a glass or two of whisky when I am out in a bad time: it gives a man better courage." Courage born of alcohol has always two com- panions, born of the same mother and at the, same time, i e., insanity and idiocy. Guided by these, what is courage good for? One day (can I ever forget it?) he started in a small boat, to go about seven miles, to an island. The day was fair and pleasant, but the wind was 42 blowing almost a gale from the south-east, and the sea was white with foam. His little daughter, a child about nine years old, was with him. A party of children - myself among the number- were playing on the beach from which Mr. Allen     I o6     The Chester Family.  started. My father helped get the boat in readi- ness, stopping every now and then to look off. across the water, while his face wore a troubled and anxious look. The little girl was placed snugly in the bottom of the boat, where the wind could not blow upon her to chill her; and when all was ready, Mr. Allen took his place in the stern. He was in a gay and talkative mood, for he had been drinking a few glasses of his favorite beverage; and laughed in derision at my father's words of advice and caution. "If I can't go over there safely, then I'll be drowned, that's all! ' said he as the prow of the little craft swept off from the shore. "Keep fast hold of the sheets!" called out my father: " don't fasten them down." But a careless laugh was the only reply, and the next moment he was out of hearing. My father stood and watched the little boat as it leaped madly from wave to wave; often veering and careening in a way that showed that the helm was held by an unsteady hand. As they neared the middle of the bay, the boat felt the full force of the wind and sea, and those who watched her from the shore became seriously   Moderate Drinkers.     107 alarmed for-her safety. For a few moments she would become entirely hidden from sight, and then suddenly rise on the top of the waves. A thrill of terror ran through every heart. "He will upset the boat!" cried a neighbor, who had been watching the scene through a small telescope: " he has let the sheet go, and is trying to get it again; there! there! he's gone! he's gone!" And the next moment the terrible cry ran from lip to lip, "A boat upset! a boat upset!" while half a dozen strong men launched and manned a large boat, and pulled with all their might in the direction of the sad accident. But they were too late. They found the empty boat turned completely over, but no traces of Mr. Allen or his child. The body of the former was never found; but a few days after the sad event, as the bereaved wife and mother was walking sorrowfully along the shore, she found, almost hidden in the green and brown seaweed, the form o? her little girl; which the angry waves, suddenly touched with pity as it seemed, for the suffering mother, had washed up to her feet. But the bright eyes were sealed in death; the happy, tender voice was     Io8     The Cizester Family. llushed for ever; and the fair white limbs were cold and still. Tenderly the neighbors, hearing the mother's agonized cry, gathered around her, some trying to comfort and calm her, while others lifted the little form carefully from its cold bed, shook the sand and sea-shells from the bright hair, and gently and lovingly bore it to its- last resting- place. "What do you think the reason was that Mr. Allen did not manage the boat any better?" said a neighbor, when talking of the sad affair. "He had been drinking," replied my father: "I knew it before he started from the shore, and was afraid something would happen." "Mr. Allen been drinking!" exclaimed the neighbor in astonishment: " impossible! I never knew him to' drink too much in my life!" "I know he was never known to be drunk," re- plied my father; " and he always thought he knew just when he had enough: but I am certain, that, if he had not drank a drop that day, his life would have been saved." And this was doubtless true. Mr. Allen was a nmoderate drinker, and thought it impossible for his nerves to be affected by a few glasses of liquor, 9   Moderate Drinkers.      log when he had so long accustomed himself to its use. But, probably from some cause, his system was not in a condition to bear as much as it had borne at other times. It was perfectly evident, however, to those who knew all the circumstances, that had Mr. Alien been in full possession of his faculties, with his brain unclouded by strong drink, and his nerves calm and steady, he might have saved his own life, and that of his child. The  brave act of Sally Wilson and her fol- lowers, as described  in a preceding letter, cre- ated quite a  sensation in 'our quiet little town. A few of the people began to be in earnest in their endeavors to stop the sale of liquor in the place; and, with this object in view, they held public and private meetings, to talk it over, and see what were the best steps to be taken. And here Wgain the influence of the moderate drinker was manifested. Wlhen the question was raised of stopping the nfamous traffic entirely, there were many ready ;o plead that it was necessary to have liquor sold br sickness, and it would be no harm to sell it to hose who knew how to make a  good use of it. So the opposing force grew weaker and weaker;     IIo     The Chester Family. and in a few months Johnson had a full supply of  liquor on hand again; and sold it to any one who had money to pay for it, utterly regardless of consequences. And the same state of things exists not only in the town of which I am writing, but throughout the entire country; and such a state must exist so lonr as moderate drinkers are to be found. The wealthy, pompous gentleman who lives in a stylish house, rides about in his fine carriage, and drinks his three or four glasses of liquor a day, is looked up to and respected by the world in general; while the poor inebriate, whose strength of mind was not sufficient to withstand tempta- tion, and govern his appetite in any degree, is looked down upon and despised., In 1819, Thomas Herttell of New-York City, wrote a pamphlet entitled, "An Expose of the Causes of Intemperate Drinking, and the Means by which it may be obviated." In an edition of this work recently published in Boston, by J. P. Men- dum, the author says (page 23):- "I have the authority of distinguished physi- cians, for remarking, that more die of disorders occasioned by drinking before they become drunk-   Moderate Drinkers.     II rds, than live to extend their intemperance to that xtreme ;" and, "that moderate drinking, as it is lodestly termed, destroys at least as many as runkenness; and is as injurious to society." The following, from Herttell's work, is in point: "A proprietor of a manufacturing establishment,  bserving one of his journeymen preparing to take drunken frolic, warmly remonstrated against his  idulging in that degrading conduct. 'Why,' lid the journeyman, 'I don't drink as much as ou do: true, I now and then get drunk, but am  r -the most time sober; while you, who can fford to have the means always at hand, are rinking daily, and often each day, and in the  ggregate use more ardent drink than I do.' In rhich remarks, a little reflection convinced the entleman there was too much truth. Thus it is, iat those who drink the least, and get drunk, are i owrectly called drunkards; while those who drink lost, pass for moderate drinkers, only because they o not get drunk. "This anecdote reminded me of one I heard re- ited a few years since:--' While attending a eference at a tavern,' said Mr. B., who told the tory, 'I heard a gentlemanly-looking man call,     I I2     The Chester Family. "Landlord, let's have a small glass." It struck me to be a very reasonable request, and he who made it not only a modest man, but a moderate drinker. "Landlord, a small glass, if you please," was soon repeated by the same voice; yet it was but a small glass, and that could not be much. The modest request for the moderate quantity was reiterated, until the tenth was ascertained to be one too many; for it was by that unfortunate glass the gentleman lost his character as a moder- ate drinker.' And so it generally is; the victim begins moderately, progresses moderately, and, even in spite of red eyes and nose, blotched and bloated face, swelled ankles, tender feet, hoarse voice, and trembling limbs (which are estimated as indications of good living), he maintains his char- acter for temperance; and it is only when he gets undeniably drunk, that he is acknowledged to be the worse for liquor!" It is true that thousands who'-pass for moderate drinkers actually drink more than many who are called drunkards. Moderate drinking is simply the Grand Trunk Railroad to drunkenness. It is the only road that leads to it; no other can lead there. None but moderate drinkers can possibly   Moderate Drinkers.      I 3 become drunkards.  Every moderate drinker is a drunkard to just the extent of his drinking. The first glass deranges body and soul a little; intoxicates and makes drunk a little. The second glass doubles the drunkenness; the third trebles it; the fourth quadruples it; and so on: each addi- tional glass increases the disorder, till it culminates in the gutter or on the gallows, in driveling idiocy or raving insanity, in utter imbecility or atrocious crime. The malady that leads to the gutter, the poor-house, the dungeon, or the gallows, begins, always, with the first glass taken fat the convivial board. There can be no moderation in the use of in- toxicating drinks. Drunkenness is drunkenness, whether excessive or moderate; whether within or without bounds; whether to the extent of one glass or ten. The first glass is the first station on the drunkard's Grand Trunk Railroad; the gutter or the gallows is the last. The first glass is the first step tdwards the bitter end. No man can reach the last step without taking the first. All who take the first glass are, to that extent, inclined to take the tenth. The first predisposes to the last. 8     I4     The Chester Family. ALL MODERATE DRINKERS ARE BUT MODERATE DRUNKARDS. Moderate drunkards supply all the immoderate ones.  All disreputable drunkards come from reputable ones. All ragged drunkards come from well-dressed ones. Parlor, ball-room, fashionable-hotel, and saloon drunkards, furnish all the gutter drunkards. Both have the same loathsome malady in kind; they differ only in degree. Drunkenness is what ails both. The gutter and the convivial-parlor and ball-room drunkards have the same distemper. In each it differs only in degree. The parlor wine-bibber is one glass drunk. The sot in the gutter is but four or more glasses drunk. All the drunkenness of the nation and of the world comes as the natural and necessary result of moderate drinking. Moderate drinkers are far more hurtful to society than immoderate ones. Parlor; ball-room, well-dressed, respectable, fash- ionable-hotel, and saloon drunkards, do a thou- sand times more to contaminate the. morals of men, women, and children, than the ragged, degraded, outcast sots that lie in the gutter. A drunkard in broadcloth is more to be feared. and shunned than one in rags. The fashionable wine-   Moderate Drinkers.      I I bibber, whose inebriety snores on a Brussels carpet or a bed of down, is more ruinous to the physical, intellectual, social, and moral health and life of tle people, than that which sobs on the stony pave- ments or in the miry slough. True and earnest workers in the cause of temperance! Go not merely to the drunkard, nor yet to the rumseller, to commence your work, but also to the moderate drinker. Go to him, and show him, if possible, what is the necessary result of the course he is pursuing. Make him realize the fact, that, if possible, he is doing more harm, more wrong, more injustice to humanity, than even the rumseller; and if you can open his eyes to this fact, and induce him to change his course, you will be doing, truly, a great and good work! J. M. F.     LETTER   IX. SELF-S ACRIFI CE. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend, - Thus far in these letters, I have said nothing of John Chester's family relations. His mother was a widow, and lived in the family of her daughter, Mrs. Wentworth. It would be useless for me to attempt to picture to you the agony which wrung that mother's heart as she looked upon her inebriate son. None but those upon whom a like sorrow has fallen can under- stand it. None but He who reads and under- stands all hearts, and who judges more tenderly and mercifully than man judges, saw the tears of that mother, or heard the agonized prayers that hourly went up to our Father's throne, for her only and beloved son. He was her first-born,- the pride of his mother's heart; and when her "6   Self-Sacrifice.     117 husband, a noble and worthy man, was called from earth, she clasped her little son to her heart, and thanked God that he had been spared, to be her support and comforter. Now all her plans were frustrated, her bright hopes blasted: instead of his life proving a blessing to his mother, he had caused her untold suffering and anguish, and was fast bringing down her gray hairs in shame and sorrow to the grave. She felt a mother's love for Mary Chester, and tried in every way that her limited means and poor health would  permit, to lighten her burdens, and cheer her with words of sympathy. Not so Mrs. Wentworth, Chester's sister. She was a cold, heartless woman; and often treated her brother's family with great unkindness, if not positive cruelty. She had long since lost all affection for her brother, and would often upbraid her mother for clinging to him in his degradation. Although possessed of abundant means, she very seldom assisted the suffering family, even in their hours of most extreme want.   She was a thoroughly selfish woman, having no heart to feel for the, sufferings of others. She knew noth- ing of " that love which seeketh not its own:"     "8    The Chester Family. she was a stranger to that spirit which makes it "more blessed to give than to receive." She often employed Mrs. Chester to do the washing of her family, always treating her like a menial, not even inviting her to a seat with the family at the table. How this unkind treatment affected Mrs. Chester no one ever knew. Never murmuring, nor scarcely speaking of her trials to any one, but with a calm faith in Him who hears and answers in his own good time the cry of the suffering heart, she went on, year after year, devoting her life to the welfare of her family. Self sacrifice was to her the first law of her na- ture. To save her husband and children from want and suffering was the great aim of her life; and for them she was willing to toil early and late, day and night, and to suffer scorn and contempt, that they might be made comfortable. The neighbors often said among themselves, that Mrs. Chester's health would some time fail, in con- sequence of the heavy and almost incessant labor she performed; and at last there came a time when* these predictions were verified. For a long time she bdre up under her physical suffering, making little or no complaint to the kind friends who were   Self-Sacrifice.     119 interested in her welfare. But at last her little strength gave way, and she was completely pros- trated. Then it was, as she afterward said, that the shadow which hung over her life was darkest. She saw with agony her children suffering for com- forts which she could no longer give them, and her heart was filled with despair. But, through it all, her trust in the love and wisdom of our heavenly Father did not forsake her. So she prayed to him in the fullness of her agony, and he heard and comforted his sorrowing child. Her brothers, and many of her friends who had known her long-suffering, often urged her to for- sake her husband; promising, that, if she would do so, they would assist her by any means in their power; but she had invariably made one reply. She felt that duty demanded the sacrifice she was making, and she was determined to stand by him to the last. Now, however, that she was stricken down on a bed of sickness, and saw her children suffering without having the power to relieve them, they resolved to renew their entreaties. With this purpose in view, one of her brothers went to see her, accompanied by Mr. Williams, who had always proved himself a devoted friend to the poor     120     The Chester Family. family. I was myself present when the interview took place, and the remembrance of it can never be effaced from my mind. On a low bed, in one corner of the room, Mrs. Chester lay sick and suffering; while the children gathered around her with sad faces and anxious hearts. It was winter again, and the snow, cold and white, covered the earth like a shroud. The day of which I am speaking had been stormy; and the snow lay in huge drifts around the miserable hut, and, lodging on the windows outside, caused the little room to look more dark and desolate than ever. I may not have a more fitting opportunity to speak of the house and furniture than now. The house was built of logs, so poorly put together that snow and rain penetrated through the cracks, ren- dering it very cold and uncomfortable during the winter season. There were but two apartments; the larger of which served as a kitchen and sleep- ing-room, while the smaller served as a bedroom for the children. A table and a few broken chairs composed the greater part of the furniture. A cupboard in the corner of the room contained a few old dishes, always neatly and tastefully arrayed.   Self-Sacrice.      121 But, though poor and humble to the last degree, a neatness and order pervaded the wretched home, which at times almost gave it an air of cheerful- ness, if one could shut his eyes to the pale, sorrow- marked faces of its occupants. At the right of the fireplace stood an old easy- chair, covered with a clean piece of calico; and this seat was always reserved for the husband and father. Mrs. Chester had taught her children to be uniformly kind and respectful to their father, under all circumstances; and when he would come home, generally staggering under the effects of liquor, they were ready to lead him to his seat, and show him many kind attentions. Ellen, especially, was very thoughtful of her father's comfort; and, when she became older, always made it her work to put aside his supper, and keep it-warm for him till he came home, and then silently place it before him. But he was often too much intoxicated to take his food, and would often throw himself on the bed, and lie in a heavy stupor till morning. As I have said, Mrs. Chester's brother and Mr. Williams came to see her after she was taken sick, to try to persuade her to leave her husband to take care of himself as best he could, promising her     122      The Chester Family. that she and her children should be taken to a com- ,ortable home and well cared for. "Now, sister," said Mr. Lincoln, "I hope you will not refuse my offer. You are sick, and your children are suffering. You must not stay here in this miserable hovel and die: you shall come to my house, and we will do all we can to make you and your children comfortable."    d * For a few moments, Mrs. Chester made no reply to this proposal. She looked at her children, and thought of their suffering with hunger and cold. She thought for one brief moment of herself lying there on a bed of sickness, utterly prostrated and  helpless. Her husband did not care for her nor his children; he left them to freeze and starve, while he squandered away his time, his money, and his life, in the rumshop. Why should she not leave him, as her brother proposed, to care for him- self? For the first time since her marriage, Mrs. Chester was almost persuaded that she had done her whole duty toward her husband, and that for her children's sake, if not for her own, she ought to accept the kind offer of her brother. But it was only for a moment that she hesitated. The picture   Self-Sacrifice.     I23 of the poor inebriate, houseless, homeless, -a wan- derer in the streets, with none to give him a word or look of pity, rose up before her. He was her husband, - the father of her children, - the man whom before God she had sworn to love and cher- ish till death. No, no! she could die, but she could not forsake him, and leave him alone in his great need. So she thanked her brother, with her heart full' of gratitude, telling him frankly the reason of her refusal. "I can not leave John," said she: " while he lives, it is my duty to stay with him, and do all I can for him." "But, Mary," replied her brother, " you can not stay here: you are sick, and this is no place for any one to come to take care of you. 'Let me take you and the children home with me till you are well; and then, if you wish, you can come back." "But where will he stay while we are gone? who will open their doors for him, and give him a kind word? No, no! do not urge me to do what my heart tells me is wrong." And Mrs. Chester, no longer able in her 3!     124     The Chester Family. weakness to control her feelings, covered her face with the bed-clothes and wept. At this point, Mr. Williams, who, seated in the corner with Franky on his knee, had been silently listening to the conversation between Mrs. Chester and her brother, came forward, and said to the latter, - Come, come! don't say no more to her about it! Fatt is," he added, drawing Mr. Lincoln aside, " she's right; so let's make the best of it." Then tarning to the bed again, he said to Mrs. Chester, "Now, cheer up, and don't you worry no more! You're going to be taken care of, you and your children. I guess there'll be a room somewhere to shelter ye all, and a fire to warm ye, while I've got a roof over my head; so don't take on no more;" and the good man drew the back of his hand across his eyes in a manner highly suggestive of deeply-aroused sympathies. "What are we going to do now?" asked Henry Lincoln, as they walked away from the house. "Do!" repeated Mr. Williams energetically: "we must take the whole family, John Chester and all, and take care of 'em " "Well, neighbor," replied Mr. Lincoln, "I al-   Self-Sacrifice.     125 ways knew you had a kind heart, and a good deal of patience; but I didn't think you could feel like taking care of John Chester, when he won't take care of himself! I must confess that my patience with him is entirely exhausted; and I am afraid that I shall soon lose my patience with Mary, if she persists in clinging to him as she always has done." "I haven't the least mite of patience in the world with him," said Mr. Williams; "but my heart aches for your sister. She's an angel, if ever the Lord sent one to live on the earth. The Bible says no man liveth and sinneth not; but it don't say any thing about women; and I believe that Mary Chester is one of them that lives and don't sin." So the two neighbors conferred together as to the best plan to adopt with regard to the sufferers. Mr. Williams, in the kindness of his great heart, offered to take them to his house; but Mr. Lincoln felt that it was his place to give them the shelter of his home, and so it was settled in that way. Mr. Williams busied himself during the remainder of the day in going about the village, enlisting the sympathy of the villagers in behalf of the Chester family; and before night he had collected quite a     126     The Chester Family. little sum of money, besides a good stock of pro- visions and clothing. "Well, how much are you going to lend to the Lord, to-day?" he would ask as he presented his petition: "remember what the good Book says, and don't be afraid to open your purses." The next day the Chester family were removed from their wretched abode to the home of Henry Lincoln. Two warm, comfortable rooms were prepared for them, and every thing done for their comfort. "'She needs rest and care more than any thing else," said the old physician who was called to look after the invalid.  "Then you think she'll get up again?" inquired Mr. Williams as he walked away with the doctor. "Oh, yes! if she has proper care. It's a won- der that her constitution has held out as long as it has," he added; "but I think she has no settled disease." "Well, she shall have every thing she needs," said Mr. Williams to himself. And he forthwith hurried home to hold a coun- cil with his good wife, as to the best thing that could be done for the sick woman.   Self-Sacrifice.     27 "I don't know, mother," he remarked, "but what you'd better go up to neighbor Lincoln's and stay a few days, and take care of her yourself. You're a capital hand at nursing anybody that's sick, you know; and then there ain't any thing in the world to hinder you from leaving home, for Netty and I can get along well enough with the work." So it was decided that Mrs. Williams should be Mrs. Chester's nurse for a short time ; and accord- ingly the next morning she took her place at the bedside of the patient sufferer. In a few weeks, under Mrs. Williams's excellent care, she had so far recovered as to be able to sit up, and do some light needle-work, which she urged Mrs. Williams to place in her hands. "I'm dreadful afraid you'll overdo!" the good woman would say; but Mrs. Chester would answer with a quiet smile,-  "I shall be so much happier to be doing some- thing for the children, you know;" and Mrs. Williams would let her have her own way. The children were delighted to see their mother once more able to sit up and converse with them. Oh! I was so afraid you would die, mother," said Johnny, "when you lay in the bed, and OF     128     The Chester Family. looked so pale; and I kept asking God to let you get well all the time." Franky would sit on a cricket by his mother's side and talk by the hour. "I mustn't get up in your lap now, mother," the little fellow would say, "because you have been real sick; and Uncle Henry says I must be a good boy, and not do any thing to tire or trouble you." They were very happy in their new home; but they all knew that they could not stay there after their mother was well, for their uncle had a large family, and needed all his rooms. "It will be summer, though," said Ellen ; " and we shall not be so cold as we were in the winter, when the snow was on the ground, and the wind blew so cold into the house. "You just wait till I .grow up," said Johnny; "and see if I don't buy a good house, just as nice and warm as this one!" '"And I'll live with you, Johnny!" exclaimed Ellen and Mary, speaking both together. '"Yes, so you will; and then, if mother is sick, we will have a nice place for her." "My children must not forget to take care of y   Self-Sacrifice.      29 their father," said Mrs. Chester, who had been silently listening to their conversation. "No," said Johnny: ,I'll take care of him too; but perhaps he'll be good by that time, and be able to take care of himself.1" I have not told you how John Chester was affected by his wife's illness. Strange to say, it had not seemed to touch his feelings in the least. But the truth was, he had not, at any time during her sickness, been entirely free from the influence of liquor. He had become dead to every thing but his passion for alcoholic drink; and he yielded himself up, soul and body, to the fatal spell. When told by Henry: Lincoln that his wife and children had been removed to his house, and that he might come there and make it his home when he chose, he felt no emotion of gratitude. Indeed, he scarcely realized what was meant; and it was not until Johnny led him from the rumshop to his uncle's house, that he seemed to comprehend the change. As the mild spring weather came on, Mrs. Chester fully recovered her strength; and, in May, she and her children went back to their miserable dwelling. 9     130     The Chester Family. "I would gladly let' you stay in my house," said her brother; " but you know how it is. I can not spare the room from my family." Mrs. Chester thanked him with tears of grati- tude. "You have been very, very kind, brother," said she: "I feel that I owe my life to you." "But, if you would only consent to leave Chester," he continued, "I would do more for you. Mrs. Chester made no reply.  Any thing, almost any thing, her brother wished, she could do to please him, but that. She must be true to her duty to her husband; and, for their sake, true to the father of her children. She could not neglect and abandon him, even though he neg- lected and abandoned his wife and children. And so they went back again to the sad and desolate home. Mrs. Chester fell into the old routine of hard labor, to feed her children, un- aided by their drunken father; toiling early and late, till her strength was gone, and she would sink down at night on her miserable bed, with her heart throbbing with a pain that would not be stilled; that only a wife and mother, thus cruelly wronged,   Self-Sacrifie.      13 can ever know. Still she .was patient, striving to "OVERCOME EVIL WITH GOOD;" and prayed with the same firm trust in Him, who, she was sure, would some time answer the prayer of her weary heart. J M. .     LETTER X. pRE-lNATAL INFLU EI CES. BOSTON, September, 1869. -. C. W. My Friend, -Mary Lincoln chose a man whom she knew to be, from his childhood, the helpless, and seemingly hopeless victim of the drunkard's appetite, to be her husband and the father of her children. She did it, confidently trusting in the power of her wifely love to extinguish in him the love for alcoholic drinks. I have attempted to show the consequences to her and her children of her mistake. Terrible has been the cross she has borne, and her life-long crucifixion. Having, from the purest motive, come into the relation of a wife with a known drunkard, the human heart can but accord to her the meed of a sublime heroism in her fidelity to her nuptial vow. rn this letter I wish to call your attention to a 132   Pre-natal Influences.    133 fact in the life of John Chester, in which you, as one who has devoted his life to one single object, i e., THE ELEVATION AND HAPPINESS OF THE NA- TURE WE ALL BEAR, will feel a deep interest. You have often expressed the opinion to me in private, a and in your writings and public addresses, that it is easier to start right and keep right, than to start wrong and then get right. I have heard you say often that it is much better and safer for the future character and destiny of a child, to place it on the up-grade, than on the down-grade, of humanity. You assert most truly, that those parents do a great wrong to their children, who place them on the down-grade before birth, and trust to domestic, social, and religious influences to switch them off on to the up-grade afterwards. You would start them on the up-grade, and then you think it would be far'easier to keep them there during life. With a healthy body, and a healthy soul in it as a birthright; with a body comparatively free from diseased tendencies, and a soul rich in all loving, truthful, forgiving, upward aspirations, it is easy for a child, as it passes on through the vari- ous stages from infancy to manhood or woman- hood, to meet and triumph over temptations. What     134      The Chester Family. chance has that child of a successful life-battle, whose fatal birthright legacy is a body filled with scrofula, erysipelas, cancer, and other diseases, and a soul inclined to degrading and vicious prac- tices? A soul ennobled before birth with a rich love-nature, has great advantages over one born with a tendency to hot wrath, and revenge. A child born with a pre-natal tendency to justice and honesty, has an advantage over one born with a tendency to injustice, dishonesty, and disregard for the rights and happiness of others. So, in all human relations, it is an inestimable blessing to be born on the up-grade of humanity. It is a far greater boon to be the heir of a sound body and mind, than to be born an heir to untold millions of material wealth. Of all legacies that parents can leave to children, the most unfortunate and ruinous is that of a diseased body, and a soul deformed by vicious inclinations. Of all inherited propensities, perhaps the most fatal is the drunkard's appetite. Less fatal by far is a tendency to idiocy or insanity. It is less ter- rible to have the doom of an idiot or a lunatic woven into our organization, than the doom of an inebriate.   Pre-natal Influences.    35 This appetite is fatal to man's well-being. All who have a thirst for intoxicating liquors have taken a large stride toward the drunkard's doom. They are on the way to the gutter, the poor- house, the insane or idiotic. asylum, to the peni- tentiary, or the gallows. The first, and most ominous and fatal step is,-the creation in the soul of the drunkard's appetite. The mere pres- ence of this appetite, this passion for the drunk- ard's drink, disarranges and vitiates the whole man, body and soul. Its ceaseless clamors for in- dulgence are but the call of a fiend, beckoning and urging its victim on to the poor-house, the prison, or the gibbet. Fathers and mothers, young men and women, who are to be the parents of future generations,- save your children from this bitter curse! How? Never form in your- selves a longing for the drunkard's drink. If you already have it, give it no indulgence, and it will die: at least, it will sleep the sleep that knows no waking except by te taste of the intoating dram. By a fixed law of reproduction, IKE BEGETS IIrE. Both parents being cursed with the drunk- ard's appetite, it can not be reasonably expected     136     The, Chester Family. that the children should be free from it. In cases where only the father is cursed by it (as in the Chester family), a healthy mother may save her children from the fatal malady; but, as a more general rule, the sons of a drunken father become drunkards. When thus cursed in their organia- tion with a longing for the drunkard's drink, they are never to be blamed for having it. It is their greatest possible calamity to be born with a pro- pensity that is most sure to lead them to the drunkard's doom, and to blast the hopes an destroy the happiness of all who are associated with them in any of the intimate relations of life; but most especially of all connected with them by family ties. Of this, John Chester, his mother, his wife, and children afford a melancholy illustration. Let it be a warning to all mothers who would secure to their children virtuous and noble tendencies, and save them from the destiny that ever awaits the victims of the drunkard's appetite. When pre- *I   Tparing to give existence to a new life, frown upon thai advice, and its ignorant or unprincipled author, that would counsel you to drug your unborn chid with the drunkard's drink.   Pre-natal Influences.    137 In my last, I gave you an account of the sick- ness of Mary Chester, and her residences during the winter, with ler children, in the house of her brother. I have said, that, as the spring weather came on, they all went back again to their wretched, comfortless old home. It was in the beautiful month of May. The fresh, green grass was springing up. Violets and star-flowers were beginning to bloom. The air was soft and balmy. "It does not seem half so cold and dark and lonesome to go home, now that it is almost sum- mer," said the children, as each one tried to do some little thing to aid their mother, who was not yet very strong. Mr. Lincoln, with Mr. Williams and some others, had worked several days in and around the house, repairing it a little, so it might be more comfortable in cold and rainy weather. After they were fairly settled down in such a place as none but a drunken husband and father could ever allow his wife and. children to live in, the mother of John Chester came to visit them. She was quite old and infirm, and seldom left her home, except when she visited her son's family.     138     The Chester Family. The children, always glad to see their grand- mother, ran out to meet her. They led her into the house, and placed her in a chair, with joyous, happy hearts. She had not seen Mary Chester since her illness. She made many kind inquiries about it, expressing much sympathy with her, and urging her to try to take better care of herself in fixture.            * "I am sure it was all caused by hard work, Mary," said she kindly. "Oh," she continued, "if I'only had it in my power to help you bear your heavy burdens, I should be so glad." "Don't you worry about me, mother," replied Mary Chester. "I shall have strength given me to bear all that comes upon me, I am sure. My trust is in -God," she said quietly; " and he will never forsake his children who live lovingly and uprightly, and who give only what they are will- ing to take in all relations." Thus they talked together, the heart-broken mother and the sad, sorrowing, yet patient, all- enduring wife. Their thoughts and sympathies were centered on the poor unfortunate son and husband. Tenderly and tearfully they spoke of him who had been the means of bringing all this *   Pre-natal Influences.    139 great suffering upon them; they could utter no word of reproach against him. Especially was the poor heart-stricken mother's lips sealed; for well she knew who and what had caused her son's ruin. She felt a consciousness that she herself was the direct agent in creating in him a thirst for the drunkard's drink, and in making him the poor besotted being he was. In her ignorance, she had vitiated his organic exist- ence, and corrupted the very fountain of his char- acter and destiny, with the most degrading and ungovernable of all artificial and ruinous appetites, - a longing for alcoholic liquors. With hearts full of love and pity they talked of his struggles with the tempter, of his repeated efforts to resist the temptations presented by the rumsellers, who are licensed by  rum-voters to urge all who are thus victims to a thirst for the in- toxicating cup on to the destruction of themselves and families. They talked tenderly of the un- manly, inhuman weakness that led  im, against the stern remonstances of his conscience, and the tender pleadings of his mother and his wife and children, to yield at last to the infamous wiles of the licensed tempter.     "O     The Chester Family. "Mother," said Mary Chester, "what do you think is the cause of this weakness in one so kind, so true, and noble, but for this one propensity? Tell me: can you think of any reason why love for alcohol should have been so strong in his na- ture as to crush down the love for his mother, his wife, and his children?" "This is what I have long wished to speak of to you, Mary," replied the mother. ' Hadyou known the influences that bore on him before he was born, to make him a drunkard, it might have greatly helped you in bearing the cross that is laid upon you. Indeed, my suffering daughter, I have often felt self-condemned that I did not tell you, before you married my son, the influence that bore upon him to educate and form him to the drunk- ard's life and doom. But I cherished, as you did, the hope that your love might save him. I delayed to tell you of his pre-natal life, lest it might lead you to refuse to become his wife, and thus my last hope of his salvation be destroyed. I feel now, and have long felt, that I did you a great wrong in withholding from you the facts connected with his pre-natal history." "Whatever they may have been," said Mary   Pre-natat Influences.    141 Chester, "it would not have changed my resolu-  fion to become his wife. I did it hoping and be- lieving that, in some way, my relations with him as a wife would redeem him from the power of the fiend that holds him, and restore him to him- self and those who love him." "Shall I tell you now of the influence that bore on him before his birth, to make him what he is, and to educate him for the doom of a poor inebri- ate?" asked the sorrowing mother. "Do," said Mary Chester. "I have ever felt that there must be some uncommon circumstances connected with his life, before or after he was born, that have given to this appetite such fearful control over him." "There are, indeed," replied the mother, "facts that bore on him, before his birth, which will ex- cite your pity for him, while they account for his weakness to resist the wiles of the licensed rum- seller. They are as follows:  "I have felt for many years that I was myself to blame, in part, for the existence in my son of this passion for strong drink, which has caused us all so much sorrow. I can tell you that which     "2     The Chester Family. will throw light on the subject that so deeply con- cerns us both.  "Previous to the birth of my son, - still so dear to his mother's pitying heart, - and during his gestational life, I was told by my physician and others who professed to have a thorough 1-iowledge of such matters, that I must gratify any appetite, however unnatural and monstrous it might be, which I might have, in order, as they said, to insure my child a healthful and perfect de- velopment. Being young and inexperienced, I depended on what my physician and other friends told me; and I acted accordingly. "I had never in my life been in the habit of drinking intoxicating liquor of any kind. I had never had the least inclination to drink it. Yet, during that period so important to the future char- acter and destiny of my child, the smell of whis- ky, rum, and other kinds of liquor began to be pleasant to me. I tasted it. It seemed to have an exhilarating and very pleasant effect on my feel- ings, which, at times, were much depressed. I continued to taste it, to relieve my sense of sad- ness and depression. I soon began to drink it * This story was told me by Mary Chester.   Pre-natal Influences.    143 regularly,-several times in a day. Whenever I felt any nervous depression or irritability, I resort- ed to the drunkard's drink for help. "Strange to say, it produced no apparent intoxi- cating effect upon me at the time. I continued its free daily use, until my appetite for it became un- controllable. I spoke to my physician about it. He assured me it could do me no harm, and that  I ought to gratify the longing which I felt for it, lest serious evils should result to me and my child. He gave me no word of warning of the fact that I was making the drunkard's appetite an element )f my child's organic existence. He did not in- orm me that every particle of nourishment that nade up the growth of my unborn babe was teeped in the drunkard's drinks. "Thus I continued to drink the deadly dram, egularly, and in large quantities, for five months revious to the birth of my son.  After that vent, the craving for it was gone. Liquor of al: inds immediately became distasteful to me, as it ad been before. But, in discovering in my son, ren in his early childhood, a strong, overmaster- g passion for alcoholic drinks, I have thought, at, in seeking to do justice (as my physician o. ', 4ci     The Chester Family. "4 called it) to my child, I nficted on him a fearful I fo  feel assured that I, his mother, taught him --edated him--to love the drunkard's drink, and stamped on him the drunkard's doom before he was born. But God knows that I sinned before he was born. TNot for my against him and myself ignorantly ot for m life would I have taken a step, or done an act, that would have brought suffering upon my child and those who love him, had I known what the effect would have been." Such, in substance, was the story told byJohn Chester's mother to his wife, in regard to the pre- natal life and education of her husband. She did not, indeed, get drunk herself; but she kept the unconscious, helpless babe drunk for five months before he was born. The mother got rid of the drunkard's appetite by giving it to her child! She saved herself from the hell of drunkenness by con- signing her child to that fearful doom! Ignorant- ly, and by the advice of her physician, she did it; and, therefore, without guilt. Yet, through her direct agency, the deed was done that made her son a drunkard and an ever-present source of grief and shame to his mother, and to his wife   Pre-natal Influences.   145 and children. She escaped a drunkard's doom by entailing it on her helpless babe. May this case be a warning to all mothers who may look over these pages, to induce them so to govern their appetites and passions that they may not bring shame and sorrow upon themselves, and suffering and anguish upon their children, by giv- ing them, as their birthright inheritance, tenden- cies which will predominate over eveiy thing pure, high, and noble in their natures; that their chil- dren, instead of being born on the DOWN-GRADE of humanity, cursed with the drunkard's appetite, that only degrades and brutalizes them, may begin life on the UP-GRADE, abounding in all those sub- lime organic tendencies that lead to a true and noble manhood or womanhood. I am here reminded of an instance that came to my knowledge, of a woman who consulted her medical -who was also her spiritual and religious -adviser, in regard to her duty. She was deeply imbued with scrofulous humor.- She was asked to become the wife of an honorable and noble man, whom she loved. She had serious scruples about becoming a mother, lest she should entail on her children a disease which had brought her so much 10     I46     The Chester Family. suffering, and had embittered her whole life. She was truly a conscientious and noble woman, and a member of the Presbyterian church over which her adviser was a settled and much-respected pas- tor. She laid her case and her scruples before him, asking him, - "Would it be right for me to marry and become the mother of a family, with the certainty of trans- mitting to my children a disease that has brought to me such life-long suffering?" "Marry," was his laconic reply; "have chil- dren, and get rid of your disease." "By giving it to my children!" she replied, in amazement. "Save myself from torture by tor- turing my innocent, helpless children! I can never do that!" She left his presence; she left his church. She sought other counsellors, whose advice was more consonant with her sense of justice and her woman- ly instincts. One would have supposed that the rwomanly and maternal instincts of John Chester's mother would have taught her better than to save herself from the power of a fiend so merciless and re- morseless as the drunkard's appetite, by entailing   Pre-natal Infuences.    :47 it on her babe. She saved herself from suffering by entailing on her child, and on all who should come into intimate relations with him, the agony of a life-long crucifixion; her only excuse being the one offered in behalf of His murderers by the Martyr of Calvary, in his song of triumph over death, - "FORGIVE THEM! THEY KNOW   NOT WHAT THEY DO I " So, let the pitying human heart forgive that afflicted mother, and all mothers who thus make the drunkard's doom an element of organic life in their children; for,. THEY KNOW NOT WHAT THEY DO. Mary Chester had never before heard her hus- band's mother speak of the influences that bore on his pre-natal life to create in him a passion for strong drink which would consign him to the drunk- ard's doom after he was born. She was deeply touched by the story; and her heart clung to her husband more lovingly and pityingly than before. She had thought much of such things, and had always been fearful lest some of herchildren should inherit their father's terrible appetite. She was ever anxious and watchful over them; and daily prayed that angel hands might lead them, and angel     "8     The Chester Family. voices guide and guard them, from temptations that are placed before them by licensed dramsellers. The drunkard's appetite! The drunkard's doom-! What a bitter curse for a tender, anxious mother to entail upon her innocent and helpless child! What a burden, most grievous to be borne, did she bind upon him ere he was born I This burden, which has crushed to the earth millions, who were born, like John Chester, to the appalling inheritance of drunkenness, must be carried by its victims wherever they go. In all the universe, wherever we go, in or out of the body, it is the fixed destiny of each and every human being- TO FIND WHAT HE CARRIES ; i. e., himself or herself, with all his or her organic and acquired conditions and tendencies. No bur- den can be more grievous to be borne, no ten- dency or condition will more surely lead to degra- dation and utter ruin, than the drunkard's appe- tite. This is most sure to sink the husband, the father, son, brother, and friend-THE MAN- in the mire of drunkenness. To think that a woman, as a mother, should be made the means of pronouncing and executing such a doom on her own helpless, innocent babe! i    Pre-natal Influences.    I49 Yet thousands do it by marrying men known to be cursed with the drunkard's appetite, and by ac- quiring, in complying with the drinking customs of society, a love for the drunkard's drinks. It is a strange and monstrous work for a loving mother to do to her babe. Well might John Chester's mother exclaim, in her anguish of soul,- "I, MYSELF, AM TO BLAME! I am the author of my son's ruin!" Surely no blame could attach to the victim for having this foul and fatal dehumanizing appetite. Friends of temperance! Friends of God and man I Judge not harshly and severely the victims of this madness! Let your condemnation rest on those parents who can indulge their love of strong drinks, or any other appetite or passion, at the ex- pense of their helpless children. Let your indig- nation bear down upon liquor-dealers, who seek to make themselves rich and happy by making others drunk, and by plunging their wives, mothers, and children into the deepest depths of poverty and wretchedness; and whose occupation, in its injuri- ous effects on property, person, life, and happiness, surpasses that of the thief, the highway-robber, the midnight assassin, or the pirate on the high seas.     150      The Chester Family. These occupations, so universally condemned and punished in all nations that are regarded as civilized, are harmless in their bearing on the phys- ical, intellectual, social, and moral health and prosperity of the people, compared to that of the rumseller. Rumselling destroys millions of dollars where theft and robbery destroys hundreds. Rum- sellers slay their thousands where common mur- derers, assassins, and pirates, slay one.. Yet liquor-dealers are licensed and protected in their thieving, plundering, murderous work; while the others, whose conduct is not so injurious to society, are consigned to a dungeon or a gal- lows. It is not fair; it is not just; it is not im- partial. Why should the dramseller be licensed and protected in his wholesale slaughter and plunder, and the man who steals or robs in secret, , * or on the highway, be outlawed and punished? Outlaw and punish the liquor-dealer, or license and protect the less hurtful robbers and murdererai Let impartial justice be done. Consign not the lesser to a dungeon or gallows, while the greater criminal is licensed and protected. Acts are to be judged by their consequences. The character and spirit of the doer are to be    Pre-natal Influences. -  151 judged by the known and necessary and intended results of his deeds. The rumseller knows that what he gives in exchange for the earnings of a man will make him drunk; will excite his pas- sions to madness, and take away the power of self- control. He knows and expects it will make him drunk. He intends to make him drunk. He sells the drunkard's drink that it may be used as a drink, that it may be used to make those who drink it drunk.  He knows that, when drunk, he loses all sense of moral distinctions and all re- gard for the rights of others. Yet he makes him drunk; and instigates him to crime. Hold the dramseller responsible for the results of his actions! John Chester's mother knew not what would result from her drugging her unborn babe with the drunkard's drink; therefore, she was guiltless. Had she known that her act would make her child a drunkard, she would have been guilty, and should have been held responsible for the conse- quences of her unmotherly conduct. Every liquor-dealer knows what will be the re- sult when he sells alcoholic drinks to a man. He knows its certain results are to deprive him of the right use of his reason; to blunt or blot out his     152      The Chester Family. conscience; to destroy his domestic and social af- fections and sympathies; to deprive him of the power to distinguish between good and evil, right and wrong, justice and injustice; to obfuscate, be- wilder, and confound his intellectual, social, and moral intuitions and perceptions on all subjects, and in regard to his obligations and duties in all rela- tions; to stimulate all his animal appetites and passions to madness; and to take away from him all power of self-control. All this the rumseller knows as certainly as he knows any thing. He knows that the direct and certain effect of intoxicating liquor, in any quantity, is to derange the whole physical, intellectual, do- mestic, social, and moral man; to destroy his respect for the property and personal rights of others; to make him intellectually, domestically, socially, and morally, idiotic or insane; to excite his passions, to rob him of all power of self-control, and prepare him for the commission of every crime against property, person, and life; and then to instigate and urge him on to perpetrate outrages against his wife and children, father and mother, brothers and sisters, and his fellow-beings generally. Every dramseller knows this. t    .    Pre-natal Influences.    153 Yet he sells the drunkard's drink to a man! The necessary physical, intellectual, domestic, so- cial and moral derangement ensues. Revolting crimes and outrages are committed against wives and children; and untold sufferings inflicted on all associated with him, as the man who plied the. stimulant knew and expected they would be. On whom rests the responsibility? Who is the principal actor in the cruel and bloody scenes? The sot is bereft of reason and all sense of right and justice. He is intellectually and morally idiotic or insane. He is mad. He knows not what he does. He has insulted, wronged, out- raged, MURDERED those who, in his sober moments, are objects of his tenderest love. There he stands before the court, his hands and his garments drip- ping with innocent blood. Who made him idiotic, or insane, to think, feel; and act? Who instigated him and urged him on to crime and outrage?  The dramseller. The crimes that place the dram-drinker at the criminal bar are his as a principal. The criminal at the bar is but the rumseller's tool. Only as he was incited and urged on by him, would he, or could he, have done the deed. That the dramseller is     154     TThe Chester Family. licensed and protected in his occupation of making the people drunk, and instigating them to crime and outrage, makes his guilt and infamy none the less.. Let the righteous scorn and indignation of all be visited upon him. J. M. F. I    LETTER XI. THE FIRST VOYAGE TO SEA. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend, - I now pass over a few years in the lives of the Chester family. I am writing these letters in a familiar style, as you requested me to do, aiming more to show the evils of intem- perance than to make this interesting as a story. In looking back upon their past history, I can recall so many instances in their lives illustrative of the sorrow and desolation caused by liquor, that I hardly know which to select in writing these let- ters. I llave endeavored to picture to you a few of the many sad scenes which occurred in that poor family, but I have failed to convey to you more than a faint idea of their utter wretchedness. I might, indeed, describe to you the physical suf- ferings; I might tell you of their hunger and cold, 155     156     The Chester Family. of their scanty clothing, of the hovel which they called their home, and make you understand all these things. But what tongue or what pen can portray the heart-sorrow, the silent agony, of the drunkard's wife, mother, and children? Who can tell of the 'anxious, sleepless nights, when they waited and longed, yet dreaded, to hear his foot- steps ; of the tears of anguish they shed when the hope of his reform grew fainter and fainter,- till it almost went out in the darkness of despair! I pass over the time till Johnny is fifteen years old. We see him now, a well-grown, manly-looking youth, with dark-brown hair, curling around a full, well- developed forehead. His eyes are dark, full of energy and resolution; but showing, at times, the mildness and tenderness of his mother's nature. For the last two years he had tried, in vain, to gain his mother's consent for him to go tq sea; but she was unwilling to have him leave her, he being so young and unused to the world. "You know I must do something, mother," he would say; "I must do something to earn money to help you, so that you will not be obliged to work so hard." His mother would have preferred that he should   The First Voyage to Sea.   157 have learned a trade; but Johnny always said that he could not stop to do that. "It will take me so long to begin to earn money," he argued: "I can not afford to spend so much time." So, after a while, it was decided that he should go a voyage to the West Indies. He was to go in a brig called "The Wave." Mr. Williams gave him an old sea-chest, nicely repaired, into which lis good wife and daughter Netty packed nicely a full suit of clothes, which they had "made over," and which, Mr. Williams observed, " would be just as good as the bank to wear to sea!" Mrs. Chester had washed, mended, and made comfortable as many garments as she could for his use; and when Mr. Williams brought the chest over, she folded them all up, and placed them in it, feeling, all the while, how very hard it was to have him go out into the wide world so young'and in- - experienced. She had very little fear that he would suffer himself to be led into wrong paths. She could not help having perfect trust in his in- tegrity and ability to resist temptation, when she looked into his face, and saw what a noble nature was written there.     I 58     The'Chester Family. "But he is so young! A  mere child," she thought to herself; and her mother's heart was pained at the thought of being separated from him, even for a short time. So, when all was ready, the boy went away from home with a light step and a smiling face; for his heart was full of joy at the hope of being able to do something that would relieve his mother, in some degree, of the heavy burden that had so long rested upon her. The future looked all bright and unclouded before him. He would be true to the beautiful lessons his mother had taught him, and never, by an act of his, cause her a moment's pain. Weeks passed away; but at last there came a letter from the young sailor, full of hope and courage, telling his mother many particulars of his voyage, and expressing himself pleased with his situation on board the ship. "Do not be troubled about me, mother," he wrote: I like the sea so well, that I mean to own a ship, when I am a man; and then I will take you all with me, and we will sail to all parts of the world." In due time the voyage was ended, and John-   The First Voyage to Sea.   159 ny came home, looking a little brown, but quite well and happy. He had saved and brought home every cent of his wages to his mother, for her to use as she thought best. Ellen cried for joy, to see her brother at' home again, and Mary and Frank were no less pleased. Mrs. Chester em- braced her son in silent joy, her heart too fili for utterance. His father manifested no interest in his depar- ture or his return. As I have said before, his heart seemed dead to any thin'g like affection for, i or interest in, his family. For the last two or three years his health had been failing, until he seemed but the wreck of his former self. He still hung about the bar-room, where he now spent almost his entire time, buying liquor with the little money he earned, or begging it when he could not buy it; for without that he'now felt he could not live. The. same  night -that Johnny returned home from his first voyage to sea, Chester came home too much under the influence of liquor to know who was in the room. He   threw himself on the bed; and, instead of falling into a heavy sleep as usual, he began to groan, and mutter to himself. Johnny's heart was touched with pity.. He went     I60     'The Chester Family. to his father, and, placing his hand on his face, spoke to him. "Father, I have got home: don't you know me?." But he only continued to mutter indistinctly, and stare vacantly about the room. "Father," repeated the boy, kneeling down by his side, "I wish you would just know me and speak to me once! It's Johnny: don't you know me?" For a moment Chester started, and raised his eyes to his son's face, as if there was something in the tones of the voice that touched an answering chord in his heart. But, the next moment, his eyes wandered again ; and presently he fell aslqep without recognizing his child. That night, when my father came in to his sup- per, he told us that he saw Johnny Chester get out of the stage at the public-house, just as he came home. So, as soon as I had helped my mother put away the tea-things, I ran over to see him; for he was a great favorite with the whole neighborhood. After I had greeted Johnny, and talked with him a little while about his famous I     voyage, Mr. Williams came in with his usual smil-   The First Voyage to Sea.   i61 ing face, and cheerful, kindly voice, that I used to think had real music in it whenever he spoke. He sliook hands very cordially with Johnny, and expressed great pleasure at seeing him at home again. b' I declare," said he, " it seemed real lonesome all the time you were gone. I was telling mother, this very morning, that I was real homesick to see you again." "I am very glad to get home again," replied Johnny, " for I was afraid mother would be sick while I was away." "That's a good boy, to think of your mother," - d Mr. Williams, smiling.  "Now tell me all about your cruise, and what you saw, and how you liked going to sea, and every thing." So we all gathered about the little hero, who had truly been away to the West Indies, and lis- tened to him an hour, while he gave us an inter- esting account of his voyage. "And so vou didn't spend a cent of your money, but brought it all home to your mother, I dare say," said MUIr. Williams, when Johnny had fin- ished his story. "Well, I thought she would know best what to "      t     x62     The Chester Family. do with it," replied the boy. "But," he added, "I did buy a few shells while I was there." Saying this, he got up and opened his chest, which stood in the corner of the room. "I have not thought of them," said he; "I was so glad to get home and see you all, that I quite forgot the shells." So he opened a little box which was stored away snugly under the till of the chest, and poured the bright-colored shells into Mary's lap. "Oh, how pretty they are!" cried the delighted child. ji     "I knew she would like them," said Johnny, with a smile of satisfaction. I     Then Ellen and myself, kneeling down by Mary's chair, picked them all over; and when we had sufficiently admired them, and planned out various frames and baskets to be constructed out of them, I inquired of Johnny, - "Now, what shall we do with them?" "Do just what you please. You are to have some, of course; and I guess," he added, while a flush stole over his brown cheek, "I guess I'll send a few of them to Netty, too."' "She'll be tickled enough to have some," said i    Thze First Voyage to Sea.   I63 Mr. Williams, laughing as he noticed Johnny's suffused cheek. The truth was, Johnny and Netty Williams had always been fast friends; and Ellen and I knew perfectly well that she was destined to have a share of the presents Johnny had brought home. So, for the sake of a little innocent amusement, I asked -him the question of how the shells were to be disposed of. When Mr. Williams arose to go home that night, he told Johnny that he wanted him to come over to his house and make him a- call in the morn- ing, as he had something particular to say to him. While Johnny had been gone to sea, a man living about half a mile from the village had- ad- vertised a small farm for sale. It was to be sold at a bargain, as the man who owned it wished to sell off all his property and remove to another part of the State. Good Mr. Williams, his heart full of kindness, had tried to devise some way by which to help put the Chester family in possession of that comfortable home. "I never wished for riches so much in all my life," said he to his wife, to whom he always confided his plans. "Now, if I had only had the money, how     164     The Chester Family. quick I'd have that place, and put that poor family there. I'd risk but that Johnny would pay for it, if he has his health and strength." "Why, father," said his wife, "you wouldn't do any thing for John Chester's comfort, would you, after you almost wanted to see him hung? and you know his wife wouldn't leave him." "Now, mother, I say it's too bad for you to keep reminding me of my failings all the time. Supposing I did say I'd like to see Chester hung, you know I didn't mean it, no more than nothing in the world; and as for doing any thing for his comfort, I don't know but I'd do for him just as quick as I would for anybody. I tell you, mother, that Mary Chester has learned me a lesson. If she can put up and bear with him, and never com- plain a word, I don't see why other folks can't? And besides that, I never feel right and happy when I harbor any kind of hard feeling against anybody, no matter how bad they are. Best way, I've found, is TO DO THE BEST YOU CAN, AND BE GLAD IF OTHERS CAN DO BETTER. Be good to everybody if you want to have an easy conscience." Mr. Williams, having uttered this choice bit of moralizing, went off across the field, humming to-   The First Voyage to Sea.   I65 himself with a happy and self-satisfied expression on his face. Johnny's call on his kind friend, the object of it, and their conversation and plans, will form the subject of another letter. J. M. F.     LETTER   XII. Ei       HOP ES AND PLANS. IB BBOSTON, September, 1869. 8i   H. C. W. My iFriend, - A brighter day is dawning on our heart-stricken victims of the drunkard's appetite, that arch-fiend of the life of millions. What swift witnesses are Mary Chester and her starving chil- dren against that merciless appetite, and against rumsellers and all liquor makers and venders who live by creating and pandering to it; and against legislators and rulers who license men to make drunkards and to strike daggers to the hearts of wives and children; to desolate homes, and fill the land with sorrow and crime! But, through her heroic boy, the drunkard's wife is about to be comforted. The morning after Johnny's welcome home from his first voyage at sea, - after he had taken 166   Hopes and Plans.     I67 his breakfast, and related for the third time some of his adventures while on board the ship and in the West Indies to Frank and his sisters, who were attentive listeners, he went over to see Mr. Williams. "O mother! here's Johnny Chester!" cried Netty, as he presented himself at the kitchen door. Mrs. Williams came hurrying in from the pantry, where she had been preparing her dinner, never stopping to brush the flour from her hands. "Why, sure enough, so it is!" she exclaimed, shaking him warmly by the hand, and looking at him affectionately. "I declare now! I believe you're grown two inches taller since you went away, and you look as rugged as can be!" Johnny inquired for Mr. Williams, and found he had gone to the village, but would be back soon. "He said you must wait for him if you called," said Netty: " he won't be gone long." So Johnny sat down and waited, and chatted with Mrs. Williams and Netty, who were busy with their household duties. "I am glad that your mother has got such a     i68     The Chester Family. good boy," said Mrs. Williams, sitting down near him with her knitting-work, and speaking in kind, motherly tones. "I always hoped she would have some comfort in her children after they grew up; for she has had a hard time ever since she was married." "I know it well," replied Johnny, with deep feeling, " and I mean to try to make her happier if I can. There is one thing I can't do, and that is, to take away the trouble that my father causes her; but I can earn money, so that she won't be obliged to work so hard, and that will be some- thing!" "So it will be a good deal," said Mrs. Wil- liams. "Your mother isn't as strong as she used to be. She has had so much trouble and heart- sorrow, and hard work, that her constitution is a good deal broken down; and the doctor says that she can not live a great while if she goes on work- ing so hard." "I don't mean to let her," said Johnny. "I know that I can take care of her and the children, and buy them all they need, without her having to work so hard." And thus he talked to his sympathizing friend;   Hopes and Plans.     169 confiding to her his plans for the future; always making his mother's comfort his first object. Surely God had heard the prayer of that mother's heart, and answered it in giving her such a price- less blessing in her noble, self-sacrificing son! By and by Mr. Williams came in; and, saying with a smile that he had some privacy to talk over with Johnny, he led him away to the field; where they seated themselves on a rude bench at the foot of a majestic elm, whose wide-spreading branches made a cool shade. Here Mr. Williams told the boy what he had been thinking about in regard to the house and land which were to be sold. "Now, Johnny," said he, "I don't doubt that you could pay for it in time; and if I could only manage to buy it for you, I should be glad. I thought I would talk with you about it; and if you liked the idea, I would go and see Mr. Jones, and try to makQ the bargain." Johnny's heart overflowed with gratitude, and it was some moments before he could command his voice to speak. "I don't know what to say to you, Mr. Wil- liams, you are so kind!" he said, grasping the hand of his friend, while his fine brown eyes were     170     The Chester Family. I   dimmed with tears. "But if I only could get that place for a home for my mother and my little brother and sisters, I should be so happy!" "Well, we'll try," said Mr. Williams. "I'll go and see Mr. Jones this afternoon, and let you know what he says about it." "But how do you mean to buy it?" inquired the boy, who, of course, knew very little of such affairs, he was so young, and unused to the busi- ness world. "Oh! never mind about that," replied Mr. Wil- liams: "don't you be troubled about it. I guess I can manage it in some way." Johnny reflected a few moments. Young as he was, he could understand and appreciate the disinterested kindness of Mr. Williams, and his willingness to make sacrifices for the good and happiness of others. He began to comprehend, that, in order to purchase the place, his friend would be obliged to mortgage his own farm to raise the money; for Mr. Williams was not a rich man as far as this world's goods are concerned, although his great, loving heart was filled to over- flowing with that which is far better and richer than silver and gold. Johnny felt that he could   Hopes and Plans.     171 not allow his friend to injure himself in order to help him. "No, no: that will never do!" he thought to himself. And so he thanked Mr. Williams again and again, for his kindness in making the offer. "But," said he, "I can not allow you to make the sacrifice. I will go to Mr. Jones myself, and talk with him, and see what is the best he will do. If he does not want the money for the place at once, perhaps he will think favorably of letting me take it, and pay him as fast as I can." Mr. Williams tried to persuade the boy to let him carry out his own plan, saying,  "It will give me great satisfaction to do so." But Johnny remained firm and decided. "Thank you all the same," said he; " and if I do succeed, it will be all through your kindness." "Well, you must do as you like, I suppose," said Mr. Williams; "but, if you need any help, you'll know who to call upon." Johnny's heart was now full of hope and cour- age. When he parted from his kind neighbor, he walked with a light step toward the north part of the village, where the farm was situated. There     172     The Chester Family. were about fifteen acres of land, besides atolerably good house and barn. There was a small orchard of apple and plum trees, and a nice piece of land for a garden. The house was pleasantly. situated on a little knoll, with a green, sloping lawn in front, and two handsome shade-trees by the door. "I could fix a flower-bed here for Ellen and Mary," thought he, as he stood in a corner of the garden. How his heart swelled with pride and joy as he thought of placing his mother and brother and sisters, and his poor father too, in a comfortable home. He saw, in imagination, the house freshly painted, and the windows shaded with blinds; the lawn in front made smooth, and covered with fresh- green grass; the flowers blooming in the garden- walk, while the birds made sweet music in the branches of the tall elms. He pictured to himself the neat vegetable garden, well cared for, the fruit- trees full of ripe, red apples, and the waving grain ready for the hand of the reaper. Best of all, he saw his mother and sisters clad in comfortable gar- ments, with smiling and happy, instead of sad, sorrow-marked faces. And all this to be the result of his own manly efforts! What matter   Hopes and Plans.      173 173 though he would be obliged to toil early and late for years, to accomplish it? Would not the real, heartfelt pleasure he would have repay him a thousand fold? Such were some of his thoughts as he walked over the grounds, and sat down at last upon the doorstep. But suddenly the bright, joyous smile faded away from his face, as the thought of his poor father crossed his mind. He covered his face with his hands, while tears of shame and sorrow ran down his cheeks. Could it be possible for them to have a happy home while his father was coming home to his family night after night drunk-? How could his mother be happy, or his sisters cheerful and light-hearted, with such a sorrow to crush them? How could he have the heart or the courage to work to procure comforts for his father, who had brought nothing but shame and suffering to them all? But it was only for a moment that the noble boy allowed these thoughts to sadden and depress him. "I can suffer wrong from my father, but I must not wrong him," thought he: "he is my father, and I must try to care for him as mother      174     The Chester Family. has always done. I should be unworthy of her, if I did not love and care for my father." With his mind full of these noble and beautiful thoughts, he went in search of Mr. Jones, whom he found at his store. That gentleman was a good deal surprised when Johnny requested an interview with him; and still more so when he made known his errand. Mr. Jones had not lived long in the place; but he had heard much of the sufferings of the Chester family; and had often met Johnny, and noticed his bright, intelligent face. He was a wealthy man, and possessed of a great deal of kindness of heart. He had been a poor boy, and often boasted that he was a self- made man, having made his way up to his. present position by his own exertions. He had the name of being a charitable man; but he gave only to those who were willing and ready to help themselves. He often remarked -that he could not tolerate idleness; but, if. any were willing to help themselves, he would do what he could for them. Constant contact with the business world had given him an appearance of harshness and severity which did not belong to him; for,   Hopes and Plans.     175 as I have said, nature had given him a, kindly heart. Mr. Jones listened with a good deal of interest, as well as surprise, to Johnny's brief and touching story of the sufferings of his mother and the chil- dren, for the want of a comfortable home to shelter them. At the close, he spoke very kindly to the boy, telling him he would like to help him. He asked him if he had told anybody else of his plans. "Mr. Williams first told me that the place was for sale," Johnny replied,'" and offered to see you and talk with you himself about it." "Tell him to call round to my store and see me," said Mr. Jones. "I will be ready to talk the matter over with him this evening. I am inclined to do you a good turn, for I like your looks. "And I like your spirit too," he continued, patting Johnny kindly on his shoulder. "A boy that has your heart to feel for his mother and little sisters is a good boy, and will make a good man. Sd ask Mr. Williams to 'step round to my store to- night, and we will see what can be done for you." "I LIKE THAT BOY," said Mr. Jones to him-     176     The Chester Family. self, watching Johnny as he walked with a light step up the street. "He is a fine, smart boy, and will make a smart man. But, of course, he don't know any thing about business, -no more than a baby. I should like to let him have the place if I could afford it; and, if Mr. Williams will help him out a little, I guess I will." At an early hour that evening, Mr. Williams presented himself at Mr. Jones's store, where the two men retired to the inner office, and talked earnestly together for rhore than an hour. When they came out, Mr. Williams's face was wreathed all over with smiles, though a careful observer would have detected traces of tears in his eyes. At the outer door. he paused, and, grasping Mr. Jones's hand, said,  "I don't remember much that I read in the Bible; but once in a while I come across some- thing that sticks to me: and it tells somewhere about casting bread upon the waters; and it says, 'After many days it will return to you.' Now, I calculate when you help that poor family to a home, you will be casting bread upon the waters that will return to you tenfold some time." Mr. Jones was deeply affected.   Hopes and Plans.     1" "I don't look for any reward," said he. "I'm a rich man, Mr. Williams: I've always prospered in business, and I'm afraid I have not had as much charity for the poor as I should have had. But I'll try to make amends for it in future. I like that boy's looks, and I mean to do all I can for him." And he kept his word. Mr. Williams offered to raise the money himself with which to make the first payment; but Mr. Jones positively re- fused to let him do so. "I've taken a fancy to the boy," he said, " and I mean to do well by him. I can afford it; and I mean to give him a good chance." "I always knew Mr. Jones had a kind heart," remarked Mr. Williams to his wife as he returned to his home, and told her and Netty'what Mr. Jones was going to do to help the Chester family. Mr. Williams's predictions proved true. Mr. Jones called Johnny into his store next day, and held a long talk with him; in which he kindly offered to take him into his store as a clerk, and begin immediately to pay him regular wages. "You're a smart boy, and will soon learn, I have no doubt," he said encouragingly; "and, if 12     178      The Chester Family. you would like to' study booJc-keeping, I will un- dertake to teach you myself. Never mind about thanking me," he continued, as Johnny attempted to speak. "I was a poor boy once myself; and I know how hard it is to struggle along through the world, with no one to help. I'm a rich man now, and can afford to 'be generous. But I am not altogether unselfish in this matter. I want a smart, honest boy, such as I am sure you are; and, if you prove as good as I think you will, I'll do the handsome thing by you." The price fixed upon for the house and land was a thousand dollars, -just five hundred dollars less than he had been offering it for; and Johnny was to have an indefinite length of time in which to pay for it. Mr. Jones had undertaken to be liberal; and he meant, as he said, " to go the whole figure." So when several of the neighbors, on hearing that there was a, prospect of the Chester family obtaining a comfortable home, came for- ward and offered to give security, Mr. Jones shook his head decidedly, and told them that when he wanted any thing from them he would call upon them. This strange and unaccountable conduct in Mr.   Hopes and Plans.     179 Jones gave rise to much speculation in the neigh- borhood. But Mr. Williams enlightened them by remarking, confidentially, that, in his opinion,- "The Lord was at work upon neighbor Jones, and there was a great reformation going on." "I am sure he is fit to join the church," said the kind and noble-hearted man; " for if loving your neighbor, and doing good to the poor and to them who have suffered and sorrowed as have the wife and children of that poor drunken 'hus- band and father, don't make a Christian, I should like to know what does. He feels and acts so lovingly and kindly to those poor suffering victims of the drunkard's appetite, and of the murdering liquor-dealers. They are houseless and homeless, and lie takes them in and gives them a shelter and a comfortable home. If that won't give him heaven, and fit him to enter the kingdom prepared for the loving and kind, I don't know what can." Great was the joy of the Chester family when they began to realize the fact of the good fortune in store for them; and deep and heartfelt was the gratitude of Mrs. Chester, when she learned from Johnny the noble and generous conduct of Mr. Jones. And deeper and more earnest were her     180     The Chester Family. pleadings with her poor, fiend-smitteni husband, that he would forsake the drunkard's saloons and dramshops, those licensed gateways to poverty, to idiocy, insanity, palsy, delirium tremens, and death, and come back to his own faithful, loving wife and children, and share the good their kind friends and noble boy were preparing for them. At first Mrs. Chester feared to have her boy, young as he was, take upon himself so great a responsibility; but the kind words of Mr. Jones, who, by Johnny's invitation, called upon her, re- assured her. "Do not be in the least troubled," he said: "I will see that your son doe not feel the bur- den too heavy." And so she thanked him from out her full heart, and gave the matter all up to him; feeling, as Mr. Williams had said, "that he would prove their true friend." J. M. F.   LETTER   XIII. HOPES AND PLANS ACTUALIZED. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend,- In a few weeks from the time the events occurred, of which I told you in my last letter, the Chester family were comfortably settled in their new home. There was a general rejoicing throughout the village, when it became known that Mr. Jones had sold the Willow-Brook Farm, as it was called, to Johnny Chester, on such generous terms; and several 6f the neigh- bors assembled to see what could be done toward making up a sum of money with which to pur- chase furniture, and any thing else that might be wanted to make their home comfortable and pleasant. As usual, Mr. Williams was at the head of this 181     182     The Chester Family. gathering, and managed to contribute the largest amount. "I'm lending to the Lord, mother," he said to his wife; "or to his children, which, I guess, is the nearest I can come to it," he added, the idea suddenly striking him that that would be the only sensible and really practical way in which he could do the Lord a favor. "I never shall be the poorer for it," continued the good man; "for, somehow, I always feel, that, the more I give to those that need, the richer I grow!" I wish you could have been present, and made one of the happy party who assembled in the cozy little sitting-room of the new home of the Chester family, the evening of the day on which they first took up their abode there. Through the kindness and generosity of friends, the house, throughout, had been made, not only comfortable, but really tasteful and pretty. The sitting-room, particularly, looked very pleasant and inviting. The walls were newly covered with neat paper; clean straw- matting covered the floor; while fresh white cur- tains, and a few cheerful pictures, gave it an air of neatness and comfort that was very home-like and pleasant. Mrs. Chester. attired in a new print   Hopes and'Plans acualized.   183 dress, the gift of Mrs. Williams, sat quietly by the side of her little crippled daughter; and, although she seldom spoke during the evening, there was an expression on her pale face which all present could read, and which told, far more eloquently than words could have done, of the deep joy and grat- itude which filled her heart. Mr. Williams still held his favorite Franky on his knee, although he was getting to be a well- grown boy; and, seeing all about him such joy and brightness and comfort, he looked the very picture of satisfaction and smiling content! Mr. Jones, who was also present, drew Johnny aside; and, for a long time, they. conversed to- gether in low tones. The boy's face was eager, hopeful, joyous, but full of tenderness and grati- tude; which made its expression very beautiful and touching. More than once I saw tears in the eyes of Mr. Jones, hardened man of the world as he was, as he listened to Johnny's tender, loving words as he spoke of his mother; and, in his heart; he made a fresh resolve that he would help the noble boy, in his efforts to care for the mother whom he so deeply loved. 'Ellen, who had grown to be almost a young lady,     I84      The Chester Family. possessed, in a good degree, her mother's gentle nature, and her sweet, self-sacrificing character; which made her a general favorite, and won for her the love and admiration of all who knew her. It was beautiful to witness her devotion to her parents, brothers, and sister, and the eagerness with which she always sought to make their comfort and happiness her first care.    A. To her invalid sister she was especially kind and loving, never weary of helping, instructing, or amusing her; and, in every possible way, making the poor child's life bright and happy. This evening her face was fairly radiant with happiness, as she flitted from room to room, look- ing at and admiring, over and over again, the pleasant rooms, with their neat, comfortable ap- pointments; so unlike the place called home to which she had always been accustomed. "It is all just like a fairy story!" she said at last, .sitting down by my side, her eyes sparkling and her cheeks glowing.  "And to think that everybody is so kind to us! It makes me forget that there are any bad people in the world ; or, at least," she added, 4" it makes me realize that there is so much good, that I quite forget the bad!"   Hopes and Plans actualized.   85 Dear, noble Ellen! All that had been so sad, so full of anguish in her youngr life, had passed into the realm of forgetfulness. In her brigllt, in- nocent heart, she felt that it is true, that - THE BEAUTIFUL NEVER DIES, AND THAT ONLY THE UGLY DIES. She saw all things in the mirror of her own pure heart. In that mirror, even her poor father appeared beautiful and lovable. Even his drunk- enness, his cruel neglect of his children and their mother, at that hour were hidden from her view; and only the fond, loving, tender man, husband, and father that God made him to be, were reflected to her from her loving, pitying heart. True it is, that, to the tender, loving, generous nature, there is so much good in the world, that one quite forgets the bad. If men, women, and children would keep their own hearts full of good- will toward 'all, and of ill-will toward none, this world would seem so full of good, that we should indeed forget the bad. The great heart of hq- manity is full of love, of pity, of tenderness, of sweet and noble sympathy, for the erring and un- fortunate. In her simple, beautiful words, Ellen gave the great thought of that expression,     186      The Chester Family. "Blessed are the pure in heart, for they see God!" Her pure and genetle heart reflected to her eye only the bright and beautiful. But where, in the midst of all this rejoicing, is John Chester, the husband and father? In a comfortable chair which had been placed for him, he sat, looking stupidly about him. But he evinced no interest in any thing. Silently he sat there, with wild glassy eyes, and hollow cheeks on which glowed, not the flush of health, but the wasting fire that alcohol had kindled there. Occasionally some one of the company, pitying the poor wretch, would .speak a word to him; but he answered only with a vacant stare; for his senses were so benumbed, that he was ilcapable of conversing with any degree of intelligence on the commonest subjects. Once or twice Frank approached him, and, laying his hand on his shoulder, endeavored to rouse him from his stupid condition; but all in vain. Johnny and Ellen too, with tears in their eyes frequently bent over him as he sat in his chair, and spoke to him tenderly; but he heeded them not. He seemed utterly lost to all emotion. All feeling and sense were gone,-save a craving for the poison which had wrought his ruin.   Hope   s and Plans actualized. 1 I87 Despite the happiness which the mother and her children felt in the possession of their new home, a shade of sadness, which at times became a dark shadow, mingled with their joy. "If only he, her still loved husband," thought Mary Ches- ter, "could be restored to his family, freed from the curse that hung over him, if he 'could but shake off the grasp of the fiend that had so long held him, and be himself once more!" "Oh.! will it ever be?" said the poor wife to herself, in the anguish of her heart: " must he go down to his grave, the victim of this terrible appetite! Will my children   never know  a father's love and care?"  Mrs. Chester had never ceased to pray that her husband might be redeemed; nor-had she ever, for a moment, lost her faith that her prayers were heard, and would in good time be answered. And this faith grew stronger after the death of little Lizzie. It seemed to her, I have heard her say, " that . her child was often with her; and that she could almost see her sweet face, and hear her gentle voice, whispering words of hope and cheer to her mother's weary heart."     I 88'     The Chester Family. This faith in the living presence of the angel- child; that the death of her body had severed no ties of her soul; and that she was still the cllild- guardian of her poor father, and that she would yet lead him home to his better self, was a source of great consolation and support to the poor woman in her dark and trying hours. It is indeed a beautiful belief, that those whom we call dead are with us in spirit, living with us, and loving us with an unchanged affection, and sympathizing with us in all our trials. Such was Mary Chester's faith; and it made her task easier and her burdens lighter. She felt the, beautiful presence of her unseen, but still living child; and it gave her 'continually fresh courage to struggle on; and in her heart grew constantly the faith, that, by and by, her husband would be saved. I have said that the thought, that the death of her child's body had severed no ties of her soul, was a source of consolation and support to the sorrow- ing wife and mother. To Mary Chester,. the living, loving presence of her little Lizzie was a reality. She was her sweet, loving child-datughter still, as truly as while in the body.   Hopes and Plans actualized.   189 From his conduct, and from the manner in which he often spoke to her of his child, in his sober moments, she felt an assurance that the dis- embodied loved one was still his guardian-angel, ever hovering near him, watching the favorable. moment to fulfill her appointed mission to hm; take him by the hand, and lead him back to his truer and nobler self, and to his family and his God. Now, especially, as she sat amid the comforts her noble little son, assisted by his friends, had provided for her and her children; as she saw her poor, besotted husband, sitting there, staring about him in idiotic wonderment, rendered wholly un- able, by the drunkard's drink, to understand and enter into the joys of his children, - the last words of her child to her father came to her with cheer- ing import:- "FATHER, I HAVE COME TO LEAD YOU HOME I " "Home!" mused     Mrs. Chester, "from  the foul drunkery,-that den   of infamy and ruin to husbands and fathers, - to the cheerful happy circle of  wife and  children! HOME, from drunkenness to sobriety, from  self-loathing to self-respect, from self-condemnation to self-ap-     I90o     The Chester Family. probation. Father! I have come to lead you from the drunkard's hell to the heaven of a sober and honest man,--from  the hell of an insane, raving drulnkard, to the heaven of a loving, tender Husband and father." Such, amid the happy company, were Mary Chester's musings. And her assurance was made doubly sure, that her angel-daughter would accomplish her mission. J. M. F.   LETTER XIV.- THE DRUNKARD REDEEMED. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. C. W. My Friend,  In this letter I must close the story of the Chester Family. In the preceding letters, I have only been able to sketch briefly and imperfectly the outline of their sad history. I wish I could have entered more into details, and have shown with more force and clearness the power of alcoholic drinks, and the terrible appetite . they necessarily create, to destroy all that is manly and noble in individuals, and all that is purifying and ennobling in our homes. Their power to lay waste and to ruin is made manifest in what I have been able to tell you respecting the Chester Family. Every where, all over our country, we see in- stances of homes made desolate by drunkenness, like the one I have described in these letters. 191     192      The Chester Family. There are tens of thousands of heart-broken wives and suffering children, houseless, homeless, an- nually brought to starvation and death by alcoholic' drinks.. In the language of Sumner Stebbins, M D., of New York,* and in the language of Dr. Kitch- ell as quoted by him, I would say: "The principal sufferers are the women and children of the country, who themselves never touch the debasing stuff. The keenest pangs and the sharpest agonies are endured by the mothers, wives, sisters, and daughters, of the wretched sots with which our country abounds. Says the elo- quent Dr. Kitchell,' Much of this is concealed from the public gaze as long as concealment is pos- sible. Back of the visible ravages of intemper- ance, and deeper than all these, there lies a field of devastation which has never been fully explored, and can never be more than partially reported. It is the-wasted realm of the social affections, the violated sanctuary of domestic peace.' It is here that the higher and inner life of woman is marred and tortured, her most sacred and cherished affec- tions crushed and blighted. These are private * See Prize Essay, "Fruits of the Liquor Traffic and the Results of Prohibition," published by the National Temperance Society in 1868.   The Drunkard redeemed.    193 sorrows, that her most intimate confidant must not know, so anxious is she to sustain the goo4d charac- ter of her husband, brother, or son. 'But from this inner world of suppressed wretcledness there will occasionally burst forth to the ear of human pity a piercing cry of those who writhe under the slow torments of a desolate heart and dying hope. Yet all this which meets the eye and pains the ear is but the overflow of misery. It is merely what inadvertently escapes through chasms violently rent open, and tells sadly of a sea of anguish that is stifled for ever in its secret recesses. The bursting hearts of mothers for their ruined sons; of wives from whose life all joy and hope, all love and ten- derness, has been blotted out; of daughters' shame, crushed and doomed to penury and dis- grace,-could we look on all these grief-stricken females, some of whom have been well off, happy, and respected, now doomed to brutality and want, each with her own peculiar history of woe, we should ask no further witness to the heinous guilt of the rum-traffic, or the righteousness of law against the destroyer of all these.' "Suppose the man a hard-working mechanic or laborer, the woman an industrious housewife, with 13     194     The Chester Family. a family to be supported by their united labor and economy. The man, as the phrase is, takes to drink. What happens? The consequence is, the cost; of the liquor is taken from his earnings, which were before barely adequate for their support. They have no luxuries, and must pinch themselves in the necessaries of life. The old clothes, already worn out, must be worn longer; the daily fare, none too good at the beginning, becomes daily more scanty. The leak in the roof, for want of a nail, a shingle, or a bit of board, becomes wider every winter. The number of panes of broken glass, whose place is supplied by old hats and rags, daily increases; not so the wood-pile, which no longer keeps out the winter's cold. Ere long, the children are kept from school, for want of books and shoees; and at lelnh the vretche-e wife and children are ashamed to show themselves abroad. Things grow worse and worse; the head of the family earns less and less, and 'of this little spends more and more for liquor. This may go on for years; but see at length to what they are reduced! Look into this hovel when he comes home on a Saturday evening. Here will not be found the cotter's blessed Saturday night, so beautifully de-   The Drunkard redeemed.    195 scribed by Burns,- a picture of domestic nfe that might be realized by the poorest sober man in America. No: a far different scene presents it- self. ' The father and head of the family may not be staggering drunk, but in a worse condition; he is heated with liquor, and craves more. His week's wages are already squandered. Listen to the brutal clamors, accompanied by threats and oaths, with which lie demands of his family the food which they have been unable to procure, either for themselves or for him. See the poor grown-up children,-boys and girls, perhaps young men and women, old enough to feel the shame as well as the misery of their heritage,- without a spark of youthful cheerfulness in their eyes, silent and terrified, creeping, supperless for the night, to their forlorn garret, to escape outrage, curses, and blows! Watch the heart-broken wife, as with countenance haggard with care and want, she seeks in vain to hush the cries of a hungry babe; and then return in the morning, and find her blood and the infant's wet upon the hearth- stone.' " But who robs these wives of their husbands, these daughters of their fathers, these mothers of     96     The Chester Family. their sons, and these sisters of their brothers? I have said that their agony, their starvation, and death, are caused by alcohol. But alcohol can not be said to do any thing. It has no responsibilities. It can not be arrested, arraigned, tried, convicted, sentenced, and executed, for these cruel wrongs inflicted on innocent and helpless mothers, wives, and clildren. On whom, then, ought the guilt and infamy of these crimes and outrages to rest? This is the question to be settled. Who ought to be and shall be placed at the bar of outraged justice and humanity, and tried as the guilty actors in these scenes of domestic anguish and suffering, such as were experienced by Mary Chester and her chil- dren, and are daily and hourly experienced by hundreds of thousands of wives and children, all over the land? Who brings ruin to the once hap- py homes of the people? The dramsellers are the direct means of this un- seen, unexpressed agony and torture of the wives, mothers, sisters, and daughters of drunkards. They are the licensed instruments in torturing the innocent and the helpless. Who license and pro-. tect them in their cruel and infamous occupation?   The Drunkard redeemed.    197 Rum-legislators. They enact license-laws to pro- tect these mean and cruel men in their infamous calling. Who create the rum-legislators? The RUM- VOTERS. With these rests the sole and absolute power to say whether the work of making paupers, idiots, lunatics, and criminals, of our husbands, fathers, sons, and brothers, shall continue to be licensed and protected. The rum-voters choose legislators to enact their opinions in favor of drunkenness into law. By these, primarily, men are licensed in every village, town, and city, to open dram-shops, to carry out the decisions of the rum-voters, and invite all to come in and get drunk, to be sent to their homes, mad with brutal passions, to torment and murder their wives and children in the secrecy of their homes. Has society no power to protect these innocent and helpless wives and children from those who drug their husbands and fathers with that which deprives them of reason, conscience, and affection, and excites their passions to madness, and then send them to their homes to imbrue their hands in the blood of those who, in their sober hours, are dearer to them than their own lives?     198     The Chester Fanzmiy. Is there no power in the government  the voters - to save us from such scenes and sufferings as were experienced by Mary Chester and chil- dren? VOTERS OF TILE STATE AND NATION!    The wives, mothers, daughters, and sisters of your country, appeal to you. Save us from the agony and liVilg( delathl ilflicted on us by those who drug our husbands, sons, fathers, and brothers, with the drunkard's drink, and send them to us to desolate our hearts and homes. Will you not hear and answer our prayer? But a brighter day is dawning on the Chester Family. Tile prayer of the patient, heroic wife, is heard. Her faith in the power of love to save her husband, is not in vain. In material com- forts her life was greatly improved, and they were prosperous. Mr. Jones was good as his word. He became a fast friend to the Chester Family. He took Johnny into his store, and besides paying him a liberal salary, taught him book-keeping; so that, in a few months, he became a most valuable assist- ant. Ellen obtained a situation in a millinery estab-   The Drunkard redeemed.    199 lishment, where she won the confidence and affec- tion of the lady who employed her, as she always did every one who came to know her; and with her natural aptness and excellent taste, she soon earned regular wages, and thus was enabled not only to clothe herself comfortably, but also to do a good deal for the family. Frank, now a fine, manly boy, although very fond of play, loved his mother a great deal better, and so worked steadily and diligently about the place every moment when he was not attending to his studies. When spring came, he, with his mother's assist- ance, planted a small plot of flowers in the corner of the garden, for his sister Mary. And it did one's heart good to see the child sit for hours in her chair, under the shade of a large tree, close to her little garden, gazing with silent delight upon the bright-hued flowers; or to watch her gather them, and, after holding them tenderly a little while in her lap, make them up with skillful fin- gers into the loveliest and sweetest bouquets. She was a true artist, in her small way; and, when the village people learned what a perfect and pure ta'ste she had in the arrangement of     200     The Chester Family. flowers, her services were eagerly sought when a party, a ball, or any kind of festival, was in con- templation. And so it came to pass that she became very useful in the work which she so much delighted to do. So famous did she become, that, for miles around, the little cripple was known as "Mary the flower-girl." When the family had lived about a year in their new home, Jolmhn Chester became suddenly pros- trated by severe illness, and was confined to his bed. Night and day for weeks he tossed upon his pillow struggling with disease, until, apparently ex- hausted, he sunk into a weak, almost helpless con- dition, from which those who attended him thought he could never rally. His wife and chil- dren watched over him with untiring devotion, night and day administering to his wants with all tile love and tenderness that they could have shown had he never cruelly wronged and neg- lected them. During the days and weeks of his most severe suffering, he appeared delirious, and took little notice of those around him; but, as the violence of the disease abated, his reason seemed to return   The Drunkard redeemed.     201 to him with more clearness than it had been man- ifested for many years. At last, one' evening, word was brought to us that John Chester was thought to be dying, and a request that my mother should go to them at once. I accompanied her; and together we silent- ly entered the house of mourning and stood at the bedside of the helpless sufferer. The family were all in the room. Mrs. Chester, her pale face full of deep love and pity, sat by his side, holding his hanl ald ad aministering to his lips the soothing drops. Johnny was leaning over his mother's chair, his briglit face full of sorrow, and his eyes dimnmed with tears.  Ellen and Mary sat near their mother, with clasped hands; while Franky knelt by Ellen's side, blis head buried in the folds of her dress, and his suppressed sobs telling of the anguish that filled his heart. Quiet and still as death the sick man lay upon the bed, his hollow cheek white as the pillow on which it rested. His eyes, large and bright, were fixed upon his wife; but they occasionally wan- dered from her to his weeping children. Thus, silently, two hours passed away; then suddenly and with great effort he raised himself     202     The Chester Family. up, and in a clear and calm, though feeble, voice, and with a power and earnestness that thrilled through every heart, he said, -t "I see it all! The terrible past is held up be- fore me like a picture. Day after day, as I have lain upon my bed, it has been shown me. Oh, my poor, suffering, patient wife! my neglected chil- dren! can you forgive me?" With these words, he sunk back exhausted on his pillow. Instantly they were all at his side, bending over him; kneeling by the bed, and with one voice exclaiming, while' their tears fell like rain, "Yes, yes! it is all forgiven, all forgiven long ago!" "Then I can go in peace," he said, a smile pass- ing over his wan face. Then, suddenly turning to his wife, " Mary! I have had a glimpse of heaven. I have seen our angel Lizzie in all her brightness; and she held out her little hand to me, and beck- oned me to come to her. And for a moment I longed to go; but now it seems as if I must stay with you and the children here, until I show you that the power that has so long held me is for ever broken."   The Drunkard redeemed.    203 He ceased, again exhausted by the effort he had made in speaking. Presently his eyes closed, and he seemed to sleep. We watched him silently and with hushed breathing. By and by, the phy- sician entered the room. "How long has he slept?" he inquired in a low whisper. Mrs. Chester told him. "It is the crisis of the disease," said he; "let him be kept perfectly quiet, and do not, on any account, have him disturbed." "It is a favorable symptom," he added, answer- ing Johnny's look of inquiry; "if he awakes re- freshed from this sleep, he may recover." Hour after hour passed away, and still he slept quietly and peacefully. We spoke seldom, and only in whispers, watching all the while the gen- tle breathing of the invalid. By and by, Ellen and I went silently to the window and looked out upon the night. It was the month of June, and the soft, balmy air came to us laden with the per- fume of roses. How still and sweet and peaceful seemed every thing in the outside world around us; and into our young hearts there crept a sweet sense of peace and joy that seemed not of earth, but of heaven.     204     The Chester Family. When it was long past midnight, the invalid awoke. He looked around the room, and recog- nized us all. "I have had a sweet sleep," he said, "and dreamed that I should get well. I feel that it will be so. Angels have been with me this night, and they have shown me that I shall live to atone in part for the past. Mary, dear wife, sing to me one of the sweet songs you used to sing so long ago. Let me hear your voice once more, as in the old time." And for the first time in long weary years, hold- -ing her husband's head on her breast, while her children gathered silently around her, weeping tears of heartfelt joy and gratitude, her clear, mu- sical voice rung out on the night air, and in such melody as I never heard before. Let us drop the curtain over a scene so sacred. Sitting there in the solemn hush of that little room, I felt that unseen ones from the angel-world were in our midst, and rejoicing with us over him who had been lost, but was now found. And thus, after so many years of patient suffer- ing, the prayers of the drunkard's family were   The Drunkard redeemed.    205 answered. From that night John Chester never again held the intoxicating cup to his lips. But the fatal poison had so completely shattered his nervous system and destroyed his vital powers, that he became an almost helpless invalid, and re- mained in that condition during the rest of his life. His wife and children devoted themselves to him, as they had always done, caring for him, and ren- dering him as comfortable and happy as they pos- sibly could. It may interest you to know that, in the course of time, Johnny married Netty Williams, the daughter of our old friend. He continued in the employ of Mr. Jones, who finally took him into his business as partner; and in all the country there is not a more loved, respected, and trusted man, in every relation of life, than our noble boy, Johnny Chester. Ellen married a young farmer in the neighbor- hood, where she still lives, a happy wife and mother, the idol of her family, and loved and re- spected by a large circle of friends. Little Mary, as she is still called, lives with her mother in the pleasant and comfortable home pro- vided for them by Johnny and his friends. She     206      The Chester Family. continues to cultivate her flowers, from which she derives great satisfaction and happiness. Frank declares that he shall never marry; and, when questioned on the subject, always says, jok- ingly, and yet so earnestly that every one feels that he means what he says, that "he never saw any woman half so beautiful and good as his mother, and until he does, he prefers to remain in a state of single blessedness." Mrs. Chester, happy in her children, devotes her declining years to tlheiln lwith the same unselfish love that has marked lher characiter tlhroug]h lift. And, surrounded by an atmosphere of' love which she has herself created, we will bid her and her children farewell. J. M. F   LETTER XV. CONCLUSION. BOSTON, September, 1869. H. O. W. My Friend,-I will now close this series of letters by calling attention to the bearing of the drunkard's appetite on some of the other great interests of the nation and the world. What effect has drunkenness, as licensed and protected by law, on the material wealth and pros- perity of the country? Let the followifng state- ment of facts answer: * In 1867, the rum-drinkers -   the individual actual consumers of alcoholic drinks-paid, over the counter, to retail liquor-dealers, more than fourteen hundred millions of dollars. This is equal to one-half the principal and annual interest of the national debt. If applied to the payment * See Appendix. 207     208      The Chester Family. of that debt, it would pay it all off in gold in two years. The money paid by rum-drinkers to retail rumsellers, would, in three years, be equal to the entire debt of the Union, and of all the States, and of all the cities, towns, and counties of the nation. The rum-drinkers of Massachusetts paid in 1867 to the retail rumsellers of the State over twenty-seven millions of dollars for the drunkard's drink. The rum-drinkers of Maryland paid over forty millions for the same deadly poison. Those of Ohio paid over a hundred and sixty millions; those of Illinois, over a hundred and nineteen mil- lions; those of Pennsylvania, over a hundred and fifty millions; and those of New York, over two hundred and forty-six millions: and all this was paid by the rum-drinkers to the rumsellers of those States for liquor to make them drunk. Liquors made, and imported into the United States yearly amount to five hundred and forty millions of gallons. Bushels of grains and fruits consumed in making it, sixty-two millions; num- ber of men engaged in making and selling the drunkard's drink, three hundred and thirty-five thousand; liquor-drinkers and intemperate people,   Conclusion.       209 males, four millions; females, two hundred thou- sand. Total, four million two hundred thou- sand. Allowing the population to be forty millions, the above fourteen hundred millions, equally dis- tributed, would be thirty-six dollars paid by each man, woman, and child.   Each family of two pay twenty-two dollars; each family of four, a hundred and forty-four dollars; and each family of ten, three hundred and sixty dollars for the drunkard's drink everyyear. Who earns this money? It is certain that the ruin-drinkers earn but a small portion of it. Most of the time they are too much under the control of liquor to earn any thi4ng. It is not say- ing too much to assert, that their poor, suffering, starving wives and children earn a large part of it. Their rum-drinking husbands and fathers steal it, as did John Chester; and the rum-voters license the rumsellers to receive the stolen goods. To this vast sum must be added the property destroyed and wasted by rum-drinkers. Also the money it takes to support their wives and children as paupers; also the amount of what they would have earned had they kept sober; also the cost "     210      T he Chester Family. of crimes and outrages, of riots and disorders, caused by the use of the drunkard's drink. The cost of drunkenness can scarcely be esti- mated. In loss of time and industry it costs nine hundred millions of dollars yearly; cost of in- sanity produced by drunkenness, thirty-six mil- lions; cost of idiocy, forty-two millions; cost of crime, thirty-six millions; cost of sickness in hospi- tals, ten millions ; cost of pauperism, fifty millions; losses by accidents, fifty millions; making a total of eleven hundred and twenty-four millions of dollars paid by the people of the United States for the drunkard's drink. Add this to the sum paid over the counter by the dram-drinkers to retail dramsellers, and it makes the sum of twenty-five hundred and twenty-four millions of dollars, the annual cost of drunkenness to the people of this Republic; making over sixty-two dollars for every man, woman, and child in the nation, allowing there are forty millions of people. If facts and figures, as given by statistics, tell the truth, the drunkard's drink costs each mall, woman, and child in this nation sixty-two dollars yearly; and nothing, absolutely nothing, is re-   Conclusion.       2"I ceived in return but idiocy, insanity, pauperism, crime, and wretchedness. Thus drunkenness, no matter by whom or by what it may be licensed and p'otected, directly tends to the destruction of property, and hinders the material wealth and prosperity of a State or nation. The only return made by those who license and protect drunkenness for this stupen- dous expenditure of the industry and earnings of the people is, crime in every form, pauperism in its most humiliating and heart-crushing aspect, and desolation and ruin, total and complete, to body and soul. More than  three thousand million dollars' worth of industry and property expended annual- ly! and the return is pauperism, degradation, and ruin. Must the sober, the honest, and the orderly toil, that their earnings may be thus used to sup- port drunkards and drunkard-makers? to fill the land with poverty and misery under the protection of a governmental license? Come to the rescue, all true men and good citizens, or at no distant day our proud republic will become a nation of ragged, staggering, babbling, driveling, idiotic drunkards.     212      The Chester Family. What shall be said of its bearingon the morals of the people? Let facts answer. "The chaplain of the Massachusetts State Prison testifies that nineteen out of every twenty confined within those prison walls, were there for crimes committed through the agency of liquor. Of twenty-two murders, twenty were committed under the maddening influence of intoxicating spirits." "Lieutenant-governor Nash had before him six hundred applications for pardon for criminals con- fined in prison, all but two of whom committed their crimies while under the influence of liquor." The above is from a work entitled, "Alcohol; its Nature and Effects," by Dr. Charles A. Story of Chicago. Published in 1868. Lecture Six. To the same effect is the testimony of some of the judges of the English court, as quoted by Edward C. Delevan. I quote from the lecture above alluded to:  JUDGE COLERIDGE. -  There is scarcely a crime comes before me that is not, directly or indirectly, caused by strong drink." JUDGE GURNEY. - "Every crime has its origin, more or less, in drunkenness."   Conclusion.;,      213 JUDGE PATTERSON. - "If it were not for this drinking, you (the jury) and I would have noth- ing to do." JUDGE ANDERSON. - "Drunkenness is the most fertile source of crime. And if it could be re- moved, the assizes of the country would be ren- dered nullities." JUDGE WIGHTMAN.--"I find in every calen- dar that comes before me, one unfailing source, directly or indirectly, of most of the crimes that are committed, intemperance." "ORD ACTON, Supreme Judge of Rome, de- clared that "nearly all the crimes of Rome origi- nate in the use of wine." "In our own city of Chicago, during the year 1867, there were twenty-three thousand arrests; and more than twenty thousand of them were brought about by the agency of intoxication." "There were about six hundred cases of suicide in the United States during the year 1867. During the same time there were about eight hun- dred murders, fifteen hundred rapes, five thou- sand robberies, five thousand cases of arson, a hundred thousand cases of larceny and theft, besides a countless host of small petty crimes and     214      The Chester Family. misdemeanors. Four-fifths of all these crimes are chargeable to the use of liquors. "Intoxication is the source from which flows the black stream of crime. Drunkenness is the nest in which depravity, shame, and wickedness are hatched, and from which this brood of crime crawls forth. Alcohol is the father of four-fifths of all the crimes, whether great or small." MAN IS MADE TO BE GOVERNED. He must gov- ern himself or he will be governed in his exterior life and actions by others. Drunkards are de- prived of the power of governing themselves. Of course the sober part of society are put to the expense and trouble of governing them, and of protecting themselves and society against their crimes and outrages. It costs society more to govern one drunkard, and protect itself and its sober members against his outrages, than it does to govern one hundred teetotallers. The man who governs himself causes no ex- pense to society to keep him from outraging others. Make a man drunk to any extent, and he is so far incapable of self-control. It is the very essence of the drunkard's appetite when indulged, the   Conclusion.       215 essential element of drunkenness, that it deprives a man of the power to distinguish between right and wrong, destroys all regard for the rights of property and person, and makes him insensible to shame, to remorse, to kindness, to justice, honor, and human suffering. It renders him wholly in- capable of self-control. Consequently society takes him in hand, and must bear the expense, not only of feeding, cloth- ing, and housing him, but of governing him. How luch of the expenses of the State and National Governments are caused by the drunkard's appetite and the drunkard's drink? At least two-thirds. If each would govern himself or herself, they would cost society nothing to govern them. But make a man drunk, or allow him to make himself drunk, or allow dramsellers to make him drunk, and society must be heavily taxed to govern him. But for dram-shops, Boston would scarcely need a policeman or a police-court; nor a poor-house, nor house of correction. The drunkard's appetite created, intensified, maddened, and made uncon- trollable by the sight, smell, and presence of the drunkard's drink at every turn, as presented in dram-selling and dram-drinking hotels, saloons,     2 I6     The Chester Family. and shops, renders these means of protection and social order necessary. Banish the drunkard's drink from cities, villages, and towns, .and you banish the police-force, the police-court, the poor-house, the house of correc- tion, and jails, and penitentiaries. The crimes and outrages against property, person, and life, against the peace, order, and safety, of society that renders these means of protection and security necessary, originate almost exclusively in the drunkard's appe- tite and the drunkard's drink - legislators, judges, policemen, and magistrates themselves, being wit- nesses. Drunkenness makes government a costly institution. I will conclude this long letter by a quotation from Dr. Story, beginning on page 325; and may all read it with attentive and believing hearts, for it is a true picture of the claims and doings of the drunkard's appetite and the drunkard's drink. "What is law? Blackstone says, ' Law is a rule of action, emanating from the supreme power of the State, commanding what is right and prohibit- ing what is wrong.' Liberty says, you may do whatever is right. Law says, you shall do what- ever is right. The one permits and the other   Conclusion.       217 commands the practice of the great principle of right. You may and shall do right; but you may not, and shall not do wrong. So say liberty and law. But the liquor business comes forward and says, like this:-- "' Hear, all ye people of the world! Hear! I claim the right to load the bodies of men with a slow, lingering disease, so that after ten years of suffering, they shall die some horrible and dis- graceful death, at the rate of one hundred thou- sand a year; I claim the right to injure the minds of men, so as to send twelve thousand raving maniacs to the lunatic asylum, and twelve thou- sand more to the asylum for idiots; I claim the right to so madden the people with ungovernable frenzy, as to make six hundred kill themselves; but before they die, to kill, with heartless ferocity, four hundred innocent victims, and make six hun- dred more perish with fierce and wild delirium; I claim the right, during the ten years those people are drinking themselves to death, to send one hundred thousand of them to the hospitals with disease, to make them squander their money and property, and the money and property of their families, and waste their time and shorten their     2 1 8     The Chester Family. lives, amounting to three million years of life and industry; I claim  the right, during the same ten years, to cause the people to com- mit a vast number of heinous crimes and of-' fenses, so as to keep twenty thousand in the State prisons of the land, and to cause two hun- dred thousand petty crimes and misdemeanors against the peace and good order of society, and make them harsh and cruel to their once-loved wives and helpless babes; I claim the right to make five hundred thousand paupers and beggars, so as to crush out their dignity and self-respect, and blight their hop'es for ever; I claim the right to destroy with midnight flames vast amounts of property by land and sea; I claim the right to tax the honest and temperate people of the country, without their consent, to pay for all these woes and calamities, to the amount of two hundred million dollars a year; I claim the right to refuse to pay more than one-twentieth of the taxes which the laws of the land have assessed as my share, and the right to force honest people to pay them for me; I claim to be above the law, and beyond the law; I claim the right to dwarf the intellect and corrupt the morals of the people, and corrupt the   Conclusion.       219 hearts of the lawgivers, and corrupt those whom the people elect to enforce the laws; and I not only claim these rights, but, in the name of wick- edness, my birthright, - and depravity, my ac- quired knowledge, - and passion, my strength, - and covetousness, the grand aim of my-life, I will exercise these rights, law or no law; for I have usurped the authority to rule and ruin the earth! Hear, people, hear '"     APPENDIX. THE following is from "The Chicago Tribune," as quoted in a tract on rum and tobacco, for sale by the American Tract Society, Boston: - "We invite attention to the statement of the special com- missioner, Mr. Wells, in his Report to Congress, giving the amount paid out by the people for spirituous and malt liquors during the year 1867. We do not refer to the sales by wholesale, but to those at retail, sworn to by the retailers, who have paid the license-tax on their sales. We give the table by States, and the figures represent the amount paid by the drinkers and consumers to the retailers over the counter: - AMOUNT OF SALES OF RETAIL LIQUOR DEALERS. New York ..........$246,617,520 Vermont............ $6,786,065 Pennsylvania........ 152.i63.495 ann -na o  Q   Ao otQ   Illinois............. 119,933,945 Ohio................ 161,734,875 Massachusetts ....... 27,979,575 Maryland...........  40,561,620 Missouri........... 54,627,855 Indiana............  51,418,890 California ........... 59,924,590 Kentucky ..  .......... 50,223,115 Wisconsin ........... 43,818,845 Michigan ..........  52,784,170 Iowa ............... 35,582,695 Carried forward........... r nt   Lauaw .. ............. t,i;u6 ,856 Aouisiana. ......... 48,021,730 ?ennessee .......... 20,281,635 Georgia..........  25,328,465 Virginia . ...........26,132,905 klabama .. .    23,025,385 rexas............. 20,751,250 3. Carolina ......... 10,610,625 N. Carolina......... 13,224,340 West Virginia...... 8,806,235 Arkansas .......... 7,858,320 )elaware .......... 3,770,355 ............... $1,320,972,356   IV   Brought forward, $1,320,972,356 4 Connecticut .......... 35,001,230 New Jersey .......... 42,468,740 Maine ...............  8,257,015 Rhode Island........ 10,231,240 N. Hampshire ....... 12,629,175 Minnesota ......... 14,394,970 TrAt ol   Dist. Columbia...... 10,376,450 Mississippi ....... 4,493,305 Oregon............  4,261,240 Nevada ...........  4,838,735 Nebraska........... 3,290,515 Colorado .......... 3,745,215 The Territories.. ....14,169,400 Rhl AIh. IOC' Koo   The following tables are taken from a book written by Dr. Charles A. Story of Chicago, and published in New York, in 1868, by the National Temperance Society and- Publication House, entitled, "ALCOHOL: ITS NATURE AND EFFECTS." The author says, on page 278,- "Now let us use a little plain arithmetic, and see what the sum of all these liquors looks like:-- QUANTITY OF LIQUORS MADE. Distilled liquors............................100,000,000 gallons. Brewed liquors ...............  ..............400,000,000 " Wines (fermented juices).................. 20,000,000 " Imported liquors................. ........... 20,000,000 "t Total 54.,..,,.,,.,,, .,....540,000,000 " "There is enough to float a respectable navy. And the grains, fruits, and vegetables consumed in making these various liquors, were as follows:-- QUANTITY OF GRAINS AND FRUITS CONSUMED. Distilled into whiskey, etc.   ........ 25,000,000 bushels. Brewed into beer, etc........................20,000,000 " Fermented into wine, etc..................... 10,000,000 " In imported liquors.......................... 7,000,000 " Total ..............................62,000,000 "     222             Appendix. "Let us figure up the number of men directly engaged in making and selling (page 285):- Making distilled liquors............................ 15,000 men. " brewed     ............................15,000 " wines (fermented)......................... 10,000 "  foreign liquors ......................... 10,000 " Wholesale trade....   ................... 30,000  Retail     ...........................   255,000  Total ....................................335000  "The four million two hundred      thousand  people who patronize the saloons may be divided into classes, about as follows (page 286): "QUOR DRINKERS OR INTEMPERATE PEOPLE. MALES. Tasters, or occasional smilers ........ ..........................2,000,000 Moderate drinkers, tipplers, or guzzlers ..................... 1,500,000 Hard drinkers, inebriates, or regular topers.................... 300,000 Drunken sots, besotted bloats, or regular old tubs.............. 200,000 Total ..........................  ...........4,000,000 FEMALES. Tasters, or occasional smilers . .........   ............... 100,000 Moderate drinkers, tipplers, or guzzlers........................ 75,000 Hard drinkers, inebriates, or regular topers .................... 15,000 Drunken sots, besotted bloats, or regular old tubs.............. 10,000 Total.................................. 200,000 Making a grand total of  .  ...................4,200,000 Which is one-seventh of all the people in the whole republic. "The annual table of mortality, which follows close be- bind the drunkenness of the people, arranges itself about as follows (pages 287, 288):-   Appendix.             223 MALES. Suicides, resulting from the use of liquor ....................... 350 Deaths from delirium tremens.................................. 670 Murders, resulting from the use of liquor........................ 580 Deaths from mania, madness, and insanity, from drinking......... 3,700 Deaths from paralysis, palsy, apoplexy, and other diseases of the- nerves and brain, including accidents arising from excited and bewildered mind, clearly traceable to the agency of alcoholic liquors and their poisonous compounds, as being the cause, or principal cause, of the same.................................... 5,000 Deaths from liver, kidney, stomach, bowels, heart, and other dis- eases of the body, clearly traceable to the agency of alcoholic liquors, and the poisonous adulterations of them, as being the cause, or the principal cause, of the same.....................60,800 Total deaths, males..................................71,000 FEMALES. Suicides, resulting from the use of liquors ....................... 50 Deaths from delirium tremens .............................s... 30 Murders, resulting from the use of liquors........................ 20 Deaths from mania, madness, and insanity, from the use of liquors 300 Deaths from paralysis, palsy, apoplexy, and other diseases of the nerves and brain, including accidents arising from excited and bewildered mind, clearly traceable to the agency of alcoholic liquors and their poisonous compounds, as being the cause, or principal cause, of the same................................... 400 Deaths from liver, kidney, stomach, bowels, heart, and other dis- eases of the body, clearly traceable to the agency of alcoholic liquors, and the poisonous adulterations of the same, as being the cause, or principal cause, of the same . ................... 3,200 Total deaths, females .................................... 4,000 "Now, by adding together the 'number of deaths, which annually follow  the drunkenness of both    sexes, we have (pages 291, 292):- Suicides from drunkenness................................. ... 400 Delirium tremens.....  ........0.... . 0....... .      600 Murders from drunkenness....................................  600 Deaths from insanity, from drunkenness .......................... 3,000 From other diseases of the nerves and brain.................... 5,400 From diseases of the body, from the same......................65,000  Total number of deaths from drunkenness....... .... 75,000.     224          Appendix. The following is from a pamphlet written by Sumner Stebbens, M D., and published in 1868, in New York, by the National Temperance Society. The author says:-- - "To comprehend clearly the magnitude of the cost of intoxicating drinks, let us go one step farther, and compare its cost with some of the necessary productions of the coun- try. By the census of 1860, we find the value -of the six leading productions of the United States were (page 10): 'Flour and meal...............$224,000,000 Cotton goods.......................... 115,000,000 Boots and shoes.................................... 90,000,000 Clothing..................... ................... 70,000,000 Woolen goods.......690,o0oo,ooo Books, newspapers, and job printing.............. 42,000,000 Total...................... $610,000,000 "The total cost of intoxicating liquors that paid duty and were consumed in the United States, was $739,000,000, or in round numbers, one hundred and twenty-nine million dollars more than the value of all the flour, cotton goods, boots, shoes, woolen goods, clothing, and printing books, newspapers, and other printing produced in the United States in the year 1860. The case is too clear to need com- ment. We have seen what is the net cost of intoxicating drinks. We will endeavor to arrive at the total proximate cost. The actual net cost of liquors ...................7.. $39,020,579 Time lost by drinking, half as much............... 369,510,289 Cost of crime caused by intemperance............ 87,800,000 Cost of pauperism " .............     27,000,000 Cost of litigation "    ............. 241,000,000 Total proximate expenses for U S ........... $1,246,530,868 "The civil and diplomatic expenses for 1862 were $11,595,188.47, and for 1863, $11,066,138.14. Thus the people tax themselves $728,000,000 more for liquor than the cost of the United States Government in ordinary times (page 11).",       
         
      
   
