
    ----CITATION----
        Hosmer, Margaret, (1830-1897). The Subtle Spell .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6814
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            The subtle spell
             
                 THE SUBTLE SPELL. A TEMPERANCE STORY. BY  MRS. M. HOSMER, AUTHOR OF :"CADDY'S THREE DRESSES," "A ROUGH BOY'S STORY,' "STORY OF A WEEK," ETC.  PHLADELPHA: ALFRED MARTIEN, 1214 CHESTNUT STREET. 1873.     Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by  ALFRED MARTIEN,  in the Office of the Librarian of Congress, Washington, D C.  CON TENTS. CHAPTER I, TPE  RAPPERS..........,............. ............ 5 CHAPTER II. THE NEW BOARDERS .............................. . 33 CIAPTER III. PRINCE'S COUR ................. .............................. 48 CHAPTER IV. ROSIE'S  TROUB E ..................... ....................... CHAPTER V. HOUSE GossIP   .....................     93 CHAPTER VI. PROSPECTS OF PRINCE'S COURT .......................24  3     4          Contents.  CHAPTER VII.  ANwNIE WELSH AS A SEAMSTRESS. ..........................136 . CIAPTER VIII.  ANOTHER VIEW OF PRINCE'S. COURT ......................... 151 CHAPTER IX.  WINE, THE  OCKER.............      .  .169 CHAPTER X. X A STRANGE MSSIONARY .........................................200 0 CHAPTER XI.               [ A  DEATH-BED  CHEIARGE ........................ ......... 18 . CIIAPTER XII.                THE NEW GROCERY STORE ...........2.... ..... ...... 35  CHAPTER XIII.              ? MRS. MCGINNzS VIEWS ................ 20:2         4 MRS. MCGiiNN's VIEWS ......... ............................ 2  CHAPTER XIV.               : CONCLUSION .................. ....................................279 a   j THE SUBTLE SPELL. THE RAPPERS. GREAT boarding-house is like a little world; individual types of all classes stray in and anchor there awhile, as if it were a harbor; and looking about with seeing eyes, one finds specimens of all the curious, commonplace, annoying, or interesting persons that belong to the great heaving sea of society rolling and seething without. Once on a. time I was room-bound. in such a little community; an inflammatory attack rendered seclusion in the bitter days of     6      The Subtle Spell. winter necessary, and thus shut in, I was eager to draw all the interest and pleasure I could  from my surroundings.  I had a large room looking to the south  through two broad windows, and I treasured  what I might catch of sunshine in the short - days of December, though it only lighted up  some bare old horse-chestnuts at the back of the yard, and shone on an irregular snow pile  on either side the shovelled path leading to the back gate. This same back gate, a stout green one with a bolt and chain, soon became,  in my limited sphere, quite an object of inter- est; there was a knocker outside that kept  sounding continually during the morning hours, and very impatient raps it gave, too, especially when the weather was very keen, and the butcher boy was kept cooling his heels in tihe snow without, while Mary Ann, the bound-girl, who was expected to do everything, and com- promised by doing very little, made up her mind whether she would let him in, or scour the knives first. But it was not the meat or vege-   The Rappers.       7 tables, nor yet the milk or slop-man, that inter- ested me; it was the timidly persistent knock- ers, that were almost afraid to make themselves heard, yet would not go away, and stood shiv- ering, and tapping, and dancing their numb and almost bare feet up and down, while they waited to be answered. These were the beggars; a various company, old and young, wicked and innocent, repulsive and pitiful, but all half clad, and 'very, very X  s wretched. Their name was legion, for some- times, when the cook chanced to be a kind soul, they fared well; and again, when the sharp, un- sympathizing woman got hef' place, they still hung about, hoping for a favorable change. I soon grew familiar with their looks and times of coming. The earliest was- the old woman in the woollen hood and shawl, who carried a round basket, and a crooked stick that was an index to her temper. She liked potatoes, and when she had the misfortune'to lose her supply through the cook's neglect, she would stand half-way down the shovelled path, and shaking IM     8      The Subtle S1l.  her knotty cane, devote the whole household to destruction in her wrath. Then there was the whining woman with the wretched baby, and the stout old person with the sturdy little boy, who took to mendicity cheerfully, and seemed to thrive on it. An old blind person led by a  i girl who might have had a comfortable home as a housemaid had her tastes tended to exer- tion, were regular applicants, and two tattered boys, who shivered while they begged, always : seemed to me to have left their clothing at  home when they set out on the pity-excitinog expedition. These were' the unfailing rappers; at first they had greatly moved my pity and  troubled my heart; but they took to it so natu-  rally, and eemed to accept its conditions so heroically, while they shrunk determinedly from work of all kinds, repeatedly refusing to accept jobs I had taken pains to offer them, that at  length I became philosophic, and observed their habits with interest less disturbed by pain. One morning, early in my indoor experience, I heard from my partly lowered window a -a":   The  ZRappers.      9 faint, but continuous tapping, and discovering Mary Ann on the stairs just returning from escorting a new pair of boarders to the rooms above mine, I bespoke her attention to the sound. She was a young girl, lately rescued, as her mistress told me, from a very hard life as the miserably defenceless slave of an intoxicated father, yet I am sorry to say she expressed but little sympathy with trouble, and was par- ticularly hard on beggars. "It's some of them  bothering brats after pieces," I heard her mutter as she descended the stairs. "I'd piece 'em if I had my way, a coming and banging at folkses gates!" This was unkind in Mary Ann, and forgetful of the past, when she herself had occupied an outside place, and been found by Mrs. Warren, our good hostess, in the humble sphere she rep- robated; but prosperity spoils many a one, and Mary Ann was not perfect. I went to the window to see if she were going to carry her objections to the rappers so far as to leave their     Io     The Subtle Spell.  little taps unanswered, but she was already at i the gate, and when it was opened, there entered  with a little run, as if to escape the piercing   cold without, a small girl with a smaller shawl  over her head, and a mgre baby not two years    old, with an old cradle quilt bundled around  him, and his poor purplish little feet, uncovered  by stockings, thrust into old, worn-out shoes far too big for tthem. It seemed, by the girl's attitude, that a strong motive had impelled her thus far, and that it forsook her partly under the awe in- spired by the sharp voice and eye of Mary Ann. She had been running on towards the kitchen when the girl's voice arrested her, and she stopped short, holding the baby's hand, with her thin bare arm put around him protect- ingly. I could not hear her Vrds, but Mary Ann was quite audible. "Be off, now," she cried commandingly; "do you think we ain't got nothing to do but wait on yous, and stuff you up with good things? You cut, quick meter, or I'll call our big dog."   The  Rappers.      II The child in the shawl caught up the one in the quilt at the mention of the fictitious animal, and looking around her in fright, staggered under her burden towards the gate, which Mary Ann slammed shut after her with a triumphant laugh, and came giggling up the yard. I felt worried at my own inaction. There must have been an urgent impulse in the child's case to have brought her there at first, and I could not understand why she had so soon abandoned the effort, having observed pre- viously that a beggar's most valuable stock in trade is his ability to hang on. Mary Ann's severity deserved comment, so at the first opportunity I told her that I thought she had treated the little pair quite harshly. "Laws, Miss Park, that's 'cause you don't know 'em," said Mary Ann. "I'll tell their mother on 'em, and she'll smack 'em well for coming here a-begging; they live down in Prince's Court, where I go to see Cassie Bowers." I did not know where Prince's Court was     1.2     The Subtle Spell.  but I had seen Cassie Bowers, a sort of super-: numerary, whose aunt took in washing, and  who carried home the clothes and helped in any house where an occasional accession of service was required. "She cannot be a kind or thoughtful mother, Mary Ann," I said, "or she would not permit the poor little souls to go out without clothes to cover them in such bitter weather." "O she's delicate in health," said Mary Ann, ready to make excuses for her acquaintance; "and she can't keep a-watching them all the time; they've just slipped out when she didn't know it." Not at all convinced of her merits as a parent by these explanations, I still felt sorry and troubled about the little ones of this Prince's Court woman, and when, a day or two after, I saw them standing, still in the same unpresentable garb, in the partially open gate deft unbolted to accommodate the butcher boy), I called to Kitty, the chambermaid, to please ) permit them to come up to my room.   XI -.     The /appers.       13 They were evidently standing there with the X   object to attract attention and make a request; aj  but as soon as they saw Kitty approach, they -  took to their heels and ran away down the back street like startled deer. She was a good- hearted Irish girl, and seeing that I was inter- ested in the children, she determined that they should have the advantage of the feelinog So taking after them at a brisk run, she soon overtook the pair, and capturing the younger, brought him back struggling violently in her arms. He was greatly alarmed, and perfectly un- manageable, kicking and flinging so that Kitty had much ado tohold him. As soon as she got within the gate and had placed him on his feet, he turned and fled with a terrified cry, his little sister following him, while from the window I implored Kitty to let them go unpursued. "They will be back again, I dare say," I said; "and then if you will coax them in, I will be obliged to you. You may tell them' that I have something nice for them up here."     "    The Subtle Spell. "Yes ma'am," said Kitty heartily. "I'll be on the lookout for them, for they'd be the better for any trifle you could give them. -The likes  of them do be very hungry mostly, and the pair hasn't clothes enough between them for one." As I put down the window, and turned round, I discovered that a lady, with a flushed face and apologetic air, was standing at my doo. She was young and pretty, and although there was something peculiarly delicate about  her figure, I should not have called her an  invalid. "I beg your pardon, I mistook the room,"  she was saying. "I came up without counting the landings, and turned in here, thinking it  was my own door; please excuse me." I went towards her, recognizing the new  boarder, and being pleased with the opportunity of meeting her.  "Such a natural mistake, I don't in the least wonder," I said; "will you not step in for a moment? I shall be very glad if you do."    p     eThe Tappers.      I, She paused, and said something about bejig ill nearly all the time, and hoping that the sound of footsteps in her room at night did not disturb me. "I am wretchedly restless," We continued; "and Edward reads to- me and moves about a good deal. I felt sorry when Mrs. Warren told me that you, too, were an invalid, lest we should break your rest by our noises." "O, not in the least," I returned; "I don't mind people stirring about at all, and I am not really ill, only obliged to keep out of the sharp air on account of a late attack of pneu- monia." She pointed to the window and smiled. "You were not keeping out c4 it when I opened thy door," she said. "No, that is true, and I am afraid it is very wrong; but my objects of interest are circum-  scribed, and I was trying to get up a friendship with a pair of little beggars."  She seemed surprised, and after a moment's pause added: \ \7     16     The Subtle Spell. "If you should find anything that I could do for one of those persons, pray let me have the opportunity. I could never search them out myself, bit I am glad to help them if it is done for me." "Thlank you," I said. "You need only look out of the window to find a missi6nary field"-- but a gentleman's voice interrupted me by call- ing, "Claudia! Claudia!" in a tone of anxiety. "That's Edward," she said; then looking over her shoulder, she answered, "I am coming," and saying she would be happy to see me again, she went away. I should not have called her a beautiful young lady, though her features were more than ordinarily lovely, nor should I have acknowledged myself interested in her, were it not that she had come to my door by mistake, and feeling awkward over the little circum- stance, I was more than usually cordial to reas- sure her. "She is very handsome, her voice is sweet, and her manner refined; she appears intelligent   It            I  -  The  Zappers.       '7 and sufficiently agreeable, but there is some A  indefinable defect about her that worries and perplexes me even while I am talking to her. It cannot be in her appearance, and I do not je  know that it is in her manner, but it is some- - where." This was the way I reasoned with myself, and seeing her seated at the opposite side of the dinner-table from me a few hours afterward, I endeavored to find the cause of my perplexity by closely observing her. The gentleman whom she called Edward was at her side, and I at once decided that they were bride and bridegroom; he appeared singu- larly devoted to her, and very anxious about :, her comfort and pleasure; but although she was neither fretful nor unamiable, she received his attentions with a certain air that after a few moment's watching relieved me of the uncer- tainty I had felt about her. "Ah, I know what it is in the pretty lady that does not draw me towards her," I thought; "it is that she is indifferent, that nothing seems     18     SThe Subtle Spell. to yield her real satisfaction or sincere delight, and that her kind young husband knows it and is unhappy about it." . Having come to this conclusion, and decided that I really had no right to question further, I made up my mind to drop the subject and think of something else, but no sooner had I arrived at that conclusion, than I began to say to myself:        ' "Her eyes are wonderfully fine, dark and beautifully shaped, and yet that dull sort of film that belongs to her curious expression really detracts from their effect. Her mouth is BI   full of sweetness, but her smile seems forced, and although she is tall and lithe in form, that air of languor half kills her grace." Then I looked at her husband, and I said, "Poor fellow!" involuntarily, for anxiety was his pervading expression. As I went out of the door, she had stopped and was waiting for me. "Edward wants me to have some flowers," she said. "I see that you have a very pretty i     -   The (Rappers.       19 stand. May I ask you where you bought them." Of course I was very glad to tell her all there was to be known on the subject, and then, as a sort of penance for my busy-body thoughts, I made up a tiny bouquet of my prettiest tea- roses, some scarlet geraniums, sprigs of helio- trope and myrtle, and took them to her room the next morning. I had heard a good deal of bumping luggage on the stairs the day of their arrival, but I was not prepared for the change that had taken place in the rooms since I saw them last. The walls were hung with pretty pictures, all of the brightest and most enlivening nature, sweet domestic scenes and amusing colored prints by Frenchoartists. Graceful little brack- ets held groups and vases, and all sorts of tasteful contrivances converted what had been a large plain bed-room, of the unembellished boarding-house typeto a lovely boudoir with everything desirable for a lady of taste and cultivation to enjoy.     20     The Sbtle Spell. There was a piano, and a guitar case beside it, a music stand, a small book-case and port- folio of engravings, a soft easy chair, and an enticing reading lounge. The door between the rooms stood open, and a small iron bedstead stood disclosed. The gentleman shut it, and began to thank and entertain me. Beside the look of anxiety I had noticed in his face, there was another of eager and almost pitiful solicitude; both were involuntary, and both only apparent when he spoke of or to the f   lady, and that, of course, was almost constantly. She received me in the same gentle way she did everything, but with the same effort, and soon dropped her interest, or rather resigned it to her companion. He, on the contrary, was almost painfully animated. He praised the flowers, said I was very kind, and that he promised Claudia plea- sure in my society the moment he saw me, etc. Then, in a rapid and somewhat nervous way, he continued: "She is really an invalid, and although she i -   The  /appers.      21I - is out of all danger, and we have no fear of a !,' j relapse, amusement and society are positively essential to her. We are strangers here, and you will readily appreciate our delight at receiving from the kindness of others what is so necessary, yet so difficult to attain in our position." Xi  He made every sentence sound like an appeal; and seeing her as she reclined in the great Turkish chair, her grand eyes looking dull and weary, and her whole attitude be- speaking listless discontent, I pitied him, and felt that he was injured in some inexplicable way by the irresponsive beauty on whom he lavished all his thought and care. One odd thing was that I had never thought to ask Mrs. Warren their name.  He called her Claudia and she called him Edward, and so it did not transpire in the conversation. I kept sitting and talking long after I had decided it was time to retire; but he was so ardently interested in everything I suggested to her, and so eager to blend her views and     22     SThe Subtle Spell.  tI  tastes with mine, that his untiring efforts roused her at last, and both she and I found ourselves pledged to read together, to cultivate our flowers in rivalry, and to practice singing as soon as my lungs permitted the exertion on my part. - l I felt surprised to review the list of engage-' ments I had entered into after I had taken my leave of my new friends, and I think the young lady was equally so, since it was all the gen- tleman's skillful management that brought it about, and converted us from perfect strangers I   into closely allied companions in so short a time. There was among our boarders a very rest- less lady, whom I supposed to be a widow, a woman of thirty or thereabouts, with a startled eye and an excitable sort of face generally. She was quite gray, and had a singularly dark circle around her eyes, that made her older than her years, and more odd than attractive looking. She was evidently a person of educa- tion and good mental capacity, but the princi-   T2he Zappers.       23 pal feature of her character 'seemed a strong determination to have no occupation in life but the disturbing of other people's employments. She was called Mrs. Yarnall, andi had been known years before by Mrs. Warren, who assured us that her family connections were of the best, and her own life entirely creditable, though she admitted that she was "a little strange." This Mrs. Yarnall was awaiting me on my return to my room. She seated herself on my piano stool and began in her usual way. "Did you hear the news?  No, I thought not, and yet you've been calling on them in your innocence, and found out nothing in your N visit, either." "About what?"I asked. "The new couple, to be sure.  They say they are not on good terms, that she was forced to marry him, and that it has broken her heart-poor thing! poor thing!" "I do not believe it!"I said quickly, and almost indignantly, "nor would you if you saw     24     7The Subtle Spell.  them together. He is all devotion and kind- ness;, it is she who is-" I paused, for I knew that Mrs. Yarnall liked excitement, and that anything% might say about her new subject would magnify itself through the medium of her intensified manner of relating things. I  was too late with my reserve.  - "What do you think she is?" questioned  Mrs. Yarnall, with the utmost curiosity, her wide open eyes fixed on my face, ready to read . it for my meaning before I had expressed it in . words. "Quite an invalid," I said. "Humph!" returned she; "there are a great many kinds of invalids. Sickness covers a great deal of ground in these days."  "Rap! rap! rap!" went the beggar's peti-  :a tion at the back gate. Kitty came down the  l! yard and opened it to the child in the old shawl, but this time her cradle-quilted brother was not with her. Mrs. Yarnall, from the piano stool, was.  watching me, and glancing at the open book            'I   The :appers.       25 pn my lap, from the perusal of which she was etaining me. It was part of her poor, restless nature to enjoy such suspended occupations or interests intensely. Had I been seeking com-    panionship, and relying on her to yield it, I would have possessed but little claim on her. But my attention was held by the child at the gate, and my visitor went on with her sig-  nificant commentary, while I watched Kitty stoop down, take the little ragged creature's hand reassuringly, and pointing up to my win- dow several times, apparently assuring her that I was ready and willing to be her friend. The good chambermaid's arguments had their weight. Slowly and with timid steps the little one moved forward, and was lost to sight under the kitchen shed. I .. "But I must go!" cried Mrs. Yarnall spring- ling up, "I have promised Mrs. Bailly to go with her to shop, and I am going to take that boy 'of Mrs. Carpenter's to the dentist, and find out a little more about that school for , V     26     The Subtle Spell. young children, that my friend Mrs. Barrington means to patronize."  That was her way; she always kept up a fussy idea of doing a great deal at once, and it appeared an actual necessity to her. ' I was listening for my little beggar's feet, and , was glad to have her go; she liked excitement, but would scarcely relish it in the form of a dirty, ragged child.  Kitty was some time in coming; when. she came, she led a greatly improved little person  X by the hand, for she had stopped in the kitchen ! the fire, and whatever soap, and water, and a a comb could do on so short a notice, had been done for the child.  "She's had a good slice of bread and meat by  : the fire, maam," said my kind friend; "and now she'll be able to talk politely to the lady who is willing to take an interest in her." Admonishing her with a gentle push to come forward and hold up her head, Kitty brought her charge to my side and retired.  "What is your name, dear?"I asked as reas- w .         He; *  *            '   ;'2:i!!   ;   7The (Rappers.      27 suringly as I could; "tell me your name nicely." But the child, alarmed at being left alone with me, would only hang down her head and edge away towards the door. I am very fond of children, and I try to have them knowit as soon as I get near one. When they find it out, they generally stop being shy, and grow confiding as this little creature did. i  "My name is Bessie Dunn," she said after a little persuasion; "that was  my little brother, Willie Dunn, and he's home now a getting his feet warm." I remembered how cold and blue'the little soul looked, and felt glad of his fireside oppor- tunity. "Who takes care of you, my little girl, when your mother is sick at home?"I askedI I  ' She opened her eyes very wide as if to take the question in. It was rather an absurd one, as I felt when I looked at her. Care-the word 7 had no application to her case; ragged, half naked, and only lately made presentably clean, I   ;     The Subtle Spell. through Kitty's kind energy, she knew nothing  about the meaning of it, and so I changed my form of speech.  "Have you any sister older than yourself?" "O yes, Rosie;" and she seemed happy to have come to terms) that she could understand. "Rosie and Sallie, and Bob, all them's my sis- ters." After a moment she corrected herself with a short laugh. "Bob's my brother, he is," she said, and added gravely, and with an air of some importance, "he sells fish with a lady what has -a cart." "Is Rosie a large girl?"  "O yes, she's ever so big, and her hair curls; but she has to be at the store all the time, you know." So Rosie was grown, and Bob was in busi-  ness. "What about Sally?  Does she go to the store too?"I continued. "O no, Sally's too little," said Bessie decid-e edly, and she shook her head a great many times. "She has to stay and scrub Mrs. Pat-  ton's steps, and run Mrs. Brooks's arrints."   The (Rappers. ,     29 "And she lives at home with you?" The little creature screwed her face up into a prematurely old and wise expression. "Sally's got to stay home cept when the neighbors wants her, 'cause she's got to keep mother out of the fire." This rather startling announcement was accompanied by many nods, to intimate that it was a responsibility my little informant shared with her sister, and I decided, with great pity and sympathy, that the unhappy parent was a paralytic, and that was what Mary Ann' meant by her being delicate in health. Unfortunate creature! I had been making out a very hard case against her in my own mind on behalf of her neglected family; but if she were so wofully afflicted, what could she do? Perhaps she was not even conscious of their needs or condition, and I was happy to be  able to remedy, in one small particular, the effect of her misfortune. While confned to the house, I had taken a  i      '      30     The Subtle Spell. quiet interest in a Dorcas society connected with a chapel in 'the suburbs of the town, and F: ' had already finished quite a variety of garments with the help of a poor woman I had found in I    need of work, and for whose sake I had origi- nally bought the materials. They were on the shelf of my closet, and would fit the little girl very well, I thought. After telling her about them, we tried them on, and they really trans- formed the child, who seemed overdome by their extent and splendor, and discovered a tendency to hop on one foot, which appeared to be a natural outlet to feeling on her part, but rather interfered with the trying on. I had a nice pair of woollen stockings among my pos- sessions, and to make the outfit complete, I induced Kitty to go to a shop near by and pur- chase a pair of stout leather shoes to go with I them. ;i Bessie, with perfectly reckless joy, kicked aside her old rags, and was eager to be gone to display her sudden fortune at home. I was scarcely less pleased, and it was the wise Kitty i;   X:Mi!'    iThe (Ra5ppers.      31 who picked up the ragged, discarded garments, : saying; - :  "You mustn't be extravagant, Bessie, but thank the Lord for what you've got, and ask Him for grace to wear it." I told her she mustcome again and let me see her; and that reminded me to ask why she had come at all. "Have you no father to take care of the house?"I inquired. "Father, he's out driving all day, he don't come near us when mother's sick, and then we get hungry," said Bessy simply, and her face fell from exultant pr3lle in her new possessions to the troubled remembrance of a meagre home. "Plenty of people gets pieces at Mrs. Warren's gate, and when Willie cried 'cause he wanted something to eat, I brought him round, only Mary Ann she scolded us, ,and wouldn't give us nothing." "Well, you must come here when you are ' g kind," I said.       '     32     The Subtle Spell. I don't think the child coulfd imagine any future want at that moment, she was so happy in the present, and eager to be gone; so I, sharing her pleasure, bade her good-by, adding a trifle with which to buy Willie a cake. ,s-                 e   ,     ,          e  -   CHAPTER    II. H*ry  *   THE NEW  BOARDERS. HEN Mary Ann came into my roc WH Eto dust next day, I asked her to t, ^   me something of the inhabitants Prince's Court. "Who is Prince?"I began. "O, nobody knows; that's the old name, a it's almost worn out by the rain, and nobo could read it if they tried. Mr. Barse, t    hotel man, owns the house, and Cassie's au lives front on one side, an4d the dressmake people, they have the other front house." ji'u "How many are there- at the back?" "Why there's Murphy's, he works at bakir and she washes; Bryne's is next door, and t * 3 al        - -l 33     34     The Subtle Spell.  widow McGinn's, and Dunn's, and Mrs. Martin and Mrs. James, that got married last year;   ! that's all. Mrs. Martin and Mrs. James areo sisters, and they used- to live out together till X they married, and now they live next door to   1! each other. Mr. Martin he waits at parties, and Mr. James he's a coachman; they're awful  genteel people, and have nice front parlors."   Ax "Has Mrs. Dunn got a front parlor?" "Mrs. Dunn ain't very well off," admitted Mary Ann, who had an intense pride in her friends and their surroundings; "she's a very nice lady, but she's subject to delicate health;" with this explanation she returned rather  hastily to the superiority of the married sisters, and the general attractions of Prince's Court as i i a place of residence.' "Did you ever see Mr. Dunn?"I pursued, as   X determined to understand the case fully as Mrs. Yarnall could have been under more inviting circumstances.                  ' O" yes, lots of times, when I am at Cassie's   The NVew (Boarders. ,3 and he goes up the Court. He ain't a very, nice gentleman; he's kind of glum, I guess." I was sorry to hear this, on account of his afflicted wife and poor dependent family; but Mary Ann was not very discriminating, and it was possible that she had mistaken his gravity for want of agreeability.  I questioned her about Rosie, but she scarcely needed to be asked, she was so ready to tell all that she knew. "O, Rosie was a sweet girl, she worked. and went errands for a mantilla and cloak store," she said; "and nobody could want prettier hair thanl she had, though it must be hard to keep it curled as nice as she kept it." Bob and Sally were less important; the boy was one of the kind that just went about as if he was asleep. "There ain't no fun in Bob, and that little Bess, ' if she comes here after pieces, I'll tell her mother, and she'll just ,about skin her; she wouldn't let her go begging for the world, if she knew it." Mrs. Yarnall, in one of her restless flights       36     The Subtle Spell. through the house, alighted in my room at this moment and interrupted the interest of Prince's Court. She could not wait until Mary Ann retired, and she was decidedly averse to her class, except as creatures to be the recipients of orders and fees. So she began in a mysterious manner,j that only I was supposed to understand: "I have heard news; our friends, the newj arrivals, are going to stay the winter. The  1-- -is under a physician's care for disease of the nerves, and the g-- is such a splendid h--, that he will not consent to leave her in the care of a hired nurse." Mary Ann, by an involuntary glance up- wards, convinced me that she knew perfectly who was being alluded to. She had finished her work and yet lingered, being as idle and curious in disposition as any one else, and ready for every shred of gossip. I saw her design, and said I was obliged to her, that everything  looked nice and tidy, and then I nodded to her to go.   The .Jew i  oarders.    37 As soon as she had disappeared, the lady drew near, with her restless eyes dilated, and asked in a whisper if I believed in invalids who ate heartily, and could go around -as she could. "Now I have my own opinion," said Mrs. Yarnall; "and though I do not mean to men- tion it generally, I am willing to say to you, that I believe that fellow is breaking his wife's heart." She broke off as a gentle tap. sounded at the door, and as soon as I spoke, it opened to dis. close the subjects of her suspicions, come to talk about my flower-stand once more, before going to select, as the gentleman said. I was at a loss to know how to introduce them, first, because I had not learned their name; and secondly, because I did not like to present Mrs. Yarnall, after her late avowal. The gentleman relieved me, to my intense surprise, by saying: "I believe you do not know my sister's narde, Miss Park, and that, through Mrs. Warren's kindness, we have the advantage of you. Let '^     38     The Subtle Spell. me present her, please: Mrs. Leslie-Miss     ' Park."    - "And Dr. Dallas, my brother," added the lady.                       X Then-I introduced Mrs. Yarnall, who was not at all disconcerted by the surprise that   quite overcame me. All she desired was ai sensation, and this one came quite readily to hand. "My sister and I are quite victimizing you," said the doctor apologetically to me; "the sooner you give us occupation for our winter  hours by helping us to get the -flower-stand ready, the sooner you will be relieved of the burden we impose."  "Do you like flowers?" cried energetic Mrs. Yarnall. "Dear me, it was only yesterday I went for japonicas to the very best green-house  we have here.  I saw stacks of rare plants;  had I known of your interest then, I could have been of use, perhaps. I went with Miss  Arthur, you know, Miss Park-one of our  young ladies here, doctor, whom I am sure you  ai I . g      The NVew CBoarders.   39 would like to know; such an interesting crea- ture, only a little sad in-inanner." The gentleman turned and looked at her as she spoke, and I did not like the quiet penetra- tion of his glance, it was so pointed in its criticism, so undisguised in its questioning. When she got through in her hasty and excited way, he began very coolly to state that his sister was an invalid, to whom quiet amuse- ment was an essential part of a cure; that he had noticed with delight that my tastes had surrounded me with what they most desired to have, and that I had kindly allowed them to take pattern from my winter quarters in estab- lishing theirs. He was quite civil and quite decided. Mrs. Yarnall was virtually dismissed and excluded, and I felt far more annoyed and conscious than she appeared to be.     i "This is quite a house for invalids," she went on; "Miss Arthur is ailing, but that's her nerves, I think; here's Miss Park, with her weak chest, and Mrs. Bailly has those     40     The Subtle Spell. shocking headaches that are equal to something terrible. Mrs. Leslie looks well-is it an affec- tion of the throat? That's my weak point." Dr. Dallas colored and said hastily: "My sister's case is in the hands of an emi- nent physician. We are content to know it by the general title of 'nervous debility.'"  "Just as I thought. Dear me! these impal- pable diseases are the worst, I really believe. I feel the deepest sympathy for any one with  deranged nerves. I have told Miss Arthuri again and again that I suffer with her in her  attacks."  Dr. Dallas had struck me at first as a singu- larly and almost overwhelmingly polite man, brit to this lady he was curt to rudeness. After listening to her with forced attention, he bowed and turned aside, while I did what I could to make and sustain a conversation with Mrs. Leslie, who added fitfulness to languor, and would occasionally flicker into quite a show of interest, then sink down in obscure mono- syllables that I could hardly catch. ?; *.   gi   Thne .New  Boarders.    41 They stayed so long that I was exhausted, and I was provoked to find that Mrs. Yarnall had decided to remain and talk them over. "Now, what do you think of that story?" she cried, as they departed. "Mrs. Leslie and Dr. Dallas!--where is Mr. Leslie? If she's a widow, where are her weeds?" -I was perfectly charmed that Miss Arthur, the young lady she had quoted, interrupted Mrs. Yarnall at this point to say that some- body was knocking at her room door with a parcel.                 t Like some other ferreting people I have known, Mrs. Yarnall made her own small affairs very mysterious, and so she instantly hurried away to prevent any one else from intercepting her and discovering the business of the person with the parcel. Miss Arthur lingered a moment. She was a young girl with a pale, dejected face, and a habitually sad expression in voice and manner. "I saw you talking to a little girl called Bessie Dunn yesterday, Miss Park," she said,     42     The Subtle Spell. in the timid, hesitating manner that was natu- ral to her; "I know her sister Rosie, who is a really good girl, and I am so glad you take an interest in them."  I was surprised at Miss Arthur's earnestness as she said the last sentence. I had not been  much interested in her, she seemed so neutral in her way, so difficult to rouse and slow to respond.  "If you know anything about the family that explains the mystery of that dear little  Bessie running about half clothed, I should be glad to hear it," I said.            : Miss Arthur changed color, and her shy, confused way of speaking returned.  "I like Rosie; she goes errands for Madameo  Pomplin's establishment, and brought me home  a cloak to-day," she said, retiring with a little  haste, as if anxious to avoid pursuing the sub- ject further. ';Then I shall probably see her, too,' said I, feeling sorry that I had inadvertently nipped her confidence a ,! ) , .   The J7ew  Boarders.    43 "I have ordered a warm sacque there, that was. to be sent home t9 day; did Rosie men- tion it?" "Yes-no-that is, she said it was coming, but she will not like to bring it herself. Rosie cannot help things, she has her work to do; if she stayed to talk of her trouble, she would have no courage to go on." Having said this much, and made me wish for more, by the feeling she expressed in it, Miss Arthur bowed hastily and retired, closing the door after her, and leaving me more than ever interested in the Prince's Courters. I sat down with my glance directed to the back gate, and saw the cross old woman with the stick admitted to receive a more than ordi- nary supply of potatoes, which sent her off in high good humor. The two; ragged boys followed, and each received a slice of bread and meat, that equally enlivened them, though their fluttering gar- ments were not sufficient to keep out the blast. I took up a paper containing a report of the /     "     The Subtle Spell. work of the Hone Mission, and laid it down  without reading it.              & "Why does it not take in cases like these?"I  asked myself impatiently. "These children are the victims of idleness and want; why cannot some powerful organization force them into comfort and industry?"  I was growing unjust as well as petulant, the natural result of strong interest and limited ability. If I could only go out and see for my- self, if I were sure of bestowing wisely the little I had to give, if I could trace wrong and trou-  ble to its source and begin there! But there is X no true satisfaction in thinking where every thought begins with an "if," so I stopped by a  great effort, and determined to do my best and learn patience.  Kitty at my door, with her earnest, kindly  face, appeared like a benediction on this wise resolution. She held a small, compact bundle in her hand, its address pinned on its covering. "From Madame Pomplin's, Miss Park," she said, "and the young girl is waiting below to   The New (Boarders.      45 know if it suits, or if you would like to have it altered in any way." "Ask her to come up if she pleases, Kitty." "She's a shy sort of little thing," said Kitty, "and said she would rather wait in the hall." "Then it is Rosie," thought I, and felt all the more anxious to get a glimpse of her. I slipped on the sacque and found it quite right. I looked all over it carefully to find an'excuse; it had been made to turn down at the throat, there was no button to fasten it in case I should wear it closed. "I must see her, to explain this; never mind Kitty, I'll just go down myself," and I did so. She was standing near the register taking advantage of the warmth, and though neatly and even jauntily dressed, was not protected against the weather sufficiently for comfort. She did not turn around at my step, so I had time to note the thin stuff, of which her dress was made, the pretty devices in trimming with common worsted braid, the shapely cut of her jacket with its narrow fold of astracan bestowed     "     The Subtle Spell. more for effect than warmth, and the imitation felt turban with its imitation feather and vel- veteen band. Her neat feet had scuffed kid boots on them, too thin for winter wear, but wtnderfully tidy about the lacings, and the one  glove she wore was without a hole, though pal-  pably mended with herring-bone stitch; the  other was evidently past putting on at all, as  the hand that carried it was red from exposure. She looked up quickly at the sound of my  X voice, and O, what a pretty, bright face she  had!  I could not tell why, but its attractiveness  gave me a sudden foreboding start; so much beauty and brightness, so much taste and quick- ness expressed in every glance and turn, and such a weary struggle for it all. I could feel far more than I could see in connection with her life and story, and what would have seemed in another simply an effort after elegance and effect, in this girl appeared to me a desperate  battle with her fate, a heroic resolution to con-  quer a wretched destiny.   The .New  3oarders.    47 She flushed and faltered as I spoke, and seemed oppressed by an inward feeling she could not suppress. "Bring me a loop and button to match the others and I will stitch it on myself," I said, after explaining about the sacque. "I will not trouble you to carry it away again for so slight an alteration."  "Yes, Miss; I am coming to-morrow with Miss Arthur's things; will it do then?" "Certainly; I wish you would come up to my room and warm yourself now. It is very cold to-day, and I dare say you walk a great deal." "Yes, I am in the street nearly all the time, and so I get used to it. I don't mind it very much for myself."                4 She hesitated, made as though she was going to say something more, stopped, and finally turned away quickly, with a curtsey and a promise to bring the button and loop to-morrow.  .     CHAPTER    III.  PRINCE'S COURT. HAT night the weather was very wild. It was near Christmas, and the stormi-  W   est one I ever remembered.  The      1 wind blew so fiercely that it shook the  house, and woke me from  a sound      l sleep to a confused and pitying consciousness a of the many who must suffer from its blasts, A t A steady sound was distinctly audible above the rushing and roaring outside. I listened, A and found it was the pacing of feet above me, in Mrs. Leslie's room. Backward and forward     t they went, in constant motion and withouta pause; backward and forward with such cease-  less persistency, until my head ached' following   the footfalls.  48   Prinzce's Court.  "    .0 The clock struck three, and I wondered if it had kept up the livelong night; and pondering thus and listening still, I fell asleep. Next morning Kitty brought me up thttIe  parcel left by Rosie, and said the young girl  seemed in a great hurry to be gone. Itwas disappointed, for I had hoped to talk to the  poor thing, and try to win her confidence. Miss Arthur passed my door on her usual  morning walk. Every day at ten she left the house, returning about one, with a silent  dejection of manner most noticeable to any one   - nterested.  Mrs. Warren would often follow her into her room on such occasions, and coming out with tearful eyes, try to avoid observation for a little while. Without indulging in curiosity on the subject, I had concluded that the poor girl had Trouble of her own that she kept to herself, and so accounted in part for her timid and  repressed manner, and her general avoidance of strangers.  Mrs. Yarnall was one of those/ersons whose      50     The Subtle Spell. attentions it is utterly impossible to escape from. She had selected shy Miss Arthur as an object of regard from the first moment of their  corming in contact, and the poor girl struggled  in vain against the determined solicitude and : ceaseless interrogations with which she was pursued.                    : , She had scarcely passed me on her way down, before her indefatigable friend was aftet I her.  "O, Miss Mary, I am going out for a short  walk, too," she cried; "and if you have no   a objection, I'll accompany you."  Miss Arthur turned around, feebly protest-, ing: "I am not going to walk; it is a small matter  of business I am going to attend to," when Mrs.  Yarnall broke in cheerfully: "Make no apologies," she said; "it is all one to me;. I only go for the air, but I have something particular to tell you, so come along, pray; it is, very important." I knew enough of Mrs. Yarnall's communi- :i   Prince's Court.       1 cations to feel .sure that this one was a surmise of her own, used as a preface to half a dozen sharp questions which Miss Arthur would find it difficult to avoid answering. The poor soul appeared helpless and utterly spiritless, but her friend carried her away; chatting briskly in her ear.        ;  "Poor Miss Mary," said Kitty in a low tone; "Mrs. Warren tries to get her off in'the morn- ing without notice, but Mrs. Yarnall was watching at her door for her to pass ever since breakfast." I sax/that the kind chambermaid knew the secret of the young lady's trouble. She had lived with Mrs. Warren for many years, and was esteemed and trusted by her; but I felt I had no right to question, and so returned to my room. After the storm it was clear and sunshiny, a cheery winter's day, serene and bright.  looked out of the window, and felt the same loning for a walk that had beset poor Mrs Yarnall.     52 '   . The Subtle Spell. The warm sacque was an incentive, and with Prince's Court in view I started, determined to walk there and ride back. I had only gone a few blocks when I over-  took Miss Arthur and Mrs. Yarnall. They  were loitering before windows full of fancy goods; the sprightly lady was pointing out  bargains and delivering voluble opinions, but X the other was only making a feint of listening,  while her anxious eyes were strained wistfully in another direction. t Prince's Court was what we called down  town, but not very far distant. I soon came in sight of Cassie Bowers, making a pretense of  cleaning the melting snow out of the gutter  with an old broom, while she gossipped with the grocer's boy in his wagon. She knew me, and at the first glance of recog- nition flew to work ardently, and ignored the grocer. "Why, Miss Park, is that you?" she inquired with a great show of interest; "won't you come in and see auntie? She, says she'll never for- !   (Prince's Court.      3 get you for sending her them flannels for her rheumatism." "No, thank you, Cassie; it is little Bessie Dunn I want to see. Can you show me her house?" Cassie's brow contracted, and she was not quite so ready with her reply this time. "Why, of course, Miss Park; it is just round the court, you know; but please walk in, do." I had caught sight of Bessie while she spoke, and so had she--Bessie, not as I had seen her last, but Bessie as she had first appeared at the back gate in tatters, partially covered by an old scrap of shawl. It was a small thing, but it made me heart- sick. The whole suit of rags was restored, the bulby stockings, the toeless boots, the old black petticoat too long, and the old red dress too short: not a shred of the decent, comfort- able things I had put on her with such hopeful pleasure; and when she turned around, and I caught sight of her face, that too was as dirty,     S4      The Subtle Spell. and her hair as wild as it had ever been. She saw me, and quick as a flash she disappeared up another alley.  "O, Cassie," I cried; 'who could have taken that child's clothes?"  "Her mother's in delicate health," repeated  Cassie, "and she is not able to dress and attend to her all the time. When Mrs. Dunn gets  better, she will make her young ones look first  rate; it is only when /she has such delicate  health that they look neglected."  Cassie's aunt appeared at the door at this  point, and at her invitation I went in. I was more than ever anxious to discover the nature  of Mrs. Dunn's disease, and Mrs. Bowers was a  communicative person, especially about herself. "I want to know   something about the  Dunns, please, Mrs. Bowers," I said, after a few inquiries concerning her own welfare. '0, you mean Rosie's and Bessie's mother; yes, Miss Park, she lives our neighbor in the Court, and as I say to Cassie, we ought to know everybody round here pretty well, for we lived ] 1   (Prince's Court.     55 in the back house when Barse bought the pro- perty, and that was long enough ago, for the street wasn't opened clear through at our first coming. My man was working along with the commissioners, Miss Park, and he was a hard- working steady man, too; none of your idle fellows, but as good a provider as ever I see." When she took breath, I interposed another inquiry relative to the Dunn family. "Was the mother always an invalid?"I asked. "Well, pretty much; but deary me, if a body takes notice of every bad turn poor folks has, they'll be kept busy," said Mrs. Bowers. "I've had two spells of fever myself this winter, owing to cold I took on account of our cellar being half full of water, and Barse not the man to drain it, nor consider it in the rent either, tho' we're his tenants better'n twenty year now. But that's the way with some men, when they get steady pay into their houses, they let 'em just take things rough, and do more to accommodate them as don't stay long enough to thank 'em for it."     56     The Subtle Spell.  "Have the Dunns been here long?"  "Well, some time; but we'ri such old settlers, as I tell Cassie, that everybody round has come since our time; yet Barse is busy papering : Martin's house now, and ourn aint seen a new strip in the front room for over six year."  "Is Mrs. Dunn able to sit up? I should  !-! like to see her, if she didn't object to a   : stranger calling." .  "I don't know, Miss Park; some folks has  notions when they're sick, you see. I used to / live with a lady myself 'fore I was married, and she was a kinder invalid, always a-pining and a complaining, but wery rich. Well that there lady had her notions so strong, that she'd send me down to refuse her nearest relations when they come inquiring about her. I used to  laugh seeing 'em go way so disappointed, and troubled about her money; they was afraid she wouldn't leave it to 'em, you see.', "And this poor woman has no one to take care of her during her attacks?" "O, us poor people gets along somehow; as    (Prince's Court.      57 I said to Cassie the other day, them that's poor can't afford to nurse themselves up like rich folks do." So this was all the information' I could gather on the Dunn question. I remained a few moments more, talking about Cassie's prospects as an apprentice to the trade of dress- making, and Mrs. Bowers said the family on the other side of the Court were willing to take her if she could spare her from home. "They're goodish kinder folks," remarked she rather disparagingly; "but I don't fancy 'em myself, -They're close and stuck up, not r-^se or friendly enough to suit my notions, but they e first rate hands at work, and have plenty to do at their trade." I saw a little hope in this. "If they work nicely, I can recommend them to custodin at our house," I said. "I want a gown made myself, and I think I will go in and speak to them on the subject." "Just so," said Mrs. Bowers, pleased to be able to patronize the family; "their name's     58     The Subtle Spell. Watson, and the old lady's quite genteel; so are the daughters, and I shouldn't wonder if they would suit you; they're awful particular,  Cassie s ys.  I had got to the door again by this time, and  glanced up and down, expecting to see some- ,  thing of the poor child; but she was out of -  sight, and so I crossed over to the Watsons'. I found them entirely unlike Mrs. Bowers; : quiet, refined women, a little saddened, as it seemed, by some past trouble, but gentle and kindly in their way.  They had come from thevountry, they said, and being afraid to make themselves responsi- ble for a high rent, had taken their house in a  ,plain neighborhood, hoping to find employment in their business among the wives and daugh-  ters of the surrounding mechanics; They had done very well, indeed, and seemed so thankful for their success that I -was still more favora- Ably impressed. Their exceeding neatness, the tasteful tidiness of their little parlor, and the case of books and selection of pictures upon the 'P '   I   X (Prince's Court.      59 walls, all proved to me that they were people whose former associations had been much supe- rior to their present position. They called the elder daughter Jenny, and it was she who undertook the work and did the fitting. Addie, the younger, was delicate, and appeared less calculated for business. I was so pleased with their manner that I grew very confidential, and began by asking them of their intention to take Cassie as an apprentice. "Mother proposed it," said Miss Jenny; "the girl is quick with her needle, and would do very well if she were only a little steadier; I she seems good-natured and easily led off, and this is not a very safe neighborhood for an idle girl, as you can see." "Do you know Rotie Dunn?"I quickly asked. I had waited my opportunity for some time, and now caught at it lest, like Mrs. Bower}, they would foil me by dropping into personal experiences. , "Rosie Dunn," repeated the mother; she           i,'     60     The Subtle Spell. looked from one to the other of her daughters, and shook her head. "Do you know any of the family?" She shook her head once more. I never heard the name, that I can remem- ber,' said Addie. I felt quite annoyed, and hurried through my  final directions about my gown, determining to go to the fountain-head for knowledge. I was glad when I reached the street to find  the Bowers' door closed, and no one in sight up the Court. I hurried in and found a row of three houses on either side, with a hydrant at  the upper end, and a space crossed with clothes lines beyond. Two of these dwellings had aa air of neatness and comfort about them; one seemed clean but poor, but the other three  appeared to be the abode of rough, coarse people. The upper one especially had a most forlorn air; two panes were shivered out of the single front room window on the lower floor, and one was covered by pasted newspaper, the other filled with an old quilt that seemed to i,   (Prince's Court.     6 wear a familiar look. "That is Dunn's surely," thought I, and thus impressed, I knocked at the door. A kind of low cry was all I heard in ans er, and I repeated it, and listened. There was no sound at all for a while, but when I knocked again it began in a louder key, and finally I opened the door and walked in. The first thing that met me was a strong, close smell of camphor, and I saw the remains of a bottle at the foot of an old settee, the liquid from which was drying into the boards of a very dirty floor. There was ,a small coal stove with a decaying ashy fire in it, a disorderly table covered with pieces of bread and potato skins, two or three broken chairs, and a bucket, an iron pot with some old knives lying in it among the remnants of boiled potatoes, and a child sitting on the floor with the relic of a wooden toy'in his hand, crying dismally. I had only time to recognize Willie in the wailing little one, when I was aware of a stir- ring in what had first appeared to be a rag-     62     The Subtle Spell.  ged mass of dirty patch-work on the settee. A fearfully scarred and swollen face raised  itself, and a most unnaturally thick voice said something about dying in neglect and suffer- ing, and then fell back with a whack on the  wretched pillow.  The smell of camphor, mingling with the  closeness of the room, was quite overpower-  ing. I ventured to open the door just a little, and then went up to the poor soul to see if I could help her. I found her, however, too ill to talk, and indeed the sight of her poor  mashed forehead, that seemed one cluster of bruises, made my heart ache. I gathered up the glass and tried 'to quiet  Willie, who did iothing but stare at me and cry in a mechanical way, that seemed to spring from principle rather than feeling. I felt com- petely at a loss, and was as bewildered and seless as possible, when the door was pushed open wide, and a young but very wretched looking woman poked in her head. She had a thin shawl drawn round her, and  !   rprince's Court.     63 a long faded skirt hanging lank and flimsy about her heels. Her face was thin and her eyes bloodshot and a little wild. Willie stopped his whine at the sight of her, and after a glance or two at me, she wound herself in like a snake, and began a propitia- tory monologue. "Dear bless us, but this is a hard world for them that's, born to suffering and. poverty! Willie, dear, how's your poor mammy now?\ Poor lamb, you miss her sorely, so you do!"  "Do you know the family?"I asked, trying to be uninfluenced by the miserable appearance of the new comer, and to'win her to tell me about the Dunns' mysterious troubles. "Do I know them?" she asked, turning up the whites of her eyes; *you may think so in- deed, when I tell you that Mrs. Dunn has been a second mother to me, and that if it hadn't been for her I'd not been here to-day." When I looked at her I could not relize the unconscious Mrs. Dunn in the light of a bene- factress; again I tried to keep down my rising     "     The Subtle Spell. prejudice, and pursue my interest in the  unhappy family. "Do you know what is the matter with this  poor woman?" ' "She's- she's delicate in her health," said the woman, hesitating an instant, and then  catching at Cassie's term, as if it was a com- ! plete explanation of the disorder. "But look at her face." "Yes ma'am, that's the fall she got last  night, and Willie's broke the bottle of stuff the . i doctor left her; isn't it too bad!"      ' Poor creature! I thought of the speech of  f little Bessie about keeping her out of the fire, and felt sick at heart. ,           j "Is she-that is, do you know whether there ,: is anything like insanity or epilepsy in her  , attacks?" She looked at me sideways, and her face had  a sharp, cunning air. "Yes, ma'am, I guess it's that," she said,  nodding aiid pursing up her lips; "I ain't ised  to doctors' big words, but I think it's that."  , *  '     X X   (Prince's Court.      65 She had been picking up the tumbled chairs, scooping the potato skins into the hollow of her hand, and raking the fire while she talked; now she approached Mrr Dunn and drew the quilt over her face, and settled her head fairly on the old chintz pillow. "Is there no one to make the house more comfortable, to see to the bhildren, and take care of this wretched woman?"' She shook her head. "Where is her husband?"I asked. "Well, Tom's not very steady," she replied, "and work's scarce in the winter; he does the I  best he can, but that's not at any time very   much."  "There's a grown daughter, Rosie," I con- tinued, "can't she do something for her suffer- ing mother?" The woman's face contracted, and a really evil look crossed her eyes. "Rosie Dunn cares only for dressing and setting herself 6ff; there's no thought of them that want or suffer in her head; she takes the 5     "     The Subtle Spell. best of everything, and don't care who wants. That's Rosie for you!" A boy with a mild, sorrowful face, pale and innocent looking, came up the steps. He had a man's old coat on him that almost hid him from sight, and he carried a string of fish in one  hand. The child on the floor set up a kind d: of crowing at the sight of the food, and the  boy answered it with a fond petting sound:  "They are for you, so they are, Willie; brother's going to clean and fry them for you, and Rosie, and Sally, and Bessie. , won't  that be nicel" He saw me and stopped short; thep his eye turned on the woman in the shawl, and his  white face grew scarlet.  "Yes, I came in, Bob dear, to take a look ^ at your poor sick mother," said she in a cajoling sort of whine. "I haven't been in more than a minute, as the good lady here will tell you." I had thought the boy's-face a kind and gentle one, but its expression changed entirely   Prince's Court.     67 as he answered the woman with a growling sound, saying\ "If people Would let my mother alone d be obliged to them." I thought he meant me too, and tried to explain. "It was your little sister Bessie I wanted to see. I am very sorry for your poor mother, but I did not mean to disturb her, or interfere in any way." "O, you're a good lady," said the boy bluntly. "Annie Welsh knows what I mean; I want my mother let alone by her." "Bob's down on me," said the woman with an embarrassed laugh, "but I'm his friend ror all that." She gave me a look. "The alley's pretty slushy, ma'am; I'll show you the best way out if you'll come along with me, ma'am," she said. ,  I thanked her, but stopped to say that I Would be glad to see Bessie, if her brother could call her.      !     68     T'he Subtle Spell. "She's at Mrs. Patton's or Mrs. Brooks'," said the boy. "She gets her victuals there for running arrints, and she won't be home till night." He seemed glad to say so, and cut short  my stay, so I had no excuse for remaining.  When we got outside, the woman he called Annie Welsh began volubly: "Did ever you hear such impudence as that 13ob's? He's a stubborn fellow, and his mo- ther's heakrt is just broke with him. He  knows I'm ready to lay down my life for her, and that sets him against me. Bessie's play- ing up Berry's Court, and then he had the boldness to say she was at Patton's along  with Sally."        '- "He doesn't look to me like a bad boy," I said; "he has a sad, wistful sort of face, quite  unusual for one so young. "He is just as cunning as a fox, and as de- ceiving as a serpent: I know Bob," said Annie Welsh bitterly, " for many's the time I've cried with his poor mother about him and Rosie, and    Wriinece's Court.     69 tried to console her for their want of feeling and selfishness to her. I just went in this afternoon to see if I could get the poor creature a mouthful of nourishment, but them- greedy young ones had left the place bare. If I had a penny of my own I'd share it with her," she added, beginning to cry; "but them that's steeped to the lips in poverty must bear its pains without a murmur." I opened my purse. "A dollar," thought I, "may get them all a comfortable meal; they shall have that much at any rate." And I gave it to her, begging that she would spend it for the family, and oblige me very much. My hand was eagerly met by hers, and she fairly clutched the money. "You're a jewel!" she cried, "and poor Sarah Dunn's heart will bless you when I tell her."' So saying, she made. off without another word, and I went home more confused and troubled than gratified by my expedition. When I reached my room I found myself -      70      The Subtle Spell.  -haunted by that horribly marred and swollen face, and wished again and again that I had not seen it. I opened the piano, hoping by cheerful music to dispel the disagreeable recollection, but A had hardly played a dozen bars, when Kitty  knocked at the door.  Miss Park, the doctor up stairs sends his  At excuses for troubling you, but will you please close the piano for a while; the lady's in a terrible way, and the sound drives her wild." I was startled by this description of Mrs. Leslie's state, but found that it was Kitty's view of the case. The doctor had simply said  his sister was ill; but the chambermaid told me it was a queer sort of illness, for she was rushing up and down the floor with her hair  loose and her eyes staring in her head. Even as she spoke, a succession of cries, half [it.  stifled yet plainly audible, bore witness to the ;i  truth of her discription. "That's her," whispered Kitty, "and Mrs. Yarnall's in the upper entry listening; almost   trince's Court.      71 all the ladies, were out on the stairs, but Mrs. Yarnall has been going on about it worst of all." I heard the rustle of the excitable lady's garments, and went in and shut my door quickly. Presently a tap sounded, and I an- swered it most reluctantly, to find Mrs. Say- ward, an old lady boarder, waiting with a newspaper in her hand. She was a lonely, harmless old pers6n, who took no interest, or in fact, cognizance of what went on around her, but was always much excited about public events. She was fond of being thought well informed, and used very large words to deepen that impression on the general mihd. "Did you know that a considerable con- flagration occurred in our vicinity last even- ing?" she inquired; "or were you oblivious, as well as the other members of our household, Miss Park?"  "I said I had not heard of the fire, and i begged her to read me an account, of it, since     72     The Subtle Spell.        ! I saw that she had come for that purpose, and  feared every instant that Mrs. Yarnall would appear and put me through a catechism on the subject of the noises above.         ! Mrs. Sayward was fond of reading aloud from the newspaper, and she seized the oppor- tunity, as I foresaw she would, with great  relish, dwelling on the alarm in the neighbor-  hood, the efforts of the fire department, the probable insurance, and the possible loss. / "Why, my dear Miss Park," she said, pont- ing her rAmarks with a wave of her eye-glass, "the deficiency of popular knowledge on the subject of our municipal institutions is marvel- lous. Miss Arthur astonished me by saying that she did not know the laws of the fire  organizations, yet she has some interest in our national edifices; I have three times met her in the State Asylum for the Insane." Poor girl! I had only time to suppress myT inward feeling of sympathy when Mrs. Say- ward, who has no perception of private griefs, went on to say, that she was also astonished at   tPrince's Court.      73 the reticence of Miss Arthur, who would-not compare items of information  and opinion with her, but on the contrary, seemed to feel ashamed of her interest in such subjects. "A really lamentable defect, is it not, Miss Park?  Here is a house full of persons who might be in the constant receipt of valuable information if they cultivated a sterling interest in current events." "That is true," I assented, thinking the while of the poor, soul whose timid manner and startled look always suggested some such trouble to me. The strange gasping moans were still faintly audible above, and the constant hurrying to and fro of feet made me think that Mrs. Warren and several others were assisting the doctor in the care of his afflicted sister. Mrs. Sayward, totally careless of the sounds, went on to speak learnedly of public legislation in regard to these places, and a great deal more that I fear I was not sufficiently attentive to understand clearly. ,        74     The Subtle Spell. After a while the tea-bell sounded, and she folded her paper. "Talking of Miss Arthur's painful ignorance, reminds me that she is ill,' she said; "a hired nurse was sent for immediately, at her request, which suggests to me to ask your views on the question of octogenarian attendants in hospitals. I'll show you an article I found on the subject." I had passed her only a few hours before, and although she looked anxious and troubled, I could see no trace of positive illness about her, and now she was under the care of a hired nurse! I was startled to hear it, and felt eager to ask Mrs. Warren how it was; but Mrs. Say- ward was my neighbor at table, and during the meal she told me of a projected ward for vale-  tudinarians somewhere, and asked me to save her every scrap of information connected with some unpronounceable question in public dis- pute.   -CHAPTER     IV. ROSIE'S TROUBLE.  HAT  night I felt sure the handsome lady above me was dying, and I did O not pretend to go quietly to sleep. Her moans and cries were awful to listen to, in the deep silence of the hours between midnight and morning. I could hear her brother's voice, and sometimes it sounded imploring, sometimes protesting, and again commanding. Hers were tones of an- guish and entreaty, and they would rise and sink in wild cadences, sometimes high and sometimes low, but always heart-rending to listen to.  I thought of the flowers and music, and all the occupations and pleasures her brother had 75 )     76     The Subtle Spell.  planned for her, and I wondered if he had known how ill she really was, while he strove to interest her in such things. Sometimes I thought I must get up and go to them, but a second thought restrained me, and made me feel that I would be intruding; and so, with  occasional lulls of fitful slumber, the night  passed and the morning came. Just as the light began to 'streak the darkness, I fell sound 1 asleep, and when I woke the place was so  silent that I sprang up and dressed in haste,  anxious to hear how the poor lady was. Mary Ann was the first one I encountered  on the stairs. "How is Mrs. Leslie?"I asked. "She's better; she's going to have a late breakfast, the doctor says, and then go out for a ride." I stood astonished-a breakfast and a ride after that awful night of anguish! I couldn't believe it. "And is Miss Arthur recovered, too?"I said. i         l   rosie's Trouble.      7 "No," Mary Ann said; "Miss Arthur is real sick, she is; her head's bound up, and she can't talk;'         ) When I got to breakfast the doctor was there in his place, looking as usual; and despite my anxiety and interest, I did not know how to beginto ask about his sister. I was just about to commence, when one of the ladies said: "Mrs. Leslie is better, I understand, doctor." "Yes, thank you, she is feeling pretty well this morning; and after breakfast and a short ride will be quite herself." Mrs. Warren looked up just for a moment. Ier room was on the other side of mine, and she, too, had heard the noises. Mrs. Yarnall came down late, just as I was leaving the table. "What stupid creatures these German nurses are!" she said petulantly; "I can't make that Gretchen in Mar Arthur's room understand a single word Isay. She puts her broad figure in front of the door like a barricade, and poor Mary is absolutely shut up from her friends."     78     The Subtle Spell., Another quick glance from  Mrs, Warren" showed me that this was as it should be, and I did not even go to Miss Arthur's door to inquire about her. Next day Miss Jenny Watson came tp try    1 my gown on; before she had taken out the lining, Mrs. Yarnall came whisking in, with eyes wide open, and making motions with her thin lips. "What do you thin*%, Miss Park? I have made a discovery. Our lady of mystery is crazy; that's what accounts for everything." Miss Jenny gave 'a start and dropped her tape measure and scissors on the floor. I could readily understand any one being alarmed at Mrs. Yarnall's manner, who was not used to it; she had a way of twitching her fea- tures and protruding her eyes that was really startling, and she made her communications in shrill whispers that pierced one's ears. "The way I found it out was this," she continued; "I know the Superintendent, Dr. Churchhouse; I saw him at the Asylum when   (Posie s Trouble.     79 I went to visit it with Mrs. Sayward. Well, just as I camedown to breakfast this morning, I met him on the stairs, and Mrs. Warren must  ' have been on the watch, for she came out of the little- sitting-room and received him and whispered so low, as she took him up to Mrs. Leslie's room, that I couldn't catch a word. I did not wait to see them go in; I'm sorry now that I did not, because it would have been a satisfaction, you; know, but the Carters were coming down, and I had to speak to them." Miss Watson kept her head down over her work and away from  Mrs. Yarnall's direction. I was confirmed by her manner in an idea that crossed my mind in her own house.  She was evidently a person accustomed to a different life, and however brave she might be in her determination to pursue her duty in the sphere in which she found herself,? she could not conquer a shrinking from strangers, and a dis- position to hide from the world. Mrs. Yarnall was a woman to hunt an idea to death, but seldom to find a new object of /,.                a     80     The Subtle Spell. interest. I think she was scarcely conscious of the dressmaker's presence, for she went on piecing out evidence, and telling what she had thought from the first; and how she had men- tioned this, and remarked that, until the dress was fitted and the quiet worker was ready to go. I had not" interrupted any of the dis- closures by a word; it didn't seem necessary to applaud or dissent when Mrs. Yarnall talked, and she was still busy telling me that the doctor was a Mephistopheles of a man, when Kitty knocked at the door and said Madame Pomplin had sent the girl with my parcel. I was not expecting anything from the cloak store, and yet did not know what it might be.  "Please let her come up, Kitty," I said; and in at moment she returned ushering in Rosie, who, without speaking to me, tIrned quickly round and told the chambermaid it was Miss Arthur's room she wanted to go to. "Stay, Rosie, please; Miss Arthur is very sick," I said. "Will you not sit by my grate a moment, and warm your feet? I was glad to   (osie's Trouble.     81 get the button and cord all right, that you left the other day."    Miss Jenny Watson had turled at the name and met Rosie's eye. The young girl's face flushed with a curious' expression that was full of kindness, but mingled with shame or some other painful or oppressive feeling. "How do you do?" said Miss Watson with gentle gravity, and Rosie answered in a tone so low I could not catch the words, and seemed anxious to get out of sight. "Did you know Miss Arthur was ill, Rosie?" I asked, wanting to detain her in some way. Again Miss Watson dropped her sewing things, and Rosie had to help her to pick them up. When I said good-by to her she was very pale, and trembled as she spoke in quite a marked and nervous way. "But I must go," cried Mrs. Yarnall, "I promised Miss Carter that I'd show her how to cut a bib pattern, and she's dying to know what I've just told you. Confidence, you know; don't 6     82     TThe Subtle Spell. breathe a word, please. The major-general thinks no one has eyes but herself, and I take a tiny little bit of pleasure in outwitting her." She called Mrs. Warren by this military title, for what reason, except that it was totally inappropriate, I do not know. As soon as she was gone, I turned to the reluctantly detained Rosie. "I want to say a word to you, my, dear, I said, trying to be as kind as I could in my manner. "I want to ask you about dear little Bessie, for whom I have a strong liking, and  please tell me about your mother's sickness. I am so sorry for her, and would like to help her if I could." "Mother's had some kind of fever that the doctor gives her medicine for," said' Rosie, looking at the wall over my head. "I don't know its name, hat sometimes it affects her head. She isn't able to do as well with the children as she would like to, but I think that is our own affair." The girl's face and voice were alike hard  The girl'   Josie's Trouble.      83 andbconstrained; she seemed intensely desirous to get away, and her under lip trembled in a very odd manner as she edged towards the door, her. eye still fixed on the wall paper. I felt greatly grieved; sorry for hurting the poor thing's pride, and regretful for x y own want of considerateness in expression. Suddenly her eyes dropped, and she looked at me; then her whole face melted, and seemed to quiver like troubled water. Stepping back, she closed the door tightly, as if secrecy were a confirmed habit; then running towards me, she made as if she would have knelt at iy feet, but I caught and held her, gently forcing her into a chair at my side. Then I discovered that the poor child was a passionate, ardent creature, with impulses so strong that her only hope of restraining them was in their total suppression. But the waters had burst forth and flooded her soul, and she shook as she sobbed out her pitiful story. "O, I cannot bear to say it, but your face     84     The Subtle Spell. is so tender, and you are so good to Bess and so sorry for us, that I must either tell you the truth, or be an ungrateful wretch. -I tried to keep away, for when I get talking and thinking, I can't do my work right, and if I lose my place, I'm lost with it." She was only a girl, but she spoke with the force and energy of a woman, and seemed to fully realize what she said. She stretched out her hands with a gesture that endeavored to shut out the degradation and wretchedness that rose before her in the remembrance of home. "It doesn't seem so hard on the rest," she said, "for they don't remember much else, but I do; and I think of it as it used to be, till my head gets like fire, and I wish I could find anything that would make me forget all about it. Miss Park, my poor 'mother    drinks!-and that is the reason the house looks so, and the children are half naked, and father stays away. That is why our poor baby came  !  , begging to this back gate, and all the neigh-    'Zosie's Trouble.     85 bors pity us, and watch when one of us passes, in or out of the Court, as if we were part of a show!" I must have known it somehow, for I was not shocked or astonished at the confession. I knew nothing of such life, and drunkenness especially was something in which I had not the least experience; but what I had seen prepared me for the revelation, and I was conscious only of a feeling of intense pity and Sympathy with the poor daughter. "We used to live comfortably," said Rosie, who, having once broken the ice of reserve, seemed eager to tell me all; "my father had a store and we lived beside it, and mother kept  a girl to do the work, and paid attention to Bob and me herself. O, she was so kind and nice, and made us such neat clothes, and kept us so tidy, that I cry myself to sleep at night  thinking of it all.                ; "Father built an addition to his store; it  was away up town, and a good many drovers and country people stopped there for things.  i . ,?l.     86     The Subtle Spell. So he took to keeping liquor, much against mother's will. I was very little, but I renem- ber hearing her talk against it. She said it ( would bring rough characters around, and she would never let Bob or me out of her sight if there was a saloon at our corner. But father wanted to make money, and so had his way; and by and by she got used to it, and used to help him when they were very busy. "I don't know how it came, but from being with the liquor constantly, poor thing, and getting very tired standing at the counter, and all that, she learnt to take it; and at first it made her harsh and fretful, and she would scold us as she never used to do. Sally was a little baby, and she would get angry even at her, and then father began to speak cross and frighten us when he found mother lying asleep in the day time. "Everything went, wrong, and in a year or two we had to move from that corner. Father took a small house and went into another man's store. but mother grew worse than ever, for she ,         .             "Rosie's Trouble. ::  87 began to go with a family o0 wicked people called Welsh, who brought her liquor, and then father went off entirely and left us for awhile. After a time mother said she would do better, and he came back; that was when Bessie was a baby, and we had moved into a street down town, where the people were kind to us and helped mother to open a little shop. I was glad then, for I was old enough to know what a curse rested on us, and to dread anything that brought liquor to my mind. I thought mother would- never touch it again, and we were getting along very well, when Annie Welsh found us out and came to see mother. She was' the daughter of the woman who kept the groggery in our old street, and father said mother must never speak th any of the family when he came back to us. "We all hated them; even little baby Bess seemed to know there was trouble coming, for she cried as hard as she' could when Annie Welsh tried to take her up and play with her *the afternoon she first came. She went out for       88     The Subtle Spell. whisky as soon as she talked mother into it, and when father came home I told him, for I thought we could keep her away between us, but we couldn't; she came in spite of us, and mother and she drank together. He scolded and was angry with mother, but it only made her worse, for she was soon as bad as ever again. The shop wag closed, and we were all left uncared for, because father goes off when he can't stand it any longer, and he left us then. We were nearly starving when Miss Arthur, the young lady that lives here, found us and sent mother to a hospital, where Willie was born, and saw that we had care and food till she got well and came back to us. She has been my good friend ever since, and but for her my heart would have broken long ago. She never comes to the house; it makes her ill to be where people who drink are; but she got me my place at Madame Pomplin's, and helps me in every way she can, and w!en things are at the worst she keeps me from despair just by the look of her face, it is so full of sympathy."   (osie's Trouble.     89 "Poor girl! poor, dear girl " was all I could say. s "What can I do?" cried Rosie, in a blinding flood of tears, her poor eyes so red that it was pitiful to look at her, and her breast heaving with the heartfelt passion of her words. "Can I stay home and scrub the house and fight off  Annie Welsh? Can I keep the clothes on the children, and feed and take care of them? See here 1"She drew up her sleeve and showed me an arm so scarred and bruised that I was forced to exclaim in horror: "O! who did that?"  She answered me with another shower of hot tears, and shook, her head sorrowfully between her sobs. "She wouldn't have done it if she had been in her right mind; but I can't keep thinking that all the time, and abuse makes me wild. I've got to keep out of it, or- I'll be as bad as any of, them." She choked back her emotion, pulled her sleeve straight, and set hei' dress in order,     90     The Subtle Spell. biting her lips and getting a resolute set to her features, that seemed to have become their habitual expression. The light nature of her garments, their trimmed and renewed- appearance, and the scantiness that was so bravely hidden by the taste that arranged them, all appeared now like so many pathetic stories of courage and spirit under privation and degrading misery. "You were so good to Bessie-0, I wanted to tell you how I loved your kindness! But it is of no use," she said in a low, desperate tone; ( "you only put wood on the horrible fire that is burning us ell up at home, and that will keep on till everything my poor, miserable mother  can grasp is in ashes. There's no hope, no hope, Miss Park, and Ijm glad I have to run the streets all day in the cold air. It keeps me from-reaking down, and giving up to the fate there's no use fighting against."  I never felt the uselessness of words so com- pletely as I did that day. I couldn't find a suitable one to give her comfort, it seemed, w     (Rosie's Trouble.     91 so I only took Rosie's hard cold hand in mine and kissed her. Just as she was passing out of my door, with her poor inflamed face turned away to avoid observation, the elegant invalid, Mrs. Leslie. came slowly toiling up the stairs with her exhausted air upon her. The curtain of my window opening to the south was drawn aside, and a full clear light streamed in and through the open. door, struck aslant her face, making her rich hair shine like burnt gold. With the flood of winter sun- shine came a sudden yet firm conviction that I would not have dared to have spoken. She glanced, in passing, at the pretty shop- girl, and her look was'half curious, half indiffer- ent. I had never yet seen an earnest feeling light up those languid eyes, or wake the proud torpor of her handsome features. Rosie looked at her quite sharply; only a glance like her own, but such a keen, suspicious one, followed by another still more covert and none the less expressive.     92     The Subtle Spell. Then she ran hastily down into the lower hall, and I looked after, thinking to myself: "It must be so, since Rosie sees it too; my eyes are sharpened by sudden experience, but hers are tutored by a long and dreary teach- ing, and between these two, so separated in the world's view, there is a painful and invisible link." /   CHAPTER V. HOUSE GOSSIP. ISS ARTHTTR'S German nurse, Gret- chen, had once been a household ser- ,\  vant to the family, and was faithfully attached to the young lady as the only survivor of three pretty little girls whom she had nursed in infancy. Al- though Mrs. Warren, in her long connection with business, had been the necessary confidant of a great deal of trouble, and many varieties of family interests, she was still an extremely tender-hearted and sympathetic lady. The sick girl had always appeared to be an especial object of her regard, and being a very retiring and reticent young lady, indisposed to, make general acquaintance, and rather shielding 93     "    IThe Subtle Spell.  herself behind her hostess' protection, it seemed quite proper to me that Mrs. Warren should direct and arrange her affairs, now that she was ill. Mrs. Yarnall could .not see it in that light. Dr. Dallas and his sister were determinedly uncommunicative, Mrs. Sayward was utterly given up to the progress of public questions, and the rest of the boarders were tired of being bored, so Miss Arthur's case was all she had on hand, and she set herself to attend to that exclusively. "Can I speak with Miss Park a moment?" she inquired at my door next morning, and then came in making curtseying motions and comical faces, which was an ingratiating process of hers. "Do you know the last move of the major-general, my dear?" she asked, dilating her great eyes and'quivering her nostrils after a peculiar manner of her own.   "She has taken possession of poor little Mary Arthur, made the girl a prisoner, and set that Dutch sentinel as guard over her."   House Gossip.       95 "O, please don't look at it in that way," I said, not very good /humoredly I am afraid; for Mrs. Yarnall had arasping effect on me when she brought her detective powers into full activity. "Mrs. Warren is an old family friend, I believe." "Never knew the name till Mary came here to board five years ago, when she was fresh from school." "Well, well, I know they are on' confidential terms, and Mrs. Warren is kind enough to undertake the care of the poor thing." "She is so fond of being important and assumes so much, that people are actually deceived into yielding what she seizes, as if it were a positive right. Mary often told me that she dreaded to be ill in a boarding-house, and as soon as I heard of this attack, I came right forward and offered to take charge of the poor child. I ran up to Miss Harvey's room and stopped her in the midst of a lesson on the harp, assuring her that' quiet was absolutely indispensable. Then I begged Mrs. Sayward     96     IThe Subtle Spell. ot to rustle papers in her room, which is a perfjct passion of hers, and called at Dr. Dallas' dopQ to prevent Mrs. Leslie's practising. Just as I came flying down, I saw Mrs. Warren smuggle a strange doctor into Mary', room in a most secret manner, and actually shut the  door in my face."  "That could not be intentional, surely."  "O0, so she said afterwards, but I can see through her! She can't blind me as easily as  some others, and Mary Arthur is actually taken possession of, now that she is unable to defend herself, and subjected to all sorts of ' mineral poisons that can be suggested by an experimenting physician." "But, Mrs. Yarnall, it is not right to under- value a medical man whom you do not know." "My child, you are prejudiced in favor of the old major-general; you don't know her as I do, and cannot appreciate her tricks. I could have brought Mary Arthur through that sick- ness in two days. I've studied her constitu- tion, and I know it." s '     .    t   House Gossip.       97 ^A fretful sobbing, that had gradually risen ove a faint murmur, began to be audible up stairs in Mrs. Leslie's room, and I was anxious to prevent Mrs. Yarnall from noticing it. She paused, held up her. finger, and said, with a brightening face: , "There, I expected that; the moon's full to-night, and that lunatic is off again. I am not in favor of living in a'private mad-house myself, and so I told Mrs. Warren." "Mrs. Leslie's mind is not affected, Mrs. Yarnall," I said, a little impatiently; "she is evidently subject to spasms of pain, and is very much afllicted, but I saw her to-day, andshe: looked as sane as-as. "I was going to say, as you do," but felt that would not be a very positive comparison, for poor Mrs. Yarnall always seemed a little queer to me. A perfect shriek, sounding at that instant, impaired the strength of my words; it was followed by another, and another, till it became an agony to listen. "Go up! pray go up, they will expect it of 7     98     The Subtle Spell. you!" exclaimed Mrs. Yarnall. "They have distinguished you by their attentions, and I consider your calling to see if you can be of service an absolute duty. Go, do; and I'll go with you;" and she actually began to draw  me from my seat, urging me to offer my ser- vices, and promising to help me if we found the lady violent. I resisted to the utmost, for she was all excitement, and perfectly de- lighted at the prospect of a scene. "I wouldn't go into their room  uncalled, under such circumstances, for anything, I said; i but she even declared she would go alone, and  ran to the door or the window, as she fancied  the sounds were more audible in either place, and cried out, "What's that?" "What does she say now?" and begged me to listen and see whether I could distinguish his voice from hers, and if possible, tell what either were saying. "There, he's threatening her! O, he's cruel to the poor crazy thing! Listen! she's sobbing, and he must be shaking her,-what a tyrantl Miss Park, it is your positive duty to interfere. XJ          House Gossip.      99 O, where is Mrs. Warren? Why doesn't some- body go? Dear me, it is terrible!" She gave me an afternoon of it, and the sounds increasing rather than lessening, I blessed the-supper-bell, though I knew that she would take away a perverted account, and mix me up with it as an apocryphal commentator.   I When I was left alone and had quiet to think, I was glad to find the paroxysm, what- ever its nature, did not last so long in Mrs. Leslie's room this time as last, but\I did not feel very proud of my own insight int charac- ter, and the wisdom of my efforts at iping others.  I had evidently made a mistake innot describing the Dunn family to the WIatsons, who seemed to know about them withoit hav- ing heard their name.  Then, again, I had given the money to that wretched drunkard, Annie Welsh, that I meant to buy a supper for the hungry little ones, and it had gone, as Rosie said, to feed the horrible fire that was ravag- ing all their hopes and peace. /  s.     100    The Subtle Spell. I had done very badly to begin with, but that only spurred me on to repair my mistake by doing something better now, and I revolved in my mind, again and again, plans that proved  their own futility as soon as I endeavored to reduce them to practice. What I wanted most was some power to  compel Mrs. Dunn to respect her own life and  the future hope and well-being of her family. ! Was there no such law-could a citizen in the heart of a Christian community, unrestricted by authority, systematically poison her, body  and soul, and endanger the lives of her chil-  dren?  Here was a case for Mrs. Sayward's know-  ledge of city ordinances; and although I  trembled at establishing such a precedent, I determined to consult her. Finding her-in her own room, in the act of laying out her evening  papers, I asked her if she knew of any way of reaching such an evil as the curse that  darkened Prince's Court. To my surprise, I  found her moved by my appeal out of her  i   House Gossip.      10 large words and business-like manner. She listened with a troubled look, and when I had given her an outline of Mrs. Dunn's family history, shook her head in a worried way. "Too bad, too bad! and there's no cure either," she said; "the neighbors might com- plain of her as a nuisnce, but they will not do it. Even if they did, it would only coimit her to prison as a vagrant for thirty days, and when she came out she'd fire their houses, or do some other desperate act, by way of revenge. You can have a lunatic arrested and put in con- finement, but though drunkenness will lead to crimes that insanity never dreamed of, you cln. not persuade law-makers to protect society from them, or, better still, to protect them from themselves." She wiped her eyes and forehead. "This question brings back a great deal that I try to forget. I saw the grave close over one I had once believed in and honored, and while every clod that struck the coffin made a bruise in my heart, I was forced to acknowledge that 3L  r    ;I      i02    .The Subtle Spell. it was a mercy to shut out the world of temp- tation even in that way, since, living, I had  found there was no hope, no refuge in which a drunkard could be safe from himself."      i I was sorry to have touched so painful a  wound, and I tried to say so as delicately as I  could. She shook her head.           i "Don't worry, dear, it doesn't signify; the  pain's there, and I know it, but let me tell you,  child, I am not alone. There is scarcely a  family that you know or can name, who havej not some like experience of a painful kind, for  drunkenness is the serpent's sting to women, and in one form or another sets most of their hearts aching." She cried quietly and without reserve for a  little while, and I stood by, not daring to venture on wordy sympathy. After a time she wiped her eyes and went back to her city interests. This time it chanced to be the ques- tion of an efficient police force, and she had been reading up the London- and Paris systems, to find which was better suited to our Ameri-   House Gossip.      103 can need, and strongly argued in favor of the former, as fully calculated to work well among our people. I was thankf thatha she had found such a palliating influence, and heartily joining in her views, made up my mind never to murmur against her passion for municipal business, since it diverted her thoughts from such a painful  memory. As I was going slowly back to my room, still revolving Rosie's grief in my perplexed and anxious thoughts, I caught sight of Mrs. Yarnall tapping at my door, and was cowardly enough to slip down stairs to the parlor; pre- tending unconsciousness of the intended visit. I happened to have a little bit of sewing in my hand, and finding Mrs. Carter and two of her handsome daughters seated there, took my place near them on a lounge. "We are just talking of the party last evening, Miss Park," said Miss Elinor, the elder of the girls; "you know Mrs. Ainslee, and were invited, I believe?"     Io4     The Subtle Spell. "Yes, she was good enough to remember me; her son married a relation of mine, but I am not able to go out in the evening, you  know." '/  "Yes, so mamma was saying; but what a  pity, for you cannot think what a grand time i1 we had." And she very kindly launched into  an ejaculatory description of the night's festivi-  ties, from which it appeared that there were so ? many gentlemen there that every one could  dance all the time-no waiting and worrying  I about being asked-an4 that the supper was so , exhilarating as to be followed by some rather  grotesque and not altogether proper scenes. "O, tell her about Van Artevelde's capers," cried Carrie, the younger, convulsed with the recollection; and both together they endea- vored to give me an account of this gentleman's feats, aided by another choice spirit, a young . Mr. Hadley, whose pious father had been the clergyman of the church I was connected with by my earliest and fondest memories. I had heard that Charlie, a handsome, gay-   B    House Gossip.      105 tempered fellor, was a little wild, and every one said the disappointment his choice of life was to his father, caused the good clergyman much pain and sorrow of heart. The Misses Carter spoke of him rapturously, and narrated such absurd and positively silly things of his doing and saying, that my surprise and dismay must have been apparent as I listened to them. "O, Miss Park, it was the champagne, you know!" exclaimed Miss Carrie deprecatingly; "but he was perfectly irresistible, and kept us all in such a ridiculous mood, that I never had such fun in my life." It was champagne in the case of this elegant gentleman. Mrs. Dunn's foible was whisky, and the result not so entertaining; yet intoxi- cation was merely intoxication, take it in what form it came. "Do you know, Nell," pursued Miss Carrie, "there was something we did not see. Mary Harding told me in a whisper at the carriage door, that old Mr. Wharton said something terrible in the hall to Mr. Hadley about his i     Io6     The Subtle Spell. niece, Malvie. The Gales say it was the merest flirtation in the world, and blame  Malvie's mother for actually forcing the girl on him; but May told me he had done or said something last night that came to old Mr.  Wharton's ears, and he had the bad taste to  make a scene about it in the hall. One thing , is certain, it will not do Mr. Hadley the least a bit of harm, Lut Malvie will be sure to suffer from it."                * Mrs; Carter seemed to think it was time for a few motherly words of wisdom.  "Girls," she remarked amiably, "you will be careful not to commit yourselves in the affair. You, Elinor, cannot in propriety express any  opinion until you know what Mr. Ingraham  thinks of it, and Carrie will do well to say  nothing either way; it is safest and most lady- like to be neutral in all such things." Mr. Ingraham was Elinor's betrothed, a nice kind of man as he appeared, rich and middle- aged, and this visit to town was preparatory to their marriage in the spring.   House Gossip.      107 "O, Miss Park, I have been dying to ask you about Mrs. Leslie," said Mrs. Carter, drawing very near me and putting on a most confidential air. Her daughters followed her example, and I found myself surrounded. "You know  they are excellently well con- nected," said the mother. "The Catherwoods know the family, and tell me they rank with the very first in  . Mrs. Linwood Hayes visited among their set, and assures me they are mysterious, but very refined and elevated, and all that. Now, my dear, do tell me what it all means?" "Her ill health-do you allude to that?" "O, you know-everything: her frightful spasms, his inexplicable cruelty, their isolation, and the secrecy with which they try to hide the attacks, whatever their nature may be." "I cannot tell you a single thing that you have not heard; all I could do would be to dis- abuse your mind of a great deal' that is not true. The lady is ill, and strangely so, as you say, but her brother is not cruel; on the con-     1o8     The Subtle Spell. trary, he seems to me to haav made up his mind to sacrifice everything in the effort to restore her." "What does he say?" "About the attacks?" "Yes, of course: Ahow does he explain them? i Does he positively call it insanity, and insist on treating it by a new ethod, or, is it his  pride that prevents his permitting his sister to enter an institution is a patient?"  "Why," I cried, aghast at the idea, "he  never named the subject in his life; he would not dream of such a thing; we are not on such intimate terms. Remember, please, I never saw the gentleman till he came here with his  sister." "O  yes, I know," returned Mrs. Carter,  somewhat disappointed; "but I understood that he had taken you into confidence corn-  pletely, and that you had undertaken the cure between you, with the most devoted disinter-  estedness on your part."  Before I could answer, Mrs. Leslie came     House Gossip.      109 sweeping in, followed by her brother, and I found myself so flushed and annoyed by the lady's revelations, that I had enough to do to return their greeting quietly. , The subject of my supposed efforts was very pale, and had a restless look about her fine eyes; but she was very splendidly dressed, and had a grand air, that seemed to impress the young ladies. Every time I saw her, I was conscious of a diminution of personal liking, and an increase of curiosity concerning her. The coolness with which she could give way to fits of nervous excitement, to the annoyance of all around, and then vome down among the household as if nothing had occurred, began to distress me, for although I had tried to make myself believe her to be an invalid, my lately sharpened experience denied me the credulity I used to have. "O, how glad we are to see you come down into the parlor," cried Miss Carrie, running a keen eye over Mrs. Leslie's magnificent laces,     xIo    'he Subtle Spell. and fastening her gaze admiringly on a rare solitaire diamond that fastened a narrow velvet ribbon at her throat. "Mamma said we must  not intrude on you until you grew stronger, and Nell and I have been so impatient. You are going to keep better ow, I hope." This last was directed to Dr. Dallas, though spoken to her, and he answered a little wearily, I thought:  "I hope, so, with all my heart."  "Edward thinks of himself, I dare say, said his sister, " but I do not dare to hope; I  have been a sufferer too long to believe that  there is such a thing as a cure." "That is not- right, Claudia; there is no  rational reason why you should not get better,  I am sure."           / She shook her head, sighed, and turned away from his eyes, that seemed to look at her  with sorrowful meaning, I thought. Then he came over to me and talked about a book I had taken up, and kept a covert-  and it seemed to me a dissatisfied-watch on   House Gossip.  '    I the attentions of the Carters to his sister. She, on the contrary, received them with more pleasure and feeling than she had ever shown in meeting my advances. They talked of the party, of what was, worn, and what looked stylish, and she proved to have a profound knowledge and some little enthusiasm on the subject of dress. By her own confession, it had once been her study, but now, like everything else, it gave her but little pleasure. "My husband makes me take the trouble of suiting his tastes," she said, making her first allusion to her absent lord in my presence, "but Edward is jnot so difficult to please, so I never think of it when we are together." "Is Mr. Leslie fond of brilliant effect?" cried Carrie, delighted to satisfy her curiosity about the unknown husband. Dr. Dallas went on talking and watching, and I listened with both ears, hearing him tell me of how he had learned to like Irving while a boy at school in Albany, and under the influ- ence of "Dolph Heylinger"got up a party of I     th     CThe Subtle Spell. pioneers, in the holidays to ramble over the woods near the Hudson in search of adventure an  ome traces of the haunted house where te treasure well was. At the same time I learned that the absent Mr. Leshe was an ardent admirer of beauty, and so devotedly indulgent to his wife that he would not force her to take disagreeable medicines, or endure exercise when she was not able to stand, as these heartless doctors did. So she was forced to come to our city with her brother to be victimized by all sorts of medical barbarity, and try to believe it would eventually benefit  her. Mrs. Carter plied her with innocently  worded questions that drew her on to confide K and I saw her brother's growing impatience as  she began to describe her home, and murmur a little at loss of its luxuries.  She had imposed on me at first as a person of dormant intelligence whose interest in the better things of life was for the time dimmed by illness or dejection; but I saw as she talked that she was in reality a petulant beauty at    House Gossip.      I3 best, spoilt by indulgence, and indolent to an extreme degree. Not one ardent or noble impulse expressed itself in her thoughts or manner. She had allowed her naturally fair mind to fritter itself away about trifles, and never lifted herself above the sluggish grace of indolence in inental or physical attitude. Her brother was her opposite; painfully, keenly alive to every passing occurrence, his activity of mind seemed chained only by his set, determined purpose, and to resent its restraint at times in the quick movement of his eyes and the nervous quiver of his lips. One distinguishing feeling governed him, and that was plainly devotion to his companion. An affection that I could not quite understand nor iri the least analyze, marked every word and action towards her. And yet, though self-for- getful and all-absorbing as it seemed, there was something like fear and distrust to embitter it. Never once did his eyes rest on her with satis- faction; they followed her with covert anxiety, 8     II,4 T  Subtle Sell. intense interest, unspeaable pity, that contra intense interest, unspeakable pity, that contra- dicted itself, the next glance, in admiring pride. But though I watched him as he pretended to be absorbed in our book talk, I could not catch one look that told of rest or happiness. He went on talking, but I knew that she was the object of his thoughts, while his words only were meant for me. *, I aAmit that I was growing prejudiced, and that I allowed my sympathies to run with him and against her, and felt a little ashamed of my own failure when I saw that the Carters had really struck the right cord, and woke her to something like interest. "Edward, I am going out to-morrow with Miss Carrie," she said, in a voice that evidently expected him to be very much gratified by the announcement. "Yes; well, I am very happy to hear it," he said in a manner not quite up to his words; "the air and exercise will do you good under any circumstance." A few mornings later, what seemed to me a   / V   House Gossip.       15 very curious thing occurred in Mrs. Warren s back yard. I was sitting near my window, that looked towards the gate, writing a letter, when I chanced to raise my eyes and discover Mrs. Leslie and Miss Carrie Carter poking in the snow.         t Mrs. Leshe had a scarlet shawl on over her pale buff cashmere dress, and her head was enveloped in a cloud of lace; she appeared very eager in her search for something in a dark spot in the snow, and scratched it away on all sides with a little stick. Miss Carrie was assisting her, and apparently increasing the difficulties of the search by throwing the snow in the wrong direction, and both were very anxious and very much in earnest. A rap at the gate had made me lift my eyes from my work, and while I was still watching the scene, Mary Ann opened it to disclose no less an applicant for charity than Annie Welsh.  She had on an old hood, and though still very miserable, was improved in appearance since I had met her in Prince's Court. I could not '4     16     The Subtle Spell. Lear a word that was said, but it was evident hat Mary Ann's remarks were not of an ncouraging nature, and that Annie pressed her flea with some ardor. Suddenly her sharp eyes spied something in he dirty snow; she ran forward and seized it, lolding it up to the ladies. It was a ring, the arge diamond that Mrs. Leslie wore on her inger, and the ladies cried out in pleasure when they saw it.  Turning to the miserable figure, Mrs. Leslie seemed at first sight to recoil from  its  wretched appearance. Then she talked earn- nestly, and pointed up-stairs towards her  windows, and Miss Carrie and she going in,  Annie Welsh followed them.   This appeared a very odd thing to me, and I sat wondering about it till Mary Ann came up  with coal for my grate.   "Mrs. Leslie lost her splendid ring," she   remarked, as she brushed in the ashes. "And   wouldn't Kitty have catched it if a beggar   woman hadn't went and found it in the snow.   House Gossip.      17 Mrs. Leslie laid it on the wash-stand by mis-  take, and Kitty she swept it into the slop and  emptied the water in the snow, 'cause Bridget  stopped up the drain with parings, and a man's fixing it." "Do you know that beggar woman, Mary Ann?"  "I seen her round Prince's Court where  Cassie Bowers lives, but I don't know her     ' name. Ain't she lucky, though? I was up in Mrs. Leslie's room, and she's given her real brand new clothes and things." I felt an odd foreboding at this, and without  knowing exactly why, decided that Mrs. Leslie had much better have lost her diamond than  become indebted to Annie Welsh as its finder. She stayed an unusually long time, as it seemed to me, and I discovered afterwards that  they were alone together. Miss Carrie was  receiving a call in the parlor, and Dr. Dallas  was out, contrary to his usual custom, without his sister. I had taken my letter down to post it, when,  '     I18     The Subtle Spell. standing in the dining-room,rI saw Ann'e pass out, so much changed in appearance that she was almost unrecognizable. She had on a handsome black dress and sacque, and a neat hat and veil. Altogether a genteel walking suit, which she really wore with an air suitable to the style of dress. She had just gone when the doctor came hastily up the hall, and meeting Miss Carrie, changed color. "I beg your pardon, but I understood you to promise that you would remain with my sis- ter," he said. "Where is she now?" "O, doctor, I'm so sorry, but I couldn't help it. A gentleman called, and mamma' and Elinor are out. Mrs. Leslie wouldn't come into tie parlor with me, she had a person to see in her own room." He went up at a bound. I could not under- stand his intense eagerness, and Carrie Carter turned to me. "I think he's perfectly splendid, don't you? But I am afraid he's engaged; there is some-   House Gossip.      119 thing abrupt in his manner, like engaged or married men have; don't you think so?" she said. I was much obliged to Mrs. Warren for spar- ing me the trouble of answering these ques- tions; she appeared at the door of a small room opening out of Miss Arthur's, and asked me if I would come and see her little girl, who was a constant invalid. "Minnie wants to know if you will sit by her a little while, Miss Park," she said; "she feels so lonely, and I am obliged to be busier down stairs than usual to-day." Poor sick Minnie was a favorite of mine, so I complied very readily, and took out my work for a little chat. She was but just returned from her grandma's, with whom she spent part of her time, and her mother had put her in this little hall room, for the rest of the house was filled with strangers. "I didn't seem so well at grandma's this time," said Minnie; "or 1 would have stayed longer, so as to have saved mamma the trouble     120     The Subtle Spell. of nursing me. I am so sorry I am sick while mamma is so busy." I told her that I would be glad to sit with her; and while I was speaking, Gretchen opened the door leading into Miss Arthur's room, and asked for Mrs. Warren. I did not want to spy out the poor girl's secret if she had one, but I could not help see- ing her sitting up in an easy chair directly opposite me, with her face all patched up in plaster to cover two horrid cuts, one on her temple, the other on her cheek. She was looking at me, and she smiled, and then tried to turn away and hide her face. I felt very uncomfortable at my discovery, and the nurse retreated and closed the door in great haste. "Poor Miss Arthur is sick, too," said Min- nie; her bed stood in a recess and she did not see her. "She had a drear night, mamma says, and it made her have a nervous fever. When she came here first she was so lively, she used to play with me and make every one I   House Gossip.      121 merry with her fun. Do you remember her then?" "O dear, no I I have only known her for a year, scarcely so long." "She's been sad far longer than that; she began to be gloomy when she went back to see her old he, and then came here to stay altoelr, and she's all the time sorrowful now." I told Minnie--to change the subject, for I did not want to stray into the child's confidence unknown to her mother-all about poor little Bessie coming to see me, and how she got com- fortably clothed. I did not tell her name, but simply made it a little beggar girl's story, and ended it by sending her away happy, without relating the sequel, and her return to rags. Minnie enjoyed it very much. "I wish I could give her some of my things," she said; "if I were strong, I would try anp help the poor a great deal, and I should not be impatient like aunt Fanny is; she expects every seed to fall in good ground, and never plants a  i *         122     The Subtle Spell. second one if the first does not spring up; that's what grandma tells her, and it seems just so, for when a poor child, to whom she gave some shoes and aprons, sold them to get wood to keep her mother warm, aunt Fanny was per- fectly .disgusted, and said she'd never try to help her any more." "Your grandma must be a very wise old lady, Minnie," I said, much struck with the appropriateness of her remarks to my own case. "O, yes, she's patient; and then she says she has learnt to work without expecting instant success." This was just what I needed to learn, and I was glad to take Minnie's grandma's wisdom at second hand; her words proved to me that I had been entirely too despairing, and given poor Rosie Dunn very little comfort in return for her confidence. I felt now that I should have endeavored to lift her hopes, and strengthen her struggling heart. I had not even pointed her to God's   ZIouse Gossip.      123 unfailing love and mercy, nor besought her to take her grief to Him who was lovingly con- scious of every trial and care that beset her poor, weary young feet in the way of right and duty. *' ,         1 -      1     h ;" 1 HAD  ,thought of getting some more clothes for the young Dunns; but know- ing that it would only be the means of favoring the pawnbroker, and gaining Mrs. Dunn another bottle of whisky, I gave up the idea. Then I decided to see the miserable woman and try what persuasion would do; and having -come to this conclusion, the futility of any such effort discouraged me from making it, and I really did not know what to dq. 'When my gown was done, Addie Watson brough"t i'home, and I was surprised to see what: an elegant and lady-like girl she was in 'I 24v   TProsfects of Prince's Court.  125 appearance, although her dress was of the plainest, and her manner imbued with that shrinking timidity that had seemed part of her family nature. By some chance I found out that she was a musician, and soon induced her to play for me, which she did so well, and?with such evident taste and skill, as to make me astonished at her choosing sewing als ,a means of gaining a livelihood. "Did you never think of giving lessons?" I asked. "We have no piano now, and we are so out of the way of knowing aEbot suseh things. Jenny and I always' made our dresses, and mother thought that offered us the' quietest and surest means of employment when it became necessary for us to find work in a strange city." , Mrs. Warren's sister Fanny was The prin- cipal of a select school, and it came into my mind to remember that she had spoken once of needing a musical assistant. It was only a few   I26     The Subtle Spell. days before, and while looking at my. piano she said it; there was hope that she might not be already suited, and I began to break what I thought the possibility of great good fortune to Adrdie. Iound her delight tempered by her fear at coming in contact witit strangers, so that at first she almost shrank from the idea. I told her something of Miss Fanny Stuart, as I knew her, and then she grew pleased and hopeful. "Mother is anxious to avoid public life in every way," she said; "we   had  a very great sorrow, that took away all our courage, and I am afraid we are apt to be frightened at everything or nothing; but if I could get a place as teacher in this lady's school, I should be so happy, for then poor Jenny would not have so much to do, and mother could rest entirely." I was as hopeful as possible about it, and determined to do my utmost in this case to pay for my failure with the Dunns. That brought   FPrbpects of (Prince's Court.  127 them to my mind, so I asked Addie about them. Like her sister, she did not know their name, but she recognized the description, and was rather reluctant to tell me-much on the subject of their home life, until I assured her I was in Rosie's confidence, and wished only to help her. Then she gave me a fuller idea of the poor young creature's martyrdom, and extolled her courage and enduranqe beyond expression. "The first we knew of it, was one night j the autumn, just after we came there," she sad. "Willie, the baby, was sick, and Rosie dame with him in her arms to our gate, to beg my mother to see if she could help him. He had a spasm even while she stood speaking, and the poor girl was as white as a ghost, as she tried to hold'him in his writhings. My mother put him in a bath and gave him some medicine, and told the sister she need not be alarmed; but, the people in the Court seem  to favor the drunken woman, for when she missed the baby  x28     The Subtle Spell. and in crazy rage came raving out  of her house, and demanded us to give up her child, they really took her part, and seemed to think the unhappy daughter was conspiring with us against her mother." "t What did Rosie dot" "She behaved with such awomanly digtity that we were all astonished. She thanked us, and begged us to forgive the uproar her mother was making; then she tookWillie in-her arms and carried him home, trying to quiet her mother as she went, but looking with angry contempt at the crowd of neighbors, who were all talking together, and saying that people were too ready to put on airs and look down on them that had to work hard, and if a mother hadn't a right to demand her own child, what was the world going to come to, &c. They are not so wise aa they might be in Prince's Court, but they are very clannish and jealous of interference; ever since that night they have been suspicious of Us, and not one of them seems to realize that girl's posi-   *  (rospects of (Prince's Cozurt. 129   tion, nor the sacrifices she makes, because she is cold and distant towarls them, and under all circumstances keeps herself respectably dressed." "Poor Rosie, she has then no friend there but you?"    .  "O, she will not permit us to help her; as soon as she saw the trouble they made that night, she never looked or spoke to us again. She seemed to be afraid to annoy us, but we can see what she does, and how hard she has to wofrk to be able to live at all." Addie was naturally a gushing young person, and the restraint under which she lived seemed to have given way, or else it did not extend to the subject of Rosie, for she went on to give me a graphic picture of the daily toil. In the morning they saw her from their back window before daylight, sweeping out the house while Bob made the fire, and then both together endeavored to cook some sort of breakfast for the children. oOften there was neither provision nor money, and , then Bob   I3o0    The Ssbtle Spell. would carry some small piece of furniture to the second-hand store, and came back with bread. No one could imagine, she said, the strug- gles of those two, for while the mother drank so terribly, the father never came near the house at all. She had sometimes known Rosie to reach the main street, and be stopped by a loud cry issuing from the house in the Court, which  often proved to be forced from Bessy or Sally by their drunken mother's brutal fist. The wretched creature seemed  to have sacrificed every human feeling to her passion for whisky, and her abuse of her poor children was shocking; even the  partial neighbor  admitted that, and sometimes gathered around the door and rescued them, when Rosie was away at work, and their cries for help reached their ears. But when Rosie, returning to find the little ones marked by blows, would give free vent to her feelings and rouse tte intoxicated fury,    (rospects of cPrince's Court.  131 the Court people all sided with the mother, and called the indignant girl a bold and brazen wretch, for daring to raise 'her voice against her poor sick' parent. Such scenes must be terrible to witness, I said, and asked if the landlord had no regard for the reputation of his houses, and if the more respectable part of the people did not complain. "He is the cause, or partly the cause, of' the trouble," said Addie; "he keeps the hotel, as it is called, and takes a great portion of his tenants' earnings at his bar. Besides, there seems the greatest sympathy among those people for such as drink, and the Court, taken as a whole, are really the enemies of the poor little Dunns." "If some one talked with this man Barse, do you not believe he could be roused to see the present and future misery of the poor family? Don't you think he couli be made to feel for the poor things?" "He is intoxicated himself nearly all the     132     The Subtle Spell. j time, and the tavern is the scene of terrible rows; the women are often knocked down by their drunken husbands when they go to drag them home, and yet they will send there for liquor and drink it themselves. O, you can do nothing whatever with these drinking people, Miss Park; they are utterly hopeless in every way." She sighed as she dismissed the subject, and said hastily: "Please do not talk of this at home; I mean to my mother or Jenny, it makes them very miserable, and I sometimes think it is our being so near such dreadful scenes that keeps them so very nervous and down-hearted; but if I could got the place you spoke of, we might afford to move by and by. O how I should like that!" It was some time after this that Kitty, our chambermaid, came to my room to show me a  very nice brown mering suit, that she had  received as a present from her cousin.  "Why, it is perfectly beautiful, Kitty," I    v Oprospects of Prince's Court.  I33 said, admiringly; "I never saw you look so nicely before." "It was John Crawford's gift, Miss; he's my own cousin, and a real good, upright young man as ever Isaw. Mr. Ingraham, that is to marry Miss Elinor Carter, is going to help him to set up in business here, because he has found him to be honest and industrious; you know John worked for years in his furnace. He is a great iron master, I think they call him." "What kind of business will your cousin choose, Kitty?" "O, as to that, he will not be particular, Miss; for you see he will be indebted for the great part of his start to Mr. Ingraham, and will take his advice in everything. There was a fire at the iron works about six months ago, and John worked so hard getting it down before it reached the account room, that he las never been qute well since. Mr. Ingraham as so much obliged to him that he has been lis good friend ever since, and my sister Jane     134    { The Subtle Spell. and I say John's fortune is made, with such a friend to back him." I said he was very lucky, and Kitty, who appeared proud of her young relative, dis- coursed of his merits till I grew quite inter- ested. It appeared from her account that he had been very useful in the neighborhood of the works, and had  succeeded in establishing  an evening school, in opposition to a drinking club that had been the bane of the village. Mr. Ingraham had told the overseer, who told Kitty, that John Crawford was worth as much as an example as a workman, and that he had done more for Ore Bank, as the neighborhood of the works was called, than any other man who had ever lived there. "Then it. is a pity that he does not remain, is it not, Kitty?" "He has lost his strength, you see, and the work is very heavy," returned Kitty. "He came to the city to see a doctor about his back a fortnight since, and it was Mr.   TProspects of (Prince's Court. 135 Ingraham who proposed that he should stay and go into a store here." Kitty was a good, kind soul, and I was pleased to have her so gratified about her cousin; for that reason I had continued to speak of him until I had grown interested in the subject on its own account, and listened with great pleasure to her recital of his crusade against the waste of drunkenness and his successful establishment of a Temperance Bank, in which each man deposited the money he had saved from the tavern for the week. I was full of the question of temperance just then, and its humblest apostle had an interest in my eyes. "I am very glad your cousin has come to this place, Kitty," I said, "and I sincerely trust he will be able to carry out the same principles here as he did at Ore Bank." I thought of Prince's Court, and the benefit such a missionary would be in such a locality, and heartily wished his race would multiply. tIV1        (     CHAPTER VII. ANNIE WELSH AS A SEAMSTRESS. lHAD been going out rather too freely, and forgetting my weak lungs, a few days' fever and confinement to my room reminded me of my remissness, and left me for the time without any knowledge of Rosie or her family. During this week Mrs. Leshe was very quiet, and, as I heard through Mary Ann, was quite an invalid, remaining constantly in bed. Miss Carrie Carter was attentive to her, and her brother went out every day, leaving her in the young lady's charge. "She has a seamstress that comes two or three times a day," remarked Mary Ann; "she 136   Anniie Welsh as a Seamstress. 137 always brings a leather bag and tries things on Mrs. Leslie." "Does she?"I asked uninterestedly. A peculiar tap at my door was followed by its being instantly opened, and Annie Welsh in her new garments appearing on the threshold. She had a leather satchel in her hand, and an insinuating smile on her countenance, but although her face, was less gaunt and her eyes less wild than when I discovered her in Dunn's house, she was still a dissipated and miserable looking creature, that no outward improvement could radically affect. She started and became extremely confused, and I saw that she remembered me perfect- ly, and felt both surprised and overcome at finding me in that house. After an instant's thought she resolved not to know me, and trusting to herlianged appearance to carry her through, said in an unnatural voice. "Excuse me, I have made a mistake in the room; I am  Mrs. Leslie's seamstress, and I thought that this was her apartment."     138     The Subtle Spell. Before I could say a word, she, closed the door after herself, and I was left with Mary Ann, who stared a while at the grate, and then broke out into a short laugh. "I vow," said Mary Ann, "if that there ain't drunken Nan, that goes up Prince's Court and carries liquor to Mrs. Dunn. She aint no seamstress; she used to work at McMahon's factory, till she was turned off for drinking. I'm a going to tell Cassie Bowers about her, and make her laugh." I thought of the lofty Mrs. Leslie, her luxurious home and elegant society, her indulgent husband and devoted brother, and wondered how she could stoop to such a tool as this, for I was almost certain from the first that Annie Welsh came there for no proper purpose. I was soon confirmed in the most disagreeable suspicion. Kitty came into my room that very evening, to ask me if I knew to whom the leather satchel belonged she had just found lying in my entry.          S.4nnie Welsh as a Seamwstress. 139 "What's this in it?"  cried Kitty, in astonishment, and opening it, she produced a large bottle-of brandy, wrapped around in a damask towel With the name of Leslie on it. Kitty held it up to the light speechlessly. She had read the name, and her unspoken comment was in the horrified gaze with which she regarded it. Just thr a crashing tumble was heard outside; Mary Ann, bearing up a tea tray to Mrs. Leslie's room, had come in contact with a prostrate body, and fallen head- long over it, pitching the crockery right and left, and scalding the obstructing figure with the boiling tea.. Falling and breaking things was quite in Mary Ann's way; she was the first to recover from the alarm she had created, and dragging the unfortunate stumbling block up by the arms, discovered Annie Welsh in a steaming water- proof, drenched with tea leaves and powdered with sifted sugar. She was apparently stunned with the collision, and quite inarticulate. I had     "O     The Subtle Spell. run out into the hall at the noise, and the c stairs were crowded with boarders. "Who is the poor thing?" inquired Mrs. Sayward. "I am Mrs. Leslie's seamstress," answered Annie, with drunken dignity, and drawing herself up from among the litter of tea things. It was a great effort, and she collapsed as soon as she had made it. "Ask Dr. Dallas to step this way?" cried Mrs. Yarnall to Mary Ann, who, anticipating a scene, was not loth to comply. In a moment  the doctor's door opened, and he came out. a "Just imagine what an accident, Doctor," cried Mrs. Yarnall, with the intensest friskiness of manner; "the evening tea train came in collision with a stationary car and overturned the freight! Do you identify any of the  bodies?"  "That person," said the doctor with reluct-  ance, "has been employed by my sister. Is she hurt?" "Rather damaged, I am afraid," pursued   - 4nnie Welsh as a Seamstress. 141 x Mrs. Yarnall in the same lively vein; "here comes Mrs. Warren, and we will hear her report." Mrs. Warren called Sam the colored man, and told him to assist the inanimate Annie into the kitchen, and taking the satchel out of Kitty's hand, begged her to be quick in removing the ruins of the tray, which she immediately proceeded to do. I do not know who told the discovery Kitty made in my room, but before night every servant in the house knew that Mrs. Leslie employed Annie Welsh to carry brandy for her, and that for some reason or other she drank that liquor in great quantities. Mrs. Warren did her best to suppress the story, and I think succeeded in keeping it from Mrs. Yarnall and the Carters, but after that night, Mrs. Leslie had a most terrible attack, that lasted all day and the next night, and every one must have heard her moans and cries, and speculated about their cause. Miss Carrie Carter and her sister came to     "2     The Subtle Spell. pay me a visit one day, and I was glad to see that the elder sister was becoming daily more sensible and worthy the excellent gentleman she was to marry, but Miss Carrie was, in contrast, all the sillier. She perfectly raved about Mrs. Leslie, that is, she told me she was devoted to her, that she called her ex- quisitely lovely, and adorable, &c.; but it was her jewelry and dresses she particularized in conversation, and her laces and ornaments that awoke her most eloquent descriptions. She was not quite so fond of her brother; she called him proud and cold, and too parti- cular in his notions, always worrying about something and keeping his sister nervous and annoyed; she said Miss Elinor did not know so much concerning the family; she had been going out with Mr. Ingraham, and told me that she was quite interested in his plan of finding a store for John Crawford. "Just think, is it not absurd?" interrupted the lively Carrie.  "Nell is taking up the benevolent business, and so have I. Charlie   Hadley called on me to-day to take me out for a promenade, and as we passed Madame Pomp- lin's the prettest little creature you ever sawv went in with a box. Her face attracted Charlie in a moment, and you know what a wit he is. 'Come, Miss Carrie,' he said, 'I insist on your emulating your sister's noble example, and doing the philanthropic touch. There's a sweet girl who needs  encouragerent; go in and bespeak a sacque, or something of the sort, to give me an opportunity of smiling on her.' Of course you can't resist Charlie, so I went in and the pretty girl waited on me, as there was no one else at leisure. She was very pretty, and Charlie was in raptures; he looked at her so that she blushed scarlet, and then he declared' tat the color was all she had needed to make her perfect. What do you think? he's goiig to take her picture-you know he paints beautifully-and he is such a good-hearted fellow, he says he will pay her well for sitting to him, which is so nice, for it will buy the poor thing some finery."      "4     The Subtle Spell. I thought of Rosie's need of finery, for of " course I knew it was she, and I felt so dis- tressed by the circumstance that I was anxious to change the subject, lest my expression might betray me. "Did you find a place for the store, Miss Carter? I am deeply interested in Mr. Ingra- ham's plan," I said. "O, I'm glad you are; I am beginning to like it so much. Yes, we stumbled on a position in the oddest manner. A man named Barse was burnt out of a liquor store about a week ago; he was intoxicated at the time, and received some injury, during the fire, from a plank that fell froi the scaffolding he had put up to make  repairs, and which struck his head violently. Day before yesterday he died in the hospital to which ]e was carried, and John, Crawford is perfectly rejoiced to get the stand for his busi- ness-not at the unhappy man's death, I don't mean-but that he may have an opportunity of converting the neighborhood into a temperance one; that is his great mission, he thinks."   Annie Welsh as a Seamstress.   145 "It is certainly a very noble one," I said heartily, and I wanted to get right up and go to Prince's Court, so as to congratulate them on their glorious prospect of freedom from the power of the dragon-Whisky. I was so relieved and delighted that I forgot to be troubled, about Rosie or any one else. When a man is thoroughly in earnest in his belief in his work, it is not so hard to induce others to share his faith; and from what Kitty had told me about her cousin John, I had begun to believe in him too. Of course I did not expect him to work a miracle, but it was the prospect of his beginning to work at all, that encouraged me so much. What I had found most difficult to bear was the way in which people allowed such evils to go on without a single effort to counteract them. It seemed so callous in the ,world to permit the dreadful agencies to work out their direful results before it began to pity or attempt to succor the helpless victims of drunkenness. Miss Carter immediately caught some of my 10     ;        4 "6    The Subtle Spell.  enthusiasm, or it may have been that Mr. Ingraham's example had already inspired her. "Dear Miss Park," she said," I do wish you would allow me to be of use in some of your good works. Mrs. Sayward says that you are interested in so many excellent things, and since I have seen something of OIr. Ingraham's benevolent designs, I feel as if Carrie and I had been just frittering away our existence in idleness." "Pray speak for yourself, Miss Nell," said Carrie laughing; "I don't believe in such sud- den missions as yours. Here have I been play- ing sister of charity to Mrs. Leslie for ever so long without a word of praise." "What is Mrs. Yarnall whispering all over the house about her?" asked Miss Carter of me in an -undertone. "I heard her tell mamma that she had just heard that a wretched woman had been found carrying poison to her room, and she made so many horrified gestures and motions with her face, that I could not know what to make of it.: ; ". ..   Annie Welsh as a Seamsstress. 147 I did not care to enter fully on the subject of Annie Welsh, particularly as I saw that Miss Carrie knew more about it than she cared to have her sister guess. I have always thought that the great propor- tion of, people who act foolishly, do so because no one has ever interested them in good, sensi- ble things, and that error is the effect of chance oftener than design. A few weeks ago Miss Carter had been charmed, apparently, at the recollection of Van Artevelde's drunken wit and Hadley's absurd rudeness; now she seemed imbued with an entirely different spirit, and became at once quite anxious abo t her sister's connection with Mrs. Leslie. "I see that you do not care to discuss the subject, Miss Park," she said; "and that makes me all the more convinced that Carrie is out of place in her chamber so constantly. Indeed mamma says she cannot have her go there, after what she has just heard." Carrie tossed her head pettishly. "That means, Mr. Ingraham doesn't fancy Mrs. Leslie.     "8   hm  e Subtle S ell. I saw him look at her curously when she came into the parlor the other day," she said.  "Not at all, he' never- :mertioned her; Mrs. Yarnall is tie one who opened   mamma's eyes."   , ' "She's always opening everydy's eyes," cried Miss Carrie; "her own are constantly staring into other people's affairs, and she natu- rally wants company. Charlie Hadley told me that he used to know her in the college town where he went, and that her husband was a capital gay fellow, but a little too convivial-  Charlie called it-though I am afraid it was something worse, for once he got wild enough to try to cut her throat in the night, and she has never got over it. It was quite dreadful, IbutI had. to laugh, for she has such a queer 'ay of dilating her eyes and quivering her nostrils, that I told Charlie I supposed she never lost sight of the razor, and imagines that she sees it always before her." "How shocking!" said Miss Carter. "Poor woman, I do not wonder that she seems odd." )   Anrnie Welsh as a Seamstress   I49 "Of course not, but Charlie says she ought to have got used to it. : Her husband, though really a most -agreeable" man, always thought her his eneiny as soon as he got gay, as Charlie calls it, and tried to kill her so many times, ard in so many different ways, that she must have had very weak nerves to have got alarmed at thej razor" ,'" ' ' "Nervesl\ DIo not mention nerves  It's a wonder the worman has any reason," cried her sister.  "Well, Charlie says they-the students- used to call h cracked; that was their fun. you know; but somebody said she would die if she stayed with Ihim, and so helped her to leave, and she came here and began tot find a balm for her wounded spirit in meddling in every mortal's affairs jshe can get hold of. She his driven Mrs. Leslie nearly distracted by her curiosity and obtrusive attentions. I wonder Mrs. Warren bears with her so amiably, when she is such a niuisance, "Poor soul, I will never again find fault with ?:     I50     The Subtle Spelt. her," said I; "and I cannot but love good Mrs. Warren for the forbearance she shows the unhappy woman whose faults of manner are the result of such terrible experience." "But Mr. Yarnall is really delightful, Char- lie says, and he assures me, too, that he is admired and excused in society," said Miss Carrie, turning to me. "You forgive her for her queer ways on account of the very circum- stances that those queer ways may have created. Don't you think she may have made him dissipated, by being so disagreeable?" 1i Here was very profound reasoning, consider- ing its source; I was not prepared to meet it. I could not admit that a man, because he has chosen a wife who. soon loses her attraction for him, should give himself up to the influence of a passion that deprives him of reason. "We are tiring Miss Park," said the elder sister, rising. I assured her that she had made me almost well; that the news of a better day dawning for Prince's Court was medicine to me.   CHAPTER VIII. ANOTHER VIEW OF PRINCE'S COURT. HAT the result of the detection of Annie Welsh's mission had been up ^^  ,stairs, remained a profound secret. Dr. Dallas appeared at table next day as usual; it was my first effort to go down for quite a time, and he congratulated me, in his kind way, without any observable change in his looks. Miss Arthur had resumed her place beside him, and though exceedingly' pale, had recovered entirely from the marks I had seen on her face. She was more silent, if possible, than she had been before, and did not make an effort to resist Mrs. Yarnall, who was in full power over i5I     152     7he Sufbtle Spelt. her, recommending what she should eat, inter- dicting coffee and prescribing chocolate, which the yielding girl was trying to take, much against her own inclination. Little Minnie was better than she had been for a long time; she came to me while we were still at table, and gave me a note from her Aunt Fanny, nod- ding an index to its contents with a bright smile. "It is good news for the Watsons,' sne said, and I saw as soon as she had spoken it, that the name startled Miss Arthur. She dropped her fork and looked up with her frightened manner on her, watching my face in a breathless way, as if she expected to hear something more. I was too eager to wait, and opening the envelope, read that Miss Fanny Stuart had heard from the professor who had undertaken to decide Miss Addie Watson's fitness for the position of music teacher in her school, and that his report was very favorable. So she enclosed a note to Miss Watson, containing her appointment, and begged me to forward it.   another View of (Prince's Courto. Ij "O, I am so glad, Minnie," I said, and see- ing Miss Arthur's gaze unchanged, I asked her if she knew anything of the Watsons. "Yes-I do-not these of whom you speak-- excuse me, the name recalled something- please to excuse me." "Certainly,, I hoped you might share my interest," I said; "how glad I am to see you down in the dining-room again!"        - She murmured something about being quite well, but Mrs. Yarnall, who had been peppering and seasoning her food, and arranging her meal with business-like system, broke in to her appa- rent relief. "Mary is just in that state of convalescence that requires most attention. She is completely shlaken  by confinement to her room, and what she needs is cheerful, enlivening excitement to stir her up. I am not in favor of allowing people to grow mouldy in the shade, and that has been Mary's occupation, for some time." I left her in full possession of the poor thing, and hurried to Prince's Court with my note.     154     The Subtle Spell. It-was a bright day, and I felt the walk would do me good. As for the sight of Mrs. Dunn's misery, I was quite prepared for that, and did not expect to be so much overcome as at first, since I had the hope of a future remedy to sustain me. I found my dressmaking friends verjy busy, and delivered my message, to their great joy. Addie, fearing disappointment, had kept her opportunity a secret, and gone to the profes- sor's house from ours, so that the good news was a complete surprise. Jenny appeared intensely thankful. I had not thought the salary large, though, as such things are paid, it was liberal; but she declared that it was as much as they could all earn together by the needle, and both girls seemed heartily delighted at the prospect of rest for their mother. Miss Stuart's note suggested part of a gen- teel house somewhere in the school neighbor- hood. The other tenant, she said, was a widow lady, with a little boy, whom the family knew i   Another Vzew of Prince's Court. I5 and could recommend as very pleasant neigh- bors. "O, what a relief to lose sight of the poor creatures we cannot help!" cried Addie; "I have been dreading the warm weather, when all the court rows and troubles would  be brought before us, whether we would or not. The Byrnes and the Murphys are nearly as bad as Mrs. Dunn, and the whole set of them were going to ruin under Barse's influence.' I saw Cassie Bowers in the other room at work, and noticed that at the mention of the neighbors she craned her neck to catch what she could of the conversation. Therefore I took my leave without asking any questions concerning the Dunns, concluding to go and see for myself. As I turned the corner, I was surprised by a vision of Willie Dunn, in a clean warm suit, enjoying the winter sunshine and a slice of buttered bread on his door-step. The weather was mild fo:. the season, there was. no snow, and the door was scoured and      .   , U     i56    The Subtle Spell. fresh from the finger marks and mud splashes that had stained its surface when I saw it last. The child did not recognize rme; he stared and munched contentedly when I spoke, so I tapped and waited, looking around me with pleasure at the altered appearance of the house. The win- dow panes were whole and clean, the pasted paper and quilt were gone, and presently a woman, with but faint traces of her I had seen disfigured by the bruises and swollen with drink, stood on the threshold. She was not exactly what I would call an agreeable looking person, yet she had much that was prepossessing in a certain fresh brisk- ness of manner and brightness of eye. She was in the prime of life, a little too pale in com- plexion for robust health, and quriously marked by a sallow fullness under the eye-lids, but otherwise what would be termed a good looking woman. "Walk in," said this person cheerfully. The room was as much changed as its mistress. It was very bare of furniture; two strips of   hnother View of TPrince's Court. 157 rag carpet, an old settee, three chairs, and a small table were all it possessed, but everything, from the portion of bare floor to the polished old stove, was scrupulously clean and nice. A pot of soup was boiling, and little Bess, in the corner, was shredding parsley for it in an earthen bowl. The child knew me and laughed, partly in pleasure at the recognition, partly in a nervous expectation of something to be done or said. "Mrs. Dunn, I hope you will not think I mean to intrude," I said; I know your dalgh- ter Rosie in her business capacity, and being in the neighborhood, I though I would stopf and inquire about you all." I am much obliged to you," said Mrs. Dunn smilingly, and without the most shadowy recol- lection of the past upon her. "Yes, iosie's a good girl, and makes friends for herself. I am glad of it, for it would be a hard thing for them that are born to labor, if they could not have a little kindness and encouragement once in a while."'  - -1 -      158     The Subtle S, ell.  .      , "You have a nice little family." "Well, yes; thank goodness, they are none of them bad, but the great trouble is, we can't afford to give them the education they ought to have; they have to begin work before they are really fit for it. My husband has had his losses, or it would not be so. However, as long as we have our health, there's much to be thankful for, and we can manage to get along." She really awed me, by her obliviousness, out of the ability to recall her as I had seen her last. "You are quite well now," I ventured to say, because I did not know how else to go on. "I am greatly better, I'm thankful to say," she answered, and added with feeling: " nobody knows how to value health better than I do; the children do what they can to keep things going, but when I am sick, everything seems to turn the wrong way, and the poor things are not half attended to." "I trust your illness will not return; you seem so nicely recovered."   Another View of TPrince's Court. I 59 "Indeed, I hope so, i for I have plenty to do. If ever a woman needed her health, it is me. Rosie is the only one that can help me at sew- ing, and she's on her feet from morning till night, going errands for the store. Bob's out with a cart, and 'Sally helps a lady; -Bessie and Willie stay with me, and all have to be kept covered. There's many a stitch to set, and I am  the only one to do it." She talked as if she were the most deserving and trustworthy of living women, and evi- dently believed it herself. I could not guess the secret of her apparent reformation, but I saw it was not effected by repentance or con- triteness of spirit. She, never, quailed from mentioning the past, while, involuntarily, I found myself shrinking from  every allusion to it. "We had a great fire here some little time ago," said Mrs. Dunn in her cheerful way. "Our landlord was burnt out, and, poor man, he lost his life, too. Did you see the place, Miss, as you came along? They're tearing it     x60     The Subtle Spell. out and-building it all up, I hear, for a new kind of business." "Will not that be a benefit to the people around here, Mrs. Dunn?"  Mrs. Dunn shook her head with a despondent smile. "When people are unsteady in their habits, you can't cure them by. shutting up one tavern; there's always plenty left open, where they can get drink. Barse was his own enemy, poor man, and his wife says a kinder-hearted soul never breathed, except when he was in liquor. I am afraid the neighbors won't take kindly to anybody that sets up in his place; they nad a liking for Barse, poor fellow." I had begun to dislike Mrs. Dunn; her cool assumption of the character of a sober woman, her deceit in the matter of feigning siclkness, and her hardihood in talking of intemperance as she did, prejudiced me against her. Of course it was a grand thing to have her give up drinking, but I did not envy Rosie her sober :other much more than her drunken one.   Aneother View of :Prince's Court. 161 Little Bessie kept eyeing me wistfully; at last, when her parsley was washed and added to the soup, she sidled up to- me. "You gave me my nice clothes," she said in a whisper. "Cassie Bowers was at your house." "What's that,; Bessie?" asked her mother, smiling. "Me and Willie went to this lady's house down Montrose alley, where the back gate is," said Bessie. "Yes, I am afraid you do many a naughty thing when poor mammy's sick. Dear, dear, but children need care and watching!" said her mother. I talked a little about Rosie's prospects, and found that Mrs. Dunn was very vain of her daughter's beauty. She told me that Rosie had odd notions of her own, and really stood in her own light, in proof of which she related an instance of a portrait painter's offering her fifteen dollars to go three times to his studio to sit for a picture, and Rosie's hesitating to accept the proposal. "     x162     The Subtle Spell. "The wages aint high where she is, and her shoe-wear is just ruining; so if the child hadn't her father's house as a shelter, she'd never be able to stand it, and here's a chance to make enough to get her a nice spring suit, if she takes it. Poor thing, her bit of good looks ought to help her along, for her father's luck seems to have left him, and I can't count on a day of health, as you may say." I remembered what Carrie Carter had said about young Hadley's fancy for the child's face, and felt startled to find that he had carried out his plan so soon. "When did Rosie receive this offer, Mrs. Dunn ?" "It was last night she was telling me of it; that's Rosie's way, she keeps nothing back, but tells me everything that's ever said to her." I thought of the times when this remorseless mother wjas in no condition to receive confi- dence, and my heart ached with a vague fore- boding for poor Rosie's peace, I found that I was not accomplishing any-   'AZofther View of Prince's Court. 1 63 thing in remaining, so I took Lmy leave, giving Bessie a picture-book I had brought fobr her and a little horse for Willie. On the other side of the Court a decent woman in black stood at her open door. Her house was the third neat one beside the two sisters' dbmicils, and its partly disclosed front room displayed a shiningly fresh. and comfort- able interior. An immense wash of very white clothes spread over the lines at the upper end, and even trespassed their boundary in two or three smaller lines crossing the Court. One of these caught the trimming of my hat and disar. ranged it, so that the good woman, with many apologies, came to my   relief and begged me to step in and settle it properly by the aid of her glass. The room into which she invited me was actually redolent of cleanliness, and industry and good  sense had made it temptingly com- fortable. I felt prejudiced by it in favor of its pro- prietress, and her apology for my slight mishap made me at home with her.     164     The Subtle Spell. "Washing is my business, you see; and so on days like this, I have to watch the sky and get my things out while the sun lasts. The neighbors are all kindly creatures, and don't mind it if once in a while I come down the Court with a line or two when my wash is very heavy, as it is to-day." I said I didn't mind it either, and soon got the difficulty remedied; but she seemed very sorry because, as she said, I had come out of Dunns, and it was her main object to avoid troubling that family, or any one connected with it. "We're not on good terms, them and me; not that I wouldn't do anything in the world for Rosie, or one of the children, but it's the woman herself that I don't like, and so I wouldn't lay a straw in her way." I rather encouraged my new friend to speak freely as I tied on my hat again, and seeing my interest in the subject, she began: "It's not taking away Mrs. Dun; s character to say that she's a disgrace to ,. lf and all   AAnother View of (Prince's Court. 165 belonging to her, for a character is a thing Mrs. Dunn don't own. My name's McGinni- the widow McGinn-and I've lived in this Court for nearly sixteen years, so I'm free to say, that the greatest ill that could happen to it came with Mrs. Dunn the day she landed in amongst us. She drinks till she doesn't know that she's human, and nobody else would know it by her actions; she beats and starves her children, and drives them off to hunt their vic- tuals in the street, and then she'll come to her- self for a few days, and clean up and be decent till folks begin to hope her senses are coming back to her, and thank the Lord for opening her eyes to her sins. But that's only as if she stopped to take breath in running down hill; before we all know that she left off, she'll be at it again, and worse than ever, as it seems every time. Poor Barge! Lord forgive himl He died last week, and the shock sobered her. She got up off the floor and cleaned the house, and washed the clothes, and got the children in de- ce, shape. Mrs. Martin, next door, was just     i66     The Subtle Spell. saying how thankful she was to see it, when Bessie passed us carrying a pitcher of ale; that's what she always begins on, and poor Rosie will find her as sharp and as crabbed as you please when she comes home to night." Then that explained the inequalities of her manner. O dear, it seemed too sorrowful, and I said so. "If you knew all, you'd say more," said Mrs. McGinn. "I've stood her abuse till I don't mind it, but the time was when I found it hard to bear." Then she told me that when the little ones had been' locked out and were crying for food, she'd talen them in and warmed them by her kitchen fire, and fed them there, to find her windows assailed by lumps of clay .or stones, her lines cut, her tubs rolled out into the street, and other malicious expressions of ill-will directed at her by the inebriate mother. She said that the Murphys were rough but good enough in their ways, till she set them to drink- ing with her, and that it was constant associa-   AMnwother View of (rince's Court. 167 tion with her thaf turned Byrne's daughter wrong, and so her people said." Indeed, Mrs. McGinn, who was an exceed- ingly ardent person in any cause, proved her- self to be so determinedly set against Mrs. Dunn's life and conduct, that I wondered Rosie had not found her an active aid in her time of trouble. "But," said the widow, explaining this in conclusion, "bad as she is, I never would help to set her child against her, nor is Rosie one to do it; she feels it all, no one more so and bears it as I never- saw any one brave enough to -bear trouble before, and makes complaints to no one. I don't suppose three words have passed between us inl a year, but my boy Jim, before he goes to the carpenter's shop in the morning, carri6s her over a pot of coffee, or may-be a bucket of coal, whatever he sees she's worst off for, and she says, 'Tell your mother she's good to me,' and that's all there is between us." "That is a good deal," said I, and I thanked her for her kindness. and told her I liked     168     The Subtle Spell. Rosie, and felt personally obliged to any one who helped her. Mrs. Dunn was just dispatching Bessie with a large earthen pitcher as I gained the mouth of the Court under Mrs. McGinn's escort. "What's that?" asked the widow, as she passed us. "I'm going for milk," said Bessie, with a cunning look in her little eyes. "Bessie, do you think the Lord will love you if you speak anything but truth," said Mrs. McGinn; and she added, as a weighty argu- ment in its favor, "do you think I can bake nice cakes for you, if you tell lies?" "It's ale I'm after, mammy McGinn," cried the child, "a quart of ale for mammy; she's getting sick again." I   CHAPTER     IX. WINE, THE MOCKER. THE voice of Dr. Dallas sounded loudly and distinctly as I stood at my win- dow just at sunset a few evenings later. I was thinking of Rosie in a rather despondent way, for Addie Watson had been in to tell me they had made arrangements with the widow lady, and were to have the lower and upper floor of her house, allowing her the middle rooms. She described it as just the neatest, nicest place imaginable, with quite a garden plot at the back, where her mother could raise flowers in the summer time. "It's a whining sort of habit to complain 169 I      170     The Subtle Spell. against fate and necessity," said Addie. "So as long as we were obliged to stay in Barse's house, we didn't grumble; but now that our dear mother is going to get into a different atmosphere, I can't help telling you, dear Miss Park, that it was a great trial to see her there, and that she had always been used to better things. It didn't matter for Jenny or me, but it worried us to see our mother mixed up with such unaccustomed scenes. Yet we are very sorry to lose sight of Rosie Dunn. O, Miss Park, her mother's off again, as the neighbors call it, and last night she struck Rosie so vio- lently, that the widow McGinn, who had almost sworn never to interfere with her again, went over and gave her a severe shaking, threaten- ing to call the police, the only thing Mrs. Dunn is afraid of." It was this account which occupied my mind as I stood at my window, and heard Dr. Dallas' voice so clearly: "God help me, Claudia, you will drive me madl" he said. "This cunning, this deceit, is   Wine, the Mocker.     171 diabolical; it makes me wild, and I shall lose my senses if you, go on in it." The next instant a small dark body came crashing past-me, and broke in pieces on the bricks beneath   ' Then Ii saw that hs window must have been up, and as the top of mine was down, it enabled me to hear hirh so plainly. Mrs. Leslie's protesting tones followed: "You are a tyrant, a pitiless, harsh, cruel tyrant! You know Iam dyi.   You know I suffer tortures every moment of my life, and that nothing else gives me an instant's ease, yet you brutally condemn me to bear it all, and reproach and upbraid me when I murmur, or try to lessen my agony." "Claudia," he said, interrupting her wailing with a sharp outhreak that seemed a vent to great mental agony on his part, "you do not need me to repeat what I have told you so often. There is no torture, no disease, no dis- tress, physical or nervous, about you, except what has sprung from your own folly. Every /,.. .     172    7The Subtle Spell.  drop of this fiendish stuff you swallow increases it, and lessens its hope of cure, and I will not let you kill yourself by inches. If God calls you, then you can go, and I sometimes wish with all the strength of my breaking heart that lIe would!" His voice suddenly gave way in a choking sound that was most painful to hear; I hurried away from the window, ashamed of having unconsciously listened to his grief; but his sister's shriller complaint followed me, and quite unmoved by his wretchedness, she con- tinued to declare he was tormenting her, and delighting in the pangs she endured. "But I will have relief. Any doctor who knew what I suffered would order it to me, and I shall have it,-I will, I will, I will!" Her voice had risen to a perfect scream, and the servants outside, who were examining the remains of the broken bottle, must have heard all she said. Presently she quieted a little, and then he came down stairs past my door and paused   Wine, the Mocker.    173 as if about to knock. My heart began to beat, for I really dreaded seeing him after being con- scious of such a scene; but as he rapped the next moment, I got up and opened it with what grace I could. He was very white, and his eyes, being naturally so large and dark, looked almost unearthly in their brightness, surrounded by such pallor, "May I trouble you a little while, Miss Park?" he asked; "I am afraid I trouble you constantly, and am very sorry that it is so." I begged him to come in, and said it was a pleasure, and everything I could think of to reassure him, and show my kind feeling and interest. "I need not tell you that my sister is afflicted in a very painful way," he said, com- ing at once to the point; "my object is to do all that a mortal can to help her. I thought at first it was best done alone; now I think the aid of a truly reliable attendant is necessary. Can you help in this? I will not burden you with     174    T7he Subtle Spell. apologies for coming to you in this way; I know you will help me if you can." "Indeed I will. Is it a maid you would like to have, a cheerful good girl, to wait on and amuse Mrs. Leslie?" "Some one I could trust, I do not care about age, position-anything, so much as that. Can such an one be found?" "I will see. I think I know a person that such an offer would prove a benefit to, and who would do what you wish well." He gave me a quick look of thanks. and seemed to feel his load lighten. "If I feel that I have your interest, I shall begin to hope again," he said; "you have the power to inspire me with courage, you are so earnest and good." It proved how worried and almost hopeless the poor gentleman was, to find him so over- estimating a poor sick girl like me; but I was more delighted at being able to cheer him in the least, than I was conscious of the unde- served compliment. He went on to say that   Wine. the .J3oc!r.     I75 I could make my selection, whoever she might be, a most liberal offer in his behalf, and assure her that her fidelity would secure her a grast- ful friend. I determined not to lose a moment; so assur- ing him that I would see my candidate for the position the very next morning, I offered to go and sit with his sister meantime, which he seemed very thankful to have me do. It was not a visit of self-graification. I had discovered a very cowardly vein in my own nature when drinking people were in question, and it was useless to deny that the elegant Mrs. Leshe was no more nor less than a habitual inebriate. But I saw the poor bro- ther's longing for sympathy and companionship in his no longer secret task, and I went. Mrs. Leshe was lying in one of her beautiful gowns on the outside of her bed. Her face was flushed and her eyes were swollen, but she was quiet now. I said I was sorry that she should be ailing again.     7 i 176     The Subtle Spell. "O," she said impatiently, "that's my fate; I am destined to suffer, it seems, and although there are remedies for all other diseases, mine cannot be cured." It was very difficult to realize how any one could be so cool as to speak of an actual sin as if it were an affliction from the hand of God; but this lady had evidently managed to deceive herself, and so felt quite certain about deceiving others. On a table at her side was a dish of hot- house strawherries, each one of which had no' doubt cost the sum  of a poor man's meal. She complained, of her utter want of appetite as if she were not to blame for it herself, and said that fruit was all she relished, and she was getting so that she cared but little for that of late days. "Miss Carrie Carter has been very kind to me; she has stayed beside me hour after hour, bathing my head and entertaining me so nicely. Edward, why did you not ask if she had come home yet? She said she would not stay late."   Wine, the Jlocker .  1" I suspected that Mrs. Leslie did not enjoy my society, and I felt sorry, as I meant to relieve her brother as much as possible. At the mention of Miss Carrie, he turned away, a little impatiently, and said something about the young lady having interests and pleasures of her own. "But she is so unselfish, so ready to give them up for my sake," persisted' Mrs. Leslie. "Edward, I really believe that you don't like any one that I do.  It is so perverse in you." He simply said she was mistaken, and after arranging some books and papers, left the room for a time. Mrs. Leslie lay with her face half turned from me for a moment; then she moved around and said that she never was free from pain- the most agonizing and excruciating imaginable -for a single instant; that Carrie Carter had given her the first relief she had known in days, by mixing her a glass of some hot drink; and then she asked me suddenly if I had ever 12     178     The Subtle Spell. known any person find hot brandy a benefit in such cases. I hesitated in answering, and noticing my confusion, she seemed to take advantage of it. "If you can get me a glassful, it will do me more good than all the minerals that were ever distilled by chemists. Pray try, Miss Park, for/ I. am really the victim of my brother's passion for experimenting in medicine. HIe is determined to believe in remedies that only aggravate my suffering, and regards all other palliatives as quackeries." She was pressing a tall Bohemian glass into my hand, and motioning me to go somewhere -I could not tell where-to procure the brandy, when Miss Carrie's lively voice was heard outside, and she tapped for admittaflce. I was glad to escape the glass, by arising to let her in. She had a little bottle wrapped like a chemist's prescription in her hand, which she rather tried to hide when she saw me; but Mrs. Leslie reached for it with intense eager- , wss, and said:   Wine, the Mocker.     179 "I was just getting Miss Park to go for home; the pain was too terrible to be endured." Miss Carter hastily poured a wineglass full into the goblet, but Mrs. Leslie caught it from her and emptied the greater part of its con. tents, until the 'glass was nearly brimming. Then she drank it off as if it had been water, and her trembling ceased almost immediatelye Miss Carrie must have known that she was doing wrong. She looked at me in a curious way, with her eyebrows raised, and then her eyes fell and she appeared a little confused. Then, as Dr.- Dallas' footsteps sounded outside, she sprang up, slipped the bottle in her pocket, washed the glass, and handed Mrs. Leslie a flask of orange water from  the dressing  table, with which -that lady proceeded to deluge her face and hands. This deliberate arrangement quite shocked me, and I rose to leave. "Dear Miss Carrie," said Mrs. Leslie, "I want you to take that amber necklace you like. Now please do, I  shall never love you if you     180     The Subtle Spell.  refuse; you positively must, and shall;" and  she thrust the ornament into her half-reluctant hands, that closed on it quickly enough, when Dr. Dallas, after waiting a moment to answer  Mrs. Warren's inquiry, opened the door and  came in. He gave Miss Carter a suspicious look before he spoke, and then went directly to his sister's side. The whole apartment was odorous with the orange flower water. Mrs. Leslie remained quiet; he could detect nothing. I saw she was pleased to have me go, and I was more than willing to be gone. "You will remember your kind promise," said the doctor, with a serious appeal in his face as he spoke. I said I certainly would, and so the very next morning I went to Madame Pomplin's and saw Rosie. She was getting her hat on to go out, and when I said I would walk with her, seemed more embarrassed than pleased. It was not on an errand she was going, she said; the spring trade had not yet opened,   Wine, the Mocker.     181 and Madame Pomplin's business was rather dull just then.  As I walked by her side, she broke into confidence in her own impulsive way. 'Next to Miss Arthur I like you, Miss Park," she said; "you've been the right kind of a friend to me, and didn't forget to comfort or encourage me. I will never lose a word you wrote nor a thing you sent me, and so I'll just tell you the truth." I may mention here that I had written to the poor giTl occasionally, and furnished her from time to time with a few trifling neces-. sariqs. I took her hand and said I trusted she would, because I was interested in all that concerned her, and I really meant to be a true friend to her. "And you are, indeed you are!" said the ardent girl, so earnestly that the tears followed her words.  Then she told me what I knew; that her mother was very bad, that she had started     182    The Subtle Spell with very little in the house to go on, after such a short rest, and in consequence every- thing they had to dispose of, except the stove and a few articles too heavy to carry off, were gone to the pawnbroker's. The children were  left absolutely naked, and when her father  brought loaves of bread to satisfy their hun- ger, Annie Welsh had actually sold them for whisky. It seemed impossible that she could have been reduced to that in so short a time, since I remembered the respectable clothes she had on when I saw her last; but Rosie assured me that the money spent in whisky was really incredible; that she would leave home with enough to provide a good dinner for the chil- dren in her mother's hands, and come back to find two or three articles sold, her mothei nearly insensible, and the children without a morsel except what the charity of the neigh- bors had supplied for them. In their present state they were at the last and most desperate point; so she had consented    Wine, the Mocker.     I 183 to sit to a gentleman who wanted to paint her picture, and 'he had given her ten dollars as earnest money, two of which she had spent for groceries, and the rest she had hidden away.  That morning she had .gone to get a little of it from its hiding place to buy coal for the day, and discovered to her horror that it was all gone; and then Bessie told her that mother had discovered it an hour before, and had her out in the cold to get whisky before the near- est grog shop was opened. "I am going to see him now," said Rosie, gasping down the recollection of her anger against her erring parent. "I am not fit for a picture of any kind, for I have to keep my hair down to hide the cut on the side of my forehead; but he said I could have the other five dollars whenever I went for it; and I'll take it a dollar at a time, so that the children can be kept alive a little longer." "Where's your father, Rosie?" "O I don't know; he has some place where /   [     \    *     184     The Subtle Spell. he stays when he can't stay at home, and he gives what he can to Bob, if he goes after it; but mother can coax or beat it out of the poor boy, and he knows it. Miss Park, father ,has got hardened, and what frightens me is that I am getting hardened too. I find myself say- ing, 'It will soon be over, and I wish it was;' and last week, when mother struck me senseless, and I saw my own blood fly, I took the faintness for death, and was right glad to think I'd got my last stroke." She looked as desperate as her words, being very pale and worn, either from want of rest or food. "I've brought you a proposal, Rosie," said I,  to change her thoughts. "I want you to listen to what I am going to tell you." So without any introduction, I related, to her the essential parts of Mrs. Leslie's story, giving no names, and then asked her if she  could not manage to induce her father to send the children to a Home, while her mother was so incapable of caring for them, and to come   Wine, the Mocker.     185 herself and receive good wages as, this lady s maid and attendant, and by that means be able to materially assist him in defraying their expenses. It took her a good while to take in the meaning of my proposition, and she returned me no answer for a few  moments, during which her intelligent face seemed full of earn- est thought. "It will seem a foolish thing to you that I should worry about breaking up such a home as mine has been," she said at last, "but that is the strongest feeling I know now.! What will become of my poor mother alone?" "She should be placed-under restraint, and your father will see that it is his only hope, the only right thing to do, if you withdraw yourself from a load that is crushing you to the earth." "There must be something in the burden that accustoms the shoulders to bear it, Miss Park," she said, very slowly. "I find I can- not bring myself to leave my mother. I can't * r      186     The Subtle Spell. feel equal to anything else while she is as she is. It seems as if I was dragged down by what I've gone through, so that I must keep amongst it till it's over, or some change works itself out, and me with it." I was disappointed, and a little vexed. "You said you thought me your friend, Rosie," I said after a little pause. "Well, I now warn you, with all the seriousness I can express, to let young Mr. Hadley's offer go. You know Madame Pomplin will lend you the money you need, and I will show you a better way of repaying it; your own judgment at first rejected this plan, and you have allowed your distress to mislead you: don't give me any answer about the offer I have brought you till you think of it further, but take what you need from me for the present, and speak to your employer to-morrow." All at once Rosie, as I was leaving her, awoke to gratitude, and declared that I had been only too kind and thoughtful; that the opportunity was a grand one, and she was   Wize, the Mocker.     187 not worthy of the time and consideration I had spent on her. I saw that the poor girl was so crushed and distracted 'by the sorrow that had aged her prematurely into a woman of many cares in the midst of girlhood, that she really was incapable of deciding clearly on any point Nor the time; and when she said she would Gee me the next day, I left her with money enough to tide over, and hurried away. Miss Arthur was sitting in my room wait- ing. for me when I got home. She looked relieved to see me, and said at once, without any of her usual hesitation, that she wanted my help in a very annoying affair that had just come to her knowledge. "You remember Rosie Dunn, of course; well, it was by my recommendation that she went to the cloak store, and Madame Pomplin is a very censorious and particular person, which I considered quite in the girl's favor when she was received there. I have had a visit from her this afternoon, and it was     188    The Subtle Spell. a very painful one indeed; she came to me as Rosie's patroness, she said, to tell me that she is about to discharge her, owing to, some information she has obtained from one of her best customers, a lady by the name of Miss Malvina Wharton, who tells her that the poor child has lately become a painter's model, and is in the habit of visiting studios at all hours  in a very improper manner.  She also said that she had followed her to one, and become satisfied that she remained there when she had represented herself as going home to her inva- lid mother. Now," said Miss Arthur, with an indignant flush lighting her sorrowful face, "such an imputation on poor, modest, worried  Rosie Dunn is actually absurd, as well as cruel. Such a heart-broken child is not likely to come in contact with rakish people, either at home in Prince's Court, or running about on her errands for the store."  She looked at me, and saw that I did not share the certainty of her conviction. "You do not believe that it can be true,   Wine, the Mocker.     189 do you?" she asked anxiously; but before I could answer, some one knocked, and I opened the door to admit Miss Jenny Watson. I had expected her to call for a lady's address, to whom I had recommended her work, but I was not prepared for the scene that followed. Miss Arthur sprang up and gave a cry the moment she saw her, and then, in a headlong, sobbing way, threw herself into her arms, cry- ing out: "O, Jenny, Jenny-my dear, dear Jenny!" while Miss Watson, herself not less overcome, clasped her and wept silently. I was surprised and moved by such a sudden outhreak of feeling between two quiet women that I had believed to be strangers to each other. I felt that I was taking a liberty in witnessing it, and really tried to slip out and leave them alone together, when Mary Arthur caught my hand and turned her tear-wet face to me pleadingly. "Please keep this a secret, dear friend," she     9go     The Subtle Spell. said, "and save me from prying eyes and idle tongues, as good Mrs. Warren does; but remember, I do not, shrink from you, and had it not been that my story is too full of shadows to throw it, unsought, across the sunshine of  any one's life, I would have told it to you  I when you were so kind and thoughtful of me."  They sat down side by side, holding each   i other's hands.  "I heard your name when I was here before, and though I had no thought of your being in this place, it gave me a painful start." Miss Watson said this in her usual repressed way, but she trembled as she spoke, and showed that her self-control had been learnt by a hard effort, and was practised through neces- sity by her. "I am glad to have seen you, Mary," she continued, "though I think I would have avoided you if I could. It is very hard for me to meet the present with the past coming back as heavily on my heart as it does when I look at you, dear girl-dear, dear girll"   Wine, the Mocker.      191 Mary did nothing but cling to her and cry for a while, but growing quieter, she remem- bered me, and asked if I would forgive her if she carried Jenny away into her room for a little while. She had kept looking at my door as if dreading the appearance of a stranger, and I readily seconded her wish, rather expect- ing to hear Mrs. Yarnall's tap myself. It might have been my fancy, but I thought Miss Watson's figure seemed finer and more graceful as she moved away ii her friend's embrace. (She had been thrust into poverty evidently by some painful convulsion of for- tune and experience, and had sought to learn its ways as a shelter from the curiosity of the people with whom she might be thrown. She held her head slightly bent, and walked in a shrinking sort of way, never lifting her eyes or looking clearly at any one who spoke to her, so that the only impression she gave a careless observer, was that of a quiet looking woman with a low, soft voice. Mrs. Warren, at Miss Arthur's request, I t        I     t92     The Subtle Spell. believe, afterwards told me that the Watsons were the daughters of a wealthy gentleman of gay tastes, whose only son inherited his   I father's fondness for personal indulgence with- out his business faculties, and soon began to bring the firm of which he had early become a member into money troubles. He was older  than his sisters, and managed to waste and squander so much in his dissolute pleasures,  i that before they became able to judge clearly of the cause of the trouble, their poor father  was driven nearly distracted to save himself  i from the ruin brought upon him by his pro- mising son. There was a small property left  to their mother in a way that excepted it from the claims of all the rest, and that was everything there was saved when their father died in a delirious fever, brought on by taking brandy as a medicine for his anxieties. Frede- rick, the son, was sobered by the shock for a little while; and Jenny, just then arrived at womanhood, and devotedly attached to this err- ing relative, made his reformation the condi-   Win, the Mocker.      193 tion of her accepting the attentions of Richard Arthur, Mary's brother and her ardent lover. She told Richard that if he would win poor Fredrick back to a steady course of life, she would gladly become his loving and happy wife; but that while her sorrowing mother and young sister watched in uneasy anxiety over the impulsive darling they could not restrain nor save, she never would leave them to bear the cross alone. Richard Arthur was an excellent fellow, warm-hearted and deeply attached to Jenny, whom- he had learned to love as his sister Mary's favorite friend. He readily undertook the mission urged upon him  by love and friendship, and from that time devoted himself to gain Frederick's confidence and regard. He succeeded in becoming very fond of the gay and entertaining companion he had chosen, and so far won upon him, that he induced him to abandon his idle sports and determine to start again in business. His mother, delighted to hear the resolve, gave him nearly all she 13     194     The Subtle Spell. had left to begin with, and Richard and he became inseparable friends and associates. It was not very long before Jenny made the terrible discovery that she had sacrificed her lover, and that without saving her brother. Richard's was the weaker nature, and unable to withdraw Frederick from the temptations of his wild life, heiad yielded to them him-  self, and become a frequenter of gaming saloons  and drinking houses. This disclosure came upon the family long after Jenny had sus- pected it, and was endeavoring to prepare her- self to bear it bravely. Frederick's second failure brought the facts of his extravagance to light; they found that Richard Arthur was his partner in evil, though generally a loser in the gambling transactions and drinking sprees they had shared together. Mrs. Watson, with a breaking heart, reproached her wretched son, and received his account of his sins in a palliated form and under the mask of mock repentance, in which Richard Arthur was re- presented to be the tempter who had led him  -6   Wine, the Mocker.     195 away from his good resolutions, and made him forget his duty to the dear ones he had vowed to protect and comfort. Her partial mother's heart would not doubt his story; she still believed in him, but her excitement against the false friend who had misled him, was stronger than her judgment; he was in the house at that moment, in an agony of awakened remorse, pouring out his bursting heart to the poor girl, whose charge concerning her brother he had so cruelly mis- interpreted; and there Mrs. Watson found him, and in an excited way accused him of being Frederick's ruin, and a wretch unworthy her daughter's respect or affection. In relating these incidents to me, Mrs. Warren was evidently strongly prejudiced in favor of the Arthurs. She therefore made no difficulty in' proving that Mrs. Watson was, answerable for all that f6llowed. Richard tried to defend himself against her. angry charges; but when she quoted Frederick's story, he called out excitedly, that it was all j t     196    The Subtle Spell.  false, and rushed from the house to seek his' traducer. In his anger and distraction, he returned to his evil habits, so that when he encountered the brother that night in a drink- ing saloon to which he had followed him, they were both drunk, and far beyond the control    I of reason. In this state they quarrelled violently, and before interference could separate them, the unhappy Richard drew a knife and stabbed his miserable companion to the heart.  That was the death-blow to the hope and pride of the Watson family! Frederick, the only son, the promise of his father's heart, and the idol of his mother's affections, died on the floor of a common tavern in a state of intoxi- cation, and his sister's lover was the guilty wretch who sent him unprepared into eternity. "Those two girls," said Mrs. Warren, mean- ing Mary Arthur and Jenny Watson, "would have clung to and supported each other in  that terrible trial, but Mrs. Watson realized no other feeling but implacable hatred against 'i:    WWine, the Mocker.            197 the murderer of her darling boy, whose death expiated, in her eyes, every sin of his life, and who rose in her agonized memory a beatified martyr from his sin's oblivion. "Of course Richard was arrested, but he was in a raging fever, from which he recovered a maniac, so hopelessly lost to reason that a trial for his crime was out of the qestion j "He was taken to a mad-house, where he is now confined, and Mary lives here to be near him. That is nearly -fie years since, and. he has never had but two/violent ;attacks that rendered it unsafe for his sister to see him. One terrified her into a nervous fever a year or so ago, and the last was more serious still, for he struck her in the face so savagely; as to inflict two really dreadful wounds, that kept her secluded so long.        :,  N "O yes, he is utterly hopeless, and drags on his miserable life from day to day, taking the poor child's youth and spirits with him." k Mrs. Warren seemed a little impatinit,- as well as a good deal sorrowful. A     198     The Subtle Spell. "That's the way with drunkards and their sins; their own ends are hopeless and desolate enough, but they scatter gloom and despair on all around them, and in gratifying a senseless taste, not only ruin themselves, body and soul, but plunge all connected with them in the depths of wretchedness too." I sighed as I agreed with her, and then I tried to say how very, very sorry I was for poor Mary Arthur and her friend, separated as they had been so painfully by the very nature of the sorrow that bound them together in grief. Mrs. Warren raised her eyes to the room above us. "The curse of intemperance writes itself everywhere in blood, she said; "still we pity the poor and ignorant who yield to its baleful spell; but what excuse can wealth and beauty find for such an abominable stimulus? What need has the darling of luxury and social affec- tion for the mad excitement of intoxication?" Mrs. Warren was usually so quietly good-   Wine, the .Mocker.     199 natured, so ready to excuse, so slow to con demn, that I felt my worst suspicions and surmises were authenticated in her own expe- rience with the handsome invalid. "I am sorry to have to say this, Miss Park," she continued, "but Mrs. Carter has told me that Mrs. Leslie induced you' and Miss Carrie to get h. brandy in her brother's absence, and there is not a servant in the house who has not been offered large bribes for the same purpose. The woman seems bereft of pride as well as reason; for she knows she is exposing herself to the criticism of the meanest minds, and yet she affects a lofty dis- regard and superiority to every one around." I saw that something had aroused Mrs. War- ren particularly; so, as I did not know what  to say, I kept quiet, for I was, sincerely sorry for -Dr. Dallas, who, I knew, would feel any action taken against Mrs. Leslie far more than she would herself.     ma N       I CHAPTER X. A STRANGE MSSIONARY. ICI  HTIINKING about the nervous spasms I9 of crying and writhing above stairs, 8 the reduced gentility and heavily sha- dowed lives of the Watsons, the quiet martyrdom of Mary Arthur, and Rosie Dunn's troubles, so varied and so depressing, I summed it all up in one word-drunkenness- and then recalled Mrs. Sayward's expressions concerning its pitiless, all-pervading venom, and how it poisoned happiness in such widely different and distinct cases. It really seemed to me as if it were the ser- pent's head, yet uncrushed and full of heart- bruising power, and that its poison was doomed 200   ,                 , 4 A Strange .Missionary.    20 to lie, like a drop of bitterness, at the bottom of every earthly draught. "Miss Park," said Rosie Dunn s voice at my side. I had been thinking so earnestly that I had not heard the door knocked at; it stood partly open, so that Rosie had entered and was standing near me. I looked up quickly and found that she was in great trouble. She had been crying, her eyes were still inflamed, and she burst into tears as I turned to her compassionately. "You know I could not decide for myself, Miss Park," she sobbed, "so things have been, decided for me. I have lost my place, and mother has been carried off to the asylum." She quite broke down at this, and seemed so completely overcome by the suddenness of her change of fortune as be unable to understand or explain it. As for me, I had much ado to hide my joy, for Mrs. Dunn's removal to any place out of Prince's Court seemed the begin- ning of an improvement in affairs. "I think I know all about the situation,     202     The Subtle Spell. Rosie," I said, ibut pray tell me about your mother." "It was that new grocery man's fault," she said bitterly; "he's worse than Barse ever was, and has got the neighbors all up in arms. Poor mother was going on pretty badly,  and Bob made her angry by trying to save a little money of his she had taken-it was all we had to get supper for the children, and they were crying. In the struggle she struck him, and then knocked down the stove, and that set the place on fire. Of course it was enough to frighten those that are not used to mother's ways, but every one in Prince's  Court ought to be by this time; and so I blame Mrs. McGinn for not telling John Craw- ford that he needn't interfere. He happened to be in the Court, and see the smoke, and hear the cries; so he rushed over and dragged out Bob, who was stunned, and silenced Willie by sending him to his store for candy. Then he found out father, and made him decide to send mother to the Asylum, or he would have   A Strange Missionary.    203 her carried to prison. Father seems all roused by the man, and doesn't act like himself. He walks the floor, and starts and stares when you speak to him." "Rosie, will you do as I direct you, believing that I truly mean to be your friend?" "Yes," she said, drying her eyes. "I had to fly to some one. I did not know what to do for myself, and I know I appeared ungrateful to you when you spoke to me last." "You appeared unhappy; but now I want to gain you another friend, a rich lady, who can help you easily, but whom I think you can help quite as much in return." Rosie's fae and manner were both quiet now, and she gave me a grave, attentive look. "I have to be indebted to kind people," she said. "I have no choice, and I mean to be gratefal for what I get; but if I can possibly work for it, I shall be so much happier, for I shrink from taking strangers' charity; I can't help it." "Rosie, you promised you would let me     2C4     The Subtle Spell. advise you, so you must accept my plan," I said, and without a moment's delay I went up stairs and knocked at Mrs. Leslie's door. Sele answered, and I went in to find her alone, with an appearance of trouble of an unusual kind about her beautiful eyes. One thing I had noticed, that despite all the wailing and lamenting she was in the habit of indulging in, there never was any appearance of tears on her face; but now she evidently had been crying; when she spoke, I could detect it in her voice too. O, I have come to beg you to help me, dear Mrs. Leslie, in one of the most pitiful cases you ever knew," I cried, breaking into quite an impetuous entreaty. Then, without waiting for a reply, I gave her a hasty sketch of the Dunn family's desolation, without hint- ing at its primary cause. She listened with interest, and I thought she was glad to forget her own trouble, what- ever it might be, in the story of the poor children.   A Strange Missionary.    205 "She must be crazy to act in that way; no sane woman would ever abuse her own child!"' was her exclamation. "Of course she is crazy; and now, my dear Mrs. Leslie, I beg that you will help me with your counsel and in every way. You know you said you would be glad to take an interest in some of my humble friends, and this is a truly desperate case of need." "Certainly," she said; "but what are you going to do first?" '"O, there is the difficulty; I can do nothing, actually nothing, for I am house-bound; but if you will kindly interest yourself just a little -they are people that help themselves, remem- ber, and Rosie can sew and do a dozen handy things-I am sure it will all be well." Mrs. Leslie made a faint protest or two -about being utterly unsuited to such business. I picked up a fallen letter that lay on the carpet at her feet; she took it from my hand with a sort of gasp, and then said she would try, and asked when she should go.     206     The Subtle Spell. I gathered somehow that her heart had been  softened by that paper, and that what it con- tained had'drawn those unusual tears to her eyes; so I was more tan ever eager to follow up its impression, and said "would she go at once, please?" and she consented. Then I hurried down to Rosie, knowing that Mrs. Leslie's haste would be a less deliberate lady's leisure, and told her there was a good lady going to help her, when she must be as frank as she had been to me in every way, and reminded her again of her promise to abide by my advice. She went away saying she would, and much sooner than I had looked for her, Mrs. Leslie appeared at my door, asking the way to Prince's Court. As I gave her the directions, I found her to be so much in earnest that I went farther than I had intended at first, and begged her to consult with John Crawford, the new grocer, on. the subject of the Dunns, assuring her that I believed his advice would be worth taking.   ,A Strange Missionary.    207 An hour after, Dr. Dallas stopped at my door with a look of amazement on his face. "Can you tell me where my sister is?" he asked.  I said I had begged her to aid a family in distress, and that she had gone to Prince's Court in pursuance of that design. His astonishment was not decreased at this; indeed, I thought it became blended with apprehension, and he stood irresolute on my threshold.'  I begged him to wait a little while before following her to Prince's Court, which I saw was his dawning intention, and to this he assented hastily, as Mrs. Yarnall appeared beside him. "There has been a young person knocking at your door for same time, Doctor," said she. "Ah here she comes; but stle doesn't know you, it appears." The girl was, in fact, descending the stairs ,without glancing towards him. "Did you wish to speak with moe?" he r     208     The Subtle Spell. inquired. She seemed surprised, and shook her head. "I come for that there lady," pointing above; "her that has long black curls, and the shiny, breast-pin." Mrs. Leslie's ringlets and diamonds were thus identified, and the doctor claimed her as his sister. "Well, Annie Welsh wants to see her, and she's to please and to come right off; Annie says that she Rants her most particular, and she'll never be sorry for it if she comes." "My sister does not know this woman; who is she, and where does she live?" The girl, who asserted her claim to be one of the Welshes by a strong family likeness, no less of wretched appearance than feature, made a hasty gesture, and burst into a passion of tears. "She won't live nowhere long," she said, "she's a dying; the doctor and the minister's there, and she wants to see the lady." Dr. Dallas turned a distressed look towards   A Strange Missionary.    209 me and seemed puzzled how to answer. Mrs. Yarnall was all alive with curiosity. "Does Mrs Leslie know this afflicted per- son? she began to inquire. "She will go at any rate," said the brother, recovering his self-possession, and taking down the address.  Mrs. Yarnall found nothing to be gained in waiting, so she followed me into my room, leav- ing the doctor outside, and began a volley of whispered questions. I had made up my mind never to be impa-  tient or annoyed at this lady, but always to remember the razor business in her favor. I found it hard work, however, while she per- sisted in her vexatious meddling. "Is it a poor relation, neglected to the point of starvation, do you suppose? Don't you con- sider it decidedly mysterious?-the doctor's emotion,: too--you noticed that? Now what' should you attribute it to? Certainly some- thing that he desired to conceal." "Yes, and on that account, I should feel "     210     The Subtle Spell. that I had no right whatever to interfere with it." "Ah,.then you do think them very peculiar people. Well, I told Mrs. Carter that I believed you knew more of them than you felt willing to acknowledge; and so you think there is a decided mystery?" So she went on, and gave me words and motives that I never dreamed of possessing, until I felt that her convivial husband was a greater sinner than ever, for troubling his unhappy wife so that she had become a torment to herself and others. "But perhaps she may have always been a disagreeable, fussy creature," I thought. Mrs. Warren satisfied me that very afternoon, when, an hour or so later, she came to tell me how her sister valued Miss Addie Watson's services, and how Mrs. Watson had heard of Mary Arthur's being in the city, and begged to see and talk with her. "It is what they have longed for so much, for the girls love their mother so dearly that   A Strange JMissionary.    2" they sacrifice every feeling to her; and she had such a terrible prejudice against the name of Arthur after her son's death, that they never dared to speak it in her presence. Now she has relented, and is entirely softened by this little gleam of good fortune. Mary, dear girl, is very happy to be with the old friends again, and I have not seen her so much roused from her trouble since it happened, as she has been by Miss Watson's affection." She then told me that an indefinable dread of having her peculiar circumstances guessed and commented on by Mrs. Yarnall, was the prevailing distress of the young lady's ife, which led me to ask her if Mrs. Yarnall a yways had been as pitiless in her pursuit of other people's interests. "No, indeed," she answered heartily; "she was a lively, busy, agreeable young woman when my brother went to the college town where she lived. She was a famous house- keeper, and very hospitably inclined; a little *fussy perhaps, like all pattern housewives, but     a! iThe Subtle Spelt. not at all unpleasant. Mrs. Yarnall, poor lady, owes her peculiarities to a demon that has widowed women, broken their hedts, un- settled their reason, and driven them to despair and ruin. She is the victim of a drunken husband." I suppose Mrs. Warren's long experience in human nature led her to feel strongly and bit- terly on this subject. She shook her head with great emphasis, and got up and went away to her duties. Presently Mrs. Leslie returned, and came directly to my room. "t , Miss Park," she cried, "that is the most  tragic place I was ever in, that Prince's Court. The hours I have been gone seem 'ke years in experience, for I did not conceive it possible that people could live such story-book lives. The first house I got into, by mistake, belonged to a woman named McGinn, a powerful sort of lerson, who was washing in a kitchen, with a pittle parlor like a picture of neatness and nicety. She has a strong manner, that took   A Strange Missionary.   213 my fancy, and while I talked with her, she told me that she lost her mother and father in one week by what she called the "faver," and that her only brother was drowned in a bog, within call of help, but his heavy shoes held him under water. Then her husband was killed by a game-keeper, who shot at him for a poacher, while he was cutting wood for something called heckles. She had three sons, and when the two elder were grown, they left Ireland for America, and were shipwrecked. When the ship struck on the reefs, the first boat they let dowrn was swamped, the second capsized, and the' third could not hold all that clung to it. Her boys were in the sea; the elder could swim, and he held up the younger and tried to keep a hand on the boat, but the weight was too much; they endeavored to loosen the clutch, but in vain, and then they cut off the grasping hand, so that both went down. Just think! She lived to be told this, and'in telling it again, strives hard to subdue her heart to God's will. It's wonderful, wonderful! And they all seem     214     The Subtle Spell. remarkable people-people of graphic experi- ences, with lives like tragedies and manners like farces." The woman had really found her heart and tongue, and lQst her languor. Wiping her face from the perspiration of unwonted excite- ment, she went on to tell me about the Dunns. Mrs. McGinn had possessed her of Rosie's sor-  rowful story, and not spared its cause one par- ticle, I was glad to know. Mrs. Leslie herself glossed the drunkenness over a little; she called it the miserable mother's mania, the wretched woman's infatuation, &c. I treasured up the terms for reproduction. She had found Mr. Dunn at home, in a half  dazed state, trying to come to some conclusion about his helpless family, unable to maintain them and pay for his wife in the asylum too, and not knowing how to begin to put them at work. Mr. Crawford the grocer came in while she was offering her substantial sympathy, and after a few moments conversation, opened an extraordinary proposition.    A Strange Missionary.   2a  "There is the dress-making lady's house standing empty," he said, "why not take that?" Mr. Dunn stared. "That would be half as much rent again as I am paying here," said he. "Yes, but twice as much of a chance to make it. My cousin Jane is jdst married to an excellent young man who helps me in the store. They will take the two middle rooms, leaving you the front and back room on the lower floor, the third story, and a good garret. Rosie is as handy as any girl in the town; let her start a trimming-store in the front room; let Sally help with the house-work while she sews, and Bob keeps things going outside. She's not nineteen yet, you say, but what of that  She's had worse rubs than a little care and management, and will take a pride in it. Let her begin small, and go on as she can; let ner make up some aprons, sun-bonnets, collars and cuffs-all that the factory girls need, and haven't the time to sew for themselves; lether     216    The Suble Spell. buy a little of whatever is called for, till she learns the wants of the neighborhood, and grows equal to them. I know the people; there isn't one of them that won't give her a helping hand and word, and if she fails, I'll engage to pay her debts." That was the way John Crawford had talked, Mrs. Leslie told me, and she said I could not form an idea of the effect of his words without hearing them. He had the art of presenting  work in an invigorating light, and convincing the people he addressed that there was a great deal of latent good in their own natures, and they would do well to cultivate it thoroughly. He had completely won Mrs. Leslie over. She was totally unused to his class and his work, and he had awakened her interest in both. Rosie's beauty had taken her fancy, her miserable life had touched her feelings, and the experience that day gained acted altogether like intoxication. Seeing this, I was more convinced of the worth of my experiment than I had been in   / Stranige JMissionary.   17 making it. Excitement had become necessary through habit, and I was trying to supply the absence of a deadly by a harmless one; if it turned out a useful, noble aim, that had power to raise and enliven her debased taste and dormant energies, then indeed I might rejoice, and bless the happy thought. -t     CHAPTER XI. A DEATH-BED CHARGE. HLE we were talking, Dr. Dallas fJ  came to the door and called his sister; she arose and went to meet him with a quick movement, such as I had not seen her use before. What she had seen that day had startled her out of her habitual listlessness and awoke her to rational interest in all around her. He said something in a low tone about the message that had been left for her. "But you have already gone beyond your strength, I fear," he added, and seemed to hesitate. I thought from his tone that he had found 2zI   j (Deatfi-=3ed Charge;    219 out vho the wretched woman was, and that he had a strong desire that his sister might see her in her last hopeless hour, and yet a dread of the painful test of conscience he would fain subject her to. She turned upon me a look of horror that did not seem to belong to her face as it used to be. It was the acute realization of what she had seen without understanding before. "That poor creature dying?" she repeated; "it is not possible, for she was as well as I am only a week ago,"  "Her sister said so, and she was very much in earnest and quite broken hearted," I said. "Claudia, sit down, you are very tired," said her brother anxiously. She turned about sharply. "Tired, Edward! Can you think of such a little selfish thing, when the poor creature's soul is leaving her body. Did she say she wished to see me so much?" "O, very, very much," I urged. "Then I'll go. Come, Edwarc-or no, Miss     220     The Si ble Spell. 'Park, will not you bear me company?" and she caught my hand. Of course I would. I had forgotten my excuse, and so had she, apparently. I hurried to dress in my walking clothes, and she moved up -and down nervously, as if chafing at delay. Her brother had resigned her to me with a glance of intense meaning, and I could scarcely say whether trouble or hope was strongest in it. When we were on our way, I found she preferred to walk, and started off at a great pace in the direction indicated by Annie's sister. "Miss Park," she said, pausing suddenly, "do you know anything of this woman? She seemed to know and avoid you. I thought, perhaps, that you had seen something of the family in your mission work." I felt that I might as well tell her then and there the baleful influence they had exerted over the Dunn fortunes, and how the children had come to look on Annie as their evil genius. She listened with the same shocked look she   A f)eathb=3ed Charge.    221 had worn from the first, but though she appeared touched and deeply troubled, I did not detect the amount of remorse or self-accu- sation that I had expected from one who was, if I judged rightly, just awakened to a know- ledge of sin. "If this woman dies," she said timidly, "do you think God will hold her guilty of the evil she has brought others to do through her agency?  Do you think she ever knew the extent of the wrong she committed?" "Or that others, less excmiable, have led her to commit," I added in a low tone. "Yes, yes; she must have been tempted first herself," said Mrs. Leslie; but she did not seem to take a personal view of it. We now turned out of the main street into a small one of much less promise than Prince's Court, and going by the direction, found a close little alley opening into it about the centre of the square. The corner house had an immense box projecting out over most of the sidewalk, filled with coal, and split firewood k  -,     222     The Subtle Spell. piled in squares at the outer edge of the pavement, left but a narrow passage between. The small front window was crowded with smeary glass jars:of candy, a tumbler of segars, some boxes of matches, and cards of buttons, Within was a great tin cask of oil, one of molasses, and several smaller ones of liquor. A close and stifling smell, in which candles. stale vegetables, tobacco, and rusty bacon mingled, met us as we entered, and a very untidy girl came out,of a back room, twirling up her hair as she walked. I fell back, and rather urged Mrs. Leslie to take the lead. "We want to see Annie Welsh, the sick woman, please." A little boy with a broken blue pitcher that he held by the spout, because it was handleless, came in our wake and said: "Mammy says will ye trust her for another pint, and she'll send you the money as soon as my brother Bill gets home from the yard?" The girl took the pitcher and called back: "Can I send the Masseys anything more?   A ()eath-(Bed Charge.    223 They owe for a quart since last night, andc the old woman's off on a time." Then she turned to us. "In the third story back room, just straight up before you," she said, and while we found a dirty little entry intervening between the store and the other apartment, and began to ascend some rickety stairs leading out of it, the person addressed within cried out in a hoarse, drunken voice, "Bill Massey's good for a gallon, I guess; yes, let 'em have a drop more; he'll come in all square and settle, Bill will." Mrs. Leshe was entirely unused to such sights or sounds; she paused a minute to reas- sure herself before mounting the stairs, but seeing me following resolutely, she went up past a first landing, where two begrimed doors opened, past another flight of equally shaky and dirty steps into an open space with a roof door above it, and a broken ladder suspended therefrom. There was a back door and a front one, as     224     The Subtle Spell. in the entry below; the back door stood open, and a dull moaning sound came from it, that we heard as we came climbing up. The creaking of our feet announced our coming, and some one opened the door wider to receive us. It was the girl who had been at our house, and she was weeping bitterly. "Yer nearly too late," she sobbed, "Annie's agoin' fast." The room was so small that it seemed burst- ing with its crowded contents, and yet there was scarcely a useful article in it. A draggled old curtain was suspended over one corner, and it seemed to bulge out with the piles of things pushed behind it. The floor was cov- ered with bundles and rolls of ragged, unseem- ly garments, and old baskets and pails without handles formed the principal articles of furni- ture. A broken table and a wash bench stood against the wall, and a straw bed with a torn ticking lay between the door and the window. This was Annie's dying couch, for on it she lay stretched, breathing her life away in heavy   A (Death=Bed Charge.    225 respirations, that shook her wasted. figure, and sounded like a solemn pulse beating in throbs above the silence of the room. An old woman with a wrinkled face, dirty and miserable in appearance, crouched in the corner with a pipe in her mouth that was not lighted, and kept up a swaying motion  -:^ with her figure, without uttering aword. A fussy female withva clean apron over a very unsightly dress, and a white pocket handker- chief placed collar-wise around her neck, which was covered with falling tangles of hair, had her face set in a doleful expression, and moved about with a pretence of improving things by disturbing them. This person now addressed us in a singular whine, half lamenting, half propitiating. "O, ladies dear, this is a melancholy sight for you. Poor Annie's very low, you see, and she's not surrounded with luxury in her dying hour. We're not used to it, and we don't look for it, but we wish it was better for your sakes." 15     226     The Subtle Spell. "Has the poor thing been able to talk? does she know her danger?" asked Mrs. Leslie, drawn by some impulse close to the side of the bed. The sick woman's eyelids quivered, and her lips moved a little. Mrs. Leslie dropped on one knee and bent her head; but when Annie spoke, as she did after an effort or two, her voice, though broken, was quite audible to us all. "You get the minister to tell you what he told me; you have time, you're smart and rich, and can carry out your own plans. Just hear him say plain and clear what you ought to do, and then remember that I sent for you to tell you with my dying breath, that you dare not face God unless you save some one, drag them back out of the pit, and hold them up to pray for/you. He says Christ died, and that's enough for the worst of us; he says I am to believe on him and I'll find peace. That's all right, but Rosie Dunn will have to tell me so before I feel it. Do you know what Rosie   A .4 eath=Bed Charge.    227 said?" She raised herself as if she meant o1 whisper it, but being overcome with the effort, fell back wilt a gasp, aud moaned out, "Rosie swore I'd be tormented for what I'd done for her mother; she said it again and again: 'Annie Welsh, you'vddragged my mother down to death, and you'll find her round your neck when you get there?' That's true; she's like a weight on me, and I can't lift myself to think of Christ's mercy till some one takes her off." "That's her raving, ladies," said the slat- -ternly woman with her officious manner. "She goes on like that most of the time, and Mrs. Price and Sally from the store below will tell you the same. Betsy here gets frightened by it, but it's the way of them that's going off. O, the many I've seen in the same way; there's not a house in the Alley that I haven't been in when there was trouble, and I've laid 'em out, too, equal to any, undertaker, and so the neighbors will tell you." Mrs. Leslie, with her head bent to Annie's face, raised her hand entreatingly, and Annie S     2!8     The Subtle Spell. was heard to murmur something about Rosie, "and no one but Rosie." Betsy checked her low, continuous sobbing, i to explain. "Annie wants to see her, and the minister said I must bring her, so I went to Prince's Court, but she had gone out with the grocery man to see his cousin. Bob couldn't tell me where it was, but he said he'd send her as soon as she would come," The old woman with the unlighted pipe muttered something about Peggy Dunn's being lively. "No, mother, she's took to a Hospital, and the house is clean and quiet. Bob was toast- ing bread, and Sally was setting the table, while their father was holding Willie by the fire." Apparently this view of affairs struck the old person as peculiar; she gave a queer, dry laugh, and said: "Peggy would scatter 'em when she got back," Mrs. Leshe was holding the hand of the   A (Death=-ed Charge,    229 dying woman in her own; when she looked around at me, her face was white and stamped with strong feeling and purpose blended. "Can I be alone with the poor soul?" she said. Betsy took her mother by the arm. "There's the men's room open, mother; come and I'll light your pipe, and you can smoke it without choking poor Nan.  Mrs. Patchet, won't you take the other lady into Price's front." Mrs. Patchet seemed glad of. the opportunity. "Come with me, Miss," she said. "Price's front room is the best in the house, and when the old woman's all right, it's kept shining." If that were the test, she was all wrong on this occasion, for the second story front, an apartment with a rag carpet, a settee, a pre- posterously large bed, and some peacock feathers over the mantel-piece, was anything but shining. It was tumbled, close, and dingy, and Mrs. Patchet's society was in itself oppres- sive.     230     The Subtle Spell. "Anything a lady gives to relieve troubles and afflictions such as them," she jerked her head in the direction of up stairs, "should be put in the hands of them that can lay it out for the best. The old lady's failing, as you see; Betsy is a sort of thoughtless child, and so is Doll; she's in the mill, you know, and don't stay at home much." While she was interesting herself by this family summary, I was wondering and think- ing of the strangeness of the scene above, and of the meaning of Mrs. Leslie's face. Only a few hours had passed since Rosie in the morn- ing came to me in distress, and the languid lady was apparently unmoved by any interest save her own whimsical fancies. I could scarcely keep pace with the rapid events that had wrought so great a change, and while the plaintive hum of Mrs. Patchet's begging dis- course went on, and twilight deepened in the  close shut room, I marvelled what manner of conference the beautiful lady could hold with the dying outcast, and whether Rosie would   A  L)eath=Oed Charge.    231 not come in time to relieve thy distressed crea- ture's mind. , A long time passed; even Mrs. Patchet seemed to'feel its rapid flight, and grew impa- tient. "I stay here, giving my time and feelings to them that gives me neither thanks nor pay," she remarked sharply; "my man's supper's to make, and plenty to do. Nobody lifts a hand to help me, but I am never done slaving for them that need me." Pausing to see if this produced the desired effect on me, she opened the door with a jerk and called up: "Betsy I Betsy Welsh!-you Betsy " A gentleman in a clerical suit came slowly up the stairs, and stood aside to let us go by. "It's the minister," said Mrs. Patchet, re- turning to her dulcet tones; "O, what would us poor souls do if it wasn't for the consolations of religion!" and she followed him to the little back room. The door stood open, and Betsy was on her     ^   ,  - Ac tkO OO  pet I knees by the 'bed. I looked around, but could not see Mrs. Leslie anywhere. "She's worsel poor Nan's worse!" cried Betsy; "she's past speaking to us." "No," said the dying woman very faintly, "I am better; the weight's off me now." "What does she say?" asked the minister. "Does she mean the despairing feeling that - held her down'and would not let her hope?" Annie made a great effort to speak, but failed to utter a sound. After a little struggle she raised her hands, and the minister, getting down on the dingy floor at her side, guided them so that they became clasped, as if in prayer; then with a fervor and earnestness I never heard equalled, he besought God's pardon and Christ's redemp- tion in behalf of the poor sinner, whose eyes- were fastened on him with an agony of anxious eagerness that I cannot express in words. Betsy's low sobbing kept time to the labored breath, until by and by it grew more convul- sive, and a struggle broke the clasped hands   A  )Dea-thk ed Charge.   233 asunder and raised the wasted figure like a bow from the bed. It passed; the good clergy- man proving himself truly a minister to the lying, raised the sinking head and wet the    f blue lips with some aromatic liquid he poured  from a bottle into a glass. She revived, but did not seem to know him, her eyes wandered,  and her head moved uneasily from side to side. "The lady has gone home, leaving word     that you must excuse her," said Mrs. Patchet  in my ear.  "She is a true- lady, and I'll  respect her as such, for her hand is open, and  she's ready to help them that's in trouble."  I gathered from this that Mrs. Leshe had  purposely separated from me, and had proved  herself accessible to Mrs. Patchet's hinting  system, and gained her good will thereby,  I was surprised at the first; the last might  have been looked for from  a generous and  inexperienced lady like Mrs. Leslie. I spoke  apart to Betsy, and gave her somne directions for improving the decency and comfort of the i$     234     The Subtle Spell. place, with a little money to aid in carrying them out, and I saw Mrs. Patchet's disapproba- tion in the curt way she answered my inquiry as to who would watch with the dying woman all night. The clergyman remained, administering the restoring liquid, and watching in hope of returning consciousness; but it was growing dark, so I was forced to take my leave, and a last look at the poor wretch whose life was being paid for a few years wretched and sin- ful delirium, and who, at the grave's awful Drink, heard at last the voice of her slighted aaviour, and awoke from the lethargy of sin ;ufficiently to dread its terrible consequences ,o others. On my homeward way I tried to think of  he dying thief's forgiveness, and hope, even s that patient man of God whom I left still ;neeling at her side was hoping, and striving a turn those dying eyes to the cross, and lift he death chilled-heart to the Redeemer for ity and pardon.         V . ^          :   CHAPTER XII, THE NEW GROCERY STORE. FOUND on going home that it was long past tea-time, and Mrs. Leslie and her brother were shut up together in her room. Mrs. Warren told me that when she arrived before me, she had actually rushed through the hall and up the stairs, and that her brother, testifying great emotion, had appeared in the upper entry and clasped her in his arms. I was drinking a cup of-tea in the great empty dining-room when Mrs. Warren, waiting on me, informed me of this. "I am a little prejudiced no doubt," said the good lady, "and am inclined to suspect 235     236     The Subtle Spell. anything she does as being more effective than real; but the great sob she gave as she fell on his shoulder, was very different in its sound from the other noises she has treated us to." I hoped so, most sincerely hoped so; and that night, when I heard the continued mur- mur of her voice above me, the earnest rise and fall of her tone, I longed with an almost overpowering longing to hear her words, so that I might rest in the assurance that Annie Welsh's last entreaty was not forgotten nor disregarded; but I was obliged to wait for the developments of time to set me at ease on this point. Next morning, as I was going down to breakfast, I caught a glimpse of Mrs. Leslie's figure just before the front door closed behind her. It was a startling sight, for the lady's habit had been to breakfast in bed, when she break- fasted at all, and I could not realize her going out in this brisk business-like way at such an hour. Mrs. Yarnall was equally astonished.   The JNew Grocery Store.    237 "Then it was a neglected relation, or some- thing of the sort," she whispered to me. "She is out this morning with a face so full of busi- ness that you really would not recognize it. I met her on the stairs, and she hurried in and just swallowed a cup of coffee and prepared to rush away. I said, 'My dear Mrs. Leslie, are you not rather early for pleasure?" and she said in the oddest and most intensified manner, 'No one can  make too much haste where another's peace and happiness are at stake.' She then flew off in the most surprising way, and I have remained actually struck, waiting for your presence to throw some light on the mystery." "I cannot do it," I returned; "but I suppose it is part of the business that every one under- stands best for themselves, when it is their own. Dr. Dallas may tell you, however; he and his sister seem to have but one feeling and interest in everything." "My dear," said Mrs. Yarnall gravely, "I would not be silly as well as disobliging,     238     The Subtle Spell. were I you;" and she went off in a huff, for which I was sorry. Dr. Dallas came to my room presently. "Claudia begged me to apologize for her abruptness yesterday," he said; "the fact is, she was greatly excited, and felt that there was no time to be lost in the mission she has undertaken. Miss Park, my dear sister is one of the noblest and most generous of women, as I trust you will learn. She is capable of self- sacrifice and a lofty devotion that it really touches me to recall, and---and-" he paused and seemed to find what he meant to say al- most impossible to reduce to words; at length he finished the sentence in a much lower tone, hesitating at times, and appearing to pause for the right word to convey the impression he wished to give me.  "I have thrown myself on your kindness and sympathy in a matter so delicate in its nature, that I really am at a loss to explain my object, without injustice to the one I so deeply desire to serve. Still, having forced my confi-   The JVew  Grocery Store.   239 dence in act upon you, I must beg you to accept it in a few words. Try to realize as I do the power of circumstances in bringing about strange results; remember my sister is impulsive, and unused to self-government, and that in such natures feeling is always stronger than reason. She was married, more than five  'years ago, to my most intimate friend, and though but a girl at the time, she and her husband seemed to me the very realization of domestic happiness, so well fitted were they to bless each other and sustain their relations to society. - They had a little child, of whom they were idolatrously fond. Claudia seemed to find in it her last desire fulfilled, and to feel her life complete in perfect sunshine and delight. One day, nearly three years ago, while it was laugh- ing and clapping its little hands in its nurse's arms on the second balcony of the house, the child sprang forward suddenly, and went ,over, falling on its face, and being taking up dead and fearfully disfigured. The shock was so fearful to my brother-in-law that he was incapable of e     240     The Subtle Spell. sustaining my unhappy sister. She was the calmer of the two, but after the funeral she fell into a low fever, and sank day by day, until she was only kept alive by stimulants. These were administered by the physician's orders, and we, her watchful friends, were delighted to find any remedy that would rouse her from the death- like lethargy of grief. Had we known the result, we would have shrunk from such a cure, preferring even the grave to life on such terms; but we never suspected the medicine would become a necessity, until we saw that the appe- tite it had created must be satisfied at any hazard, and that the unhappy girl had sunk every other feeling in the one unrestrainable thirst for intoxicating drinks. It was a terrible story, and when despair seemed to take posses- sion of us all, we made this last effort. Thank you, my dear Miss Park, for the kind interest you have felt, and your most delicate expres- sion of it. You will now see my sister as she really is, and then you will feel that it was deserved. She talked with me last night, and I   The .New Grocery Store.   241 am convinced that she is perfectly awakened to a new life, or rather that her true self has again asserted its ascendency over an unnatural habit, and a hideous taste utterly unworthy her indulgence." I felt sincerely glad and sincerely sympa- thetic, and yet I could not but wonder a little that the devoted brother should give spon- taneity the credit that belonged to Annie Welsh and Prince's Court. However the great end, a woman's reforma- tion, was in the way of being gained, and why should I cavil at the means? In the truest spirit of thankfulness I joined him in appre- ciating the beauty of his dearly loved sister's character, and admiring the fealty that urged him to set her forth in a good light, and to honor her in both word and deed. I became oblivious of the sleeplessness and nervous shocks I had met 'roin her unfortunate pecu- liarity, and determined to regard'her only with her brother's eyes. Mr. Ingraham, some time after this, made 16     242     The Subtle Spell. his pretty betrothed a very sweet present, and she called on me in a most amiable and unself- ish spirit, to admire it and enjoy it with her. It was no less than the endowment of a small but complete home for the children of inebri- ates, where they could find permanant or tem- porary shelter, as the case might be, and whose chief beauty and utility was that no formality was necessary in gaining admittance, except the assurance of necessity. It was to be named "The Elinor Shelter," and as Miss Carter told me laughingly, they expected John Crawford to fill it for them in no time, since its capacity only accommodated fifty little ones.  "He is the greatest purveyor of such com- modities alive, I believe, and he deals only in stringent measures. He treats drunkenness like any other madness, and holds to putting a habitual inebriate under restraint as the only hope of salvation. Mr. Ingraham trusts to him to find not only immates for our little place, but officers too; however, I\have appointed a matron myself, with Mrs. Warren's permission,   The aew Grocery Store.    243 in the person of our good, motherly Kitty. She!couldn't touch a dirty, neglected child, without improving its condition. I speak from experience, for this last few weeks I have been studying her character in its development at the back gate." "Then you too have profited by that portal," I said; "I found it a source of real interest while I was too ill to leave my easy chair." "Yes, Carrie's room has that look-out, and mamma was a little anxious about the poor girl; she is naturally impulsive and easily led, and mamma wanted me to take her to task; but do you know, Miss Park, I think it rather hard to accuse a girl in society of having no serious object in view. Nobody does-now do they? Yet mamma worried so much after hearing about Mrs. Leslie's influence, that Ive tried to sit with Carrie more than usual, and so got my back gate experience. Presently-but this was when we were on our way together to the building purchased for the Shelter-Miss Elinor said quickly;     244     The Subtle Spell. "But O, I have meant for a few days past to speak to you about the change in Mrs. Leslie. I want to tell you what Mrs. Sayward told mamma. There was a wretched woman who came here in the disguise of a seamstress, though she never set a stitch, I hear, and who carried brandy to Mrs. Leslie, and received clothes and jewelry instead, for Dr. Dallas hides the money to prevent it being spent in that way. Well, this wretched creature, who has literallydrank herself into a beast and laid in the streets night after night, was at last brought down to death, and they say Mrs. Leslie heard of it, and went and saw her die,  and actually buried her at her personal expense in a very respectable manner. It appears that Mrs. Sayward had a sad personal experience in the case of an only son, and that while he was engaged in drinking himself crazy, she hired a woman called Patchet, to watch and bring  him home when she could coax him to go. Mrs. Patchet told Mrs. Sayward this, and like- wise informed her that the good clergyman   (The Jfew Grocery Store.    245 who aided Mrs. Leslie's Christian work, put the miserable mother of Annie in a Refuge or Home of some kind, and strongly recommended the remaining Welsh, a girl called Betsy, to the care of his church society. John Crawford is now a member of that denomination, so as soon as he heard that his cousin Kitty was chosen matron, he applied for Betsy to be received as assistant." "Dear me," I said, quite bewildered, "how nicely these things do work out," "Yes," cried Elinor delightedly, "that's what I say; things work in so harmoniously, as soon as you begin to take an interest in them, and so I beg, dear Carrie to try and like a useful lifer; but Malvy Wharton, and May Harding, and Mr. Hadley, and Mr. Van Arte- veldte all call it 'churchly' or 'strong minded,' and lead Carrie away." When we reached the building, we found it to have been commenced as a small row of neat houses, by some parties who failed to carry out their designo it had been altered slightly by     246     The Subtle Spell. having fewer doors, more windows and a good deal of additional yard room. The lower floor had a nice little parlor, a long bright dining- room, a cheerful play-room, and the very best bath arrangements, and laundry on the same side with the good comfortable kitchen. The bed rooms were airy, and beginning to be fitted up nicely. "I shall just cover these walls with pic- tures, said the happy mistress of the place. "When I see how beautiful God makes the part of the world that is left to Him to adorn, I feel that He intends people to be taught pleasantly through the means of their eyes. Certainly it is right to teach children in that way, who cannot reason very acutely, nor take  in a heavy mental load of ideas. I mean to have all the sweet merciful acts of our Saviour illustrated, so that when they go to sleep and wake up they may be reminded of the children- loving Lord. Then in the dining-room I will hang all the pretty story pictures full of innocent amusement that grow up with little   The JSew Grocery Store.   247 ones--the Bo-Peeps and Boy Blues, the Cinde- rella and Riding Hood and Babes in the Woods sort, so that the poor things may be in a good humor at meal-time, and enjoy ae little fancy as well as luckier children." I said I thought they would be very lucky children indeed. "O, but just think what will bring them there-wlat they must have seen and known before good Kitty plays foster-mother to them!" I liked to see a pretty young lady so thoughtful for the good of others; it was such a change, too, so different from her tone but a short time before. But if evil communications corrupt g9od manners, should not the influence of a high and noble nature make itself felt also? Mr. Ingraham, in selecting the pretty Miss Carter, must have seen latent generosity and benevolence waiting for the awakening breath of love and encouragement to break into the' bloom of a beautiful nature, and in bestowing l!     his affections on the dear girl, he had rendered her worthy to receive and enjoy them fully, by fitting her to share his highest interest and aid in his loftiest hopes. "Shall we go home by the way of Crawford's store?" I asked. $"I am interested in seeing the kind of establishment such a man presides over." "By all means. We shall most likely meet Mr. Ingraham there, who wanted to hear your opinion of the 'Shelter' so much, that he will be, delighted to meet us." "For no other reason, I suppose," I said, laughing, and to Crawford's we went accord- ingly. If Miss Elinor had a mental reservation in her obliging little speech, I had one in mine too. I was anxious to see something of mr friend Rosie Dunn, concerning whose fortunes I was deeply and truly anxious. When I threw her upon Mrs. Leslie's hands as I had done, it was in prayerful experiment. I earnestly petitioned Heaven to bless the trial   I AWtjY rW /cL xu/ry 0u-Ct. k'v) o I made of the mutual interest I hoped would spring up between them, and I watched and waited with indescribable anxiety the result of the association. I had gathered from my knowledge of the brother and sister that a certain kind of pride was a family inheritance with both. That it was miserably debased in her case, and a little blind "in his, I was compelled to acknowledge; and that he had broken through his share and besought my help in the very desperation of his soul, was equally plain. Hope dawning upon both in the new excitement that had larrested the havoc of the old enemy, the passion returned in renewed force, and both shrank from any allusionJto the misery that had made us confidartes. He was beamingly gracious, and she was constantly busy, but Prince's Court or Annie's death-bed was not mentioned between us. She was out a very great deal, sometimes driving, but mostly walking, and he was with her but seldom,     I had found him in' the parlor with gentle Mary Arthur, reading or talking to her again and again, and there was something so con- genial to a weary man in the tender quiet of her soft low voice, and the timid sweetness of her patient face, that I did not wonder he rested from his labors under such attractive influence. Mrs. Yarnall's attention had been absorbed for weeks by an investigation Mrs. Sayward ound one of her papers was making into the life and conduct of a  public official, who proved interesting to her only in his public light, while Mrs. Yarnall, who had been his wife's most intimate friend, seized it as an object of con- doling correspondence with that lady, and daily made notes of the case as it progressed under her friend's supervision, with a view to repeat- ing    it all by epistle, and  thereby harrowing the unfortunate wife's soul with her sympathyI In this blessed pause Miss Arthur found respite, and took courage to be the winning, attractive girl she was meant for, and Dr. Dallas basked'   in the faint sunlight of her slowly returning smile. Thi`r was the way things !'stood when Miss Elinor and f approached John Crarwford's flour- ishing looking store, and found that extreme cleanliness and an air of. immense business briskness were its chief :attributes. I had seen as pure sugar, as large raisins, as fresh crackers, and clean dried fruit before, but everything was set forth so advantageously, so temptingly arranged, so attractively placarded, that it really seemed a privilege to come and buy. It was also a store to meet the wants of a common neighborhood, with good articles at their lowest prices, as nicely done up as if to suit the most refined and fastidious buyers. Everything was so exquisitely tasteful and *ell laid out that its moderate price came like a cheerful surprise; it must have cost some trouble and called for constant care; but John and his cousin's husband were both      brisk, energetic men, and there was also a clean,    active boy there too, with a decent gray suit and big white apron to keep it tidy. I looked once, and then again. Yes, certainly it was Bob Dunn--Bob under promising circumstances and the sunshine of good fortune. Mr. Crawf~ came from behind his counter to meet Miss Carter with a gratified look, and I was surprised to find him a fair-faced and rather boyish looking young man, with a gentle smile, expressive of almost childish simplicity of nature, and an innocent brightness pervading his features, rather than the keen decision of so marked a character which I had expected. His eyes, of dark hazel, were full of grave meaning, and they alone indicated him to be a person of firmness and energy. Excessive kindness, good humor, and love of fun was what first impressed me in his countenance, but I learned to know that as his normal and inactive state; as soon as he woke to any special interest he took its meaning in his looks, and was another being under its influence. He was not by any means a common man.   his manner, without a grain of affectation, was refined from the very gentleness of his nature, and his expression proved the intelligence of his mind. "I am glad to see you, Miss Park, for my cousin Kitty has told me how kind you have been to her, and made me want to thank you on my own account for it." Of course this was Kitty's partial view of it; mine made me the recipient of her favors and attentions, as ailing people are always apt to. be to those who have kind hearts around them. "How is Prince's Court -now, Mr. Craw- ford?" asked Miss Elinor. "You must ask the Reverend Mr. Butler, Miss Carter," said he; "nobody can      tell you better than he, for he is a missionary there." I remembered that to be the name of the clergyman who prayed at Annie Welsh's, dying bed, and said that I had seen enough of the good gentleman to feel glad that Prince's Court was in his hands.    254      The Subgle Spell. "If you ladies will step into Mrs. McGinn's as you go by, she will tell you what he has done and is doing. There's nothing left for me at all, it seems;" and he laughed his cheery, boyish laugh. "But you began it, Mr. Crawford," I hinted. "I heard from Mrs. Leslie what you did for the Dunns.'" "Put their poor mother in the asylum! Yes, it's a hard way to do good, but I find it is the only one I understand. Mr. Butler has the persuasion and faith of an ..,gel, and he can lift a poor drunkard out of his misery by the strength of prayer, while I can't move an inch without the strong arm of the law.  If I try to save a    soul, I  begin by arresting a  body." "But do you seriously think that such mea- sures are advisable?" I   asked. "Seriously, because I know of no better," he replied.  "I find    a  woman  drinking  to the destruction of her own life and her family peace. While she is under the influence of intoxication, no other influence can reach her;   every effort is futile because of the strong resist- ance of drink. To conquer that is the first step, and legal interference is the only justi- fiable means." "But it seems harsh to arrest and confine the object of your solicitude." "Just so, and that is why it is so seldom done. Visit this inebriated sister, talk with her earnestly and pleadingly, and she will tell you unnumbered falsehoods as to her condition, will resent your advice, and rai at your sus- picions. Give her money to relieve the want rum has induced, and she will buy more to increase the difficulty. Try to get her children out of her murderous grasp, and she will accuse you of kidnapping them, and will hold her case against you in law. After a dozen trials, all in the purest benevolence of spirit, you will find that you have only succeeded in making a row and enraging her against you. Then consider my remedy. I get proof of the incapacity of the poor soul, her dangerous habits, and need of restraint, and swear out a warrant. The      256     The Subtle Spell. relieved family, aghast at my heartlessness, always unite against me, and  the officer removes her by force to the asylum or jail- always the asylum, when I can manage it. There, then, is the opportunity to begin; a rough harrow has opened the ground, and if it is ever to recei/e seed, then is the time." "You let th m see afterwards that you are a blessing in disguise," suggested Miss Elinor. "Not always, for I cannot soothe as well as I should like to. I have a rough hand, I fear,  and often fail in conveying the good I desire to offer in an acceptable form. Such men as Mr. Butler, the minister, are the true healers; they follow their Master's lessons, and can give hope and peace; but I've got a horror of drink and drunkards, and root them up wherever I can reach them, leaving it to more skilful hands to smooth the earth over the place that is dug up." "Not always," I said; "Rosie Dunn-" "O, please excuse me, Miss Park; Rosie Dunn found her own remedy, and took it; she's a self   Th'e J]ew Grocery Store.   257 helper, and a noble girl. You will be glad to hear that her mother consents to try the cure out at the asylum, and has seen them all in a very good spirit, confessing herself perfectly satisfied to stay and undergo the treatment prescribed by the institution." "Why, that is good news," I said; and I added, smiling, "I do not need to be told who it was that prevailed on her to be so reasonable. Her poor family owe you a great debt of grati- tude, Mr. Crawford." I never saw any one so glad as he appeared to be at an opportunity to transfer credit to somebody else. He laughed, and said I was the worst guesser in the world; that he only did the cruel work of separating families and breaking up homes, it seemed, for some good angel always stepped in and bound up the wounds and soothed the troubled waters. Mrs. Leshe was the healer in this case. She had been at the institution almost daily, and achieved a great success in bringing Mrs. Dunn to her senses. 17       .     258     The Subtle Spell. "Rosie told me last evening that the dear lady seemed possessed of something more than common power in her influence with her mother. She represents the life she is going to be restored to, its usefulness and respectability,  and the fearful death, moral and physical, she has just escaped, in such glowing words, that Mrs. Dunn listens and answers like one entirely under the control of the speaker. For myself, I never dare to interfere with a work that seems to carry a divine mission with it, like this lady's. I have never seen Mrs. Dunn since I helped to carry her shrieking from her burning house; and the lady, who came by chance into Prince's Court and fell into conver- sation with Mrs. McGinn next day, found her work ready to her hand, and has done it nobly and beautifully." While we talked with the proprietor of the new store, his helpers were kept constantly busy waiting on customers. To be sure they came mostly on little errands-for it is part of the policy of poverty to buy in pennyworths- I   The J ew Grocery Store.    259 but still I regarded them hopefully, for it was so much better to see the small change invested in flour, tea or molasses, than in beer or whisky. :-   ",;.ou will see Mr. Butler, ladies, if you go up the Court now," said Mr. Crawford; "I think he would like a little encouragement from you on the subject of a temperance prayer-meeting he is starting there in Dunn's empty house. He took it for the three months of spring, to hold weekly or even nightly meetings in, if he can find any interest awakened in the subject, and is now trying to get up something in the way of illustrated tracts or papers on temper- ance subjects chiefly, that he can distribute free, after each short meeting." "Does Mr. Ihgraham  know of this idea?" asked Miss Carter. "Why, I believe not," said the grocer;,"you see, Miss Carter, it would not be right to work the good gentleman's sympathies and generosity beyond reason. Heo helps us nobly, but we are always wanting new workers, and     260     The Subtle Spell. the great thing is to get a place that will employ the very people that need to be saved. There is no such thing as an idle reform; get  a person to work, and waken their interest in the right way, and they will leave evil of their own accord. Keep them without occupation or counter-excitement, and you can't drag them out of it. That's my experience." "Then you are looking for some one to aid in these distribution prayer-meetings?"I asked, thinking that I could find the person they needed. "Yes, Miss Park, that is just it; some one who has the subject at heart, who knows the neighborhood, and will bring enthusiasm and knowledge to bear on the effort." "If you were only able-I mean if your health would permit-how well you could do it," said my kind young friend as we left the store together. I shook my head, for my eye had just caught  little Bessie Dunn's figure in a clean dress and apron, wisking off the pavement with a broom    The Jlew Grocery Store    26I nearly as large as herself, and I recalled my futile effort in her. behalf with chagrin. "But what does it matter who does the good work, so that it gets done," I thought, and I cheered up and rejoiced in the improved circum- stances around me, f     CHAPTER   XIII. MRS. M'GINN'8 VIEWS. ROSIE'S store, though in its infancy, had already assumed quite an effective appearance, and altered the looks of Watson's house so that I scarcely recognized the Court front. Both windows were full of labelled goods nicely made up, and in a small show-case on a stand at the front door were two or three exceedingly neat white slips for babies, taste-  I fully trimmed with a cheap edging, and some  pretty white aprons trimmed with braid.      i I pointed out the attractiveness and utility of each arrangement to Miss Elinor. 262   Mrs. McGinn's Views.    263 "I never saw so nice a show made with so small a stock," I said. "I believe Mr. Crawford advised all this," she said; "he considers appearances a great means, and when attractive vice is alluded to, says all you've got to do is to make virtue more attractive still. Being an uneducated person, except in the best sense, he relies on the eye as a teacher almost as much as the ear, though he did not say so. I am sure the idea of distri- buting picture stories about temperance to those who attend the prayer-meeting, is a sug- gestion of his own." Rosie, behind her little counter, selling tape and cotton to a child, looked up at our entrance with a bright smile. "O, Miss Park," she cried, "I did want to see you so much, but we got busy all at once here, and I never have a minute, it seems, except on Sunday, and- then  Mr. Butler has started a Sunday-school class in our old house, and after church that takes up the day, except the hour I spend with mother."     264     The Subtle Spell. "Yes, yes, I understand, Rosie, my dear; it was my place to come and see you, but I  waited to enjoy it all as I do now. O, how very, very nice you are." And so they were. Willie, like a little rosy apple, sat toasting beside the shining stove in the clean fresh front room, that had no preten- sions, as yet, to business, beyond the double row of boxes behind the small counter, and the work so temptingly displayed in the window. As for the rest, it seemed a tidy sitting-room, but as I grew accustomed to the arrangement of things, I saw that it held very little furni- ture, and had many devices and make-shifts to supply the want. Rosie had manufactured two flour-barrel chairs and covered them with crim- son chintz, beside turning a couple of soap boxes into neat footstools by the aid of some  bright drugget. "Sally is at school," said Rosie; "Mr. Craw- ford believes in education, and so does father, so she is taking her chance at it now. She gets home at twelve, and has time to see to   Mrs.  cGinn's Views.   265 dinner and clear away before she goes back. Bessie is growing really handy, too, and now that Mrs. Knox is getting work, and I am kept busy at my little jobs, she is able to help us both."  "Mrs. Knox is the dressmaker," said Miss Elinor, glancing at the sign in the window to that effect. "Yes, Kitty's sister; she didn't think of carrying on her trade at first, but the Miss Watsons had made it known as a stand, and some people came to see about having fitting and cutting done as soon as we moved. Her husband thought she wouldn't have any time to sew, but she's very smart, and wants to buy a house when they get money enough; so, as her work will help along, they have agreed About it, and she buys all her trimmings from me because her sign is in our window. "A very nice arrangement, and mutually beneficial." "Yes, ma'am, and when my own work gets slack, I can help her; but at present I have a     266    iThe Sbubtle SPell. good deal to do making flannel and cloth sacques for the spring. Madam Pomplin was very kind to me; she let her cutter give me two or three patterns and show me how to manage with the material, so I have quite a trade in spring coats. They get their own stuff you know, and it comes much cheaper than if they bought them at a large place ready-made." "Well indeed, Rosie, you surprise me; you are quite a woman of business." "O, Miss Park, that is not my idea; the credit belongs to Mrs. Leslie, and she went herself and saw Madam Pomplin about it. Nobody can ever tell how good that dear lady has been to me. I will never forget to thank you and Miss Mary, who was my first friend; but dear Miss Park, this lady has been like an angel to us all, and she seems to understand  everything and have it all laid out, and the difficulties entirely overcome before she speaks of it."s Mrs. Leshe was scarcely recognizable in this new character. I forebore to look at Miss rebore to look at Ms   JMrs. McGinn's Views.    267 Carter, who I felt was gazing in astonishment at me. "I want to show you the last kind thing she did," pursued Rosie, wrho was very much in love with her theme. "She came in here last. evening and gave me this ticket to go to a sewing machine place where she had bought me a machine, and I am to be taught to sew on it when I decide which one I will have. I am to pay her in work when I learn how to do it nicely, which will not be long, I am sure, for as father says, any one must learn where grati- tude is the teacher." We applauded the usefulness and delicacy of the gift greatly, and Mr. Dunn having been mentioned, I asked about him particularly. "Father does not seem like the same person since we left the old house," said his thankful daughter; "he is at liome every evening, and seems to do very well with the hack, and Mr. Butler has got him to be a trustee of the nightly meetings. Father never went much$to church, and felt sort of ashamed to do anything     268     The Subtle SpeZl.  prominent about one, but they showed him what a favor it would be if he would help them, and he could not refuse, considering how kind they had been; so he really has got quite pleased with it, and comes home and gets washed and brushed up to go and see Mr. Butler almost    every night." Mr. Ingraham appeared at the door and spoke kindly to Rosie, as one who knew the poor girl, and appreciated the struggle he had helped to render a triumph; for Mr. Crawford took pains to inform me that his good patron had liberally assisted the impoverished family in their present effort, and showed such decided interest in Mrs. Dunn's reclamation as to visit the asylum per-  sonally and talk with her about her brighteri future, with kind promises and encouragement in case she stood firm in her trial. He asked Miss Carter to go with him to look at Crawford's plan for a small library and evening room; to take the place of a tavern lounge, and allow the sons of toil to read the papers, talk over the news together, and   Mrs. MfcGinnl's Views.    6 969 occasionally furnish their families with such diversions as a small concert or magic lantern exhibition, or perhaps a lecture or reading. Idleness, mental and physical, seemed a bughear to the grocer; employment and amuse- ment were the regimen of reform in his plan, and it appeared that he was determined to take the business out of Satan's hands, and find interest and improving pleasure, instead of mis- chief, for the unoccupied, who are proverbially disposed to evil. I laid I would go up the Court for awhile and rejoin them presently; so as Rosie had quite a little run on her needle box, and a suc- cession of applicants for pennyworths of pins and thread, I slipped away and went around the corner. I noticed Mrs. Bowers standing rather discontentedly at her door, and spoke to her. She was well, and Cassie got on first-rate. O, Cassie was smart enough, and the Watsons, though rather stuck up, were pretty good in their ways. But what she complained of was     270     The Subtle Spell. the changes; it was enough to turn a body's head, so it was, to keep the run of the Court and the street since poor old Barse died. First it was setting folks up in shops, and then it was handing round books and tracts, as if a person had nothing to do but read. Then it was breaking up dwelling-houses into churches. Mrs. Bowers thought it bad enough to have a church at nearly every corner, but that there grocery man must start one up the old court, where things used to be so quiet and sociable. If people would mind their own business, and' let other people alone, it would suit Mrs. Bowers better, she said.       - She shook her head discontentedly, and     ; standing idle and lounging there, wished that every one had as much to doa as she had, and they would not find time to meddle and bother as they did.  This was the adverse view of the change. I wanted to go right up to cheerful Mrs. McGinn's to hear the other side, but Mary Bryne, sweeping down the gutter, splashed me   I"*              ^ ml vyr in quite a, a little anad aplo e ery much,a, respectful manner. I spoke to her pleasantlY, and haig hear from  osi of her ormer dissolute conduct was glad to notice that she w asl tolerably decent in appearance "I was just sweeping out the front rom in Dunns old house," she said. "I made up the Sunn- oia iaous       rice, for Mr. fire fresh and, dusted round right nice, for Ntr. Butler expects to hold a meeting to-night. " "' how good of you to help him." O yesIdidn't mind, seeing I was out of , and every little helps,when a bodyo work,   ever   as a particular favor to P00re   ael Me aga       theyheia Pta charge f the house as long as they held it for meetings it keepsme  ing prett ite   thGi  ain't hard work, but he's such aciil nth at I don't mind doing an extra civil  an job to oblige him." ' "o she was drawn in too, not very hopefuly, I was afraid, as I look  at ther, but cer under better influence than formerly, when, as un hader beern told, she hung about a low gogger Ihaa beeu tolds)ehuugaD     in a small jack street, and- had been dismissed from the factory where she had formerly worked, on account of habitual intemperance. Mrs. McGinn was ironing.    I had seen before that constant employment was a neces- sity to her; when she talked to me she crimped ruffles, and now, though she received me very kindly, and made a feint of sitting in her best room to entertain me, she glanced downward at her ironing table in the kitchen with such a longing look, that I begged we might adjourn there, to which she reluctantly consented, politeness being strong in her feelings; but the pleasure with which she resumed her posi- tion showed me I had done well to persist against her amiable protest. "I get out of a deal of heavy trouble by the aid of hard work, Miss," she said apologetical- ly.  "I used to think and think, and my thoughts beat like great sledge hammers through my head, till I was' afraid it would burst. When I worked, I kept up with the beating in my brain, and sometimes it would   get tired because I was tired, so I went on till I wore it out, and now I suppose it is a habit." "But you believe in work as a cure, do you not?" "Yes, Miss, I do, but that may be because I am an ignorant woman and know no other way but the one I have tried myself. Still it's mostly successful," she added, smiling. "There has been a great change wrought in the Court here, Mrs. McGinn." "Yes, it is that I had in my mind when I; spoke. That was all work. Why, people have come in here for years wishing and mourning, and shaking their heads, but that amounted to nothing. Ladies would stop here and look at the poor little naked Dunns. 'Isn't it pitiful!' they would exclaim, and some of them would even cry about it. What good did that do? Did it put a rag on their backs or a bit in their mouths?   No indeedl Talking! Miss Park, I won't deny that I'm a great talker myself; it is a good thing, and does its work in the right place; but it don't act in this Court, and       274     The Subtle Spell. we had too much of it. It used to seem to me that Prince's Court was the place people came  to hear their own voices, for good ministers and missionaries, and visiting ladies, and Dorcas society people all came, and talked, and talked, and talked. Of course it had its effect, but it wasn't a good one. Mrs. Duna would come out like a demon, and try to throw water or slops on them, or chase them with dirt or snowhalls; the Murphys generally gave their minds to cursing and abusing them; while the Brynes would get up and try to take them off, so as to make the young ones laugh.  Not a soul in the Court relished the preaching, not because it wasn't good in itself, but it had a bad effect on the people that it was meant to benefit, and sp turned out worse than useless." She brought her iron down violently on, the towel she was smoothing as an emphatic close to her expressed opinion, and vigorously pro- ceeded with her work. "But a better day has come," I suggested, bringing her back to the subject.   Mrs. McGinn's Views.    275 "Yes, a better day truly, and Heaven be praised for it! I was always a strong believer in the ruling of Providence, even when my own heart was torn with the trouble that had crushed it. I recognized the Heavenly Hand, and tried to bow to it. Well, Crawford, the grocer, came after Barse, and when I saw him flying round, rolling barrels and working as he did, I knew it would be all right, and told Mrs. Martin so. Just after that, Mrs. Dunn took one of her worst turns at, the bottle, and the whole Court was disturbed with her doings. One night she beat Rosie, and I went over and I gave her a shaking that frightened our Jim so that he could not go to bfd that night. Says he, 'Mother, I'm afraid you've killed her.' I wasn't. 'It will take more than a shaking to finish Peggy Dunn,' says I; 'she's quiet now, and if she rouses again and, lifts a hand to one of her miserable children, I'll go over and risk giving her another.' Well, it wasn't but a day or so more till she flew at poor Bob, and I not being handy, the stove went over. between     276     The Subtle Spell. them, and by the blessing of Providence set the house on fire. I was out taking home some clothes, and when I came back the Court was up in arms, and a fearful ruction going on about Crawford, the grocer, arresting Mrs. Dunn as a woman crazy from habitual intem- perance. I was the only neighbor that did not interfere, but Crawford is like a rock. He's as mild as a baby, and all good humor, but when his mind's made up, nothing moves him. Rosie's tears made him tremble a little, for lie could scarcely speak to her; but when she worked herself into a passion and called him a hard-hearted wretch for disregarding her poor mother's cries, he was just as cool as you please again, and carried her off in a close carriage at his own expense, they tell me. That was the beginning of the good, but the next day a lady with the looks of an angel and the sweetest ways ever I saw came in here, as she thought by chance, but it was the guiding of Providence that sent her. Miss Park, she is the one that has saved Prince's Court, an instrument in the ,          ,   Mrs. McGinn's Views.     2" 7 \ Lord's hand, but a chosen one, and her work has been blessed right through." I expressed my pleasure and thankfulness, and she went on. "There's no secret in the matter; 'there never should be any hiding when a good thing is done. I often think if the evil was hid and the good proclaimed, it would be a better world than it is. She is a lady devoted to noble deeds, and though young, and very rich, has had some great trouble of her own that makes her desire to do her Father's work and bow her heart to His will. Her name is Mrs. Leslie; maybeyou have heard of her?" "Yes, I think so; but tell me about her." "Dear Miss, look at the Court, and tlhat will tell you. See the home Rosie and her family have; see her father coming home sober and sensible, and staying at his own fireside as he never did before; and the Brynes all taken to better ways, and the Murphys going back sober to their work; and look in every front room in the neighborhood, and you'll find some nice /  )     278     The Subtle Spelt. gift to the children or old people. Ask every one that has sickness, and they'll tell you they have been remembered too." "A truly noble work," I said. "Yes, and it is only just begun; every day she is busier than the day before, and Prince's Court may well bless the day that brought her here." Mr. Butler had been standing at the door, but just as I crossed the Court he went into the house, not observing or expecting me to follow. I stole down the Court, as I saw him enter Mrs. McGinn's door, and I thought a good deal on my homeward way, of how curiously oppo- site lives blended with each other in God's own good way and time, and wondered if there were a providence in the ragged little rappers com- ing to our back gate while the rich lady lay moaning and wailing above stairs; yet to their coming could I trace the grand results, and realize how some had entertained angels una- wares.   CHAPTER XIV. CONCLUSION- ^I N  TER had passed, Spring had come and was deepening  into Summer. Mr. Ingraham and Miss Carter, their ?^ 2marriage already delayed some weeks by Miss Carrie's sudden and severe illness, were on the eve of their wedding, and Miss Elinor had grown so much beloved by our household, that it was an occasion of real and universal rejoicing. Miss Carrie had recovered a week ago so far as to be able to sit up, and as she said herself, her will did the rest, for she would not lose the opportunity of wearing the prettiest bridesmaid dress conceivable, which had been her great  %     279     280 /    The Subtle Spell. distress throughout the sickness. She was con- suiting in the little sitting-room opening out of mine, with Mrs. Yarnall, who, having entire- ly disposed of the character of the official she had sifted to atoms, was fully able to attend to the wedding arrangements. She was, besides, much concerned about certain mysterious pro- ceedings with which Mary Arthur was con- lected, which, however, only remained a secret till the next day, when, as we all gathered around the church altar witnessing the grand and solemn ceremony that made Mark Ingra- ham and Elinor Carter man and wife, another bridal party was added to the scene, and Mary Arthur, leaning on the arm of a gentleman none of us had ever seen, approached the shrine timidly, as a girl whose life had been prema- turely saddened must draw near happiness. Addie Watson, her bridesmaid, followed on Dr. Dallas' arm, but at the rail they assumed their proper places, and Edward Dallas took Mary Arthur for better or for worse, till death should part them.   Conclusion,      281 I was glad to see that I was not alone in my silly tears. Mrs' Leslie and Jennie Watson, who stood side by Bide, cried heartily, but they kissed the bride and smiled upon her, and she had good wishes enough to make up for floods of tears. Then it transpired that the unknown gen- tleman was Mr. Leslie, come on to see his brother-in-law's happiness and to receive his own. I believe he was a truly thankful man and an excellent gentleman, though I somehow shrank from more than a formal introduction to him. He only stayed a day or two, and during that time the bridal party were much with them-for both the Ingrahams and Dal- lases were going abroad for a while, and the summer being at hand, there was a general scattering of the entire company. Mrs. Warren, who was as happy in the hap- piness of her charge as if she had been her dearly loved daughter, told me that poor Albert Arthur had died during his sisters  I       -      82     The Subtle Spell. illness, and that they had not told her until some time afterwards; that they had feared to let her know because of her devotion to the unfortunate man, and had broken. it gently, dreading a violent grief. But to their surprise she had been very quiet, and when the good doctor assured her that for several hours before his decease her brother was calm and rational, had spoken of the past most penitently, and prayed for God's pardoning love even with his last breath, she seemed even thankful, and cried silently on her faithful friend's breast, saying that the Lord was very, very good, and she blessed Him from the bottom of her heart. The Watsons had been a great source of comfort to her, and this love, that came first in the form of sympathy,-for the doctor at the Asylum was an intimate friend of Dr. Dallas, and told him the story,-sank like reviving dew on the long drooping spirit of the girl, and raised it up in fresh youth and hope again. Mrs. Leshe had been truly happy in her   "Conclusion.     283 brother's choice. She had caused Mary 'to love her so dearly for herself, that it explained to me, taken together with the devotion of the Prince's Courters, the natural charm of a lady had only known intimately under most pain- ful influences. I confess that I avoided close companionship after our connection at Annie Welsh's bedside. I took as a. guide the impulse that caused her to leave me there alone after the dying scene, and felt that I could assist her better by being separate and out of sight. I considered that the day I had found her in natural tears over the letter from home was the first awakening she knew, and that, as in God's providence, events had crowded and worked together for her salvation; but a hor- ror of the past, and a morbid dread to meet its memory in any form had grown upon her, and so both Carrie Carter and I were alike painful to her. Her good work had progressed wondrously, and Kitty at the "Shelter" told me afterwards !      284     The Subtle Spell. of the really marvellous influence she exerted over all she came in contact with. Indeed, Kitty persisted in ascribing Mrs. Dunn's refor- mation to her rather than to John Crawford. "The like of John couldn't move a woman like Peggy Dunn much; but no one living could resist the Doctor's sister. She has the pleading voice of an angel, and could lift you right out of yourself by the power of' her words," said Kitty. Mrs. Dunn had come home and gone into a partnership in the dress-making, for which she always had a great taste and fancy. Kitty told me that she had taken a strong liking to the sewing machine as soon as she saw it, and Rosie gave it right up to her, and humored her by affecting to call upon her for every little seam that had to be sewed. "That's John Crawford's idea, you see," explained Kitty; "he thinks that if she hadn't something to occupy and please her, she might be led off again. John's full of notions, but may-be he's right, after all."   Conclusion.      285 Kitty drew nearer to me and whispered: "John's got more than a notion for Rosie, I hear, Miss, and I'm highly pleased. My sister, Jane Purdy, says that Dunn is doing as well as a man can do, and the minister thinks very highly of him. They've carried on the prayer-meetings so well that quite a little con- gregation has sprung up and joined Mr. But- ler's church, and they have a library and reading-room started, of which Mr. Dunn and James McGinn have charge, besides the Sun- day-school that the minister keeps himself. O, they're doing well in Prince's Court, and Rosie doesn't discourage our John, which is just the best of all, for there wasn't a girl in town I'd rather see his wife than the dear little soul." I heard this the night before the sailing of the two parties for Europe, and I had gone to the "Shelter" to see a bride-cake cut for the children there, and carry them the love and good wishes of their dear patrons. Returning nomeward, I thought I would take a glnce into Mr. Butler's church.     286     The Subtle Spell. I found it a pretty old-fashioned building, in what had been a country graveyard before the  encroaching town had come in upon it, and surrounded it with houses. There was still a beautiful grassy lawn dotted with white grave- stones at one side, and being full of that solemn retrospective thought that inclines one to such places, I went in to walk among the dead. As I went up a gravelled path, a lady I had not before observed started from beside a grave, and facing me with a flush of surprise, said: "You here, Miss Park?" I had seen the name of Annie Welsh on the headstone, and would have stolen away unob- served if I might, but it was too late. "I thought at first that I did not want to see you here," said Mrs. Leslie, after a little pause, and she spoke with an effort, "but that feeling is gone now; it was a foolish pride, and  it is conquered. You know the meaning' this place has for me, and what it and you have been God's own means of doing., I am going away to-morrow, and I came here to take a last   Conclusion.      287 charge from the silent lips whose lessons I have endeavored, with my Saviour's help, to learn." I took the hand she offered, and did not speak, because I thought my silence told her all I wished to say.  "Poor Betsy said to-night that if Annie had only lived to bless me, she would ask no more. I came here to bless Annie, to bless God. 0 Miss Park, pray for me when we are parted never to see each other again, that I may live so as to meet my child in heaven, and never fall away from the hope that animates and sus- tains me now." I promised with all my heart, and though I may never see her more, shall believe that her feet, being fixed upon the true Rock of Salva- tion, will never stumble nor fall. The Dunns are a happy family, though now a divided one. Mrs. Dunn carries on the busi- ness with Mrs. Purdy, and Rosie is gone into another firm. Bessie and Sally are grown up nice girls, and useful helps to their mother. I saw them all not long ago, at a treat at the     1      *         5 288     The Subtle Spell. "Shelter," given in honor of the Ingrahams' return. Kitty and Betsy were glowing with pride in their little family, all nicely dressed and wreathed in smiles to greet their patroness, but little Willie and Bessie were so prettily bedecked by their sister, Mrs. Crawford, that I thought I never saw sweeter looking children. "Can they be the two ragged nondescripts that came begging not very much more than a year ago?"I thought.  Kitty's mind took the same turn.  "You would not believe that to be the pair that I caught like a couple of wild things at our back gate, now would you, Miss Park? It seems as if there was truth in what John Craw- ford says, after all; for he declares that since the days of our Blessed Lord on earth, there are no miracles worked like those wrought in the Cause of Temperance." THE END.   I tI I I     
         
      
   
