
    ----CITATION----
        Cooke, John Esten, (1830-1886). Fairfax, or, The Master of Greenway Court .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6143 wright2-0613
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               FAIRFAX:
               OR, THE MASTER OF GREENWAY COURT.
               A Chronicle of the Valley of the Shenandoah.
            
            BY JOHN ESTEN COOKE, AUTHOR OF "THE VIRGINIA COMEDIANS,"
               "SURRY OF EAGLE'S NEST," ETC.
            
               NEW YORK:
               G. W. CARLETON & CO., PUBLISHERS.
               LONDON:
               S. LOW, SON & CO.
            
            MDCCCLXVIII.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by G. W.
                  CARLETON & CO., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United
                  States, for the Southern District of New York
               LOVEJOY, SON & CO., ELECTROTYPERS & STEREOTYPERS, 15 Vandewater
                  Street, N. Y.
            
         
         
            To ONE WITH WHOM I RODE TO GREENWAY COURT, IN MAY, 1866.
         
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               I.—THREE CAVALIERS. 9
               
               II.—GREENWAY COURT. 16
               
               III.—HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER BECAME UNEASY IN HIS SLEEP. 23
               
               IV.—HOW CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE SAW WITHOUT SEEING, AND WHAT FOLLOWED. 28
               
               V.—THE ESCAPE. 36
               
               VI.—CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE'S PRIVATE MATTERS. 41
               
               VII.—THE CAPTAIN RENEWS THE ATTACK. 48
               
               VIII.—HOW GEORGE WAS LED BY PROVIDENCE. 52
               
               IX.—HOW GEORGE MADE THE ACQUAINTANCE OF CANNIE. 56
               
               X.—A SINGULAR PERSONAGE. 60
               
               XI.—THE WILD HUNTSMAN. 63
               
               XII.—THE DRAMA COMMENCES. 66
               
               XIII.—HOW FALCONBRIDGE HAD A STRANGE DREAM. 72
               
               XIV.—THE NEXT MORNING. 74
               
               XV.—HOW LORD FAIRFAX INFORMED THE CAPTAIN OF A FAMILY PROPHECY. 76
               
               XVI.—HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER DECLARED WAR ON HIS PRIVATE ACCOUNT AGAINST LORD
                  FAIRFAX. 81
               
               XVII.—MONSIEUR JAMBOT'S DEATH'S HEAD. 87
               
               XVIII.—HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER PREDICTED HIS FUTURE FAME. 91
               
               XIX.—OLD MEMORIES. 99
               
               XX.—FIRST LOVE. 101
               
               XXI.—CAPTAIN WAGNER GOES TO CALL UPON HIS FRIENDS. 105
               
               XXII.—THE CAPTAIN REVELS IN THE CREATIONS OF HIS FANCY. 108
               
               XXIII.—CAPTAIN WAGNER DISCOURSES ON THE NATURE OF PANTHERS. 114
               
               XXIV.—REFLECTIONS OF CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE. 120
               
               XXV.—HOW THE TOWN OF STEPHENSBURG, OTHERWISE NEWTOWN, WAS SOLD FOR A FLAGON OF
                  PUNCH. 122
               
               XXVI.—THE DAGGER IN THE HEART. 130
               
               
               XXVII.—FALCONBRIDGE PARTS WITH HIS MOTHER'S RING. 134
               
               XXVIII.—THE LETTER. 138
               
               XXIX.—THE THREADS OF THE WOOF. 142
               
               XXX.—THE ARREST. 148
               
               XXXI.—LIGHTFOOT. 152
               
               XXXII.—HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER OVERTHREW HIS ADVERSARY. 155
               
               XXXIII.—THE WIZARD OF THE MASSINUTTON. 161
               
               XXXIV.—THE PRISONER AND THE JUDGE. 169
               
               XXXV.—THE RESEMBLANCE. 176
               
               XXXVI.—CAMPAIGN OF GENERAL LONGKNIFE. 182
               
               XXXVII.—THE EARL AND FALCONBRIDGE. 191
               
               XXXVIII.—THE PORTRAIT. 196
               
               XXXIX.—THE OLYMPIAN IRE OF CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE. 199
               
               XL.—THE BEGINNING OF THE END. 203
               
               XLI.—PROGRESS. 209
               
               XLII.—IN THE MOUNTAIN. 214
               
               XLIII.—HOW AN ANIMAL CHANGED THE DESTINIES OF THREE HUMAN BEINGS. 218
               
               XLIV.—IN WHICH CAPTAIN WAGNER REQUESTS MONSIEUR JAMBOT TO PULL HIS NOSE. 223
               
               XLV.—THE LAMIA. 231
               
               XLVI.—HOW FALCONBRIDGE KINDLED A FIRE TO SEE BY. 235
               
               XLVII.—PRELIMINARIES. 242
               
               XLVIII.—THE ARRANGEMENT. 247
               
               XLIX.—THE COMBAT. 251
               
               L.—HOW FALCONBRIDGE RECOVERED HIS MOTHER'S RING. 258
               
               LI.—THE APOLOGY. 267
               
               LII.—THE COURIER. 373
               
               LIII.—THE BALL IN THE RIGHT SHOULDER. 278
               
               LIV.—THE ORIGINALS OF THE PORTRAIT. 286
               
               LV.—WHAT THE PACKAGE TORN BY THE BEAR CONTAINED. 291
               
               LVI.—CONCLUSION OF THE EARL'S NARRATIVE. 298
               
               LVII.—THE CONFLAGRATION. 305
               
               LVIII.—THE SEARCH. 311
               
               LIX.—AT THE HOUSE IN THE MOUNTAIN. 313
               
               LX.—THE DEVIL'S GARDEN. 317
               
               LXI.—THE HALF-BREED. 320
               
               LXII.—THE TRAIL. 327
               
               LXIII.—LIGHTFOOT AND CANNIE. 332
               
               LXIV.—THE SLAVE AND HIS MISTRESS. 341
               
               LXV.—CALIBAN AND MIRANDA. 348
               
               LXVI.—LIGHT SHINING IN THE DARKNESS. 355
               
               LXVII.—THE RIVAL OF THE HALF-BREED. 358
               
               LXVIII.—THE MARCH OF THE HUNTERS. 360
               
               LXIX.—THE SON OF WAR EAGLE. 364
               
               LXX.—THE CONFESSION. 368
               
               LXXI.—THE FLIGHT. 372
               
               LXXII.—THE BORDERER AND THE HALF-BREED. 376
               
               LXXIII.—THE YOUNG INDIAN. 385
               
               LXXIV.—THE YOUNG CAVALIER. 388
               
               LXXV.—THE DAUGHTER OF THE STARS. 394
               
               LXXVI.—THE HEART OF LORD FAIRFAX. 399
               
               LXXVII.—THE HEART OF GEORGE. 401
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Fairfax, or, The master of Greenway Court
            
            FAIRFAX;
            OR, THE MASTER OF GREENWAY COURT.
            
               I.
               THREE CAVALIERS.
               ON an evening of October, in the year 1748, the slopes of the Blue Ridge at
                  Ashby's Gap were all ablaze with the red light of the sinking sun.
               At this hour of hours, in the month of months, two horsemen coming from the east,
                  ascended the steep road above the present village of Paris, and ere long reached
                  the summit of the mountain.
               What they saw before them, looking westward from that point, was worthy of
                  attention from the most indifferent. Through the foliage-embowered walls of the
                  mountain pass, the eye embraced a wondrous spectacle.
               Southward, the ramparts of the great Blue Ridge rolled away like waves of the
                  ocean, disappearing in a delicate mist. Beyond the Shenandoah stretched a
                  limitless prairie, starred with brilliant flowers, which the fall winds gently
                  agitated, making the expanse resemble a vast lake, whose waves were of every color
                  of the rainbow. In the dim distance, on the far horizon, rose the azure
                  battlements of the Great North Mountain: and in front, the Massinutton soared aloft—its huge blue outline
                  standing out, clear cut, against the crimson curtain of the sunset.
               Never did artist, in his dreams of supernal glory, imagine anything more lovely
                  than this landscape. The richest colors seemed exhausted to make up the picture.
                  Forest and prairie, river and mountain, shone in blue and gold and crimson:—the
                  rosy mist of autumn drooped above the landscape like a dream:—the enchanting
                  Valley of the Shenandoah lay before the eyes of the travellers like some land of
                  Faëry or bright realm of Arcady.
               One was young, the other had reached middle age. Let us draw their outlines with a
                  few strokes of the pen. The first was a boy of sixteen: tall, straight, and full
                  of life. His hair was brown and curling, his complexion ruddy, his lips smiling.
                  He wore a jaunty little cocked hat; elegant top boots; kneebreeches of buckskin; a
                  broadskirted coat, and white ruffles; in his hand he carried a small rifle, and
                  behind his saddle were strapped the instruments of a surveyor. The laughing boy
                  rode a handsome little sorrel, and his smile, his carriage, his gestures, all
                  indicated youth and joy and hope.
               His companion was no longer young, and a grim smile lit up the bold features,
                  vividly contrasting with the enthusiasm of the boy. The worthy was tall of
                  stature, huge of limb, a gigantic war machine, armed to the teeth and ready for
                  combat. Under the drooping hat flashed a pair of dark eyes beneath shaggy brows;
                  the sarcastic lips were hidden by a heavy black moustache which swept down into
                  the huge beard; and behind this moustache shone a row of sharp white teeth which
                  resembled those of a bear rather than a man. His dress was rough, travel-stained,
                  and chiefly of leather; from his well-worn belt depended an enormous broadsword,
                  which clattered against his heavy boots—and the warlike personage bestrode a
                  charger, mighty of limb, and as rough and powerful in appearance as himself.
               The two figures remained for a moment stationary, gazing at the landscape; then
                  the elder touched his horse, and moved on.
               "Come, my young friend," he said, in a species of growl, "the sun's getting low
                  yonder, and we had better push on and cross the Shenandoah before dark."
               "Yes, yes, Captain," returned the boy, "but I could look at this scene forever—see
                  the beautiful colors of the leaves, and hear the wind in the pines!'
               He who had been thus addressed, smiled grimly.
               "Listen to him!" he growled: "sentiment in the backwood, i'faith! Keep it for the
                  ladies, Master George!—it's thrown away on Captain Julius Wagner, otherwise called
                  Captain Bloody Longknife, or the Devil take me!"
               "Pshaw, Captain!" laughed the boy, "that is all affectation. You are known to be
                  romantic—to be a favorite with the ladies! As well deny that you are the prince of
                  frontier-fighters."
               A grim smile curled the huge moustache, and with his finger the worthy pushed up
                  that appendage until it stood out almost horizontal.
               "My young friend," was the sarcastic reply, "you are flattering. I reply to your
                  pleasing observation by saying that my fortune, both as an admirer of the fair
                  sex, and a defender of the border, has been truly disgusting—more especially the
                  latter. Glorious! the life of a soldier! Humph! to wear your life out fighting,
                  and then die, some day, in an unremembered skirmish!—to have an end put to you by
                  a stray bullet from the rifle of a rascally Injun;—to be huddled into a hole to
                  everybody's satisfaction, who will get promotion by your death!—there's fame,
                  there's glory, there's good fortune!"
               And the Captain's lip curled elaborately.
               "But you have done your duty!" said the ardent boy; "that at least remains. And
                  are you not Captain Wagner, the Valiant?"
               "Oh yes! Captain Wagner the Valiant, without a clean shirt! Captain Wagner the Valiant, in leather
                  breeches! Captain Wagner the Valiant, in an old seedy buff coat, and boots with
                  holes, and rusty old spurs, that jingle, by my faith, like the armor of Mars, that
                  Egyptian hero I have heard of! Yes, that's all Captain Wagner is fit for—seedy
                  coat, boots in holes, rusty spurs, and fighting Injuns! Worse even than that! I am
                  becoming a mere courier, a travelling horse, a miserable hack—I would be a
                  dandy!"
               "A dandy!" laughed George.
               "Yes, young one, a dandy, like what I have seen yonder at Belhaven, i'faith! A
                  nicely curled fop, with silk gloves, a jewelled snuff-box, and a sweet little
                  simper in my voice—then I'd please the fair sex. Oh that Wagner was a dandy—Wagner
                  the savage! Oh that the shaggy old bear, with his growling voice, and long sharp
                  teeth, could be changed into a kitten, sleek and glossy, to gently
                  pur-r-r-r-r!—and be taken up into the female lap, and smoothed down the back, and
                  made a pet of!"
               George replied with a laugh much gayer than before.
               "I really believe you have had bad luck lately, Captain! Is it possible that"—
               "All things are possible in this miserable world, my young friend; but I decline
                  any statement upon this interesting topic."
               "Oh, now I remember! I heard that the handsome Mrs. Butterton"—
               "Don't call names, George, my friend, and let us change the subject. I am getting
                  hungry, or the Devil take me; and yonder I see the Shenandoah between us and
                  supper. The water's up and booming or I'll eat my head!"
               And pushing on they approached the river, which roared on angrily beneath the huge
                  white-armed sycamores, growing on the steep bank, and extending their boughs above
                  the current.
               All at once, as George and his companion reached the bank, their attention was
                  attracted by a white object in the middle of the stream, which the fading light
                  illumined—and this object was seen to be the head of a horse, above which rose a
                  pair of shoulders, and a hat decorated with a black feather.
               "A good swimmer," muttered Wagner; "who the devil can he be?—but we'll soon see.
                  Come, Injun-hater, take to water!"
               And spurring his black charger into the angry current, Captain Wagner began to
                  swim with the phlegm of an old traveller—George following in his wake upon his
                  little sorrel. The snorting animals ploughed their way through the rapid current;
                  placed their feet upon the opposite bank; and with vigorous bounds reached dry
                  land again. The rider of the white horse had already emerged from the stream, and
                  was awaiting them.
               He was a young man of twenty-three or four, erect, slender, and what is called
                  "aristocratic" in face, bearing, and expression. The frank and smiling countenance
                  was lit up by a species of joyous pride—that sunshine beaming in the sky of
                  youth—and it was plain from the young man's dress, as from the carriage of his
                  person, that he belonged to the class then known as "the Gentry." His brown coat
                  was heavily embroidered; his delicate ruffles as white as snow, and his fair top
                  boots, defining the small and slender feet, of the finest leather. At his side, he
                  wore a handsome sword in a black leather belt; behind the saddle was his valise,
                  of the same material, and his hands were cased in yellow gauntlets, reaching
                  nearly to the elbow. One of those hands now reined in, with careless grace, the
                  spirited thoroughbred, dripping from the stream; with the other he made a salute
                  full of friendly courtesy to Captain Wagner and George.
               "Give you good day, gentlemen," he said, in a clear and sonorous voice. "As we are
                  travelling in the same direction, perhaps you can direct me on my way. Where are
                  we at this moment?"
               
               "I'll tell you in a few words, my friend," returned Wagner. "You are now in the
                  Great Valley of Virginia, otherwise, the Shenandoah Valley, not a long way from
                  that assemblage of huts called Winchester; what is better, considering supper, you
                  are near Greenway Court, the residence of Thomas Lord Fairfax, baron of Cameron,
                  and so forth, and so forth—a friend of mine, who will not let you go further
                  to-night, comrade."
               "Good! I came to see his lordship."
               "Well, you have only to follow us. My name is Wagner, and my young friend is
                  called Mr. George."
               The stranger saluted with a motion full of grace and frankness.
               "You are by no means a stranger to me, Captain," he replied, "and I am truly glad
                  to make your acquaintance—also yours, Mr. George. My own name is Falconbridge—very
                  much at your service."
               "Good, good!" said the Captain, twirling his moustache. "I like these little
                  complimentary speeches: they sweeten this miserable life! Well, comrade—and
                  observe, I must decidedly have taken a fancy to you, as I call you 'comrade' all
                  the time—a few miles from here is the white post his lordship has stuck up to
                  direct travellers to Greenway. I never see that post but the long arms seem to
                  stretch out toward me, and a voice says, 'Come on, Wagner, supper is
                  smoking!'"
               With these words, the worthy put spur to his horse, and set forward, his
                  companions following and conversing. In fifteen minutes, George had completely
                  fallen in love with the young man, whose smiles and accents, full of winning
                  simplicity, won his heart. From that moment to the end of the drama, these two
                  hearts were to beat in unison.
               Captain Wagner was meanwhile pushing on, through the tall grass of the prairie,
                  over which stretched a narrow road, his mind absorbed in deep reflection on the
                  subject of supper. The last rays of sunset streaming over the great, flowery
                  expanse, failed to attract his attention; he moved on steadily; then a grunt was
                  heard from the worthy, and his finger pointed to a white post, glimmering in the
                  twilight.
               From this, a good road led to Greenway Court, scarce a mile away. They followed
                  the road; a clump of oaks rose all at once before them, and a long, low mansion,
                  in front of which some locusts grew. The travellers had reached Greenway Court,
                  the residence of Lord Fairfax.
            
            
               
               II.
               GREENWAY COURT.
               GREENWAY COURT was a long, stone building, with an extensive portico, and the roof
                  was overshadowed by the boughs of lofty locust trees.
               At each end rose a slender chimney; between, upon the summit of the roof, were
                  seen two belfries; beneath, three or four dormer windows were brushed by the
                  October foliage.
               At fifty paces from the mansion, and connected with it by a winding path, across
                  the sward, a low stone cabin nestled under a great tree—and here Lord Fairfax,
                  sitting in state, with his court of deer-hounds, had delivered the title deeds of
                  nearly all that portion of Virginia.
               The grounds of the mansion were encircled by a rude fence, and to this fence
                  Captain Wagner proceeded to attach his horse, in which he was imitated by his
                  companions.
               They were not, however, the first comers. Near at hand were seen two animals,
                  tethered in the same manner; one, a plain, substantial cob; the other a
                  slender-legged filly, covered with a cloth, which evidently concealed a woman's
                  saddle.
               Captain Wagner gazed intently for an instant, at the two animals, which seemed
                  familiar to him; pulled his moustache upward with his finger, nodded
                  confidentially, and then went with long strides toward the house, his companions
                  following.
               The main room, which the Borderer now entered, was peculiar. It was an apartment
                  hung around with guns, blunderbuses, antlers, portraits, fishing nets, and long
                  tapering rods. The walls were rough and rudely plastered —the furniture oaken,
                  with the exception of two or three high-backed, carven chairs of mahogany, then
                  very rare; and on some shelves in one corner, near a buffet of oak, a number of
                  old volumes in brown leather binding were visible, much worn and soiled. Among
                  these was a fine embossed copy of the "Spectator," lately printed in London, to
                  which the owner of the mansion had contributed some papers, written perhaps in the
                  study of his friend, Joseph Addison.
               It will thus be seen that the apartment was a striking exhibition of the
                  commingling of two things—refinement, and rudeness, of two types, the court and
                  the backwoods. This characteristic was further apparent in the jumble of silver
                  plate, and cheap gaily-colored crockery on the buffet: and finally, the muzzle of
                  a rifle standing in the corner had forced itself between the leaves of one of
                  those volumes in which serene Mr. Addison discussed the last refinements of the
                  luxurious society of England.
               This was the apartment which the travellers entered—to whose broad fire-place,
                  with its crackling sticks, they drew near.
               Lord Fairfax was not visible, but two other personages were seated before the
                  fire, illuminated by the last beams of sunset streaming through the western
                  window. The first was a gentleman past middle age, plainly clad, and with nothing
                  striking in his appearance. The other personage, a young girl, whose figure was
                  eminently noticeable. She was apparently about twenty, with dark hair, dark eyes
                  and radiant complexion. Her bare arms, from which she had thrown the sleeves of
                  her riding cloak, were models of symmetry, and her figure was extremely graceful.
                  She was clad richly for the border, and wore many rings upon her tapering fingers,
                  but no one for a moment gave a thought to her costume. The remarkable face
                  attracted all eyes. It was a singular face—the eyes dark and liquid, full of
                  softness and fire; the lips red and moist, and adapted to express all emotions; the brow lofty and snow white; the poise
                  and carriage of the head, and equally of the person, fascinating. This was the
                  appearance of the young woman whom the stranger gazed at with surprise and
                  admiration.
               Captain Wagner greeted the occupants of the apartment with the air of an old
                  acquaintance, acquitting himself of the task of introduction with much easy
                  unconcern, except that a keen observer might have imagined from the rude
                  frontiersman's manner that the lady was no favorite with him.
               This, however, was not seen by George or Falconbridge; at least they did not bow
                  the less low, or smile the less courteously.
               "See," said the Captain, stroking his beard and smiling amiably, "see what
                  pleasant people we meet at the end of our journey, instead of my Lord Fairfax,
                  who, I don't mind saying, is sometimes, nevertheless, an agreeable companion.
                  Faith! I know my good luck, friend Argal, and would rather be here than out yonder
                  in the backwoods with some surly rascal, who crouches over a wet fire and grudges
                  you your seat on the log, and your part of the blanket! And then the smoke!"
                  continued the Borderer, bending over the blaze, and snuffing up the clouds of
                  white smoke; "faith! it reminds me of my childhood—our chimney smoked!"
               George smiled and sat down opposite the soldier; the stranger had already taken
                  his seat near the young lady, and had entered into conversation with her.
               "Well, friend Argal," said the Captain to the gentleman who held in his hand a
                  package of papers which he had been examining, "what news on the border? Any
                  Injuns, eh?"
               "Yes, Captain," said Mr. Argal, courteously, "reports are rife about them."
               "Reports?"
               "They say that there is imminent danger of an inroad soon."
               "Humph!" replied the Borderer,—"'they say' is a great liar, I need not tell you,
                  sir. But let us not frighten the fair sex. I hope Miss Bertha is well?"
               And the soldier, with a movement in which a close observer might have descried a
                  singular coldness, turned to the young girl.
               She simply inclined her head, and went on conversing with the stranger; toward him
                  her air was very different. It was full of a winning grace, a fascinating
                  favor.
               The Borderer did not seem to notice all this, but a vague sound from his stalwart
                  chest indicated some concealed sentiment. This, however, he suppressed in a
                  moment, and turning to Mr. Argal, he said:
               "I don't see my Lord Fairfax. Where is he, my dear friend?"
               "He is gone a-'unting, sir," said a grave and respectful voice behind the soldier,
                  "a-'unting, if you please, sir."
               "Ah! here's old John!" cried the Borderer; "glad to see you, my friend. Faith,
                  give me your hand!"
               And the Captain cordially pressed the hand of the old servant. Old John was Lord
                  Fairfax's body servant, and wore his master's livery with the exception of the
                  coat, which was one of the earl's—heavily laced and ornamented.
               He took the offered hand of the soldier with deep respect, and then drew back
                  quietly, overwhelmed with the honor.
               "He's gone a-hunting has he—the good earl! eh? Well, when will he return,
                  John?"
               "I rayther expect him to-night, sir," said John.
               "Good!—then you are not certain?"
               "No, sir; very often he is gone a day or two, sir."
               And John stood respectfully awaiting further questions.
               "Did he expect me to-day?"
               "I think rayther, sir."
               "Very well, get me supper and beds for my friends."
               Old John was in his element again; his master's hospitality was put in
                  requisition.
               "D'rectly, sir—yes, sir," he said, going toward the sideboard board. "Plenty o' beds, sir, for you and your
                  honor's friends—d'rectly, sir!"
               But Mr. Argal stopped him as he was going out.
               "Bring up our horses first, John," he said, "I have waited as long as possible to
                  see his lordship. It is already night, Bertha."
               Bertha placed one hand upon her breast, and uttered a little cough.
               "Yes, sir," she said, "I wish we had gone sooner. I am afraid"—
               And the young girl was interrupted by a violent fit of coughing.
               "What! you have a very bad attack of cold," said her father. "I did not observe it
                  before."
               "Yes, sir," returned the young girl, placing her hand upon her throat, and
                  contracting her beautiful brows, as though she were suffering pain; "yes, sir, I
                  have felt it coming on all day, but managed to suppress it until now. It pains me
                  very much:" here she paused to cough again; "but if you desire it, I will"—
               A more violent fit here seized the young lady, and she coughed until she was
                  completely exhausted, leaning back in her chair for support.
               Mr. Argal looked very much annoyed.
               "Permit me to say, sir," said Falconbridge, "that exposure to the night air will
                  aggravate Miss Argal's indisposition. If possible she should remain here
                  until"—
               Another fit of coughing.
               "But I cannot—it will be extremely inconvenient: besides the house here is limited
                  in size, and"—
               "Don't fear, your honor," here interposed old John, who had entered with a hissing
                  urn and a pile of plates the moment before. "Don't fear, sir; plenty of room, sir.
                  We have two spare chambers, and several beds in them, sir: my master would never
                  hear of your going, sir."
               Mr. Argal hesitated, evidently annoyed.
               "Getting very cold, sir," added the hospitable John, respectfully, "and if it's
                  not presumin', sir, the young lady, sir, is"—
               Here the young lady coughed distressingly.
               "I'll go if you wish, father," she said, in an artless, uncomplaining voice; "but
                  my breast feels very badly. I don't suppose it will make me very sick—if you want
                  to go, sir"—
               "Well, well, daughter, we will remain," said the old gentleman. "If you are really
                  unwell, all the business in the world shall not make me you take you out. See to
                  our horses, John," he added, "and as you say there are chambers, make one of the
                  women prepare a bed for my daughter."
               "Yes, sir—d'rectly, sir."
               And old John, having set the table with the ease of a practiced hand, hurried out,
                  and was heard giving orders in a magisterial tone to the negroes of the
                  establishment.
               Captain Wagner remained silent, gazing into the fire; his huge shoulders bending
                  forward, as was habitual with him, and his sword striking heavily from time to
                  time against the floor as he moved.
               George was looking over a map of the region, which he had taken from the shelves;
                  Falconbridge and Miss Argal had resumed their conversation.
               The young lady's cough had disappeared.
               Then old John entered, marshalling in a smoking supper, borne by youthful
                  Africans; and the savory odor seemed to diffuse an emotion of pleasing
                  satisfaction through the mind of Captain Wagner.
               They all supped comfortably, and the Borderer was still eating when they had
                  finished.
               "Faith, I'm always hungry!" he said; "more beef, friend John."
               "Yes, sir—d'rectly, sir."
               And old John carved rapidly.
               
               "More everything!" said the Captain. "I've just commenced, or the devil take
                  it."
               More of everything was supplied, and at last the soldier rose, stretching himself,
                  and yawning.
               "Nearly bed-time, I think!" he said. "Come, George! give up my couch"—
               "Your couch, Captain?"
               "Yes, that leather chair! Vacate! I sleep here by the fire; I know nothing of
                  beds!"
               George smiled, and resigned his broad, sloping-backed chair.
               "You and the rest can take the big room," continued the Captain; "this young lady
                  the small apartment. Faith! I know Greenway Court by heart!"
               And the Captain, having first piled some more wood upon the fire, stretched
                  himself comfortably in the leathern chair, and closed his eyes.
            
            
               III.
               HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER BECAME UNEASY IN HIS SLEEP.
               IN five minutes the Borderer was snoring with an unction which brought a smile to
                  the faces of his companions. He had closed his eyes with the words, "Take care, my
                  dear friends, I hear very well in my sleep—therefore don't speak ill of me;" but
                  this seemed quite an idle boast. The Captain presented the appearance of a
                  frontier Goliath, worn out by fatigue, or somniferous from the extent of his last
                  meal.
               "Come, Bertha," said Mr. Argal, rising, "we must set out very early, and it would
                  be advisable to retire, I think. I see old John at the door waiting for us."
               "Yes, sir—when you're ready, sir—everything right, sir,' came respectfully from
                  the door, which opened on a flight of stairs, "right hand for the gentlemen—the
                  other room is ready for Miss Argal."
               "Please send the maid to show me the way," said the young lady, with a smile,
                  "good-night, father, I will follow in a moment."
               The old gentleman nodded, and kissing her on the forehead, went out, followed by
                  George.
               Falconbridge rose.
               "Stay and entertain me for a moment," she said, smiling "until my maid comes."
               He sat down quickly: so quickly that any one would have understood from the
                  movement, how gladly he complied with the request.
               The door closed upon Mr. Argal and George. Then commenced a conversation, at first upon indifferent
                  subjects in the ordinary key, but gradually becoming more confidential, if the
                  word may be used, and carried on in lower tones. To a curious observer, the
                  spectacle would have possessed a profound and absorbing interest—for it was that
                  of a woman of dazzling beauty, and immense finesse, marshalling all her dangerous powers against the heart of a
                  frank and truthful gentleman, into whose breast the shadow of suspicion never had
                  for a moment entered. The glances which she cast upon him were dazzling, electric;
                  he felt his cheeks flush, and his pulses throb.
               "Then you do not think me unmaidenly?" came in a low murmur from the crimson
                  lips.
               "Because you express your satisfaction at my coming?" said Falconbridge; "how can
                  you ask such a question?"
               "I feared you might; I am so unfortunate, in never concealing what I feel.
                  Frankly, then, I hope you will come and see me—we are almost buried in the
                  woods."
               "I surely shall. I am too happy to be able to contribute to your amusement."
               "No, do not say my amusement"—
               She stopped, blushing deeply.
               "Do not look at me," she murmured, turning away, "I am so foolish"—
               "Your-room is ready, miss," said the maid, opening the door.
               "Wait for me in the chamber," was Miss Argal's reply. "I will come up in a moment.
                  It is very early, is it not?" she added, turning with a languishing smile to
                  Falconbridge, as the maid disappeared.
               "Very," he replied, "and if you'll not regard me as presumptuous, I will say that
                  I have little desire to exchange your society for my own thoughts or dreams."
               "Of what do you dream?" she said, smiling archly, and throwing at him one of those
                  fascinating glances which possessed such a singular attraction.
               "Oh! of many things. Of my lowland home—of the strange land to which I go, for I
                  have come to see about some property in the wilderness which I am entitled to, by
                  a grant from Lord Fairfax."
               "Are your dreams never filled with brighter images?"
               "With brighter images? Ah! you mean with the forms of ladies fair!" he laughed;
                  "no, no, I have never loved."
               "Then your heart is cold?"
               "Oh, no! I think 'tis a warm one."
               The young lady sighed deeply.
               "Why do you sigh so?" he asked.
               She played with the ribbon around her waist, and looked in silence at the
                  floor.
               "Only my foolish thoughts," she murmured; "I thought—what a treasure it would be
                  to me—a heart that had never loved"—
               As she spoke she suffered the hand which played with the ribbon to fall beside
                  her. The hand of Falconbridge was hanging down, and the two came in collision.
                  Mastered by a sudden and wild impulse, and forgetting every rule of etiquette, he
                  imprisoned the snowy hand in his own, and raised it to his lips. The young lady
                  blushed, but did not withdraw it. For an instant the eyes of the two persons met
                  and exchanged a long, and absorbing look:—the young man's were filled with an
                  ardent admiration, the young lady's with a languishing sweetness.
               "I must go now," she murmured, slowly withdrawing her hand. "Good-night!"
               And with a last look, she opened the door just as the maid placed her hand on the
                  knob. Had the young lady heard her step descending the stairs?
               Falconbridge sat down, and leaning his head upon his hand, gazed into the dying
                  fire. Nothing disturbed the silence but the heavy breathing of the soldier, who,
                  stretched in his great leathern chair, had never once moved during the
                  colloquy.
               
               "Strange!" murmured Falconbridge; "strange young girl! I scarcely fathom her
                  character, or understand her singular demeanor. They tell me that I have sound
                  intelligence, that I read men—but, pshaw! I am quite at sea with this young girl.
                  What a dazzling, superb beauty! Well, well—this is folly!"
               And he gazed again in silence into the fire. For more than half an hour he
                  remained thus motionless—reflecting. Then turning his head, with a deep sigh, and
                  a wistful smile he gazed at the form of the sleeping giant in the leathern
                  chair.
               "A brave man, and with a warm, strong heart under all that roughness, I see
                  plainly!" he murmured. "How great a contrast to this beautiful young creature,
                  does he present! A strange world—yes, very strange—strangest of all that I am
                  here!"
               And he leaned back in his chair, and smiled. The dying fire-light lit up his
                  youthful face, rich costume, and brilliant eyes, making him resemble some picture
                  of the Middle Age. He remained thus, leaning back for a few moments, and then
                  rose.
               "Well, well," he said, "all this will have its course—but I soon pass—enough for
                  one day."
               And saluting the sleeping soldier with the smiling words, "Happy dreams,
                  companion!" he left the room, and retired to his chamber.
               No sooner had the door closed than the eyes of Captain Wagner slowly opened, and
                  he looked in the direction of the door, muttering. Then his heavy moustache curled
                  slowly toward his ears, and under the mass appeared his large, sharp teeth. He sat
                  up and looked at the fire.
               "Some people would say that I have done what is dishonest and unsoldierly," he
                  muttered, kicking the brands of the fire together, "let 'em! I was asleep and I
                  woke," he added, gloomily. "I believe the sound of that voice woke me."
               His eyes were raised toward the ceiling, and a strange expression filled them,
                  making them burn under their shaggy brows.
               "Good, good! it's well I'm here," he muttered, "and I'll act a comrade's part by
                  him, or the devil take it—but not too much! A noble fellow! He shall not be
                  tricked!"
               The Captain muttered something more to himself; and then stopping suddenly,
                  listened.
               "There, I am at my folly again," he growled. "I'm a dog and can't sleep—I am
                  dreaming!"
               But in spite of this he rose, and went to the front window. It was secured by the
                  heavy shutter, through which a streak of moonlight was visible.
               The Borderer seemed uneasy; he walked to the other window; stooped down, and for
                  an instant seemed almost to be smelling at it: and this idea appeared to cross his
                  mind, for he laughed, and returned to his place before the fire.
               "I'm a fool," he said, "but I swear I felt uneasy: I must decidedly get over this!
                  I'm never at rest—why can't I sleep?"
               The fire began to burn clearly again, and give out a pleasing warmth. The Borderer
                  held his hands over the blaze for a moment, then lay back in his chair; and
                  placing his huge boots upon the broad-topped andirons, began to snore almost
                  immediately.
               The fire caught a fresh stick and licked it merrily, and blazed aloft, but the
                  Borderer slept on in spite of the full light it poured upon him.
            
            
               
               IV.
               HOW CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE SAW WITHOUT SEEING, AND WHAT FOLLOWED.
               THE long hours of the night passed on, and no sound was heard throughout the
                  slumbering mansion but the subdued tick of an old clock in the passage, and the
                  heavy breathing of the soldier. At times he would stir in his sleep, and the heavy
                  sabre would rattle against the floor; but this noise would soon shudder and die
                  away in the remote apartments, and again all would be silent.
               Without, the moonlight slept upon the wild and solemn scene of forest and prairie,
                  and nothing disturbed the quiet of the chill October night, but the cry of wild
                  birds, or the stealthy footsteps of the mysterious inhabitants of the forest,
                  abroad now, while their enemies were sleeping. At times, the chill wind would
                  sweep over the tall prairie, and a sobbing sound would rise, then die away; and
                  over all poured the solemn moonlight, which seemed to brood upon the wild scene
                  like a dream.
               A piercing eye, however, might have descried more than one flitting form under the
                  lofty forest; an acute ear have discerned sounds which belonged neither to the
                  bear, the panther, nor the wind. Other eyes than those of wild beasts were
                  directed toward the silent mansion, which raised its walls thus on the outskirts
                  of civilization, disputing the sovereignty of the great woods:—and those burning
                  glances were measuring its strength and weakness, the capacity of its inmates for
                  a mortal struggle.
               The huge Borderer breathed heavily in his chair, and resembled some gigantic
                  statue come down from its pedestal, and taking its rest while mortals slept. From
                  time to time the flitting and bubbling fire would burn out brightly, and reveal
                  the recumbent figure in its full proportions:—but it already flickered and
                  promised soon to die away. The cool air already began to invade the apartment, and
                  the soldier turned uneasily.
               At the same moment, the window opening into the passage stealthily creaked, and
                  suddenly a thread of moonlight silvered the floor.
               Then the shutter was opened still more, the window cautiously raised, and a head
                  appeared at the aperture. It was the head of an Indian boy, with long, straight,
                  black hair, sparkling eyes, and swarthy cheeks.
               The head remained perfectly motionless for about five minutes; only the restless
                  and ever-moving eyes roved from side to side.
               At the end of this time the window was wholly raised—the Indian drew his body up,
                  and falling upon his feet noiselessly, stood within the house.
               Motionless as before, he reconnoitered. The door of the great room in which the
                  Borderer slept, was half open, and creeping stealthily toward it, the Indian
                  looked in. At sight of the warlike sleeper, he recoiled two paces, and looked
                  behind him fearfully, in order to be sure that the means of escape remained. The
                  window remained up; and the sight of the opening seemed to reassure the spy.
               He again approached the door—opened it a few inches wider, and looked curiously
                  in, as though to take note of any other persons in the apartment. His eye then
                  dwelt upon Captain Wagner, and he placed his hand upon his girdle, from which hung
                  a hatchet.
               As he did so, the Borderer opened his eyes, and looked him full in the face.
               The Indian, with one stealthy bound arrived at the window, and was about to pass
                  through, when he suddenly checked himself. No noise had come from the sleeper,
                  hence he had not really waked; doubtless it was a presentiment ment, the eye fixed upon his face which had waked
                  him, or rather disturbed him in his sleep.
               The dull eye of the Indian boy glittered, and he drew back into the deep shadow,
                  out of the gleam of the fire. With a muttered "ough!" he touched the forefinger of
                  his left hand with that of his right, apparently counting.
               Then his roving eye turned on all sides, and he looked up the short, steep
                  stairs:—his foot rested on the first step. The step was of firm oak and did not
                  creak. The Indian mounted another step, and so, stealthily, and pausing each
                  moment to listen, arrived at the top.
               His first movement was to creep to the window opening upon the roof—one of the
                  dormer windows, of which we have spoken—and raise it. From the roof of the house
                  to that of the long porch, was but a step. Thence he could easily glide down.
               Two or three dusky forms appeared for a moment in the moonlight, and then vanished
                  beneath the solemn trees of the forest.
               The spy placed his hand upon the knob of Miss Argal's door, and slowly and
                  noiselessly turned it. The door opened without sound.
               The moonlight streamed full upon the bed, but threw the features of the sleeper
                  into shadow. It was evidently the aim of the Indian, however, to ascertain the
                  numerical strength in men, of the house: and he crept stealthily, like a young
                  panther, toward the bed.
               Before he could bend down close enough to see, however; before his black eye and
                  hot breath had approached her cheek, the young girl started up, and uttered a
                  piercing shriek, which rang through the house like a cry of death.
               The Indian seized his hatchet, and catching her by the wrist, endeavored to raise
                  the weapon and strike her. It had become twisted in his belt, and before he could
                  extricate cate it, a noise in the opposite room caught his quick ear, and he
                  arrived by a single leap at the window.
               At the same moment, the opposite door was thrown violently open, and Falconbridge
                  came forth quickly, fully dressed, and hurried toward the room.
               The young girl, who had risen in her night-robe, ran toward him, threw her arms
                  round him, and sobbing, "Oh, father! father!" buried her head in his bosom.
               All had taken place in a moment; but that had been time enough for the soldier to
                  rouse himself.
               He now appeared at the bottom of the steps, bearing in his hand a flaming torch,
                  from the fire; and mounted with a bound which shook the flooring.
               "What's this? What's this? Speak!" he cried.
               The lady clung closer to Falconbridge, burying her face more deeply in his
                  bosom.
               "Oh, father! father!" was all which she uttered.
               Mr. Argal and George appeared at the door half dressed, and uttering wondering
                  exclamations.
               "How, daughter?—what? how?—the meaning of this extraordinary scene? and that
                  noise?"
               "I don't know what it means," said Captain Wagner, with a sort of ironical gloom,
                  "but the devil eat me, if I ever saw anything as striking as that picture in all
                  my life before.
               And the Borderer, with a curl of his moustache, extended the huge arm bearing the
                  torch, toward Falconbridge and the lady.
               "Most extraordinary!" cried the bewildered gentleman; "why, Bertha, something has
                  frightened you! Look up! are you aware, daughter"—
               The young girl raised her head, and started, or pretended to start, violently at
                  sight of Falconbridge. No one observed the sarcastic curl of the Captain's
                  lip.
               "Oh, father!" she cried, hastily retreating into her room, and drawing her drapery
                  quickly around her soldiers, "Oh, it was so dreadful!"
               
               "What!—dreadful?"
               "Oh, yes sir—an Indian came to my bedside, and caught my wrist, and tried to kill
                  me—oh, sir?"
               And the young girl was heard falling into a chair, and sobbing faintly.
               "An Indian in your room? you are dreaming, daughter!"
               "No, sir!" said Captain Wagner, gloomily, "your daughter did not dream it!—in my
                  sleep I dreamed, I thought—wretched animal that I am, to lie there like a hog—but
                  see!"
               And stooping quickly, the Borderer pounced upon a porcupine quill.
               "Here!" he said, "here is the proof! This is from an Injun moccasin! And that
                  window! Friends, I for one am no fool!"
               And the Captain hurled his torch upon the floor, and trod upon it with his iron
                  heel.
               "To your tree!" he cried, "Injuns!"
               At the same instant a flight of arrows whistled through the air, and passing
                  within a few inches of the soldier's head, buried themselves, quivering in the
                  beam of the staircase.
               "Bah! no rifles!" cried the Captain. "But they're on us!" he cried, arriving at
                  the bottom of the stairs by a single leap, "to arms!"
               As he spoke, a terrific war-whoop rang through the forest, and a dozen Indians
                  darted from the shadow, and threw themselves upon the house.
               Captain Wagner reached the door just as it yielded to the powerful pressure of the
                  assailants.
               Having no time to draw his sword, the gigantic Borderer seized one of the carved
                  chairs, and whirling it like a straw around his head, struck the foremost Indian a
                  blow so terrible, that it literally drove him through the crowd behind him, maimed
                  and bloody.
               Set on fire by the sight of blood, and devoured with his old fury of battle, the
                  Borderer, without waiting for his companions, rushed into the midst of the
                  assailants, whirling his broken weapon around his head, and bearing all before
                  him.
               The Indians endeavored in vain to strike him—his gigantic stature and sweep of arm
                  bore them down:—they unconsciously drew back.
               The movement brought the Borderer into the moonlight, which streamed full upon his
                  face and person.
               The Indians uttered a yell of rage and fear.
               "Longknife!" burst from the crowd, and they retreated before the soldier with
                  almost superstitious awe.
               As they did so, Falconbridge, Mr. Argal and George rushed from the house, to the
                  Captain's succor, and behind them appeared the affrighted domestics with pale
                  faces, and uttering exclamations.
               The Indians, spite of their numbers, lost heart—retreated toward the forest—and
                  with cries of rage dived into its gloomy depths, and fled, followed by the
                  chance-aimed balls of their enemies.
               Captain Wagner drew back, bending down, panting, and knitting his brows.
               "I counsel a return to the house, friends!" he said, "you'll lose nothing; all's
                  done!"
               And he turned toward the door. Directly in his path lay the Indian he had struck
                  upon the head—stunned, bleeding, and insensible.
               "Take the black devil in; he's not dead!" said the soldier to the servants, "and
                  secure every window!"
               The Indian was borne into the house; every one followed, and doors and windows
                  were secured.
               "A very pretty little scrimmage," said the soldier, curling his huge moustache and
                  throwing some sticks upon the fire, "ough! you copper colored devil!"
               And he pushed the body of the Indian with his foot.
               The Captain looked at him more closely.
               
               "Playing dead," he said, contemptuously.
               "Oh no! he's dead," said George, "look! that brand has rolled against his
                  foot!"
               "Bah! that's all you know, master George," said the Captain.
               And bending over the Indian, the soldier kicked away the brand, and said
                  "speak!"
               The Indian remained motionless.
               "Well if you're dead, my friend, I'll have your scalp!"
               And the Captain seized the Indian violently by the lock of hair upon the top of
                  his head.
               The eyes opened and he made a violent, though feeble effort to spring up. In an
                  instant the Borderer was upon his breast and his hands were securely tied.
               "Now speak, you copper-colored devil, or you are a dead man! Speak in the
                  Delaware! I know you, and understand your lingo!"
               And bending down, the Borderer uttered some words in the tongue of the
                  Delaware.
               It was some time before the soldier could extract anything from the Indian. At
                  last he muttered a few words.
               The Captain rose satisfied.
               "Not a regular inroad," he said, "only a wandering party. I gathered that from the
                  lies he tells me. Now my friends be good enough to put this worthy in the cellar
                  and double lock the door, first tying his hands securely. My part is over, and
                  I'll sleep."
               His direction was obeyed, and very soon the Indian captive was safe in the vault
                  beneath, where Lord Fairfax kept his liquors.
               No one retired again. By common consent the affrighted domestics huddled together
                  in one corner of the apartment—and the visitors arranged easy-chairs in the most
                  convenient manner for sleeping. Soon every one sank into uneasy slumber—except
                  Captain Wagner. That worthy's repose, in his great chair before the fire, was as
                  deep as before. From time to time, he would growl and grunt it is true; but this
                  was habitual with him.
               There were two other exceptions to the above statement. Falconbridge and Miss
                  Argal slept neither easily nor uneasily. They conversed in a low tone in one
                  corner of the room:—when the first rays of dawn entered the apartment, they were
                  still conversing in the same low murmurs.
            
            
               
               V.
               THE ESCAPE.
               THE morning brought light and cheerfulness. The sleepers aroused themselves; Miss
                  Argal retired for a time, to make her toilet, and soon all had re-assembled in the
                  large apartment where a plentiful breakfast was smoking upon the hospitable
                  board.
               "Suppose we have the Injun rascal up," said Captain Wagner. "I think the sight of
                  his copper-colored mug will give me a better appetite."
               And every one acquiescing in this suggestion, the Borderer directed several of the
                  servants to lead up the prisoner. They promptly left the apartment, and Wagner
                  turned to Falconbridge.
               "Do you know, my dear comrade," he said, "that I think you are the pearl of
                  gallants?"
               "Pray, how?" asked the young man, smiling.
               "Why, you came so promptly to Miss Argal's assistance last night, that you shamed
                  us all, companion."
               Falconbridge smiled again, and said:
               "I deserve no praise, Captain. I had not retired. I was sitting at the window
                  thinking, as I often do—a bad habit I confess—when Miss Argal screamed. To go to
                  her assistance was surely natural."
               "Dooms natural!" said the Captain, pushing up his black moustache; "and Miss
                  Bertha needed you."
               "I—thought—it was—father," replied the young lady coloring.
               "Good, good! We're not expected to see in the dark," was the Borderer's sardonic
                  answer; "and when Injuns are about, a woman may run into the arms of the first
                  fighter she sees—faith, 'twas a pretty picture!"
               A suppressed flash of the young lady's eye seemed to indicate that she discovered
                  in these words something more than they expressed: but otherwise she betrayed no
                  emotion.
               "Well, well," added the Borderer, "let us think of the rascal we caught. I'm
                  mistaken if we don't get out of him the real meaning of this little scrimmage in
                  the dark—which I think was a wandering party only, that is safe a score of miles
                  away by now in the Southwest Mountains."
               Old John appeared at the door, as the words were uttered—his face elongated, his
                  eyes full of meaning.
               "Where's the copper-colored rattle-snake—the serpent?" cried Wagner.
               "Gone, sir! clean gone!" said the old body servant, holding up both hands.
               Captain Wagner rose with sudden energy, and hastened to the cellar, followed by
                  his companions.
               "Gone, as I'm a man!" he cried, twisting his moustache. "Look! Falconbridge, he
                  got through there, the snake!"
               And the speaker pointed to a low window from which two rusty iron bars had been
                  wrested by main force.
               "He managed to get his hands loose, and by this time is at the end of the world.
                  I'm a hog not to see better to his tying up!"
               And having thus unburdened his mind, the Captain slowly retired from the cellar,
                  shaking his head, and returned to the breakfast-room. The sight of the smoking
                  meal seemed to restore his equanimity; and his huge nostrils evidently experienced
                  the utmost pleasure in snuffing up the savory odor of the rich broils and
                  hashes.
               "Faith! something yet remains!" was the philosophic remark of the worthy; "life is
                  not gloomy when a man can eat as I am going to. Come friends, let us get to
                  work!"
               And first regaling himself with a huge gulp from the pungent gent "dram" which old John had concocted, the
                  Borderer applied himself with energy to the business before him. It was a
                  spectacle full of interest to see the piles of edibles disappear before him. Not
                  until almost everything had vanished did the Captain lean back in his chair, like
                  a son of Anak, twist his moustache, and open his lips for the purpose of
                  conversation.
               The movements of the entire party were discussed, and very soon every one had
                  determined upon his plans of the day. There was not the least danger of any attack
                  from the Indians, said the Captain, in broad day, out of the woods: but his
                  intention was to scour the surrounding country, and pick up every detail. George
                  declared he would go with him.
               "And I," said Falconbridge, "shall accompany Miss Argal as far as her home, if she
                  will permit me."
               "I shall be very glad," said the young lady, looking at him with her strangely
                  fascinating glance. Then casting down her eyes, she added, "but pray do not let me
                  inconvenience you."
               "'Tis none, I assure you," he replied. "Captain Wagner has spoken to me of a
                  certain 'Van Doring's Ordinary' in the same direction, and here I purpose stopping
                  until I arrange some business with my Lord Fairfax."
               With these words, Falconbridge offered his hand to the young lady to assist her in
                  mounting her horse, which stood ready at the steps. The young girl's hand was
                  ungloved like his own, and—could he be mistaken?—did the soft, slender fingers
                  press and cling to his own, as if she would retain the hand of the youth? His eyes
                  filled with sudden light, and mounting his glossy white 
                     throughbred
                     thoroughbred
                  , he cantered off joyfully by the side of the young lady: Mr. Argal
                  following more leisurely upon his cob.
               "What a noble face!" said George, looking after them. "Do you know, Captain, that
                  I can't help loving him?"
               "Who? Falconbridge?"
               "Yes—though I've known him less than a day."
               "Well, you're right. 'Tis as fine a head as ever I saw on human shoulders. There's
                  only one fault I can see in it—not enough of gray hairs."
               "Gray hairs!"
               "Yes, my young friend; he's too grand and true and unsuspecting. All that won't
                  answer in this miserable world, that's full of snakes, Injuns, rascals, and
                  deception. Don't ask me what I mean—I never mean anything. Let us rather take a
                  drink of this fine October air, that is better by far than twenty year old
                  Jamaica, or I'm a dandy!"
               And the Borderer inhaled the breezy atmosphere, drinking in life at every pore.
                  His eye wandered over the great landscape of prairie, forest, mountain, and river,
                  variegated by the shadows of vast floating clouds; and his whole face glowed with
                  pleasure.
               "His lordship's got a splendid country here, friend George," he said: "I envy him
                  the look he's taking at it now."
               "Lord Fairfax?"
               "Yes, he's in the mountains yonder, 'unting, as the worthy John
                  says—is this good Baron of Cameron, and Earl of Fairfax. When we shall see him,
                  the devil only knows. He's a perfect Nimrod, a wild Injun on the trail of game, a
                  real iron fellow, or I'm a dandy. I expect him back at Christmas—not before!"
               A sonorous neigh arrested the Captain's remarks, and two servants led up
                  "Injunhater" and George's sorrel. They were soon in the saddle, and the Borderer
                  paused only to give old John his parting injunctions.
               "Tell my Lord Fairfax, if he comes back before dinner, that I'm coming too—Injuns
                  and wild beasts to the contrary notwithstanding. Also friend George, who rides
                  with me. And hark you, John, have up some of that old Jamaica that we know
                  about—and one of the old hams, a round of beef, some fowls, and other trifles. You know I'm one of the
                  family—good day, my friend."
               And leaving old John bowing hospitably and respectfully, the companions set
                  forward.
               We shall not accompany them, as nothing in the shape of an adventure befell them.
                  After a wide circuit around the Greenway Court domain, they came to the conclusion
                  that the wandering party of Indians had hastily fled from the region into the
                  western mountains. They accordingly returned to Greenway to dinner, and rest. The
                  Earl had not made his appearance—nor had Falconbridge.
            
            
               VI.
               CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE'S PRIVATE MATTERS.
               ON the next morning, Captain Wagner and George were again in the saddle—but this
                  time they had determined to take different routes. The young man wished to explore
                  the wonders of the prairie toward the South; the Borderer's design was to visit
                  his friends at the Ordinary which Falconbridge had selected for a
                  stopping-place.
               "I'll go swill some Jamaica with Van Doring," said the worthy Captain, "and you,
                  George?—toward the Fort Mountain?"
               "Yes! It seems to draw me, it is so beautiful!"
               "Good! how your eyes do sparkle! Youth! youth! what a fine thing it is: like a
                  fresh horse with a full feed! But look out for the Injuns."
               "I'm not afraid."
               "I see that plainly, and you've got a proud-looking head there, George, my son.
                  Don't let 'em scalp you. I assure you, on my honor, it will ruin your appearance
                  for life."
               And saluting with his hand, the gigantic warrior set forward on his heavy black
                  charger toward Van Doring's.
               The Ordinary was but a few miles from Greenway, and the partisan, advancing
                  rapidly through the tall grass of the prairie, and beneath the drooping boughs of
                  the forest, was not long in reaching his destination.
               It was one of those large, oddly-fashioned taverns which are still found at
                  Virginia cross roads. This one was the
                  half-way house, so to speak, between the Lowland and the Frontier. It was
                  constructed of hewn logs, the interstices of which were filled with rough plaster;
                  in front extended a long rude porch; before the door was a horse rack and drinking
                  trough.
               As Captain Wagner drew near he perceived standing at the door a sort of covered
                  wagon, which seemed to have arrived but a few moments before. He was looking at it
                  carelessly, when all at once Falconbridge issued from the tavern, and courteously
                  offered his hand to a buxom dame who was on the point of getting out of the
                  vehicle.
               "La! thank you, sir," said a simpering and complaisant voice, which made Captain
                  Wagner suddenly start: but this start was of so ambiguous a character that it was
                  not plain whether the soldier's emotion sprang from surprise, pleasure, or
                  dissatisfaction. But immediately the Captain threw himself from Injunhater, whose
                  bridle a stable boy received; and before the lady, with Falconbridge's assistance
                  in front, and that of a travelling companion behind, could emerge from the
                  vehicle, the gallant Captain had received into his own the hand yet
                  unappropriated, and kissed it with chivalric courtesy and devout respect.
               Falconbridge turned his head and saw his companion.
               "Good-morrow, Captain," he said with a smile.
               The buxom lady, finding her hand in contact with a bearded lip, and pressed by
                  palms of martial strength, uttered a little affected cry and raised her modestly
                  downcast eyes.
               "Captain Wagner!" she said, with an exhibition of great surprise; "Captain
                  Wagner!"
               "At your service a thousand times, madam," said the Borderer, "now and ever, or
                  may the devil—hum! How do I find you here, madam?"
               The portly dame descended from her vehicle, smiling on the Captain and the
                  Stranger, and sending backward a Parthian glance at every moment to her companion
                  who had not yet descended. Her eyes were well adapted to this species of
                  employment, as they were bright and cheerful, and her whole face was equally
                  good-humored.
               She was, or seemed to be, about thirty-five, and was clad in a fashion rather more
                  gaudy than tasteful.
               Her companion was a little dried-up Frenchman, dressed in a worn-out Court suit of
                  the fashion of the time, and having on his head a cocked hat. He seemed to be in
                  an agony of perplexity whether to drop the reins, a band-box and a shawl which he
                  held in his right hand, or an old black violin which he carried carefully in his
                  left.
               The lady ran forward with quite girlish vivacity to greet an old fat German, who
                  at the moment emerged from the Ordinary; and then with a shower of backward
                  glances more bright than ever, which glances were directed towards Captain Wagner
                  and his companion, entered the tavern, closely followed by her shawl-carrying,
                  much perplexed French body-guard. Having reached the landlord's side, she clasped
                  the old German so tightly that he found it utterly impossible to greet Wagner in
                  any other manner than with the two sonorous words—"Well, Gaptain!"
               The Captain stood for a moment looking after her, with an expression of amazement
                  seldom seen upon his martial features.
               For once in his life he seemed to be taken completely by surprise; and hesitated
                  before he followed the enemy.
               "Who would have dreamed it!" he said, pushing up his shaggy moustache; "she was
                  Miss—beautiful Miss—Van Doring before espousing the lamented Butterton down
                  yonder!"
               And a sort of chuckle shook the stalwart breast of the Borderer.
               "Well, well! Luck has declared for me!" he muttered. "I'm losing time."
               "Lose a moment more with me, Captain," said Falconbridge bridge; and laying his hand upon the Borderer's
                  shoulder he added, "What a noble morning!"
               The Borderer shook the hand of the young man cordially, and said:
               "Glorious! comrade: really amazing is this splendid morning—and faith! on my word!
                  I think you suit it!"
               "I?—how is that?"
               "Why, you are as bright and jolly as the sunshine."
               Falconbridge laughed, stretched himself, and yawned.
               "I am fresh enough," he replied, "and you seem not at all fatigued."
               "Fatigued! I believe you, comrade. A pretty thing for an old dog like myself, that
                  has grown to the saddle,—whose legs are getting crooked, faith! on that account—to
                  talk about fatigue! But let us dismiss the subject of legs. You are stopping
                  here?"
               "Yes, till I see Lord Fairfax."
               "Well, you'll have a pleasant lady guest."
               "This lady? What is her name?"
               The Captain looked cunning, and hesitated before answering this query.
               "Come," added Falconbridge, "am I not to know who the lady is—her simple
                  name?"
               "I doubt whether it would be politic for me to tell you, comrade," said the
                  Captain, shaking his head.
               Falconbridge laughed.
               "Politic? How so?"
               "I would have necessarily to enlarge upon her character, her loveliness, her
                  advantages, as the miserable cant is—her desirabilities: her thousand claims to
                  regard, respect and admiration!"
               "Ah?" laughed the young man; "well, why not?"
               The Captain shook his head.
               "You're a dooms good looking fellow," he said.
               "Oh!"—
               "The truth, comrade; and if you add to this the fact that you seem to have much
                  time on your hands at present—by which I mean that your business does not seem
                  pressing—the motive for my caution will be plain."
               "The motive, eh?"
               "You might fall in love with this fair widow Butterton—my pleasant acquaintance
                  down in the town of Belhaven, which I'm told they are going to dub Alexandria,
                  where I came from. See, now, I've let the whole thing slip out."
               And Captain Wagner pretended to regard his conduct with supreme contempt.
                  Falconbridge only laughed and said:
               "I believe you are in love, eh, Captain? Well, I wish you good luck."
               His companion groaned.
               "There's no such thing for me, comrade. I'm defeated, repulsed, driven off
                  ignominiously!"
               "You have paid your addresses to the fair widow and failed?"
               "Something like it. I really believe that you have guessed the state of things to
                  a hair. I thought from the first, Falconbridge, that you were a man of
                  discrimination."
               "And this is really so?" laughed the young man, amused by the Borderer's
                  lugubrious expression; you have really proposed and been discarded?"
               "Precisely, my friend, precisely: you have guessed rightly. Yes! I was overcome,
                  subjugated, compelled to lay down my arms: ignominiously, miserably,—I, who have
                  lived in the midst of battles, who have heard the cohorns roaring from year's end
                  to year's end—the muskets rattling here, on the border, everywhere; I who have
                  married twice, and each time paragons of women! I thought I knew the sex tolerably
                  well, and I was mistaken. Vain thought for any man to imagine he has found the key
                  of woman! Open one lock, another, then another, the next one baffles all your
                  skill, defies all your cunning—which word I use in its ancient and commendable
                  sense—laughs at all your exertions, if, indeed deed, locks ever laugh. And now I was that
                  benighted individual; I thought I knew their wards, and springs, and windings, and
                  turnings: I was mistaken; and here I am a mortified and humbled man, or if not
                  that, a beaten man at least, or may the—hum! no swearing!"
               "Come, Captain," replied Falconbridge, who with difficulty refrained from
                  laughing, so melancholy were the tones of the soldier's voice, "better luck next
                  time! You have a fine opportunity to make up your losses."
               "I find I have, indeed."
               "Avail yourself of it."
               "I will," said the Borderer, with great cheerfulness.
               "As to finding a rival in me, you need not have any fears on that point, Captain,"
                  said Falconbridge, laughing. "I'm on the wing—I soon pass. In a month I will not
                  only be gone, but forgotten."
               "Faith! no."
               "No, what?"
               "You'll not be forgotten. For I'll remember you, comrade, as one of the most
                  gallant-looking fellows I ever knew."
               Falconbridge laughed again and held out his hand.
               "You are determined to make me a partisan of yours, Captain," he said.
               "No, not at all! I like you, my dear comrade, and I can't conceal my thought. If
                  I'm angry I growl; if I'm pleased I laugh—I conceal nothing because I can't,
                  faith! No: don't fear Captain Longknife, who, whatever may be his faults—and he
                  has a few—is not the man to flatter. If you fear anybody, let it be the man or the
                  woman who smiles on you, and holds out a friendly hand, while the other is under
                  his or her cloak, clutching the knife that will stab you!"
               And the Borderer for a moment looked gloomy.
               As to Falconbridge, he laughed gaily at this ominous speech, and playing with his
                  rich swordhilt said carelessly:
               "I'm not afraid, and I think two can play at the cutting game! Nevertheless,
                  thanks, Captain, for the interest you feel. I am going now to a different sort of
                  combat—to encounter perhaps a more dangerous enemy."
               And Falconbridge with a laugh looked westward.
               "I know you are," said Wagner, gazing at his companion wistfully.
               "There comes Sir John, as fresh as a dew drop."
               "A fine animal: and you are going, I don't doubt"—
               "To see the fair Miss Bertha? Yes, indeed. What a splendid beauty!"
               "Yes, very splendid: remember what I said just now."
               "What did you say?"
               "I said beware of smiles; distrust the hand thrust into your own; take care of the
                  knife!"
               And refusing to say another word, the Captain with a sullen movement of his head
                  went into the house, his forehead bent thoughtfully toward the ground and
                  overshadowed.
               Falconbridge stood looking at him for a moment in silence, and then laughing
                  silently, nodded his head upward and downward with the muttered words:
               "Yes, yes! a queer genius—a great dreamer! The 'smile,' the 'knife'—'take care of
                  them!' Oh yes! he jests with me; but he's a good comrade and I won't complain.
                  Good morning, good Sir John! A fair sunshine for us, and I hope you are refreshed.
                  Ho! comrade!"
               And the young man vaulted into the saddle laughing. He gathered up the reins,
                  threw a coin to the respectful hostler, and set forward gaily toward the west.
               "What an oddity, the Captain!" he added, "with his knives and warnings! Forward,
                  Sir John! we are expected!"
               And he put spur to the fine animal, who set forward more rapidly than before.
            
            
               
               VII.
               THE CAPTAIN RENEWS THE ATTACK.
               CAPTAIN WAGNER entered the Ordinary shaking his head mysteriously, but his
                  reflections were all at once banished by the sight of the fair Mrs. Butterton, who
                  was seated gracefully upon a cane-bottomed chair, conversing. The Captain joined
                  in the conversation with an easy air, and soon the visit of the lady to the Valley
                  became the topic. The explanation was simple. The settlers of the region, Lord
                  Fairfax at the head of them, had determined to organize a county government; and
                  the question at the moment was, the locality of the county-seat. For this honor,
                  the two microscopic villages of Stephensburg and Winchester were candidates; and
                  as Mrs. Butterton chanced to possess a number of lots in and about Winchester, she
                  was naturally desirous that their value should be enhanced by the selection of
                  that place for the seat of government.
               The fair widow concluded her sensible explanation by taking from a reticule, which
                  hung jauntily upon her arm, a number of documents, which she gracefully handed to
                  the Borderer.
               Captain Wagner looked at the papers and pondered; then pushing up his martial
                  moustache, he said to the widow:
               "I admire your business talent, my dear madam; what a wife you would make! what an
                  admirable wife! I shall recommend my friends to come and make themselves
                  agreeable."
               "La! Captain, you are jesting," said the lady, covering her face affectedly with
                  her fan.
               "Jesting? Jest on such a subject—never!"
               "You are a sad joker!"
               "Not with you."
               "Why not with me?"
               "I know not, my dear madam, except it be on account of that high respect I have
                  for you."
               "Flatterer!"
               "That friendship, that regard—that, I may say, hum—that, yes, that"—
               Captain Wagner finished the sentence with a look which spoke volumes. The widow
                  fairly blushed.
               "What are you talking about, daughter and Gaptain?" said the old German, coming
                  up, "not fell out, I hope."
               "Oh, far from it, father!" said Mrs. Butterton, laughing.
               "She is a great rattle-drap at times, Gaptain," continued the landlord, "and full
                  of all sorts of notions. Here is Mounseer Jambo, for instance—come here to deach
                  dancing."
               "He is a fine artist, father," said Mrs. Butterton.
               "Hum!" said Captain Wagner, "he seems to be your particular friend."
               "Oh, yes—he is a very gallant gentleman."
               Captain Wagner scowled at Monsieur Auguste Hypolite Jambot, and that gentleman
                  chancing at the moment to raise his eyes, was nearly struck motionless by the
                  look.
               Indeed, Captain Wagner was a disagreeable man to have for an enemy, so large of
                  limb, and terrible in arms was he; and his scowl was one of horrible
                  expressiveness. He looked sword, pistol and blunderbuss at the very least.
               "I have no doubt that Monsieur Jambot is gallant, madam," said he; "this he has
                  proved by condescending to accompany you hither."
               "Come, you look at Monsieur Auguste as if you did not like him," said Mrs.
                  Butterton.
               "Not like him, madam?" said Captain Wagner, bringing down his great, gloved hand on the table; "that's
                  true! I do not like Frenchmen."
               "And I," said Monsieur Jambot, rising and bristling up at these words, "I do not
                  like, no, I have no liking for capitaines,
                  begar!"
               Captain Wagner touched his sword instinctively, but reflecting that a quarrel, and
                  combat with so diminutive a gentleman, and on so slight a provocation, was out of
                  the question, withdrew his hand, and only scowled again on Monsieur Jambot.
               Having thus terminated the conversation as far as the dancing-master was
                  concerned, Captain Wagner turned, with great good humor and cheerfulness, to Mrs.
                  Butterton, who had counterfeited excessive trepidation: but who, seeing matters
                  thus amicably arranged, was again all smiles.
               "My dear madam," said he, "the sight of you to-day has rejoiced me—and you were
                  right in telling me your business. I shall assist you in that business: I will,
                  madam!"
               "La! thank you, Captain," said the lady.
               "I will, madam," said Captain Wagner, solemnly. "I pledge you my word that
                  Winchester shall, on your account, be the seat of Justice of the county of
                  Frederick."
               The widow regarded Captain Wagner with a tender glance;—not so much in return for
                  his promised services—to do her justice be it said,—as in requital of his
                  devotedness.
               "For your sake," said the Captain, in a tone inaudible to the rest of the company,
                  "I would do far more."
               "You are very disinterested, Captain," murmured the lady.
               "Disinterested? Not so, faith!" said the Borderer; "remember what I say!"
               And having overwhelmed the fair widow by this unmistakable avowal, Captain
                  Longknife directed another scowl, far more terrible than the former ones, at
                  Monsieur Jambot, who was still tuning his fiddle; and turned the conversation upon
                  indifferent topics.
               The lady smiled, the old German smoked, the dancing-master meditated a solo, or
                  frowned with lofty dignity at his rival.
               Thus some hours passed, and then the Captain, pleading business with Lord Fairfax,
                  took his departure.
               It is unnecessary for us to say, that like a stalwart soldier, the huge Enceladus
                  had returned unterrified to the attack, with better knowledge of the enemy he
                  assaulted, and a fixed determination to be victor in the struggle.
            
            
               
               VIII.
               HOW GEORGE WAS LED BY PROVIDENCE.
               LET us now return to George, who, as the reader will find, met with more
                  adventures in his ride than he expected.
               The boy stood watching Captain Wagner until that worthy and his ebon steed were
                  swallowed by the bright October foliage; and then mounting his handsome sorrel,
                  left Greenway Court, and—happy, laughing, joyous with that rare roseate joy of
                  youth and inexperience, and confidence—went forth toward the South, over the
                  swaying, splendid prairie, and through the brilliant forest.
               Poor words!—for what words can describe the forests of the Shenandoah Valley in
                  October?—what painter, even, though he stood in stature above Titian, and the
                  masters of all time, could place upon the canvas the resplendent glories of this
                  noble season? Not a mere thoughtless rhapsody is this—for in the heart of him who
                  writes, a thousand Autumn scenes live, like memories of youth, beautiful and
                  brilliant with the glories of the "jocund prime" of existence!—so beautiful that,
                  remembering them now, in days not so bright, he is thankful for the treasure given
                  him, and living in his recollections, cares not for the present.
               George was still in that brilliant land of youth—with senses open to its glories
                  and delights; and so he went on joyfully, and gladly, through the golden morning,
                  drinking in at every pore, the splendors of the Autumn.
               It was one of those mornings which seem to come like a blessing on the earth: when
                  the azure sky, piled up with snowy clouds, droops down upon a world of beauty;
                  when the cool breath of joyful winds sweeps across hill and valley, with a
                  murmurous laughter, as of myriads of merry goblins, let loose for a holiday, and
                  reveling in their freedom. The variegated foliage of the waving forest, like the
                  banners of every nation met in leaguer around the battlements of the noble
                  mountains, shone in the clear sunlight, and the rich prairie waved its gorgeous
                  flowers from end to end of the great valley.
               To George, the Autumn did not present an aspect of mournfulness or decay: rather
                  of full-handed, ripe, and matured beauty. His eye dwelt with delight upon the
                  forest, with its magical colors; his roving and bright glances penetrated the
                  white, delicate mist which, clearly relieved against the mountain, lay, like a
                  milky cloud along the winding river:—the boy's heart filled with youthful joy and
                  romance.
               As he approached the mountain, the blue gradually changed to green; the undefined
                  shadowy giants stood out in bolder relief, with rocky shoulders, and belts of
                  haughty pines;—and then, after an hour's rapid riding straight on, he had
                  approached so near, that it seemed to him an easy thing to push his horse up the
                  slope, and gain the inviting summit. George had, however, yet to learn that
                  nothing is more deceptive than the apparent distance between the beholder and the
                  great towering sentinel of Nature. He was yet a considerable distance from the
                  mountain, and in his path lay an obstacle not to be despised—the tree-fringed
                  river.
               As George drew near the river, and went along under the bright foliage of the
                  lofty trees, a thousand woodland sights and sounds were around him. On the prairie
                  the landscape was wild and undisturbed; he had heard no sound, but the far
                  resounding cry of the crane as he rose from some streamlet's bed; had seen nothing
                  but such air-wanderers as swept the blue sky on long stately wings, far up among
                  the clouds:—for the most part all was still, and calm, and vast, as undisturbed as the landscape untouched as
                  yet by the foot of man.
               But now all was changed; the forest seemed instinct with life, and joy, and
                  beauty. Long vines fell in bright festoons from the trees, and if these vines did
                  not exhale the delicate perfume with which they flooded the forests in May
                  mornings, they still were beautiful with their flaunting garlands, and fantastic
                  outlines.
               The pines were full of whisperings, as though the mountain wind would never have
                  done telling them its secrets. The oaks, yellow and tall. The dogwood brilliant
                  with its crimson clustering berries. The alder-tree, like saffron. and the
                  hickory, yellow, but still strong, and graceful as a youthful giant—all were full
                  of life and motion, and the voice of birds.
               At distant openings the young man caught sight of more than one flying deer, and
                  on the far mountain-side he saw distinctly a herd of huge elk galloping, as is
                  their wont, into the verdurous, undiscovered depths of the deep glens.
               As he approached the sloping bank of the river, an otter showed his brown nose,
                  and bead-like eyes, then dived, making circles as he disappeared in the bright
                  water; and at the noise a flock of wild geese, who had been feeding in the tall
                  flags, rose up with a shrill clanging scream, and soared away, far into the bright
                  clouds, on snowy wings, toward the South.
               George reined up his horse and gazed with delighted eyes on the tranquil stream,
                  whose surface, scarce broken into ripples by the gentle wind, mirrored the
                  drooping boughs of the crimson and golden-leafed trees, and white floating clouds.
                  The woodland sights and sounds delighted him—the freshness and wild grace of the
                  fair nook with its green grass, and tree-trunks and fresh water, charmed
                  him;—never had he seen so beautiful a landscape.
               As he sat quietly in his saddle, gazing at the bright water, from which, at
                  intervals, the "fall fish" leaped into the air; his attention was attracted by a
                  figure upon the opposite side of the river, which at this point was not very wide.
                  This figure was that of a girl of about fifteen, who was evidently gathering
                  flowers.
               For the purpose of reaching the water-blossoms, growing far down in the shady
                  nooks, near the surface of the stream, she stooped very carelessly over—so
                  carelessly at times, that George, who, unseen himself amid the foliage, was
                  watching her, feared every moment that her foot would slip, and she would be
                  precipitated into the stream. But the little maiden took her way along the steep
                  and dangerous bank with the care and skill of one practiced in roadside wandering;
                  and her basket was soon full of fall flowers, which she paused to gaze at with
                  evident satisfaction.
               The boy looked at her for a moment, as she stood in the sunlight—glad to have seen
                  this fresh woodland picture. He then turned the head of his horse, dismissed the
                  little maiden from his mind with a careless conjecture as to her presence in that
                  wild scene, and gazing at the clouds, was about to continue his way. As he touched
                  his horse with the spur, a cry suddenly resounded in his ears—a cry of alarm and
                  helplessness—and wheeling round, he saw at one rapid glance that his fears had
                  been realized.
               The little maiden had boldly ventured out upon a large, moss-covered log, at the
                  end of which grew a magnificent cluster of yellow primroses; and this log having
                  turned, she had lost her footing.
               When George saw her she was just losing her balance; and her cry of terror
                  scarcely reached his ears, when she dropped her basket, and fell into the
                  stream.
               George was one of those persons who never hesitate or lose their presence of
                  mind—whom no sudden surprise affects.
               The girl had scarcely touched the water before the boy, with a violent stroke of
                  the spur, had driven his horse into the river, and was swimming vigorously and
                  rapidly toward her.
            
            
               
               IX.
               HOW GEORGE MADE THE ACQUAINTANCE OF CANNIE.
               THE girl seemed to feel that a friend was coming to her rescue, for her head was
                  turned even in the midst of her struggle against the watery death which threatened
                  her, toward the boy.
               Her garments at first afforded her some support, and George thought he could
                  easily reach her; but this hope began to disappear, and his trembling lips and
                  flushed face showed his desperate anxiety. His eyes burned, and leaning forward on
                  his animal, he devoured the sinking form with his looks, and struck the animal
                  with his hand to hasten its speed.
               Before he had arrived within twenty yards of the young girl, the water began
                  rapidly to fill her clothing, and thus to add its own weight to the weight of her
                  body. She gradually sank lower and lower; her long, chestnut hair rested on the
                  water, and the waves toyed with it.
               Nothing but the bright face was now visible; the small, bare arms were raised
                  above the water; and a cry for help issued from the child's lips. George felt his
                  throat choke; his eyes seemed to be starting from his head; his hands trembled
                  like a leaf. Again a faint cry came from the child's lips—again the small arms
                  beat the water; but the effort only hastened her fate. A wave passed over her head
                  while George was still ten feet from her, panting, overcome with horror and
                  despair.
               Then she was gone! snatched from him! suffocated within his very sight! He uttered
                  a groan of despair. But suddenly he seemed to feel that one course was left him;
                  he might still save her. He threw himself from the saddle into the stream; passed
                  over the space which separated them with half a dozen strokes, and came to her
                  side. A curl of hair, before he was conscious of it, glided into his hand, and the
                  next moment the girl was in his arms, her pale face lay upon his shoulder, and he
                  swam with his almost lifeless burden to the shore.
               George raised her in his arms, as though she had been an infant, and bore her to a
                  grassy bank. Here, he used every means to restore her to consciousness, and at the
                  end of ten minutes had the inexpressible satisfaction of seeing her open her
                  eyes.
               "Oh, sir! I was nearly drowned, was I not?" she murmured.
               "Yes, indeed you were," said George, gazing kindly on the little face.
               "Did you save me?" said the girl.
               "I believe I did," said George, smiling, to keep up her spirits; "you fell into
                  the water, and"—
               "Oh, yes! I remember all now—oh, me!"
               And with a shudder, the girl closed her eyes, overcome by the recollection.
               "Don't think about it any more," said the boy; "it will agitate you. And you ought
                  not to keep these wet clothes on—you ought to go home at once. And I must ask you
                  your name, and where you live."
               The girl sighed, and said, faintly:
               "My name is Cannie Powell, and we live up in the Fort Mountain, sir."
               "Very far?"
               "Oh, no, not very, sir."
               "Don't call me sir," said George, smiling; "I'm only a boy, and it
                  seems so constrained; my name is George."
               The lips of the girl moved as though she were impressing the name forever upon her
                  memory.
               
               "You ought to go home at once now," he said, "I will go and catch my horse, and we
                  will return together."
               The girl's cheeks colored, and she murmured:
               "You are very kind! But I ought not to—you were going"—
               "Nowhere! nowhere in the world; if I had been, I know my duty as a gentleman."
               And George raised his head with simplicity; and casting a last look toward Cannie,
                  went to search for his horse. The intelligent animal had not wandered far.
                  Emerging from the water, after being abandoned by his master, he had quietly
                  commenced feeding on the long grass—and now allowed himself to be recaptured
                  easily.
               George led him back to the spot where the girl sat, and throwing one stirrup over
                  the saddle, helped her to mount, in spite of many protestations that she could
                  easily walk. The boy only smiled, and with the air of an elderly protector, led
                  the animal by the bridle, along the narrow road, through the rugged gorge. To the
                  music of the brawling Passage Creek they thus entered the Valley of the Fort.
               Glancing often back at his little charge, the youth now took in every detail of
                  her face and figure. Long chestnut hair fell in moist, rich curls around a
                  delicate face, with large, hazel eyes, rosy cheeks, and lips full of a grave
                  sweetness and simplicity. There was something fresh and pure in every trait of the
                  countenance, and the slender form possessed a childish grace and attraction. She
                  was not clad like the daughter of a woodman, and this fact had very soon attracted
                  George's attention. The fabric of her dress was almost rich, although greatly
                  worn; traces of embroidery were visible upon the skirt; and around her neck the
                  girl wore a string of very beautiful pearls. Her small feet were cased, it is
                  true, in rough, high-reaching shoes; but her white stockings were of the finest
                  silk; and her hands had evidently never been acquainted with toil.
               These singular peculiarities of the girl's dress attracted, as we have said, the
                  attention of her companion; but he did not dwell on them as strongly as he would
                  have done, had he lived longer in the wild country which they were traversing,
                  whose inhabitants still wore such rude costumes. He was looking at the sweet face
                  which riveted his eyes, and he gazed at her so intently that the girl colored
                  under his look. George saw that the blush was occasioned by his glance, and
                  immediately looked away, and commenced talking—the girl replying with her grave
                  sweetness, in which he found a singular charm.
               They thus took their way along the wooded road, and soon disappeared behind the
                  huge trees.
               Had George chanced to look back as the road turned a great mossy rock, he would
                  have seen something to startle him. As the two forms disappeared, the red leaves
                  of an immense oak slightly rustled—a swarthy face peered carefully out—and the
                  next moment an Indian, who had lain close at full length on one of the great
                  limbs, dropped noiselessly to the ground. He was a young man, apparently about
                  twenty-three, with a slender figure, bare to the waist. His nervous limbs were
                  cased in fringed leggings of doeskin; his feet in moccasins, profusely decorated
                  with the quills of the porcupine—and above his forehead nodded a plume of
                  bright-colored feathers, the badge of a chief. In his bearing there was something
                  noble and impressive; and as he stood for a moment leaning with crossed arms, bare
                  like his chest, upon a long cedar bow, he presented an appearance eminently
                  attractive for its wild and graceful beauty.
               The young Indian looked gravely in the direction taken by George and Cannie—threw
                  a quick glance toward the sky—then murmuring something in a low voice, which was
                  very musical and sad, set forward with the rapid pace of a hunter, on the path
                  which they had followed. He saw them mount the winding road, and approach a little
                  mountain dwelling. Then, as if satisfied that further watching was useless, he
                  sighed, plunged into the forest again, and was lost in the shadow of the autumn
                  foliage.
            
            
               
               X.
               A SINGULAR PERSONAGE.
               AROUND the small house upon the side of the mountain, the finest tints of autumn
                  seemed to cluster. The great oaks were like pyramids of crimson; the tufted pines,
                  resembling the tall tropic palms, which wave their gigantic plumes in the breezes
                  of the Indian ocean, rose clear and beautiful against the sky—and over all fell
                  the rosy haze of autumn like a happy dream.
               The house was of logs, rough-hewn, and with clap-boards for a roof; the windows
                  small, and evidently constructed with an eye to defence; the stone chimney in the
                  rear leaned, as it were, against a huge mass of rock, fringed with close-set
                  shrubbery. Flowers of autumn were in bloom beside the low door—and the whole
                  mansion had about it an indefinable air, which seemed to indicate the presence of
                  a woman or a child. George assisted Cannie to the ground, and fixing the bridle of
                  his horse to a bough, followed her into the house. The room which they entered was
                  simply furnished, but scrupulously neat; some books were lying on the rude shelf
                  used as a mantel-piece; and the whole apartment was very cheerful and
                  attractive.
               As Cannie entered, an old man came to meet her; and the eyes of this personage
                  were fixed upon her companion with an intentness which was for the moment not at
                  all agreeable. They seemed to look through him, and that, without the least
                  effort, and in an instant.
               Then the expression of the old man's face changed; he greeted the boy with
                  collected courtesy; and when Cannie, in a broken and agitated voice, spoke of her
                  accident and rescue, the old man's expression changed more and more, and with a
                  slight color in his pale cheeks, he held out his hand, and grasped that of George
                  with the warmest gratitude.
               George scanned the figure of his host; and this scrutiny evidently resulted in a
                  manner similar to that former one in regard to the child. The old man was
                  evidently no rude backwoodsman; his countenance and eyes wore the unmistakable
                  stamp of the student, and the man of intellectual cultivation; and even in his
                  dress the same difference was discernible. He was clad in a suit which had once
                  been rich, and still exhibited traces, beneath a thousand stains and rents, of its
                  former splendor. Upon one of the thin fingers, sparkled a diamond ring, and a pair
                  of large, gold-cased glasses covered his eyes, rolling beneath their heavy white
                  eyebrows.
               As Cannie related, in her grave, sweet voice, the events of the morning, George
                  read in the eyes of the old man a depth of tenderness, which he had never before
                  seen in the face of mortal. When she told how George had saved her life, the wan
                  cheeks flushed, and holding out, as we have said, his thin, white hand, the
                  strange host inclosed the youth's in a grasp, which resembled the pressure of
                  steel springs.
               "You have saved two lives, sir," he said, with a singular nobility of tone;
                  "thanks, thanks! And now, my child," he added, turning to Cannie, "go change your
                  dress, or you will be ill."
               The girl obeyed, and disappeared for a quarter of an hour, during which time the
                  singular host spoke calmly on a variety of subjects. There was an air of collected
                  strength and composure about the speaker, which puzzled George more and more—for
                  he felt that he was in the presence of a superior man. In the midst of the
                  conversation, Cannie re-appeared, with a primrose in her hair, and a smile on her
                     lips— far more beautiful, George
                  thought, than before. She joined simply in the conversation—and an hour fled by
                  imperceptibly, during which the youth found himself more and more absorbed in the
                  process of gazing at Cannie. Then remembering his agreement with Captain Wagner,
                  he arose, and in spite of the most courteous urging, declared he must depart.
               "I really must return, sir," he said; "they will expect me at Greenway Court."
               "At Greenway Court!" said his host, with an unmistakable start; "are you staying
                  at Greenway Court?"
               And the piercing eyes seemed to dive into his own, as though their owner wished to
                  read his very soul.
               "Yes, I came to the Valley but a day or two since," replied the young man, "and
                  stopped at Lord Fairfax's. What surprises you, sir?"
               "Nothing, nothing, my young friend—it is nothing!"
               And withdrawing, as it were, into himself, the speaker controlled every exhibition
                  of emotion. But George afterwards remembered the quick start—and understood why
                  the utterance of the simple words produced an effect so singular.
               With the promise that he would come very soon again, to know if Cannie had
                  recovered from her accident, he at last departed—the grave, sweet face of the girl
                  going with him—her smile seeming to light him on his way. A thousand speculations
                  chased each other through his bewildered mind; he tried in vain to imagine who his
                  eccentric host could be. But he was completely at fault. He gave up finally in
                  despair; and turned with a sort of delightful relief to the image of the grave
                  little maiden.
               He was still absorbed in his thoughts of her, when the silence of the lonely road
                  was suddenly broken. The notes of a bugle rang out clear from the mountain
                  side—the echoes chased each other from cliff to cliff—and then a great trampling
                  and baying was heard near at hand, and a huge stag, pursued by a score of hounds,
                  bounded into the gorge, and fell bleeding to the earth, almost at the young man's
                  feet.
            
            
               XI.
               THE WILD HUNTSMAN.
               THE trampling which George had heard all at once became louder; a hoarse voice
                  hallooed to the dogs; and in an instant a tall huntsman, mounted on a fiery animal
                  of great size and muscle, thundered from a narrow bridle-path into the open
                  space.
               The stag had fallen, but, half raised upon one knee, was goring the dogs with his
                  huge antlers. They strove to clutch him by the throat, but he foiled them, one and
                  all, and several of them had already received bad wounds when the huntsman reached
                  the spot. The sight seemed to arouse a wild ferocity in him. His cheeks flushed
                  crimson, his eyes glared, and leaping from his horse, he drew his couteau de chasse, and threw himself into the midst of
                  the dogs.
               The stag made a last desperate effort. He seemed to feel that all was over. The
                  dangerous antlers were lowered to pierce the hunter's breast—but all was in vain.
                  The nervous hand grasping the sharp hunting-knife, darted forward—the blood
                  spouted forth—and the stag fell to the earth, his throat cut nearly through and
                  through.
               The hunter rose, and calmly wiped the blood from his knife on his sleeve. Then he
                  turned to the youth. George had thus an opportunity to scan his appearance. He was
                  a man of middle age, with a tall, gaunt figure, penetrating eyes, and lips which
                  seemed to indicate a temperament rather melancholy and cynical, than happy. He
                  wore a brown peruke, and otter-skin cap, with a buck's tail stuck in it, and tall
                  boots with heavy spurs. The remainder of his costume was rich, but discolored by
                  rain and sun. The coat had once been
                  profusely laced, and the orange silk waistcoat still showed traces of gold
                  embroidery; but the suit, like its wearer, appeared to have "seen better days."
                  The hunter had carelessly wiped the blade of his fine French couteau de chasse on his cuff, and now scanned with
                  great calmness his companion.
               "A stag of ten, sir," he said, in a quiet, deep voice; "you were fortunate to be
                  in at the death."
               "It is bloody sport," returned the young man, "but wonderfully exciting. What will
                  you do with the carcass of the deer, sir?"
               "Carry it home with me," returned the huntsman.
               And whistling to his horse, which came slowly to his side, he raised the ponderous
                  body, and threw it across the front of the saddle. Then mounting, he said:
               "You were going in this direction—were you not, sir?"
               George replied in the affirmative; and followed by the dogs, of whom many limped
                  painfully, they took their way straight toward the river.
               "A day for an emperor!" said the stranger in a deep voice. Then all at once
                  smiling grimly, he looked at the young man and added: "but that may seem an
                  improper distinction to you—you appear to be a Virginian, and the Virginians are
                  all republicans."
               "I am a loyal subject of his Majesty, George II.," returned the boy, "but God made
                  the sunshine for all alike—did he not, sir?"
               A grim smile seemed to deepen on the stranger's face.
               "No doubt, no doubt," was the half indifferent reply, "but the lion has more right
                  to the forest than the jackal—if not to the sunshine. You see, sir, that his is
                  the divine right of kings, and his court of tigers, leopards and panthers, have
                  their privileges of nobility."
               George looked puzzled. The strange huntsman seemed to aim at provoking discussion;
                  but it was difficult to reply to him.
               "You dissent," continued the grim speaker, "but you don't reply to me. Come, say
                  now, my chance friend—is not all this proper? Should not the lion rule the
                  forest—the eagle the air? Should not the beautiful tigers and cougars be above
                  foxes—hyenas?"
               "Oh, assuredly!" said George, "but kings and nobles are not lions or eagles
                  always—great lords are very often foxes I have heard. And tell me, is it just,
                  sir, that because the fox bites the heel of the huntsman, as in the fable, and
                  saves the life of the lion—is it just that the lion should declare the foxes
                  throughout all time superior to the higher class of animals?"
               "Good, good!" said the stranger, "you strike hard at hereditary privilege. You are
                  a republican—you would overturn class?
               
               "I would raise up worth!" said George with animation; "I would have the strong and
                  pure, instead of the weak and corrupt, at the head of affairs. I think when God
                  gives integrity and powerful brain to a man, he should hold the reins of power,
                  rather than his inferiors, though his origin be as obscure as a peasant's. Is not
                  that entirely rational, sir?"
               "Hum! hum!" said the stranger with his former smile, "I was not wrong in declaring
                  you a republican—but that's no matter. What care we for kings or
                  nobles in the wilds here? Here's the river."
               And with these laconic words the huntsman pushed his horse into the water; and,
                  half fording, half swimming, soon reached the opposite bank. George was there as
                  quickly, and they again set forward—soon issuing from the forest into the waving
                  prairie, whose myriads of brilliant flowers were glittering in the rich light of
                  the sinking sun.
               All at once two figures on horseback appeared a quarter of a mile in advance of
                  them; and these figures plainly descried them, and awaited their approach.
            
            
               
               XII.
               THE DRAMA COMMENCES.
               GEORGE recognized Falconbridge and Miss Argal. He rode his white thoroughbred, she
                  her little filly—and standing in the tall grass which reached nearly to the backs
                  of their horses, they presented, in the golden flood of sunlight, a richly
                  picturesque appearance.
               "I am very glad to see you," said Falconbridge, pushing forward and shaking
                  George's hand, with a gay smile: then bowing courteously to the stranger, he
                  added, "give you good day, sir."
               The hunter inclined coolly; but something in the face of the young man, or his
                  tone of voice, seemed to affect him strangely. His penetrating gaze riveted itself
                  upon the proud, laughing features of Falconbridge, and a shadow passed over his
                  brow, like that from a floating cloud.
               "It is strange!" the grim lips murmured; "what a singular resemblance!"
               Falconbridge did not observe the expression or the tone. He had turned to George,
                  and began to explain how the young lady and himself, in riding out, had lost their
                  way. His manner, when he addressed or looked at her, had changed greatly. There
                  was something ardent and impassioned in his gaze as it rested on her face; and the
                  lady was not backward in returning it with looks almost as significant of her
                  feelings. By some fatality this emotion seemed suddenly to have ripened in both
                  hearts—thenceforth it was plain that the young lady was the fate of
                  Falconbridge—his fate for weal or wo.
               "And Miss Argal," said George, when Falconbridge had told how they had circled at
                  random over the prairie, "was she frightened?"
               "Oh no! she has behaved like a heroine, in spite of her utter ignorance of the
                  road back to her home."
               "I can't think where we are," said the young lady, with one of her pretty smiles.
                  But for some vague reason George felt as if this declaration were not true. There
                  was an imperceptible constraint in her manner as she spoke; and his truthful
                  instinct told him that there was deception of some sort beneath her apparent
                  candor. He did not reply, but turning to his companion said:
               "We are not far from Greenway Court, I believe, sir."
               "Some distance," returned the huntsman coolly, "but the path is well beaten."
               And with a courteous but cold inclination to the young lady, he set forward,
                  followed by the party. The sun ran in a stream of rich purple light across the
                  hills, and far away beyond the mountains; the golden cloud ships slowly floated
                  off into the distance and were lost: and as the shades of night descended and the
                  stars came out, they reached the old mansion of Greenway.
               The tall huntsman tied his bridle to the bough of a tree, lifted the carcass of
                  the deer to the ground, and turned toward the porch. As he did so, old John
                  appeared upon the threshold, and bowing low, respectfully approached.
               "Dismount if you please, Miss Argal," said the hunter, with grave courtesy, "and
                  honor my poor house with your presence."
               "Lord Fairfax!" exclaimed George, "I might have known that you were Lord
                  Fairfax—but my mind was busy with other thoughts!"
               And something like a blush came to the cheeks of the boy. The Earl smiled, and
                  pressing the young man's hand, said in a friendly tone:
               "I am glad you did not know me—had you recognized one of those 'foxes' you spoke of, you would have
                  expressed yourself, perhaps, less honestly."
               And with courteous gesture, Lord Fairfax marshalled his guests before him into the
                  mansion.
               The first object which greeted all eyes, was the huge form of Captain Wagner
                  stretched in his favorite leathern chair: he was sound asleep, and his snoring
                  resembled distant thunder. It was an amusing picture. His cocked hat had fallen on
                  the floor, and half covered a pipe which had escaped from the soldier's hand. A
                  half emptied cup of Jamaica rum at his elbow proved that the sleeper had been also
                  occupied by the task of drinking after dinner. The long sword in its leathern
                  scabbard had gotten between the athletic legs of the Captain, and at every chance
                  movement rattled fiercely against the rowels of his spurs, or the iron heels of
                  his large horseman's boots.
               "Captain Wagner!" exclaimed the Earl, "so he's here!"
               The Borderer stirred in his sleep, and the words "fairest lady!" escaped from his
                  heavy froth-soiled moustache. Whether it arose from the nature of his dreams, or
                  from the vicinity of that lithe and beautiful form, we cannot undertake to say:
                  but it is certain that when Captain Wagner was awakened by the loud voice of Lord
                  Fairfax, his conduct seemed to indicate anything but dreams of ladies. He started
                  up, seized his sword, and overturning the flagon of Jamaica with his elbow, threw
                  himself forward, crying "Injuns! or the devil take me!"
               The grim melancholy smile George had already observed, passed over the face of
                  Lord Fairfax, and he sat down, courteously motioning to his guests to be seated
                  also. Then turning to the soldier, who was rubbing his eyes:
               "Well, Captain Longknife," he said grimly, "sleeping on duty I see. When did you
                  arrive?"
               The Captain bowed with great composure, and picked up his hat.
               "You, my lord," he said, "are responsible for this nap I have taken, and if I have
                  slept on my post, you see I was ready at a moment's notice."
               "True; you came near splitting me and my friends here."
               "That would have been too bad," said the Captain, "to split so noble a seigneur as
                  the baron of Cameron; such brave companions as friend Falconbridge and George, or
                  so peerless a dame as Miss Argal."
               With which words Captain Wagner executed a stiff inclination toward the lady in
                  question.
               "Thanks, sir," said Miss Argal in her self-possessed voice.
               "I hope in my absence you procured everything you wished, Captain," said Lord
                  Fairfax; "old John"—
               "Is a trump, or I'm a dandy, my dear sir," interrupted the Borderer. "Did I find
                  all I wanted? I believe you! I'm an old campaigner, and feeling entirely at home
                  had everybody running, of course."
               "Right, right," said Lord Fairfax, smiling; "now, with your permission, we'll have
                  supper, as I'm hungry."
               "My permission!" cried the Captain, "you are jesting! You could not please me
                  better; I am dying for something to eat, my dear friend!"
               Old John, who was standing respectfully in a corner, opened his eyes at this
                  statement, in a way that expressed volumes—but he was far too hospitable to allude
                  to the Captain's performances at dinner. At a sign from his master he busied
                  himself at once to get supper—and soon it was smoking upon the board.
               Neither Falconbridge nor Miss Argal seemed in a hurry to depart; and when after
                  the meal Lord Fairfax urged the young lady to remain all night, to avoid the chill
                  air, she consented with very little difficulty. George unconsciously asked himself
                  if young ladies in his neighborhood ever remained away thus from home, and treated
                  the feelings of their relatives with such slight ceremony: but as Falconbridge,
                  beyond a slight movement of surprise, indicated no opinion, the youth thought he was unreasonable, and
                  blamed himself for his growing dislike to the young lady.
               She kept her fine eyes cast down bashfully, the greater part of the time, only
                  raising them occasionally to throw toward Falconbridge one of those glances full
                  of subtle fascination, which made her so dangerous. It thus happened that she did
                  not observe the steady look which Lord Fairfax bent upon her face. This look, full
                  of admiration, and so striking in one who seemed to care very little for aught
                  around him, took in every detail of the surpassingly beautiful woman's
                  appearance:—the gently arched brows, the ripe red lips, the rounded chin, and the
                  snowy throat, against which the dark curls were clearly relieved, making the white
                  skin more dazzling from the contrast. Miss Argal did not observe that absorbing
                  look; her marvellous acuteness would have discerned in it more than it expressed.
                  He soon turned away, and commenced talking with Captain Wagner, and George; and
                  thus the hours fled, and bed-time came. A maid announced that the young lady's
                  apartment was prepared; and Lord Fairfax, rising, conducted her to the door, which
                  he courteously opened, and ushered her through with a ceremonious inclination. She
                  inclined her head gracefully in turn, and with a quick glance from the corners of
                  her eyes toward Falconbridge, disappeared.
               "What a very beautiful face this young lady has!" said the Earl, indifferently,
                  "who is she?"
               "The daughter of your neighbor Argal," said the Captain; "the new settler up there
                  toward Stephensburg."
               "The lady is a friend of yours, I believe, sir," said the Earl, turning
                  courteously to Falconbridge. "I do not know that I have seen you in our
                  neighborhood before."
               "That is easily explained, my lord," returned Falconbridge, with the same easy
                  courtesy. "I have but just reached this region. I have come hither to gather
                  information as to the condition of a large tract of land which I own on the South
                  Branch, by grant some years since, from your lordship's agent there. As to Miss
                  Argal, I think I may style myself her friend, though our acquaintance has been
                  short."
               Lord Fairfax bowed and said:
               "To-morrow I shall endeavor to afford you the information you desire, Mr.
                  Falconbridge, and to cut out a task for you, George, my young Republican."
               "Oh, then you've been debating!" said the Captain, with a yawn.
               "Yes, and George is a leveller—but no matter. I care for nobody's politics. As
                  long as he surveys accurately, and you, Captain, drive off the Indians, I'm
                  content. And now, gentlemen, I must bid you good-night. I am really weary. Your
                  apartments are all prepared."
               With these words the Earl inclined his head, and rang a little silver bell, which
                  speedily brought old John to the apartment. In half an hour, the whole mansion was
                  silent. Were all sleeping?
            
            
               
               XIII.
               HOW FALCONBRIDGE HAD A STRANGE DREAM.
               FALCONBRIDGE had a singular dream. He imagined that about two hours after
                  midnight, his door opened; a heavy step stealthily approached his couch, which was
                  flooded by the pallid rays of the great soaring moon; and a tall form bent down,
                  and looked long and in silence upon his face.
               What the mysterious figure was like, he could not tell, as the shoulders and head
                  were wrapped in a heavy mantle, completely concealing the sex and character of the
                  visitant. All that he plainly perceived, was a pair of burning eyes between the
                  folds of the mantle—dark stars, as it were, which glittered as they shone upon him
                  with a lurid lustre.
               The figure remained thus motionless beside his couch, lost in the deep shadow, and
                  silently scanning the sleeper, who was full in the moonlight, for what seemed to
                  Falconbridge, an interminable time. Mastered by a vague influence, which he could
                  not throw off, the young man lay still, asking himself if he were really asleep
                  and dreaming this—or half awake, and looking upon a real form. He could not
                  determine the question in his mind, and remained thus, lying supine and powerless
                  before the vision, in the condition of a sleep-walker, or one in a trance.
               To the first sensation of surprise and vague discomfort at the presence of the
                  singular visitor, ere long succeeded a deep curiosity to discover what would be
                  the next action of the figure. The eyes seemed to have burned down upon his face
                  for centuries, but at some time they must be withdrawn. Falconbridge waited,
                  therefore, and was not disappointed in his expectation.
               The mysterious figure slowly assumed an upright position; a deep sigh seemed to
                  issue from its bosom; and with head bent over its shoulder, and drooping form, it
                  slowly returned toward the door through which it had entered.
               The absence of the strange, glowing eyes seemed to give the dreamer courage. No
                  longer paralyzed, as it were, by the magnetic glance, Falconbridge started from
                  his couch, and grasping his sword, which lay upon the table, near his bed, bounded
                  to the door.
               He thought he saw it open and close upon the figure.
               His sword pierced the solid wood—the clash echoing through the mansion with a
                  strange, weird sound.
               Falconbridge tore open the door, and issued forth upon the landing of the
                  staircase. Nothing was to be seen. The pale moonlight slept upon the rude
                  banisters, and the oaken floor, but no form was visible.
               He rubbed his eyes, and returning to the apartment, wrenched his sword from the
                  wood in which the point had been buried.
               Had he dreamed? Could it really have been his fancy?
               "I swear I saw it!" he muttered, wiping the cold perspiration from his brow, and
                  returning to his couch; "it bent over me, and looked into my face!"
               With these words he deposited his sword again upon the table, and lay down. He
                  remained for an hour or more awake, watching for the return of the figure, but
                  nothing disturbed the lonely silence. At last he fell asleep, murmuring; and
                  slumbered undisturbed, until the sunlight streamed into his chamber through the
                  eastern window, and waked him.
            
            
               
               XIV.
               THE NEXT MORNING.
               YOU must have eaten a heavy supper, sir," said Lord Fairfax coldly, as at
                  breakfast the young man related his strange vision; "Greenway Court is not ancient
                  enough to possess a ghost, and your dreams took a singular direction."
               "True, my lord," returned Falconbridge, thoughtfully, "but I could almost swear I
                  was not asleep."
               "Not asleep!" said the Earl, with grave surprise.
               "At least I think so. But plainly, I am mistaken. Yet 'tis strange! I seem to have
                  seen really those lurid eyes full of pain and yearning—unhappy eyes!"
               And Falconbridge leaned back in his chair and sighed.
               "There, comrade!" said Captain Wagner, with his mouth full, "stop that groaning,
                  or you'll make me melancholy. Luckily my appetite is proof against everything—but
                  come, laugh!"
               Falconbridge smiled. The sonorous voice of the soldier aroused him; and his
                  constitutional spirits gradually returned.
               "You are right, Captain," he said; "this is idle, and I am carried away by sickly
                  fancies. And yet I could have sworn! but enough. I fear I've terrified you by my
                  ghost!" he added, turning with a brilliant smile to Miss Argal; "I trust your own
                  dreams were more pleasant.
               "Very pleasant," was the low reply; and George caught in its passage, a quick
                  glance, which seemed to say, "I dreamed of you."
               The breakfast soon afterward terminated; and Falconbridge requested the Earl to
                  have his horse and Miss Argal's brought up. The young lady replied to his
                  lordship's hospitable invitation to remain, that she feared her father was uneasy
                  on her account; and this excuse was conclusive.
               So they departed; Falconbridge making an appointment with the Earl to visit him on
                  the next day; and soon afterward George, too, mounted his horse and left
                  Greenway.
               Was it to look at the country, or make surveys? If so, the youth evidently
                  preferred the region of the Fort Mountain; for in an hour or two he had crossed
                  the river, and was galloping along the road to the house of Cannie.
            
            
               
               XV.
               HOW LORD FAIRFAX INFORMED THE CAPTAIN OF A FAMILY PROPHECY.
               LORD FAIRFAX and the Captain were thus left alone together.
               The worthy Borderer lit his pipe, and stretching himself in his favorite leathern
                  chair, prepared to listen or to converse.
               The Earl sat opposite in one of the carved-backed seats; and, resting one arm upon
                  a small table, prepared for business. Two great deer-hounds lay at his feet, and
                  altogether he presented, in his rich costume of blue velvet, slashed and
                  ornamented with embroidery, an extremely picturesque appearance, though the
                  listless and melancholy expression of his features seemed to indicate that his
                  feelings were far from cheerful.
               On the table, beneath the hand of the Earl, lay a rudely-drawn map of the
                  frontier, and beside it were a number of roughly-folded letters, and an inkstand,
                  from which a long eagle's quill rose, like a bulrush bowed by the wind.
               As to Captain Wagner, that worthy was clad as usual in his rough travelling dress,
                  and heavy boots. One would have imagined that the soldier never doffed these
                  vestments, so wholly a part of him did they seem; and it would have astonished his
                  acquaintances to have seen the huge sword anywhere else than in its natural
                  position, suspended from the great broad belt, and between the athletic legs.
               Lord Fairfax leaned back in his chair, and passed his hand wearily over his brow.
                  His features wore their ordinary expression of gloomy, almost harsh repose, but
                  from time to time the grim, melancholy smile flitted over them.
               "Thus, you see, Captain," he said, at length, "that I want assistance. The
                  audacious attack upon my house here, which you have just related, proves that I
                  was not wrong in sending for you to come and help me. You think that this was only
                  a prowling band, and of no strength—mere pillagers from the recesses of the
                  mountains, come down on a momentary foray, as we say in Scotland; you may be
                  right—I do not dispute it—in fact I agree with you. But that the appearance of
                  Indians, in any numbers, east of the North Mountain, is a thing to take heed of, I
                  need not tell you. Besides, I have other information which I have laid before you,
                  to which you have listened attentively, and beyond doubt carefully considered. It
                  comes to me in right of my office. I am Lord Lieutenant, or, as they say here,
                  County Lieutenant of Frederick and the adjoining shires, and this information
                  proves to me, that a great Indian attack may be expected at any moment. I am not
                  sure that this day will pass in peace; that a runner will not, in an hour from
                  this time, burst into my presence to announce an attack upon my manors on the
                  South Branch."
               "Not improbable," said the Captain, smoothing his moustache, thoughtfully.
               "Thus I have sent for you," continued Lord Fairfax, "and I thank you for your
                  promptness. You have grown hard in these encounters, and I know your military
                  genius perfectly well."
               "Thanks, my lord."
               "Look," continued the Earl, pointing to the map; "all these lands are, as you
                  know, a part of my grant from the Crown; this is the South Branch of the Potomac,
                  and you see these crosses. You know better than I do myself that they are houses
                  of settlers. I do not wish these Indian devils to ruin my lands, to scare off
                  settlers. I shall never return to England at that rate."
               "Does your lordship think of going back?"
               
               "Assuredly," said Lord Fairfax, with a grim look; "I do not expect to live all my
                  days here in the wilderness."
               "I thought this was your chosen home."
               "You have thought wrongly, then. As soon as I have collected money enough to
                  re-purchase Denton, I shall return."
               "Denton, my lord?"
               "The paternal estate."
               "How was it sold?"
               "By my rascally guardians; the entail was cut off while I was a minor, and thus
                  the prophecy of old Lord Thomas, the founder of our house, was fulfilled—but I
                  shall disappoint him yet."
               These words were uttered gloomily, but with a dark flush upon the swarthy features
                  of the Earl.
               "What prophecy does your lordship allude to, pray?" asked the Captain.
               "Have you never heard it?"
               "Never."
               "Listen, then; the story is not long. The house of Fairfax had for its founder and
                  head, Sir Thomas Fairfax, who became, for services to the Crown, Earl of Fairfax,
                  and Baron of Cameron, somewhere about the year 1600. He was a sagacious man, and
                  held great sway in Yorkshire, where lies Denton—my Denton it shall be
                  again if there is money enough in the province of Virginia to re-purchase it! You
                  do not understand, Captain Wagner, the feeling a man has toward a place which not
                  only his earliest years have been passed in, but in which his house has lived for
                  centuries. I love Denton, its park, its chase, its hills, and flats and forests;
                  the old dining-room, the fencing gallery, the dogs and horses—yes, the very rustle
                  of the great oaks around the door! Well, sir, that estate, as I said, was taken
                  from me, the entail was cut off by my guardians, who, I firmly believe, were
                  bribed to betray my interests. And so the prophecy was fulfilled. But I have not
                  told you what that was. I have said that the founder of the Earldom was Sir Thomas
                  Fairfax, and he was the grandfather of the Parliamentary General, the "Tom
                  Fairfax," of the civil war, whom you have doubtless heard of—whose wife was
                  present at the mock trial of King Charles, and created so much confusion by crying
                  that her husband was too politic to be there. But I digress. The character of his
                  grandson, the young general, had often caused Sir Thomas anxiety, and so
                  clear-sighted was the old first earl, that he foresaw that this young man would
                  ruin the house of Fairfax. This was put regularly upon record. Charles Fairfax,
                  son of the first Earl, wrote it down. The old gentleman, walking in his great
                  parlor at Denton, about the year 1640—a century ago—was much troubled. He said
                  that something told him that General Tom, and his descendants of the same name,
                  would bring the house of Fairfax to an end. It was fulfilled. General Fairfax
                  alienated his family estate to marry into a powerful house. A century afterward, I
                  felt the effect of his act, and Denton escaped from my hands—I am here."
               The Earl paused and looked coldly through the window.
               "And this exiled your lordship?" asked the Captain, with sympathy; "this act of
                  your guardians?"
               "That and other things," replied Lord Fairfax, a dark shadow passing over his
                  brow. "My life has been unfortunate and tragic; Fate has sported with me, and
                  woven a wild mesh to entangle me; I have been mastered in the struggle, and struck
                  me down. But I'll not yield! Let a million prophecies be hurled against me—let
                  Fate do her worst! I'll struggle and contend with her till I die!"
               The Earl set his teeth close and was silent.
               "That is right, my lord," said Captain Wagner, approvingly: "no brave man knocks
                  under. I do not myself, believe in prophecies, nor any such flummery—and even am a
                  disbeliever in witchcraft."
               "I have had doubts myself, on the subject of this latter, and no longer place as
                  much confidence in astrology either, as I
                  did formerly," said the Earl, coldly. "A great seer in Italy informed me that I
                  would recover Denton, and hence my struggling thus in the teeth of fate. I will
                  struggle so to the end—and I will collect every pistole in this colony, but I will
                  have it back."
               "You have a tolerable grant of land from his Majesty, here, my lord, in place of
                  the said Denton," replied Captain Wagner; "why not be content?"
               "I am not content, because I am in fact a landless man. I tell you, Captain
                  Wagner, that as long as the oaks of Denton are not mine—the old walls, the
                  chase—everything—I'll not rest."
               "Well, all that is natural, my lord."
               "Certainly. And now you will understand me perfectly. I own a fourth of Virginia,
                  and I wish to sell it."
               "Zounds!" said the Captain, "it's a glorious bit of land to be in the market. I'd
                  like to buy it."
               The Earl smiled gloomily.
               "You may at least help me to make it attractive to settlers, by grants to whom I
                  aim at realizing what I need to re-purchase Denton."
               "An empire for a plantation!" said the Captain; "but every man to his humor. Your
                  lordship is the best judge of your own wishes—now, I'd take Virginia—but that's
                  nothing. I don't deny that there are drawbacks in the shape of bloody savages, but
                  we'll grind 'em, or I'll eat my own head!"
            
            
               XVI.
               HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER DECLARED WAR ON HIS PRIVATE ACCOUNT AGAINST LORD
                  FAIRFAX.
               THE stalwart Borderer uttered these words with so much energy and expression, that
                  Lord Fairfax was diverted from his gloomy thoughts, and smiled. It was the old
                  grim smile, habitual with him; but this even was more pleasant than the gloomy
                  shadow which lay before upon his lips and forehead.
               "Captain," he said, with his sardonic expression, "permit me to say that your
                  invention in respect of oaths is truly wonderful."
               "Many thanks, my lord," returned the Captain, evidently pleased and flattered; "I
                     have a small genius in that line which my friends have
                  complimented. But after all 'tis a bad habit! a bad habit!"
               And the worthy looked modestly down, with an expression of mock self-depreciation
                  which was a treat to the author of the papers in the "Spectator."
               "I agree with you, Captain," replied the Earl, coolly, "but 'tis nothing to our
                  present purpose. You have spoken of the Indians in time. When I touch on the
                  subject of Denton, and the wrong done to me, I am never in my right mind. What do
                  you counsel? speak plainly and without paraphrases. I require the assistance of a
                  man who knows the habits of these devils, and who can plan. I don't care to
                  acknowledge that I am a mere nothing in council as Tom, the General, was before
                  me. I am irresolute—have a morbid inertness clinging to my mind; it is only in the
                  chase that my nerves are strung, my brain clear and vigorous."
               "I have seen as much in your lordship," said Captain Wagner. "You are irresolute, but would be an
                  excellent officer for a cavalry charge.
               "Speak plainly," said the Earl, indifferently, "but when you have finished with
                  me, come to the threatened Indian attack. I know nothing of these matters. Come,
                  your counsel! I have laid before you the particulars."
               "My counsel is easily given, or the devil take me," said the Captain. "'Sdeath, my
                  lord, I know these Injun rascals; they hold pawpawing days the year round, and
                  will be on you like an avalanche some morning; you should prepare. Send runners to
                  the South Branch, with instructions to assemble the men with all the pistols,
                  cohorns, muskets, rifles and carbines to be found: entrust commissions to them for
                  persons I will designate. Such men as Martin, Miller, Howard, Walker, and
                  Rutledge—direct the levies to be trained in bush-fighting, in loading while
                  running at full speed, and in everything connected with a combat, and the
                  instruments of the said combat, down to the cutting off the necks of the balls of
                  the rifles. You have no time in an attack to unbreech and extract the
                  ball—consequently a rifle is done up, or the devil take me. I will repeat to your
                  lordship all the particulars, and you shall write them down, and entrust them—with
                  the commissions you have the right as County Lieutenant to issue—to the runners.
                  As to myself, I shall remain here, partly on private affairs," said the Captain,
                  curling his moustache, "and partly because my services may be needed here more
                  than yonder. It is not out of probability, even, that these devils will make their
                  swoop upon Cedar Cheek, and this portion of the manor, from the mountains yonder
                  toward the Northwest. Let 'em come!"
               "That is a wild country, is it not?"
               "The ruins of an overturned world, grown over with grass and trees, and inhabited
                  by panthers and Injuns," said Captain Wagner, succinctly.
               "Pardy," said the Earl, with his grim look; "I think we may expect them from that
                  quarter."
               "Therefore I shall remain here, my lord. Zounds! I will have an opportunity, even
                  here, of breaking some skulls, I warrant you: I hope so at least; my hand is
                  getting out of practice. Since I have stopped dragging at scalplocks and eating
                  buffalo hump I have felt badly. Give me an attack soon, or by the devil's horns, I
                  will rust to death!"
               The stern smile came back to the Earl's face. He liked to hear the sonorous voice,
                  the martial oaths even, of the rude soldier: they were but additional proofs that
                  the instrument which gave forth such sounds must be robust and strong. The Earl
                  needed Captain Wagner; he had estimated his own character—its strength and
                  weakness—with perfect exactness. Brave, impetuous, even wholly fearless when
                  aroused, he was yet morbidly irresolute when unmoved—could not bring himself to
                  any determination—had scarcely power to decide upon the most obvious courses. He
                  would often spend long, weary, miserable hours thus, in his great dining-room, his
                  head resting on his hand, his thoughts wandering back to the past, or forward to
                  the future; and would only rouse himself at last to dash off to the forest, there
                  to drown his morbid feelings in the excitements of the chase, as other men do in
                  the stimulant of wine. Thus the sight of Captain Wagner was always welcome to the
                  Earl; he was glad to hear the loud voice, the rattle of spurs, the clatter of the
                  sword; they kept him from thinking. He needed a counsellor, too, as has been seen,
                  and thus the soldier stood high in the Earl's regards.
               "Well, remain!" he said, in reply to the Captain's last words, "I shall have need
                  for you in other matters, not so warlike."
               "In what, pray, my lord?"
               "They speak of a trial for witchcraft here soon."
               "Who?"
               "These gentlemen justices of Frederick, or rather one of them, a Mr. Gideon
                  Hastyluck."
               "I know him. A crop-eared rascal!" said the Captain; "zounds! one itches to kick
                  him—this Master Hastyluck, or
                  Haste-thee-Luke, as he was formerly called. But who on the earth is to be charged
                  with witchcraft?"
               "An old settler here in the Fort Mountain."
               "His name?"
               "Powell," said the Earl.
               "Old Powell? what folly! A more peaceful man I never knew."
               "Well, I take no part in the affair; let the gentlemen justices follow their own
                  ideas."
               "They have none, my lord; they really have not, many of them, capacity to follow
                  their noses, even."
               "I am sorry therefor, inasmuch as I shall have to submit to them, very soon, a
                  proposition in which I am interested."
               "What is that?"
               "I wish the county seat of Frederick County to be Stephensburg, over here."
               "Well, my lord," said the Captain, collecting his forces.
               "Well, there are gentlemen who desire that Winchester should be selected."
               "And ladies too, pardy!"
               "What, Captain?"
               "Nothing, my lord; I only said that there were ladies who wished Winchester to be
                  chosen."
               "Indeed! why?"
               "Who have property there."
               "I regret it; but I cannot yield; my interests all point to Stephensburg."
               "Let us argue that point, my lord," said the Captain; "I know that Stephensburg,
                  from its position, as"—
               "Enough, Captain," said the Earl, indifferently; "spare your logic, I have
                  determined to have the county seat at Stephensburg, if my influence can compass
                  it."
               "Good! then it only remains for me, in due and honorable form, to declare war on
                  my private account against your lordship in this affair."
               "You?" said Fairfax.
               "Myself,"
               "You wish Winchester to be selected?"
               Yes, indeed, my lord."
               "Why?"
               "For private reasons."
               "Ah! a lady is concerned; I have heard of your gallantry very often, Captain. A
                  lady!"
               "I do not deny it, my lord," said the Captain.
               "Well, I am sorry to say that I cannot oblige yourself and your fair friend in
                  this matter. I have determined on Stephensburg."
               "And I, my lord," said Captain Wagner, "have determined on Winchester. Zounds!
                  with all possible respect for your earlship, Winchester shall be the county
                  seat."
               The melancholy smile flitted over Fairfax's face.
               "How will you compass it?" he said, "I have a majority of the justices already in
                  my favor."
               "How large a majority, pray, my lord?"
               The Earl smiled again.
               "You seem to forget that you have declared war," he said, "but this moment. I will
                  afford an enemy no information, whatsoever."
               "Ah, that is just, or may the devil take me—right, right! I must do my own
                  nosing-out, I see—and faith, as your lordship has so much the start of me, I will
                  commence at once."
               "And I promise not to bear the least grudge, Captain, if you succeed, since we are
                  fairly pitted, arms in hand."
               "Except that my sword is shattered to the hilt, when I enter the contest; yours
                  whole and sharp."
               "It is the fortune of war: so much the more glory if you overcome me.
               "Very well, my lord. I promise you to give you a hard fight, and from this moment
                  I sound the trumpet," said the Captain, rising.
               "Where are you going?" said the Earl.
               
               "I decline to reply," returned the Captain, cunningly; "I follow your
                  excellency."
               "Not a bad hit, upon my honor; you are invaluable to me, Captain; you alone of all
                  my friends make me laugh. Go then: but let us empty a cup before your
                  departure."
               "Willingly, my lord."
               And so Captain Wagner tarried and emptied a fair flaggon of Jamaica—wine he cared
                  not for—to his own success. Then assuring his lordship that on the next day, the
                  instructions for the border settlers would be ready for him, the Captain mounted
                  his horse, and took the road to Ordinary.
            
            
               XVII.
               MONSIEUR JAMBOT'S DEATH'S HEAD.
               IN the main apartment of Mynheer Van Doring's Ordinary, the fair Mrs. Butterton is
                  dancing a galliard to the music of Monsieur Auguste Hypolite Jambot's fiddle.
               That gentleman is clad in a picturesque coat with barrel cuffs turned back to the
                  elbows, a blue satin waistcoat fitting tightly to his thin, slight figure, and
                  pumps adorned, in place of buckles, with immense rosettes of red ribbon. Monsieur
                  Jambot is thus very picturesque—but the widow is resplendent. She is dressed in
                  all the colors of the rainbow; she wears rings, breastpins and bracelets without
                  number; and when she lifts her skirt gracefully in the animated dance, the other
                  hand balanced akimbo on her side, she makes a full display of a pair of
                  substantial ankles cased in real silk stockings, and large, serviceable feet
                  plunged in slippers of immense elegance.
               The dance comes to an end, and the fair widow fans herself, saying:
               "How did I get through, Monsieur?"
               "Elegant! elegant!" cried Monsieur Jambot, "but nex' time you shall step not so
                  quick, not so jig, ma chère madame!"
               "Not so what?" asked the fair widow, laughing.
               "Ah, my poor head!" said Monsieur Jambot, ceasing for a moment to tune his violin,
                  in order to press his forehead with a theatrical air; "my poor head—I no
                  understand l' Anglais; I mean you step out
                  too—what you call him—vite, too quick, too
                  spirited: voilà le mot!"
               "Well, let us try again."
               "Same, madame?"
               
               "Oh, yes! are you tired of it?"
               "Ah, non, non—I could not be tired of you when
                  you dance."
               "You are very gallant, Monsieur."
               "C'est vrai!"
               "Well, then, play for me again. Do you like that tune?"
               "'Tis beautiful."
               "I think so too. So you are willing to try again?"
               "Ravi!"
               And Monsieur Jambot struck up a lively air, and Mistress Butterton tripped gaily
                  down the room to the quick music, her arms akimbo, her wrist bent and resting on
                  her side, her eyes sparkling, her red-heeled shoes merrily clattering on the
                  brightly scoured floor.
               "Ah, c'est grand!" cried Monsieur Jambot; "you
                  might dance the contre dance before his Majesté Louis le Grand himself."
               "I'm glad to hear it," said Mrs. Butterton, fanning herself, and casting a
                  languishing glance upon her companion—it was to keep herself in practice—"I am
                  glad you think so: for I shall go to a number of frolics before returning to
                  Belhaven, and I wish to show the folks up here the difference between the town and
                  the country. I must not dance any more jig tunes, for they dance them very well
                  here: now a minuet is so much better: that is a court dance!"
               "A royal dance, madame! But parole d'honneur,
                  you dance minuet most elegant."
               "Oh, you jest!"
               "Jest? never!"
               "Shall we try one, then?"
               "Oui, madame: I will play and dance also."
               When Monsieur Jambot danced the minuet he became, for the time, a different
                  person, so loftily did he hold his powdered head, with so graceful and stately an
                  amenity did he move on the points of his high-heeled shoes to the slow, gliding
                  music. This change now passed over his countenance nance and manner. He held his
                  violin as a monarch does his sceptre; he took up, then laid down his cocked hat,
                  as an emperor would his crown; his whole person became at once stiff and supple,
                  erect and inclined. The lady was not behind-hand. She drew herself up in a stately
                  way, assumed a gracious and condescending smile, and raised gracefully her long
                  skirt, ready to step forward at the first notes of the violin.
               Monsieur Jambot commenced with a low prelude, full of elegance. The instrument,
                  which had at first shook from its strings a bright shower of laughing and
                  sparkling notes in the gay gavotte, keeping perfect time to the rattle of the
                  lady's slippers on the floor of the apartment, now changed its tone completely, as
                  if ashamed of such inane gaiety and unseemly mirth. It now gave forth a slow,
                  ceremonious strain, such as was fit and proper for great lords and ladies in
                  princely hall assembled, to bow and courtesy to each other by: even for kings to
                  incline their royal heads to in a graceful, royal way, leading out princesses in
                  gilded, picture-walled saloons.
               As to Monsieur Jambot, he seemed to be perfectly happy; he could play and dance
                  very well at the same time, and on this occasion he excelled himself. He glided,
                  he ambled, he simpered, he bowed, his very eyes seemed to be full of music, and to
                  be ready to dissolve away in fluttering delight. Those eyes were fixed upon the
                  fair widow, and they expressed, in a way quite unmistakable, the condition of the
                  owner's heart—the state of his feelings. It was very plain, from those
                  languishing, and admiring glances, that Monsieur Jambot was a victim to the
                     belle passion, as he called it; and would
                  rather prefer to die for her than otherwise.
               Not to do injustice to the fair widow's discrimination, we will add that she
                  understood both the look and the state of Monsieur Jambot's feelings perfectly
                  well. She was well assured that he was one of her most ardent adorers, and that he
                  aspired to her hand; but whether this hand was to be reduced into possession by the dancing-master,
                  or by Captain Wagner, the reader will discover in due time.
               And now they approached each other in the graceful dance, bowing, smiling, and
                  rolling their eyes—in which latter exercise we must say Monsieur Jambot very far
                  excelled his fair friend—and the music seemed to sigh forth a species of luxurious
                  delight. The lady, with her skirt raised with one hand, the other hand, or rather
                  the wrist thereof, resting on her side—executed profuse bows, and so to the
                  triumphant fiddle of Monsieur Jambot, the dance went on its way in triumph.
               He wound up the minuet with a graceful flourish, improvised for the occasion, and
                  full of beauty; and in the excitement of the moment, sank upon his knees before
                  the fair lady, grasping her plump hand, which hand he pressed rapturously to his
                  lips. The lady stood calmly fanning herself with her disengaged hand, and looking
                  at her admirer with a roguish twinkle in her eyes.
               The parties were arranged in this elegant and striking tableau, when suddenly the
                  widow turned abruptly, and Monsieur Jambot rose angrily, brushing his knees. These
                  movements were caused by a very simple circumstance, a circumstance which
                  assuredly, in the ordinary course of human events, was not calculated to overwhelm
                  one, or cause any profound astonishment. Not to keep the reader longer in
                  ignorance, the lady and her admirer had been startled by the arrival of a third
                  personage, and this arrival was announced by the form of words:
               "Snout of the dragon! what do I see! Kneeling, or the devil fly away with me!"
               And Captain Wagner, the hoof-strokes of whose horse had been drowned by the music
                  of the violin, stalked into the room—a dreadful frown upon his brow, his martial
                  spurs jingling as he strode, his heavy sword half drawn, and clattering
                  portentously against his legs, cased in their heavy boots.
            
            
               XVIII.
               HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER PREDICTED HIS FUTURE FAME.
               MONSIEUR JAMBOT drew himself up, and exclaimed in a theatrical tone:
               "Malediction!"
               "What is that you say, sir?" said Captain Wagner, sternly. "I do not understand
                  your barbarous lingo, though Mistress Butterton seems to comprehend it perfectly,
                  or the devil seize me!"
               And Captain Wagner threw upon the fair widow a look which nearly took away her
                  breath. She scarcely knew what to reply, and found all her presence of mind
                  unequal to the task of repelling the valiant Captain, and asserting her own right
                  of action. She finally decided to burst into tears.
               "You are a cruel man! that you are, Captain," she sobbed, "to speak to me in that
                  way—that you are!"
               The Captain was proof against tears; he knew the sex, as he often said, and was
                  not to be moved by such trifles.
               "I was not addressing you, madam," he said, frowning, "but this gentleman, who
                  used toward me the highly injurious term, malediction. In the whole
                  course of my life, madam, I have never been called a malediction by any one
                  before, and I now inform Mr. Jambo, that whatever may be the fashion in his own
                  frog-eating country, in this country when one man calls another a malediction, it
                  is a declaration of mortal enmity—in which light I receive it!"
               "Sacre!" groaned Monsieur Jambot, between his
                  clenched teeth, "ce maudit capitaine! I will
                  fight him—I will abolish him from ze face of zis earth!"
               
               "Abolish me!" cried Captain Wagner, 
                     indignatly
                     indignantly
                  ; "may the devil take me, but we shall see. I have heard that you teach
                  fencing, Mr. Jambo, as well as capering; well, draw your sword, pardy, or I will
                  nail you, Monsieur, to that table!"
               Monsieur Jambot jumped back, for Captain Wagner's sword flashed forth like
                  lightning from its scabbard.
               "Your sword! your sword!" cried the Captain.
               Monsieur Jambot was no coward; and now thoroughly aroused by the presence and
                  insults of his hated rival, he executed two steps, professionally speaking, to the
                  mantelpiece, and took down a good rapier which hung there among pepper-pods, balls
                  of twine, and ears of corn; with which he turned and faced his adversary.
               "Begar!" he cried, in a great rage, "we shall see what we shall see!"
               But before the Captain could put himself into position, a loud screech was heard,
                  and Mrs. Butterton rushed between them with tears and sobs.
               "Oh, for mercy's sake!" she cried, "oh, no fighting—oh, you must not! Captain—Mr.
                  Jambot—you shall not! Put up your swords—this moment!—or—or—I shall—faint—my
                  smelling-bottle—in—my—room—Monsieur—Jam!—Cap!"—
               With which faintly-uttered words the lady closed her eyes; then her form swayed
                  backward and forward, her head drooped, her feet bent beneath her, and just as
                  Monsieur Jambot, with all the gallantry of the Frenchman and the lover, rushed
                  from the room to bring the smelling-bottle, she yielded to "nerves," and sank back
                  into the sturdy arms of the valiant Captain.
               "Oh, how could you!" she said, languidly opening her eyes a moment afterward, and
                  drawing back.
               "A thousand apologies, my dearest madam—I have done wrong—forgive me!" groaned her
                  admirer.
               "Oh, Captain!" murmured the lady.
               "But to see your beautiful hand pressed to another's lips!—to see another kneeling
                  to you, which individual you might in another moment have raised from his
                  knees—May the fiend seize me, madam!" cried Captain Wagner, "but I will yet have
                  my revenge on that perfidious rival—revenge, revenge!"
               The lady drew back pettishly.
               "You care nothing for me," she sobbed, "I am angry, sir, and I won't be treated
                  so, sir. You treat me too badly—that you do."
               "Tears!" cried Captain Wagner, tearing his hair, "tears caused by me!"
               "Yes, sir, by you."
               "By me—the most devoted of your admirers—of your—yes, of your"—
               "Enemies—yes, the most bitter enemy I have."
               "Madam!"
               "You would kill my friends, because they are my friends."
               "No, no."
               "You would fight Monsieur Jambot."
               "He is a good swordsman, I know well."
               "And if he is?"
               "He might run through the midriff me myself—the most faithful of adorers; but that
                  would be nothing," added Captain Wagner, gloomily; "a broken heart and a clay-cold
                  corpse go well together."
               "Whose heart is broken, sir?"
               "Mine, madam, by your coldness—your unkindness."
               "Captain," sighed the lady.
               "You turn all my virtues into faults, or may the devil take me!"
               "Oh," remonstrated the lady.
               "If I show jealousy, you laugh at me; if I wish to drive off other—yes, other
                  rivals, madam, you quarrel with me."
               "I have not quarrelled."
               
               "You feign not to perceive that I am the most devoted of"—
               The lady turned aside her head: the Captain pressed to his lips the hand which was
                  abandoned to him: the other covered her face. Just at this moment, Monsieur Jambot
                  re-entered, and stood transfixed with horror.
               As Captain Wagner, in his profound wrath and astonishment, had cried out
                  violently: "Snout of the Dragon!'—so now, Monsieur Jambot, with rage quite as
                  profound, saluted his adversary with the words:
               "Milles diables! what do I see?"
               The Captain twirled his moustache.
               "You see me," he said, curtly.
               "And who are you, sacre?"
               "Captain Julius Wagner, at your service, sir."
               "Captain Waggeneur, you shall answer to me zis!" cried Monsieur Jambot.
               "Answer what?"
               "For your insult to me," replied the Frenchman, adroitly avoiding a commital of
                  himself.
               "I will answer anything," said the Captain. But perceiving the eyes of the fair
                  widow fixed beseechingly upon him: "still," he continued, "I am not aware,
                  Monsieur Jambot, that I have insulted you half so grossly as you have me?"
               "Comment!"
               "Did you not characterize me as a malediction? answer me that."
               "But," said the lady, delighted to see the two adversaries gradually cooling and
                  speaking in more amicable tones, "that is not an insult, I am sure, Captain. Malediction is—I don't know exactly what—but it is not an
                  insult."
               "If that is the case, madam, and Monsieur Jambo has not insulted me by this malediction, I am ready to end our quarrel."
               Monsieur Jambot bowed with ceremony.
               "It shall end," he said, coldly.
               "Good!" continued the Captain, "and now, madam, let me proceed to business. I am
                  here purely on business."
               Monsieur Jambot hearing these words, understood that it would not be polite for
                  him to remain: so taking his fiddle from the floor, and restoring the rapier to
                  its place, he betook himself to the porch, where, seated on the wooden bench, he
                  discoursed sweet music, soft enough to penetrate the very heart of his
                  mistress.
               "Business, Captain?" asked the lady, seating herself near the table.
               "Business, madam," said Captain Wagner, taking out a paper, upon which were
                  written, in huge, sprawling letters with a pencil, a number of names; "your
                  business."
               And he seated himself on the opposite side of the narrow table, spreading out the
                  paper between them.
               "My business?"
               "Yes, madam—that which brought you to the Valley."
               "Oh, my lots?"
               "In Winchester—yes."
               "I now recollect your kind offer of assistance. La! Captain, you put yourself to a
                  heap of trouble."
               And the lady gently agitated her fan of swan's feathers, gazing thereon.
               "Trouble? no, nothing is trouble for which we expect to be munificently paid,
                  pardy!"
               The lady cast down her eyes with a blush.
               "Thus, then, it is," said the Captain, leaning over the table, and caressing his
                  martial moustache, as with his enormous hand he pointed out the names written on
                  the paper in a double row, "thus it is. At the next meeting of the Honorable
                  Justices of the County of Frederick—which county, by the horns of the
                  devil!—excuse me, madam—should be a kingdom, for it reaches from the Blue Ridge
                  here to the Mississippi—at the next meeting of the Court here, madam, the county
                  seat, as you well know, will be
                  determined on. It will be either Stephensburg over there, or Winchester"—
               "Yes, Captain."
               "And your interest," said the Captain, in a business tone, "points to
                  Winchester?"
               "Yes, indeed—I have some excellent lots there, as I have before told you."
               "Good! well, I have determined, as I informed you, madam, that Winchester shall be
                  the place."
               "La! Captain!—but how can you—there is Lord Fairfax, a sweet nobleman, I am sure,
                  but he is determined to have Stephensburg chosen."
               "Whether Lord Fairfax is a sweet nobleman or not, my dear madam, is not the
                  question: nor which of these two places he inclines to. I have time before
                  court-day, and I will use it in your favor."
               "Oh, thank you—you are very good."
               "No: by no means: as I said before, my reward will come from you. But that is
                  beside the question. I procured from your worthy father, whom I met on the road
                  coming hither, these names of the justices. You will perceive that they are very
                  nearly balanced equally—for and against Winchester. Two names, you see, are marked
                     Doubtful. They are those of Argal and Hastyluck."
               The Captain leaned over the table, as did the lady: they were a great contrast: he
                  with his dark, martial face, black moustache, and grotesque humor in the eyes,
                  buried under their shaggy brows; she with her fair, plump face, and red lips, and
                  affected simper. Their eyes met, and an odd smile passed over the features of
                  each.
               "I will bring over Argal and Hastyluck," said Captain Wagner, watching his
                  companion like a dog with head lowered, "and Winchester will be chosen."
               "In spite of Lord Fairfax?"
               "Yes, indeed; in spite of everything!"
               "You are so kind!"
               "Ha, ha!"
               "You are the most disinterested person in the world."
               "No, I am selfish."
               "La! Captain."
               "And in proof of it I shall claim the reward for my services."
               The lady blushed, casting down her eyes.
               "Will you grant me what I ask, should I succeed?"
               "Oh, Captain," murmured his companion, with a fluttering heart.
               "If it is reasonable?"
               "If—it—is reasonable—y—es."
               "Good!" cried Captain Wagner, rising, and bringing his fist down on the table,
                  like a battering ram, "then Winchester shall, from this time, be the county-seat,
                  and shall grow wealthy, and increase in population and in size, and in importance
                  and in glory! Yes, I have determined upon that! Stephensburg shall have its
                  foolish ambition overturned; for the more I ponder upon the matter, the more
                  proper does it seem that Winchester—where your lots are, my dearest madam—should
                  be the capital town of this great county. I rejoice, not only for my own present
                  sake and yours, that such will be the event: but I see with pride that brilliant
                  future, when the name of Captain Julius Wagner will be loved and respected by
                  thousands now unborn: when they will possibly erect statues to him here in this
                  beautiful land; and where—who knows?—some one of that idle and disreputable, but
                  still useful class called authors, shall write out an account of my services in
                  this matter, and print them with types such as are used for books, and so inform
                  the world of my patriotism!—yes, of my chivalry, my devotedness, my—hum! I think I
                  see that bright day coming, and I shall leave in my will a sum of money with which
                  my children, or grandchildren—if I have any, which heaven grant!—shall pay one of
                  those scribblers, or Grubstreets, as I have heard them called, to write about my
                     life. And therein, madam, your virtues
                  will shine! therein you will be rendered, from your connection with myself,
                  immortal!—therein we will go down to posterity hand in hand, as I trust we shall
                  do, even—hum?—my horse there!" cried the Captain, breaking off in the middle of
                  his eloquent speech.
               "I am going," he added; "and now rest in peace, madam. Your interests are
                  mine."
               With which speech Captain Wagner took his leave.
            
            
               XIX.
               OLD MEMORIES.
               WHILE these scenes were 
                     occuring
                     occurring
                   at the Ordinary, the master of Greenway Court, leaned back in his tall
                  carved chair, absorbed in gloomy thought.
               His pale face indicated some concealed emotion—his lips were contracted
                  sorrowfully, and the long eyelashes rested on his pallid cheek. He remained long
                  thus buried in thought; and then wearily rose erect in his seat and sighed.
               "Strange! very strange!" the Earl muttered, "that fatal likeness! Never have I
                  seen reproduced in human face a more perfect resemblance to another! Falconbridge?
                  Falconbridge? Whence does he come? Pshaw! why should I wish to find out? 'Tis one
                  of those fancies which seize on men at times: and yet I swear, as I bent over him,
                  when something drove me in the dead of night to his chamber, I could have taken my
                  oath that the face was the very same—eyes, lips and everything! How like, too, the
                  courage which made him spring up and pursue me! There I recognize the likeness
                  again, as in the form—in the spirit as in the outward lineaments. Strange
                  world!—strange life!"
               And for some moments the Earl remained silent, his breast shaken with sighs; his
                  lips quivering. Then he seemed to realize the folly of his emotion: and by a great
                  effort controlled himself.
               "What madness!" he murmured, "thus to yield to the ghost of the past, and shake
                  like Hamlet at a shadow! I'll be stronger and colder. He will come to-day or
                  to-morrow, and I must not excite attention by my manner. I must govern ern myself. Yes—the past must be
                  buried: it is gone. Why rake in the ashes for burnt out hopes and memories? I am
                  thousands of leagues from the scenes of other days—let me not recall them; let
                  them sleep!"
               And rising, the Earl put on his hat and gloves, and followed by his stag-hounds,
                  wandered forth to the prairie, still pondering, and pursuing his secret
                  thoughts.
            
            
               XX.
               FIRST LOVE.
               GEORGE pushed his horse gaily up the mountain road, and ere long reached the spur
                  upon which was situated the cabin of his singular host of the day before.
               As he approached it he observed above the great rock in rear, a light cloud of
                  smoke which puzzled him greatly. It plainly did not issue from the chimney of the
                  house; and as no outbuildings were attached to the cabin, the smoke could not be
                  that of the kitchen. Still, there it was: an unmistakable cloud, rising slowly it
                  seemed from the very fissure of the great mass of rock, and gently floating away
                  among the fir trees.
               George was still occupied with this singular phenomenon, when all at once a form
                  appeared at the door of the house which routed all his speculations, and gave him
                  something else to think about.
               It was the figure of Cannie: and in an instant the youth had thrown himself from
                  his horse, and held in his own one of the soft hands of the girl, which she
                  abandoned to him with her old air of grave sweetness and simplicity. There was
                  much less constraint in her air now, however, than at first. She had evidently
                  become acquainted with George: and thus her greeting was more familiar and
                  unceremonious.
               "I'm so glad you have come!" she said simply, "I did not expect to see you so
                  soon."
               "I thought you might be sick from your wetting," he replied with a smile, as he
                  looked into the pure sweet face.
               Cannie smiled in return.
               
               "Oh no!" she said, "I am very well, I think, though I certainly have caught
                  cold—but I am subject to colds."
               With which she coughed slightly; and led the way into the house.
               "I don't see your father," said George, "is he absent?"
               "He is my grandfather," returned Cannie, in her low, musical voice; "and he is not
                  far—shall I call him?"
               "Oh no! unless you're already very tired of me—Cannie."
               George uttered the girl's name with a slight tremor in his voice; and the
                  tell-tale blood rushed to his cheek as he gazed at her. Cannie exhibited no
                  similar emotion—indeed seemed, rather, very much pleased at this absence of
                  ceremony.
               "I beg your pardon for my familiarity," said George, blushing. "I scarcely knew I
                  was speaking so—calling you plain 'Cannie.'"
               "Beg my pardon?" said the girl, in a tone of surprise, "why should you? I wish you
                  always to call me Cannie, if you please. We are friends—and you know that you
                  saved my life."
               The words were uttered very simply and sweetly,—so sweetly indeed that George
                  heard the tones of her voice many hours afterwards. His confusion disappeared
                  entirely ere long: and proposing to Cannie a stroll on the mountain side—a
                  proposition to which she at once assented—the boy and the girl were very soon
                  rambling beneath the magnificent foliage of the autumn forest.
               Bright hours full of magical tints and odors!—filled with so much romance and
                  delight! They became a portion of his memory and heart: and long afterwards, far
                  away in other scenes of hardship and pain, he remembered them, and sighed for his
                  bright boyhood. They wandered away along the mountain side thus, with no aim in
                  their wanderings, no consciousness of the sentiment that was ripening in their
                  hearts. George only knew that Cannie was there at his side with her pure sweet
                  face, and kind good eyes; her lips full of cheerful, loving smiles; her voice like
                  soft music in his ears. When she rested on his arm in crossing some mountain
                  rivulet, or gave him her hand to mount to the summit of a rock, George felt, he
                  knew not why, a singular beating of the heart, and his cheeks flushed without the
                  least reason.
               Bright days of youth!—brighter thoughts of the heart! They are flowers that bloom
                  but once, and then die. What remains is the wiry stalk and bald head. It may
                  contain the seed, but the odor and the bloom, where are they?
               So George and Cannie wandered away for hours: and the golden autumn day sank into
                  their hearts, and filled them with its magical delight. When they came back home,
                  they were silent, and happy. It seemed but a moment since they had left the
                  house.
               In the main room they encountered the old man.
               "Grandpapa," said Cannie, "here is George."
               The old man returned the young man's greeting with easy courtesy. They then
                  commenced conversing, Cannie joining easily in their talk.
               In the midst of one of the speaker's sentences, George observed a glittering
                  object lying on the floor. It was a carolus, as
                  the gold coin was then called, and George picked it, up. To his astonishment it
                  was 
                     atmost
                     almost
                   hot: and his look, as he held it out, betrayed his wonder. His host took
                  it with a sardonic smile, which George afterwards remembered.
               "It is a coin I have just been experimenting on," said the old man; "I dropped it
                  and forgot to pick it up. I am a savant, or chymist, Master George, you must
                  understand. I experiment on gold and silver. You no doubt saw the smoke from my
                  furnace up there—and so let us turn to something more interesting."
               With these words the speaker calmly put the coin in his pocket, and changed the
                  topic with the ease and grace of a thorough man of the world. George had never
                  heard such brilliant and profound talk
                  from any one; and for more than an hour he sat listening with delight to the
                  absorbing monologue of the stranger.
               It was not until evening that the youth took his departure; and then it was with a
                  promise that he would come again.
               "Remember I am lonely," said Cannie, smiling and giving him her hand, "as
                  grandpapa is often busy. Come back soon!"
               George required no urging, and all the way back to Greenway, heard her voice.
            
            
               XXI.
               CAPTAIN WAGNER GOES TO CALL ON HIS FRIENDS.
               WHEN Captain Wagner undertook to perform anything, he was accustomed to set about
                  it with a rapidity and energy almost fatal, in the very beginning, to an opponent
                  of sluggish disposition.
               The Captain had come to the Valley of Virginia at the bidding of Lord Fairfax, to
                  assist that nobleman with his counsel in the troublous days which were plainly
                  lowering on the border: and in so doing, the soldier had only acted in conformity
                  with his views of duty, and his war-instincts. As the Indian attack was evidently
                  delayed for the time, however, as no breeze brought to the huge ears of the
                  frontiersman the rumor of battle, as he was doomed to inactivity for the moment,
                  and was not needed by his lordship—under this state of things it seemed to the
                  Captain that his most rational employment would be a diligent application of his
                  energies to the cause of Mrs. Butterton, with the prospective view of inducing
                  that lady to become Mrs. Wagner, into which changed state she would doubtless
                  carry with her, her thousand "desirabilities."
               These reflections had occurred to the soldier at his first interview, and we have
                  been present at his formal declaration of war against Thomas, Lord Fairfax, Baron
                  of Cameron, and Lord Lieutenant of Frederick and the shires adjacent.
               The Captain, after leaving Mrs. Butterton as we have seen him do, immediately set
                  about his task.
               He instituted inquiries upon all sides; procured a full list of the justices, with
                  the greater part of whom he was perfectly fectly well acquainted; and with this basis of operations, and the comfortable
                  assurance that there was quite a formidable party against Stephensburg and Lord
                  Fairfax, and consequently in favor of Winchester and Mrs. Butterton, cheerfully
                  took to the high road, and commenced his rounds.
               It is not the purpose of this history to follow the valiant Captain and great
                  negotiator in his campaign, or to repeat in detail the various and ever-ready
                  arguments which he used to impress his friends with the importance of selecting
                  the village of Winchester for the county-seat. Perhaps we lose a most favorable
                  opportunity of showing the tremendous energy and conspicuous ingenuity of Captain
                  Longknife, by passing thus over a series of scenes in which he was impressive and
                  indefatigable—but, unfortunately, we are not now writing the history of
                  Winchester.
               It is enough, then, to say that the Captain returned to the Ordinary, three or
                  four days afterwards, with a countenance in which might easily have been discerned
                  an expression of much pride and triumph.
               "Faith, madam!" he said, bending down and pressing gallantly to his lips the plump
                  hand of Mistress Butterton, who smiled, and murmured, "La, Captain!" and covered
                  her face with her fan, "faith, madam! I begin to think that I ought to have
                  undertaken more in your behalf—to have the county-seat moved to Belhaven, or, as
                  these new-fangled folks begin to call it, Alexandria, or even to Williamsburg, or
                  the village of Richmond, or any other town in which you may have property! Be easy
                  on the subject, my dear madam, for this very morning I am going to finish
                  everything. I'm going to see Argal, and that rascal Hastyluck, and I want company.
                  Where's your gallant acquaintance, Falconbridge, our mutual friend?"
               The lady smiled, and with an innocent air, said:
               "I think he has gone before you, Captain."
               "Gone before?"
               "To Mr. Argal's."
               And the lady laughed.
               "Rather to Miss Argal's," said the Captain, frowning, and looking thoughtful.
               "Yes."
               "He's in love!"
               "Is he?"
               "Dead in love! What a foolish fellow!"
               "Hem!" said Mrs. Butterton, gently, and with a dangerous look, "do you think that
                  is very foolish, Captain?"
               "It would not be in your case, beautiful and"—
               "Oh, Captain!"
               "May the!—well, that's wrong: but I will maintain, with fire and sword, the good
                  sense of the individual who falls in love with you!—that is," added the Captain,
                  guardedly, "I will cut the throats of all persons, or individuals, who presume to
                  do anything of the sort."
               With which somewhat inconsistent declaration, Captain Wagner again kissed the hand
                  he held in his huge paw, pushed up his black moustache with his finger, as was
                  habitual with him, and issuing forth, mounted his horse, and took his way toward
                  Mr. Argal's.
            
            
               
               XXII.
               THE CAPTAIN REVELS IN THE CREATIONS OF HIS FANCY.
               FALCONBRIDGE!—Madam Bertha!" muttered the soldier, gloomily, as he went onward,
                  "infatuated! Really, nothing is more astonishing than this passion, or indeed
                  madness, as one may call it, which invades a man's heart when his locks are still
                  black, his moustache untouched by gray. But this is not an infallible test, since
                  I, myself, am not at all gray. But then, I, myself," continued the Captain,
                  philosophically carrying on a logical fencing with himself, as with another
                  person, "I, myself, possibly am in love. In love! what romance and folly, and all
                  that! Still the fair lady yonder is not unworthy of the affection of a soldier,
                  and a man of intelligence—a good, sensible, fair, wealthy, and very engaging
                  widow! If that don't satisfy an individual in search of matrimony, nothing can.
                  I'll have her!—may the devil eat me whole but I'll have her! On! Injun-hater,
                  on!"
               And the Captain dug his spurs into the huge sides of the snorting animal, and went
                  onward like a moving mountain.
               He soon reached Mr. Argal's—dismounted—and entered. It was a plain and
                  rudely-constructed house, with few comforts about it, and scarcely discernible at
                  the distance of fifty yards, so dense was the clump of trees in which it
                  stood.
               The Captain was met on the threshold by Mr. Argal, who politely welcomed him, and
                  led him into the house, where dinner was being placed upon the table. The Captain
                  snuffed up the rich odor of the repast, plain as it was, and a mild expression
                  diffused itself over his martial countenance. Dinner must have been invented by
                  the earliest inhabitants of the globe, Captain Wagner often said, and he hailed it
                  as one of the greatest discoveries which had ever adorned science. To say the
                  truth, the soldier had an equally exalted opinion of the individual, or
                  individuals, who discovered breakfast, supper, intermediate meals, and all
                  descriptions of eating.
               After satisfying himself that his material wants would be amply supplied, Captain
                  Wagner looked around him to see where Falconbridge could be—as to Miss Argal, he
                  never felt a very great anxiety to see her: for which the honest Captain probably
                  had a good reason. They were neither of them visible, but soon made their
                  appearance, the arm of the young girl resting upon that of her companion, and her
                  bright eyes turned to him. Falconbridge grasped the hand of the Captain with
                  hearty pleasure, and declared himself delighted to see him: to which the Captain
                  replied in the same tone. Then, after some conversation, the party sat down to
                  dinner. The Captain ate with great gusto, and emptied more than one fair cup of
                  wine, or—more accurately speaking, Jamaica rum. In those days wines were not much
                  affected, especially upon the border; the mellow rum of Jamaica was the favorite
                  beverage; and, as we have said, this was Captain Wagner's chosen drink.
               At the termination of the repast, and when all rose and walked out in the fine
                  October evening, the Captain found himself in excellent condition for the attack
                  upon Mr. Argal.
               He was speedily left alone with that individual; for Falconbridge and the young
                  lady accidentally wandered off toward the prairie, a glimpse of which appeared
                  through a glade in the woods, toward the south; and the Captain's eloquence had
                  thus full scope and room to move in, without fear of interruption.
               The difficulty experienced by the very best stenographers in reporting the utterances of great orators, is
                  proverbial and undisputed. We find ourselves in this predicament in relation to
                  the harangue of Captain Wagner on this occasion. Full of his subject, in a
                  talkative and eloquent mood, and with an important end to attain, the Captain's
                  oration was really remarkable. It was also sprinkled with the newest and most
                  impressive flowers of speech, of that description which the soldier was accustomed
                  to use in decorating his utterances—and the originality and beauty of these
                  newly-coined forms of expression riveted the attention of his smiling and amused
                  auditor. As to his eulogium upon the town of Winchester, it was almost sublime in
                  its eloquence and enthusiasm.
               "A magnificent situation!" cried the Captain, pushing up his moustache; "the pearl
                  of towns, the paragon of villages! Like Rome and other cities of Asia, which grew
                  up from small beginnings. Winchester, my dear friend, is destined to rule the
                  world! But perhaps that is too strong—I wish to confine myself strictly within the
                  most reasonable bounds—I will be moderate, and say that Winchester is destined to
                  be the capital of Virginia! I expect to see his Excellency, Governor Gooch, take
                  up his residence there, and leave forever that abominable county town, called
                  Williamsburg—I expect everything; and nothing is too good for that noble village!
                  Who knows but his Majesty, George II., attracted by the wide-spread fame of the
                  place, may some day set out from London on a visit to Winchester, and delight the
                  hearts of his faithful subjects of Virginia with a sight of his royal and divine
                  physiognomy! I think I see myself his herald and king at arms, riding before the
                  royal chariot, through Loudoun Street, on Injunhater, and crying to the crowd:
                  "Make way, my friends! his Majesty is coming!' This, sir, is the future of
                  Winchester—and is anything so splendid to be descried in the future of
                  Stephensburg—a mere assemblage of huts, and unworthy of the least attention? You
                  are laughing at me, my dear friend, and you think I am not impartial. Well, maybe
                  I'm not—and this is all my jesting. But recollect, my dear friend, what I
                  say—recollect what Wagner said when it is fulfilled:—in one year from this time,
                  there'll be a splendid wagon road from Winchester to the ferry, on the Potomac,
                  and the town will have its jail, and court-house of the finest logs!"
               Having uttered these words with deep solemnity, Captain Wagner paused a moment,
                  and revolved the remaining points of his subject not yet touched upon.
               We need not follow the conversation further; it is enough to say that when
                  Falconbridge and Miss Argal made their appearance again, Captain Wagner had
                  received from his companion a promise to vote for Winchester—a matter, he said, of
                  no importance to him, and rather in accordance with his previous convictions of
                  what would be most advisable.
               "And now, Captain," said Mr. Argal, "is there any more intelligence of
                  Indians?"
               "You heard the rumors: but that's little. I think, my dear friend, that we shall
                  hear from the South Branch before long. Body o' me! you can't trust those rascals,
                  because you don't see or hear them:—you can't, on that account, be sure that
                  they're not at your very doors: and this young lady might have been carried away
                  yonder in a moment, in spite of the presence of her gallant."
               "Bah! Captain!" said Falconbridge, as he drew near, smiling, "you can't frighten
                  me."
               "I wouldn't attempt it, comrade. Such men as we are don't get frightened. But
                  Injuns are Injuns!"
               "Well, let them come," said Falconbridge, laughing; "we are equal to them in
                  strength."
               "And the women?"
               "Ah!"
               "And the children?"
               "You are right—I forgot them, boy that I am."
               "In case the Injuns show their noses, companion," replied plied the Captain, "I undertake to say that you
                  will not possibly be able to forget the said women and children."
               "How, Captain?"
               "They have a way of squalling—an awful noise it is, or may the fiend seize
                  me!"
               "I couldn't bear that," said Falconbridge; "I never could endure the thought that
                  a woman or a child was suffering. I would close my ears to it, if I could not
                  strike!"
               "Well, you may, perhaps, have to close your ears, companion, before the arrival of
                  the blood-thirsty rascals."
               "What do you mean, Captain?"
               "I mean that Mr. Gideon Hastyluck speaks of having old Powell, up yonder, and his
                  daughter, whose name is Cannie—a sweet child—burned as witches, at the next
                  assizes."
               "Burned?"
               "Yes."
               "A man?"—
               "And his daughter."
               "You jest, Captain!"
               "I'm in dead earnest!"
               "For witchcraft?"
               "Precisely."
               "Why, it is barbarous!—worse than the bloodiest murder: a man and his daughter
                  burned for witchcraft!"
               "Then you do not believe in witchcraft, comrade, eh?"
               "I believe nothing, and disbelieve nothing."
               "Very well," said the Captain, "that is just my case—only if that fellow,
                  Hastyluck, makes me angry, I will cut off both his ears. Sufficient unto the day
                  is the evil thereof. Let us dismiss the subject, and it's in very good time, as I
                  see the sun setting yonder, and a storm brewing. Comrade," he said, turning to
                  Falconbridge, "will you go?"
               There was so much sternness and gloom in Captain Wagner's voice, as he uttered
                  these latter words, that Falconbridge, for a moment, remained silent, gazing with
                  astonishment at him. Then his eyes turned suddenly toward the lady—her hand had
                  pressed his arm, that was all: she was looking with a smile at the evening
                  sky.
               "No, my dear Captain," he said; "I think I'll prolong my visit a little. When I am
                  in agreeable company, I am loth to leave it."
               "Good, good!" said Captain Wagner, indifferently, but gazing with a wistful look
                  at the open, careless face of Falconbridge, "I can understand that. But I am not a
                  youngster, and I really must go."
               He turned his eyes as he spoke toward Miss Argal; and his rapid glance took in
                  every detail of her figure—her head bent down—her glossy curls half covering her
                  cheeks—her rosy lips half parted and moist—her brilliant eyes veiled by the long
                  and dusky lashes, but raised from time to time toward her companion: all this
                  Captain Wagner saw, and the frown grew deeper.
               He said nothing, however, and refusing to accept Mr. Argal's invitation to remain
                  all night, went and mounted his horse, and set forward.
               Falconbridge remained half an hour longer; and then seeing the storm rapidly
                  rising, also took his departure—but not so sullenly as Captain Wagner.
               He went on, at full gallop, gaily through the darkness which lightning from time
                  to time illuminated: and his countenance clearly indicated of whom he was
                  thinking.
               The dazzling beauty of the woman whom he had just left, had intoxicated the young
                  man; and he went on with the carelessness of a lover, or a madman, without heeding
                  the lightning or the storm.
               A brighter flash than he had yet witnessed, lit up the road, and he saw a tall,
                  dark horseman before him, who could be no other than Captain Wagner—and so, upon a
                  nearer approach, it proved. The Captain had ridden at a measured pace;
                  Falconbridge had galloped furiously; and thus they had encountered each other.
            
            
               
               XXIII.
               CAPTAIN WAGNER DISCOURSES ON THE NATURE OF PANTHERS.
               CAPTAIN WAGNER quietly returned Falconbridge's salute; and touching his horse with
                  the spur, galloped on by his side without speaking.
               "Well, my dear Captain," said his companion, "you did not expect to see me?"
               "No, I did not," said the soldier.
               "Why?"
               "Because you were with a woman."
               "Pshaw!" cried Falconbridge: "you think me a mere lady's man."
               "No—but how did you succeed in getting away?" asked the Captain.
               "Succeed in getting away?"
               "Yes, pardy! It seems there is much to attract you yonder."
               "Is anything more natural than that I should wish to get to the Ordinary before
                  the storm? See! that flash! and the thunder! I doubt whether, even at the rapid
                  pace we are now going, we shall arrive without a drenching."
               Captain Wagner made no reply, and the two horses continued to devour the space
                  with their long gallop, which was so regular that but one footfall could be heard.
                  At last the Captain turned, and said, abruptly:
               "Comrade, you are from the Lowlands, down yonder, are you not?"
               "Yes, from Tide-water. Why do you ask?"
               "Oh, mere curiosity; fine animals you have down there—your horse for
                  instance."
               "Yes, he's of the purest blood—out of Mariana by Both-well—a racer."
               "I believe you; he is eating the road like wildfire—worse than a rabbit at a head
                  of cabbage. But there is one very beautiful animal which I have never yet seen in
                  the Low Country, and though the breed of horses there is superior, I believe, to
                  the mountain nags, I think we are ahead of you in"—
               "In what, Captain?"
               "Panthers," said the Captain, concisely.
               "Panthers? I have never seen one."
               "Are you sure?"
               "Certainly."
               "Quite sure?"
               "Absolutely—there are none on Tide-water."
               "That does not matter, comrade—not in the least."
               "How so?"
               "You may have seen them since your arrival in this fine country of the Valley, or
                  the devil eat me!"
               "I have not, however."
               "Do you know a panther when you see it?"
               "No."
               "How, then, can you say you have encountered none? Answer that, pardy!
                  companion!"
               Falconbridge endeavored to make out the expression of the Captain's face through
                  the darkness. What could this persistence of the soldier in one subject, a subject
                  of no interest to him, signify?
               "Well, have it as you will, Captain," he said, smiling, "perhaps I may have seen
                  these animals—describe one to me."
               "Ah!" replied Wagner, "at last you are becoming curious! Well, I will do as you
                  wish. Listen, then, to the description of a panther."
               "I listen."
               The soldier was silent, and seemed to be struggling with himself—debating in the depths of his acute and
                  vigorous brain whether it were advisable or not to follow a certain course. But
                  Falconbridge did not perceive the singular expression of the Captain's face, or
                  indeed, hear his dubious mutterings; the darkness shrouded completely his
                  companion's person—the hoof-strokes of the horse drowned his growl. The expression
                  of the soldier's countenance would have afforded his companion much food for
                  thought. That expression was both stern and pitying, gloomy and satirical.
               The Captain remained thus silent for some time.
               "But your description of a panther, Captain," repeated Falconbridge.
               "Well, in the first place," said the soldier, "eyes both soft and fiery—that is to
                  say, as tender-looking as the leaf of a flower in bloom, and at the same time as
                  brilliant as a flame of fire."
               "Indeed!"
               "Yes! extraordinary eyes, wondrous eyes; both human and inhuman, attractive and
                  repulsive, but far more fascinating than menacing, or the devil take me! It is
                  only at certain times that these eyes menace you, and then they blaze!"
               "Ah!" said Falconbridge, "then you have seen both expressions?"
               "Yes, often! a wondrous pair of optics, that draw you toward them, however firm
                  you may be, as the sun draws, I am told, the fixed stars, pardy!"
               Falconbridge laughed at this illustration.
               "Well," he said, "continue."
               "Next the voice is not less wonderful."
               "The voice?"
               "Certainly."
               "Of a panther? Has a panther a voice, Captain—a voice?"
               "Nothing less! Have you never read of the 
                  ing of a child, which hunters have heard in the deep forests in
                  their 
                     expedltions
                     expeditions
                  ?"
               "Ah, yes! I now recollect"—
               "Well, that is one of the tones of the panther's voice. You understand," continued
                  the soldier with a cold sneer—"a ferocious, blood-thirsty animal, worse than a
                  tiger, or a rattlesnake, cries like a little fatling baby for its amusement?"
               "Strange, indeed!"
               "But this voice, which can sigh, and wail, and murmur like a baby's, can also send
                  terror to the strongest heart!"
               "Yes."
               "To proceed, then, with my description of this fine animal."
               "Captain—your voice! the tones of it! how singularly you speak! but pardon
                  me."
               "Oh, my voice, it is true, can't compare with a panther's; but, nevertheless, I
                  have the advantage in one particular. I have never yet seen the panther who could
                  ease his feelings with a good round 'devil take me!' But let me finish. Next to
                  the eyes and the voice come the velvet covering, the graceful movement, the
                  beautiful, sharp teeth, and the sharper claws; but here again is an astonishing
                  thing; with these teeth the fine panther, male or female, actually smiles"—
               "Smiles? Captain, you mean more than you say! There is a covert meaning in this
                  description my mind struggles to make out!"
               "Covert? How is that—it is as accurate a description as possible; no fiction, no
                  imagination, or may the devil fly away with me!"
               "Proceed!" murmured Falconbridge.
               "I was saying that as the panther, with its fine voice, could not only make you
                  shudder, but also fill you with pity as for a poor little crying child, so with
                  its fine teeth it cannot only tear you to pieces, but just as easily persuade you
                  that its nature is all tenderness and love—by smiling understand—a soft, gentle, fascinating smile! I
                  have seen it, or the devil take me!"
               "Captain, Captain!" murmured Falconbridge, passing his hand over his
                  forehead."
               "Then the claws," continued the soldier, paying no attention to this interruption,
                  "they are gifted with the singular power of drawing themselves in, and burying
                  themselves beneath the velvety hair, you understand"—
               "Yes!"
               "Then when they are so drawn back, you touch nothing but a soft, velvet cushion,
                  which natural historians have most ungallantly called a paw—I say
                  ungallantly, because all this time I have been speaking of the female panther, or
                  perhaps I may say pantheress. You have a beautiful, soft cushion before you, a
                  pretty thing to toy and play with—nothing more—no claws any where visible; you
                  comprehend?"
               "Perfectly!"
               "But if you happen to excite the slumbering ferocity of the fine lady panther, why
                  this beautiful, soft palm will turn into a bundle of iron springs, the sharp claws
                  will dart forth like magic; and the bright teeth which you admired so much will
                  come to the assistance of the claws; and there! you find the consequences of
                  intimacy with a pantheress! When your friend, uneasy at your absence, comes to
                  search for you, he finds a mangled body, half-devoured, and emptied of every drop
                  of blood; panthers like blood!"
               "Captain—Captain Wagner!" murmured Falconbridge, "speak to me as a friend—speak to
                  me in plain words—you mean"—
               "That I do not like panthers, male or female," said Captain Wagner, sullenly;
                  "they are too tender and cruel, too beautiful and fatal with their undulating
                  bodies, their graceful limbs, their soft, velvety covering, their smiles, their
                  sighs, their fascinating glances!"
               "Captain! Captain!"
               "They smile too sweetly and bite too ferociously! They caress too softly the
                  victim before tearing him to pieces, and lapping with a smile his heart's blood!
                  Would you have me like the animal when I know it so well!"
               Falconbridge was silent for a moment, evidently overcome by this terrible
                  allegory. At last he said, with much agitation:
               "Captain! friend! why have you spoken with such cruel enmity of Miss Argal?"
               "I have spoken of no one," said the Captain gloomily; "I have not mentioned Miss
                  Argal's name! I have spoken of an animal which I should fear mortally, were not my
                  muscles of force sufficient to catch that animal in my arms, were she to spring
                  upon me, and there crush her!"
               Falconbridge, plunged in disturbed thought, made no reply. They galloped on for a
                  quarter of a mile in silence, and then the moon came out between the lurid clouds.
                  The storm had passed away toward the south.
               Captain Wagner, chancing to look at his companion, saw that he was very pale, and
                  that his forehead was covered with a cold sweat. The words of the soldier seemed
                  to have paralyzed him, for he remained perfectly silent—with eyes full of wonder,
                  fixed far away upon the distance.
               Not a word more was uttered by either of the companions until they reached the
                  Ordinary, and here they separated, and retired to their beds.
               With Falconbridge the night was a vigil of wonder and incredulity.
            
            
               
               XXIV.
               REFLECTIONS OF CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE.
               SOME days after the scenes which we have tried to make pass before the eyes of the
                  reader, Captain Wagner, who had been uninterruptedly engaged in conferences with
                  the Earl, bethought him of paying some attention to his private affairs.
                  Accordingly, one morning before the sun had risen he donned his warlike
                  accoutrements, mounted "Injunhater," and set out for the Ordinary.
               The sun soon appeared above the brow of the mountain, and scattered the river mist
                  before him. The landscape waked up, the birds began to sing, and not to be behind
                  them, the Captain shouted lustily an old border ballad, with an ardor which was
                  superior to its musical execution.
               "The fact is," he said in a confidential tone, after finishing the chorus, "the
                  fact is, I was not intended to delight the world by the sweet tones of my voice.
                  Astonishing, but dooms true! It's not given to everybody to excel in all things,
                  and this is one of my failings. On, Injunhater!"
               And the worthy touched his great black animal with the spur, and cantered along
                  gaily, presenting, as he moved through the burnishing sunlight, an exceedingly
                  striking and martial appearance.
               "A fine morning, by the snout of the dragon!" continued the Captain, looking round
                  with satisfaction on the expanse of forest and prairie. "I should like to feel for
                  once like Fairfax yonder, that the world belonged to me—that I was master. But
                  wherefore? Am I not better off by far than this good baron of Cameron? First, I am
                  a common individual—and these lords must have such a weary time! Then I laugh, and
                  the baron only sighs! He eats little or nothing, and at this moment I could devour
                  a raw buffalo, or I'm a dandy! To end the whole matter I'm going to see my
                  wife—I'm going to breakfast with my intended! A noble woman, a real fairy, though
                  she's so fat. But who cares? I rather like fat people! They laugh where lean ones
                  groan; I'll have this one! If I don't I'll eat my head!"
               And the Captain seemed inspired by the reflection and pushed on more rapidly. Then
                  as he gazed in the direction of the Ordinary his brow clouded—he was thinking of
                  Falconbridge.
               "A noble fellow!" he muttered,—"a heart of oak—an honest boy! And he's going to
                  his doom as sure as my name's Wagner. Well, I've done all I can, and more than I
                  have liked—things must go on their way. He has had full warning, and though my
                  breast aches at the thought that he's going to bleed, I am done with it. Woman,
                  woman! why can't we male things stay away from them? We die for them—which is
                  better than living for 'em sometimes! We laugh at 'em, sneer at 'em, curl our
                  moustaches with a high-handed air, and then we go kneel down, and make fools of
                  ourselves. Why did they enter the world ever? What is it that draws us so toward
                  'em?"
               The Captain knit his brows as he saw the tavern before him, and after some moments
                  of silence, muttered grimly:
               "Woman! woman! wherever you turn in this miserable world, you're sure to find a
                  woman!—and an individual of the masculine sex not far off!"
            
            
               
               XXV.
               HOW THE TOWN OF STEPHENSBURG, OTHERWISE NEWTOWN, WAS SOLD FOR A
                  FLAGON OF PUNCH.
               THE Captain proceeded toward the Ordinary without further reflections, or at least
                  utterance, and was soon entering the door of the main apartment.
               A disagreeable picture awaited him. The handsome widow was leaning familiarly upon
                  Monsieur Jambot's shoulder, and conversing confidentially with that gentleman.
                  Whether she had heard the sonorous neigh of Injunhater, and arranged for his
                  rider's benefit this pleasing little tableau—or whether the idea of making her
                  admirer jealous had never entered the mind of the lady, we cannot say. But she
                  certainly exhibited great surprise and confusion. Monsieur Jambot only
                  scowled.
               On this trying occasion Captain Wagner acted with that consummate knowledge of the
                  female character which his friends declared made him so dangerous. He squeezed
                  Monsieur Jambot's lily white hand with the warmest and most fraternal
                  regard—greeted Mrs. Butterton politely but with easy indifference—and then turning
                  his back in a careless way, proceeded to converse with Mynheer Van Doring, taking
                  no further notice either of the Frenchman or the lady.
               The result of this stratagem was soon apparent. Mrs. Butterton pouted, tossed her
                  fair head, and abandoned the vicinity of Monsieur Jambot, whose teeth began to
                  grind against each other.
               Captain Wagner did not move. He was perfectly absorbed in his conversation with
                  the fat landlord.
               The lady lightly touched his shoulder:—he turned indifferently.
               "Why do you treat me so unfriendly, Captain?" said the lady; "all because I was
                  looking at that music?"
               "Unfriendly, madam!" ejaculated the Captain, "I am not unfriendly—but I know too
                  well what is expected of a soldier in the presence of the fair sex. As you were
                  conversing with Monsieur Jambot, I was too polite to interrupt you."
               And the Captain raised his head with martial dignity and hauteur, with which was
                  mingled a proud misery.
               Mrs. Butterton put her handkerchief to her eyes and sobbed. The Captain set his
                  teeth together, and summoned all his resolution.
               Another sob issued from the handkerchief. Monsieur Jambot rose to his feet with
                  ferocious rapidity. In a moment his little dress-sword was drawn, and he had
                  confronted the Captain, whom he charged, in a voice hoarse with rage, with making
                     Madame "grieve."
               Captain Wagner drew his sabre, courteously saluted, and took his position with the
                  coolness of an old swordsman. It was then that Mrs. Butterton threw herself
                  between them with sobs and tears, beseeching them to be friends—for her sake, for
                  the sake of goodness gracious—and on other grounds.
               "For the sake of a lady," returned Captain Wagner, coldly, "I am prepared to do
                  anything. But blood will come of this, or the devil take it! Blood, sir!"
               And the Captain struck ferociously, the hilt of his sword, which weapon he slowly
                  returned to its scabbard. Monsieur Jambot declared his entire willingness to fight
                  all the Capitaines in the world, singly, or
                  together—and then with his hands superbly placed upon his hips, and his hat cocked
                  fiercely, sauntered carelessly from the apartment.
               Then commenced a terrible scene between the Captain and Mrs. Butterton. We forbear
                  to relate the particulars. The lady was
                  the pleader—the soldier was the dignified listener. For a long time he remained
                  obdurate—in the end he melted. When Mrs. Butterton brought him Jamaica with her
                  own fair hands, and provided all else which he wished, with smiles breaking
                  through tears, the Captain fairly succumbed. He took the chubby hand and kissed it
                  gallantly—declared he was more her devoted slave than ever—and then busied himself
                  in mingling his morning dram, for which he possessed a recipe known only to
                  himself.
               "Really, my dear madam," said the worthy, now completely mollified by the sight of
                  breakfast coming in, "you are the paragon of your sex. You resemble the goddess
                  Diana, or I'm a dandy!—Diana rising from the sea; for which reason she was called
                     Diana Urainy. You are her very image!"
               "La, Captain!" said the lady with a simper, "you are really too flattering!"
               At the same moment, a loud and harsh voice on the stairway was heard calling.
               "Who's that, in the devil's name?" said the Borderer.
               "Oh, only Major Hastyluck, who slept here last night."
               "I'll wager my head against a sixpence that he didn't see the way to bed,
                  madam."
               And the Captain's black moustache curled until his long white teeth resembled
                  icicles pendent from the eaves of a house.
               "I fear he was—intoxicated," was Mrs. Butterton's reply with a smile; "how
                  shocking!"
               "Oh, dreadful, awful, really deplorable, my dear madam, and what's he calling
                  for?—there again! like the growl of a bear, or I'm a dandy!"
               In fact Major Hastyluck was calling violently to old Hans, the waiter.
               "Goming, sir," said Hans quietly: and ascending leisurely, he was heard conversing
                  with the Major. Soon he reappeared peared, announcing that Major Hastyluck was
                  impatient for his morning draught, and all at once a brilliant thought struck the
                  Captain. He had secured the votes of precisely one half of the justices, for the
                  establishment of the county-seat at Winchester—and Major Hastyluck's vote would
                  decide all. The reflection stimulated the worthy to a tremendous exertion of
                  politeness. This was no less than to send up to the official gentleman, the flagon
                  of delightful punch which he had just brewed, with every ingredient, and in the
                  highest perfection.
               "Take that up, Hans, my hogshead," said the soldier, handing him the cup, "and
                  present it to the Major with the respects of Captain Wagner."
               Hans obeyed, and very soon descended again, with the request, on the part of the
                  Major, that Captain Wagner would brew him another supply. To this task the
                  Captain, who had meanwhile attended to his own wants, addressed himself
                  immediately—and very soon after the justice made his appearance. He was a little
                  weasen man, with a dried up 
                     physiogomy
                     physiognomy
                  , of a fiery red hue, and carried himself with an immense affectation of
                  dignity and superiority.
               "My dear Major!" cried the Captain, "I am really delighted to see you—you arrive
                  at a moment when my heart is open, just as breakfast is coming. How is your
                  health?"
               "Hum!—hah!—thank you, Captain Wagner, pretty well, pretty well. You are lately
                  arrived, sir?"
               "Precisely—from Belhaven, on the Potomac, down there."
               "A thriving place."
               "Yes, but by no means equal to Winchester, or I'm a dandy!"
               "Hum!—perhaps—hum!"
               And with these oracular words, Major Hastyluck sat down to breakfast, slightly
                  staggering as he did so. His appetite once satisfied, he rose with the same
                  oracular expression and air. The Captain soon followed, and lighting a corn-cob cob pipe with a reed stem, which he
                  took from the mantelpiece, he addressed himself to business.
               "How did you like that beverage I sent you, my dear Major?" said the Captain,
                  sending forth clouds of foamy smoke; "was it a scorcher—as mild as milk, and as
                  strong as a yoke of oxen, eh?"
               "It was a pleasant draught," returned the Justice; "I will freely say,
                     more pleasant than any which I have tasted for many
                  years—ahem!"
               "The fact is, I make it by a recipe known only to myself, and my respected
                     grandmother—formerly known by that excellent lady, I mean—and as
                  she has now, alas! paid the debt of nature, you understand, I am the sole
                  depositary of the recipe."
               This announcement seemed to excite unusual interest in breast of the Major. He
                  assumed a coaxing expression, and said in a wheedling voice, almost wholly
                  divested of his habitual pomposity:
               "Is it a very great secret, Captain?"
               "Secret!" cried the soldier; "I believe you! I promised my venerable grandmother
                  that no one should ever worm it out of me."
               "That is unlucky. I'd give a great deal to have it, Captain."
               "Understand me," added the Borderer, curling his moustache, and assuming a serious
                  expression, "there was one condition to my promise: that those individuals who
                  proved themselves my true friends should participate with me."
               "Ah, indeed! Well, I trust that you regard me as one of those—hum!"
               "That depends upon circumstances, my dear Major. You can easily convince me,
                  however. Prove yourself my friend—vote for Winchester for the county-seat."
               "Winchester? Why, what interest have you there, Captain?"
               "What interest? Can you ask? Are you ignorant, my dear friend, that I possess
                  large and valuable estates immediately diately in that vicinity? I and my friends,
                  General Adam Stephen, and Colonel Carter, are the real owners of all this region,
                  or the devil take it! We let Fairfax live yonder as a favor—and to make a long
                  story short, I want the county-seat at Winchester."
               The Major shook his little withered head doubtfully.
               "Very well, my dear comrade," returned the Captain; "I don't need your vote as
                  yet—but I warn you that you have lost the only chance of getting my recipe."
               The Major groaned.
               "Will nothing else do, Captain.?"
               "Nothing."
               "And if I were to make the bargain," he added, looking round guardedly, "would it
                  be confidential?"
               "Confidential? I wouldn't breathe it to myself."
               "Then it's a bargain!" returned the worthy; "and now for the recipe."
               "Wait a moment, my dear Major," said the Captain; "in business matters I always
                  like to proceed regularly. Let me draw up something in the shape of a little
                  contract—it will prevent mistakes."
               And going to a table, he requested the fair widow to supply him with pen, ink, and
                  paper. This was soon done by the smiling lady, and the worthy Borderer spread a
                  sheet before him, and dipped the pen in the ink. After a moment's reflection,
                  during which he assisted the operations of his intellect by tugging violently at
                  the black fringe upon his lip, he traced upon the page, in a large, sprawling
                  hand, decorated with a myriad of ornamental spatters, the following lines:
               
                  "It is hereby agreed between Captain Julius Wagner, otherwise called Captain
                     Bloody Longknife, and Major Gideon Hastyluck, a justice of Frederick. in the
                     parish of Shenandoah, which is a fine country, or I'm a dandy, that in
                     consideration of Captain Julius Wagner, sometimes called Julius Cæsar Wagner,
                     giving up to the said Hastyluck the recipe for making rum punch, which recipe
                     the said Wagner got from his aged
                     and much deplored grandmother, who resided in Stafford County, and on account
                     of never sending for doctors, a sort of people that she never could bear,
                     succeeded in living to almost the truly surprising and wonderful age of a
                     hundred years—that as aforesaid, in consideration of Captain Wagner's giving to
                     the said Major Hastyluck the said recipe, the said Hastyluck shall vote for
                     Winchester, when the next court comes to fix the county-seat, as they are bound
                     to do, at the town of Winchester, which will prove in the opinion of us, the
                     undesigned, the future seat of empire of the Valley.
                  "And to the faithful discharge of the conditions in this paper, binding on us,
                     we the underwriters, pledge our respective words, and fix our seals—Captain
                     Julius Wagner intending immediately to brew a flagon of the drink above
                     mentioned, wherewith both parties shall wet the bargain."
               
               Captain Wagner executed a masterly flourish beneath this document, which he
                  evidently regarded with much pride and satisfaction—and then affixed his name in
                  letters nearly an inch long. Major Hastyluck, with a business-like air did the
                  same, and the Borderer put the agreement in his pocket.
               "And now for the punch, Captain—the recipe and the 'flagon' which I think you
                  speak of brewing in the latter portion of that document."
               "It shall be forthcoming at once, my dear Major—at once."
               And first carefully writing down the desired formula, the worthy soldier applied
                  himself to mingling the new supply in silence. Ere long it was rapidly descending
                  the insatiate throat of Major Hastyluck; as to the Captain, he was chuckling to
                  himself and muttering:
               "I've the majority now, or may the—hum! your health, my dear Major, your very good
                  health!"
               In this way was the town of Stephensburg sold for a flagon of rum punch and the
                  recipe to make it. Kercheval, in his History of the Valley, says:
                  "Tradition relates that Fairfax was much more partial to Stephensburg than he was
                  to Winchester," but an opponent "out-generalled his lordship, and by treating one
                  of the justices to a bowl of toddy, secured his vote in favor of Winchester, which
                  settled the question." This is Mr. Kercheval's account—the reader is left to judge
                  of the relative credibility of the opposing historians—that gentleman and
                  ourselves.
            
            
               
               XXVI.
               THE DAGGER IN THE HEART.
               THE occupants of the apartment were engaged as we have described, when a step was
                  heard upon the staircase, and the next moment Falconbridge entered.
               Since that night on which Captain Wagner had warned him in his gloomy and satiric
                  tones against "panthers," and their wiles—since those mocking and mysterious words
                  had resounded in his ears, Falconbridge had lived like one in a dream. His quick
                  instinct told him that the soldier meant Miss Argal. There could be no doubt upon
                  that point. His studied coldness toward the young lady, his grim expression when
                  he encountered her, the shadow on his brow when her name even was mentioned—all
                  this left no room for doubt.
               Falconbridge had shut himself up in his room, and the storm began to mutter in his
                  heart. His thoughts, like hounds unleashed, darted forward and backward, circling
                  over the whole of his life, past and future. Then they returned with furious
                  mouths to tear their master. Could this be anything but the merest dream, as wild
                  and unreal as the sickliest chimeras, haunting the fancy of the invalid turning
                  and tossing on the couch of fever? Suspect those brilliant, limpid eyes of
                  dissimulation!—suspect that open and beautiful brow of concealment!—those tender
                  lips of falsehood, of treachery! Treachery? Were women treacherous?
                  Could eyes and lips and sighs and bashful glances lie? It was incredible,
                  monstrous! If this were so, then everything was unreal—the world a mere
                  phantasmagoria—and life a cheat, a lie, a miserable, horrible delusion!
               Such thoughts do not pass through the heart for the first time without making it
                  bleed. The brow which is racked and furrowed by them, never afterwards can be
                  smooth. The sincere and noble honesty of this man's nature made the blow one of
                  inexpressible agony. Suspicion was no customary guest with him—it pierced him
                  mortally. Like a rusty and jagged blade directed by an unskillful hand, and turned
                  from mere wanton cruelty in the wound, it stretched him on the bed of torture.
               He pondered thus throughout the long hours of the dreary night, and for all those
                  hours succeeding. He sent away the food brought to his room, untasted. More than
                  once he mounted Sir John, and galloped toward Mr. Argal's—but it was only to
                  return without going thither.
               "Well, well," he said, on the morning when he re-encountered Captain Wagner as we
                  have seen, "all this shall end. I will know; I will not labor under this terrible
                  suspicion! Suspect her? I do not. I would as soon suspect an angel. Still that
                  singular look of the soldier as he spoke!—those words full of sneering coldness!
                  Yes, this shall end—I swear it!"
               And passing his hand across his forehead, which was clouded and pale from
                  suffering and want of rest, he descended.
               "Give you good day, Captain," he said in his clear, noble voice; "I thought I
                  heard your cheerful accents."
               "Why, welcome, welcome, comrade," returned the soldier warmly, and grasping the
                  young man's hand as he spoke; "I swear the sight of you is good for sore eyes, or
                  I'm a dandy!"
               The Captain seemed to feel what he said. His martial countenance always softened
                  as he gazed at Falconbridge—his penetrating eyes grew wistful; this man who had
                  fought against the hard, rough world so long, and encountered so much selfishness, falsehood and deception, appeared
                  to experience a real delight in the company of his younger companion, and to
                  regard him with a strange affection.
               "I'm dooms glad to see you after having so long a slang whang with Fairfax," added
                  the soldier, "but you are looking badly, Falconbridge; you are as white as a
                  ghost. What's the matter?"
               "Nothing, nothing, comrade."
               "You want fresh air, or I'm mistaken."
               "I really think you are right, Captain, and I'm going to take some. I see Sir John
                  coming to the door."
               "Oh, you ride—you are going to see"—
               "Miss Argal," interrupted Falconbridge, with his proud, open look, full of
                  sincerity and truth; "it is three or four days since I saw her."
               And going to the door, he threw a critical glance at Sir John, who whinnied with
                  pleasure at the sight of his master. The young man, with his delicate hand half
                  covered with lace which filled his great barrel sleeves, caressed gently the white
                  neck of the thoroughbred: and as he gazed at the beautiful animal, full of spirit
                  and fire, his weary brow cleared up slightly.
               All at once a hand was laid upon his shoulder. He turned round. Captain Wagner was
                  beside him; and his face wore the same cold and gloomy expression which had
                  characterized it on the night ride.
               "Falconbridge," he said in a low, earnest tone, "have you any confidence in me—do
                  you regard me as a true man—as an honest soldier—as a friend?"
               "Yes," said Falconbridge, passing his hand slowly over the neck of the animal, and
                  speaking in a very low voice.
               "Well, you do me no more than justice. I swear to you that I love you as I would
                  love a son, though you're no chicken, but a stout-hearted and stout-armed
                  cavalier, or the devil take it! Well, I act as your friend when I say, take care
                  what you do! Beware!"
               And turning away, the soldier, who had lost all his cheerfulness, and gay spirit,
                  slowly re-entered the house.
               Falconbridge followed him with his eyes until he disappeared—turned even paler
                  than before—and a sort of lurid light broke from his eyes. He evidently hesitated
                  for a moment whether to follow and extract from the soldier a complete explanation
                  of his meaning, or seek it from the person accused. His hesitation did not last
                  long. He set his teeth together like a vice, leaped into the saddle, and driving
                  the spur into the side of his horse, set forward like lightning on the road to Mr.
                  Argal's.
               He drew up at the door so suddenly that his horse was thrown upon his haunches. In
                  a moment he had entered the house, and was in the presence of Miss Argal, who
                  greeted him with the warmest favor.
               "You have been away so long!" she said, in her caressing voice, and with a look
                  from her black, lustrous eyes, full of such electric fascination that it turned
                  the young man's head almost; "so very long—for nearly four days!"
            
            
               
               XXVII.
               FALCONBRIDGE PARTS WITH HIS MOTHER'S RING.
               THE breast of Falconbridge thrilled with a vague excitement, and in the presence
                  of the beautiful young woman, so innocent and pure-looking, his racking suspicions
                  began to disappear, and his confidence to return. Were not those suspicions mere
                  folly—a baseness and disloyalty even? Could any one look into that fair face, and
                  believe for an instant that it masked a heart full of guile? For the instant his
                  possessing thought disappeared—he no longer doubted—he yielded to the enchantment
                  of eye and lip and voice.
               But this change could not be permanent; Falconbridge was no weak and vacillating
                  boy, whose moods at the moment govern his opinions, and actions. Those acrid and
                  bitter meditations during the long hours which he had passed in loneliness and
                  silence had impressed him too deeply. Thus his face became overclouded, and his
                  head drooped. To the soft and caressing reproach contained in the words, "You have
                  been away so long!" he therefore replied with sorrowful calmness:
               "Are you sure you cared to see me?"
               The young lady turned her head aside, and a slight color, like the first blush of
                  morning, stole over her cheek. Then from the red lips came in a whisper almost,
                  the words:
               "Very sure."
               "Falconbridge gazed at her for a moment with an expression of ardent love, mingled
                  with bitter anguish, and said, in suppressed tones:
               "You are so beautiful!—so very beautiful! Are you true?"
               She turned her head quickly, and fixed upon him a glance which seemed intended to
                  read his very soul. Then an expression of coldness and hauteur rose to the
                  beautiful face, and she said with frigid ceremony:
               "Are you aware of what you are saying, Mr. Falconbridge?"
               "Yes, yes—unhappily I am," was the young man's reply; "and I can understand your
                  resentment. You find my accent harsh, my words insulting, even. You see that this
                  question is not an idle jest, Miss Argal. You start at my address, at my coldness,
                  the solemnity of my demand. But the question is not asked by chance. I most
                  solemnly propound it! Not my lips, not my words, no! my heart, my soul cry out to
                  you. Answer me, for pity's sake, for the sake of all that is pure and
                  truthful!"
               The cold expression in the eyes of the young lady grew ice. With a frigid erection
                  of her superb head, she said:
               "Are you unwell, Mr. Falconbridge, or is your mind affected?"
               "No, no! I am well, if a man whose heart dies in his breast is well! I am sane, if
                  a mind stretched on the rack may be called sane! I mean what I say—I have heard
                  what makes me ask—do not demand what it is, I cannot reply. I suffer so poignantly
                  that I must put an end to my distress, or it will put an end to me! For worlds—for
                  the universe I would not pain you—I would die a thousand deaths rather—but"—
               He was interrupted by the voice of the young lady. That voice had suddenly
                  changed. It was no longer cold; her manner had passed from hauteur to anguish.
                  Turning aside and covering her face with her handkerchief, she sobbed repeatedly,
                  and at last uttered the broken words:
               "If you—would not—pain me—why do you speak—so—cruelly to me—so
                  unfeelingly—so"—
               There the voice died away.
               The accents went to the young man's heart. The sobs smote down all his coldness. The sight of the
                  lovely form bent down, and shaken with agitation, dissipated all his resolution,
                  and drove away every suspicion, as the winds of March drive away the clouds from
                  the clear blue sky.
               All the profound loyalty and truth of his nature was aroused—all his abhorrence of
                  injustice and unkindness. He took the young lady's hand in his own—pressed it
                  ardently, and begged her forgiveness for his cruel and unfounded suspicion.
               "Pardon me," he said, in his sincere, noble voice, casting upon his companion, as
                  he spoke, a glance of unspeakable love, "pardon your poor friend for the harsh and
                  insulting words he has uttered. I know not why I spoke so—I know not how these
                  thoughts ever entered my unfortunate brain. Enough; in pity let us speak of this
                  no more. So we are friends again—are we not?"
               And he bent forward to look into her face. That face was raised, and the black
                  eyes were riveted upon his own with a sorrowful forgiveness, a tender melancholy
                  which were inexpressibly beautiful. They swam in tears—but through the tears broke
                  a sad smile which made the heart of the young man bound in his bosom with wild
                  delight. Carried away by a rush of emotion, he pressed the hand which he held to
                  his lips, and said, passionately:
               "Do not weep—your tears make me wretched! Never shall I forgive myself for the
                  cruel and unmanly conduct which I have to-day been guilty of. I came here with my
                  heart on fire, my brain in a tumult—I have been unjust, insulting, mad, almost—I
                  could not help it. I spoke thus because my mind was whirling, my nerves
                  trembling—because—because I love you!—yes, presumptuous as you may think the words
                  in a mere stranger—I love you—with honest, faithful love!"
               Enough—we forbear from pursuing further the details of the scene between the young
                  lady and Falconbridge. We have little skill in reporting such dialogues, and must
                  draw the veil over the rest.
               He remained until late in the evening, and then returned at full gallop toward the
                  Ordinary, his face the very impersonation of joy. At times he gazed wistfully upon
                  his left hand, from which a ring was missing—a plain gold ring which had belonged
                  to his mother. He had placed it upon the finger of the young girl, for she had
                  plighted to him her troth.
               Here we would gladly leave the young cavalier—with his face smiling, his cheeks
                  glowing—his pulse beating joyfully as he galloped on through the prairie and
                  forest. But the fatal current of our narrative keeps us beside him. Those smiles
                  are brief ones—the bloom of the happy cheek evanescent as the frail spring
                  blossom—the blow awaits him.
               He dismounts at the door of the Ordinary and enters. The fat landlord presents him
                  with a letter which he opens, smilingly.
               Ten minutes afterward he is seated in his chamber, his brow leaning upon his
                  crossed arms, resting upon a table—his cheeks as pale as a ghost's—his forehead
                  moist with icy perspiration. The shudders which pass through his frame rattle the
                  paper still clenched in his nervous grasp—but no groan issues from his lips.
            
            
               
               XXVIII.
               THE LETTER.
               THIS is the letter accompanying another paper which is stained with blood.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "MR. FALCONBRIDGE:—After much doubt I address you, to warn you, as a
                              friend, against allowing your affections to be ensnared. by Miss B.
                              Argal. I have no right, sir, to pry into your matters, and maybe I
                              will get no thanks, but your courtesy to me makes it impossible for me
                              to see you duped. Captain Wagner will not speak out—he says that he
                              has already said more than he had a right to—and I will, therefore, do
                              so myself. The paper which I put in this letter will tell you all. The
                              poor young man was a distant relative of mine, and died at my house.
                              He wrote the paper just before his death. I will add no more, except
                              that I have no private grudge against Miss Argal, and so remain,
                           
                              Your real friend,
                              SARAH BUTTERTON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The paper was written in a firm hand, obscured in several places by stains of
                  blood, and ran as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "STAFFORD, VA., May, 1747.
                           
                           "I am about to commit suicide. Before putting an end to my miserable
                              life, I will relate the circumstances which impel me to the act. My
                              mind is perfectly sane, my memory good—I will speak calmly. This is my
                              history:
                           "I was left an orphan at twenty, with no brothers or sisters around
                              me—my only brother, who was older than myself, having perished on a
                              sea-voyage. I was rich—the entire property of my parents having
                              reverted to myself. I enjoyed country life on my property, and was
                              fond of the society of young ladies, but never loved any one until I
                              met with Bertha Argal. Her father rented a small farm near my own
                              considerable estate, and I met with her frequently, and conceived a
                              passion for her. She was, and is the most beautiful woman that my eyes
                              ever beheld. Unfortunately she is destitute of all those noble
                              qualities which should accompany beauty. She is false, and as cold as
                              ice—heartless. But I will not say more—let the event show.
                           "I loved her passionately, and very soon commenced paying her my
                              addresses. She received them with manifest favor. It was not long
                              before I confessed my affection, and she told me with tears and
                              blushes, that she loved me as ardently as I said I loved her. I will
                              never forget her words or her looks; they are engraven on my memory.
                              Well, to be brief, we were contracted in marriage; it was fixed for a
                              day not more than three months off, when my elder brother, who had
                              been given up as lost at sea, five years before, suddenly made his
                              appearance. He had been taken prisoner by a Spanish vessel, carried to
                              Cadiz, and thrown into a dungeon there, as a suspected character; his
                              identity being mistaken. He had finally been liberated however, and so
                              came back. I need not tell anybody who knows me, that I did not regret
                              this, or grudge my brother the estate, which as eldest son he deprived
                              me of; reducing me from an independent gentleman of large possessions,
                              to a dependent on his bounty. I loved him, and he loved me. I looked
                              up to him; he was my superior in mind as in strength and stature; and
                              I was content to occupy my rightful position of younger brother and
                              inferior.
                           "Not long after his return, Harley saw Bertha Argal, and in spite of
                              his knowledge of my engagement, loved her. In this there was no
                              disloyalty—no intention to become my rival. He would have scorned the
                              imputation, but he loved her. He could not help it. The dazzling
                              beauty of the girl, her fascinating, bewildering witchery, were too
                              much for his resolution. I saw that he loved her, but at first gave
                              myself no sort of uneasiness about it. I knew that Harley was the soul
                              of honor; would as soon cut off his right hand as commit a base
                              action; and as to Bertha Argal, I was quite at rest. At that time I
                              laughed at the idea of treachery in a creature so pure and beautiful.
                              Well, the sequel will show. Six months after my brother's arrival, the
                              young lady began to grow cold toward me, and warm toward my brother. I
                              told her of it; she laughed in my face. She grew fonder and fonder of
                              my brother. I became angry. She sneered at my anger. If I was
                              displeased, she said, at my brother's attentions, why not bring it to
                              the decision of arms? we both wore swords! These satirical words
                              impressed me horribly; the young lady was coming out in her real
                              colors. I said nothing, and terminated my visit; but I went again the
                              next day, for I had no will to resist; I was mad about her. Thus
                              things continued until a month ago. Then I found that she had been
                              poisoning my brother's mind against me. He became cold to me, and ere
                              long my presence in the house, our father's house, became an evident
                              constraint on him. One morning, however, he returned from Mr. Argal's,
                              whither he had been on business with a strange glow in his cheek, and
                              greeted me with long
                              disused affection. He seemed to look at me compassionately. Something
                              told me that this foreboded evil, and I galloped over to see Bertha. I
                              had guessed correctly, She embraced that occasion, she said, to inform
                              me that I might give up all thoughts of marrying her; she had no
                              reason to give; it was her decision! She looked like a queen as she
                              spoke, and I remained for a moment looking at her, pale and silent.
                              Then I said, 'Was this what made Harley so kind to me, so
                              compassionate? Did you inform him of your intention?' 'Well, sir,' was
                              her reply, 'suppose I did? I beg you will in future con fine yourself
                              to your own affairs, and not subject me to the inquisition.' She was
                              furious, but as beautiful as an aroused leopardess. I was white with
                              rage, but I loved her passionately still. I glared at her for an
                              instant, and then replied, 'This will end badly, Miss Argal—no young
                              lady can trifle with a gentleman with impunity.' Her lip curled, and
                              she said, coolly, 'Oh, you mean you are going to fight Harley? Well,
                              why don't you try it, sir? Are you afraid that he is a better
                              swordsman, and will finish you? I have no doubt this is your
                              objection, and I don't believe you would dare to face him!' I solemnly
                              declare that these were her exact words. I leave the readers of this
                              paper to decide if in many cases they would not have produced that
                              awful tragedy, a mortal contest between brothers. I said nothing,
                              however; I looked at her with pale and trembling lips only, and went
                              away. Three days afterwards, Harley was called to Mr. Argal's again,
                              and on his return looked serious and troubled. 'Miss Argal is a
                              singular person,' he said to me after dinner, with great gloom; 'can
                              she wish to place you and me, Charles, opposite each other with swords
                              in our hands? I should so imagine from her conversation to-day; a
                              strange person!' I did not reply, except by some commonplace. I loved
                              the young woman still with too passionate a love. I could not speak
                              against her. For more than two weeks thereafter, I was her slave, her
                              dog. I crawled back when she lashed me away, and tried to kiss the
                              hand which struck me. I say this, because all the truth shall be
                              known. I have no resolution—I never had any; I am the powerless victim
                              of this infatuation; and if this moment Bertha Argal were to enter the
                              room, and smile on me—even after all—I would obey her in anything she
                              commanded.
                           "But my narrative must come to an end. Four days ago I went to see her
                              for the last time. She met me with scorn and satirical smiles, which
                              soon became sneers. So I had determined not to be whipped away, had
                              I?' she asked: 'I had come sneaking back to moan out that she no
                              longer loved me; that she loved my brother, which she now begged leave
                              to inform me was a fact, and that I was wretched.' 'Yes,' I said, 'all
                              you say is true.' 'Then you are a fool for your pains, sir,' she said,
                              'and your presence makes me sick. You, a brother of
                              Harley Austin! you, with your feeble snivelling
                              complaints, and begging, the brother of that strong, resolute man!
                              Yes, sir! I love him, and he shall love me; and if you don't like
                              that, you may put an end to yourself; it will be a matter of very
                              small interest to me!' I looked at her as she spoke, and shuddered.
                              She was super-humanly beautiful; I would have given all the countless
                              worlds of the sky, had I possessed them, to have clasped her for a
                              single moment in my arms. She saw her influence over me, and her lip
                              curled. 'You haven't resolution, however, for the act,' she said; 'if
                              I were a man, and fortune went against me, I'd do as the ancients did,
                              get rid of life. And now, sir, you will please leave me, I am tired of
                              you. Ah! here comes Harley!' And turning her back on me, she hastened
                              to the window, and smiled at the visitor.
                           "I set my teeth close, put on my hat, and went out. Harley and I
                              passed each other with some constraint on his part; I was quite calm,
                              for I had made up my mind. I returned to the hall and wrote on a piece
                              of paper which I knew would meet my brother's eye, the words: 'Think
                              well, before you marry Bertha Argal, brother. She has broken my
                              heart—attempted to drive me to a bloody combat with you, knowing who
                              would be victor, and now advises me to end my despair by my own hand.
                              I obey, for life has no longer any charm for me. Farewell.' I signed
                              this, and have come hither to Mrs. Butterton's to write and leave this
                              paper.
                           "In five minutes I shall be dead.
                           
                              CHARLES AUSTIN."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               These were the words which Falconbridge read—then his glance fell upon these
                  others in addition, in Mrs. Butterton's hand-writing:
               "The poor young man was found dead when we ran at the explosion of his pistol.
                  This paper was lying on the table. Mr. Harley Austin returned it to me, not
                  wishing to keep it; he has since left the country."
               Falconbridge remained motionless throughout the entire night. As the sun streamed
                  in, he raised his face, which was covered with a deadly pallor, and groaned.
            
            
               
               XXIX.
               THE THREADS OF THE WOOF.
               HOURS, days and weeks have fled away since the scenes and events which we have
                  endeavored to place before the reader's eyes. The year wanes fast. The brilliant
                  sunlight of October has yielded to the hazy influences of November. The sky is no
                  longer blue: the trees are dismantled of their splendid trappings. Under the chill
                  heaven of a leaden color, the broad face of nature resembles some great hall, from
                  which the gorgeous hangings have been torn, the trophies of banners removed—in
                  which the lights are slowly going out, as after a great revel, when the guests
                  have all departed.
               The plover cries and the partridge whistles on the windswept hills—the wild geese
                  wing their way toward the south—the crane stalks with a sombre and weird air among
                  the shallows of the water-courses, dreaming, you would say, of other lands—and
                  from the northwest wander cutting blasts, preluding the approach of winter.
               But the human hearts beneath the chilly sky beat as before. The personages of our
                  drama follow still, the bent of their diverse passions, humors, and desires. The
                  hot blood in their veins pulsates, and hastens to and fro, as strongly.
               Lord Fairfax and Captain Wagner hold interminable discussions on the state of the
                  border, and the best means of defence, now that the Indian inroad may be soon
                  expected. The worthy soldier is content to pass his time thus—alternately debating
                  with his lordship, and pursuing his own special campaign against the enemy at Van
                  Doring's Ordinary: he sleeps, and eats, and drinks, and philosophizes, not without
                  many camp expletives, uttered in a jovial and sonorous orous voice, the sound of
                  which seems encouraging to the Earl, for he greets these outbreaks on the part of
                  the Captain, with his uniform grim smile.
               Meanwhile George is occupied by his own affairs also. He surveys the surrounding
                  lands assiduously for the Earl; sleeps often in the woods, his head resting on his
                  knapsack; and it happens that the direction of his toils is often toward the
                  south.
               There the great Fort Mountain raises its double wall, blue against the dun heaven,
                  and within the embraces of the shaggy arms—perched like an eagle's nest in the
                  declivity of the mountain—he sees the cottage in which Cannie lives. He loves the
                  little maiden now with the fondest devotion. She has become all the world to him,
                  and dwells in his thoughts wherever his footsteps turn—in the prairie, and the
                  forest, by night and by day; it is always Cannie of whom the youth is dreaming;
                  around her he weaves that tissue of romance and fancy which the bounding heart of
                  youth adorns with such resplendent gems. George goes often to the mountain
                  dwelling, and there all the outer world disappears. He is alone in the great
                  universe with one whose grave, sweet smile lights up his life—whose frank, open
                  brow is the mirror of truth and goodness—in whose eyes he finds the charm which
                  only exists for the youthful lover. And Cannie now no longer looks upon him as a
                  stranger. He has become day by day, more an influence upon her life—her innocent
                  heart beats fast when his tall and erect figure enters the doorway—when his sunny
                  smile, lighting up the firm lips, and frank, true face, beams on her. She does not
                  disguise her affection now, for she knows it is returned—but her fondness for her
                  youthful companion never betrays itself in a manner repugnant to the most delicate
                  maiden modesty. It is Cannie's nature to be honest and true—but she is ripening
                  into a "young lady" now; and so George can only guess from the serious smile, and
                  kindly eyes, her secret.
               
               Their lives glide on thus, and no incident breaks the spell which is woven day by
                  day more closely around the young hearts of the maiden and the youth. The old
                  grandfather alone with his books, his chemical machines, or with whatever occupies
                  his attention; they are by themselves in the world of reverie and fancy. It is
                  true, that from time to time, as they wander like happy children along the
                  mountain side, or to the lofty brow of the sleeping giant, that a shadowy figure
                  follows and marks the way they take—but this figure is unseen by them. It is the
                  young Indian whom the reader has once looked upon, on that beautiful day of
                  October—hidden among the leafy branches of the great oak, and descending to
                  follow, then, as now, the footsteps of the pair. He still preserves his air of
                  grave and lofty dignity—his eyes have the same expression of mild truth and
                  honesty—his lips move as before, and utter the sad murmur which seems to indicate
                  a possessing thought. His eyes never wander from the form of Cannie when she is in
                  the circle of his vision—he seldom betrays any other emotion than a jealous,
                  watchful guardianship over her; if his features contract slightly, and his broad
                  bosom heaves, when she bestows upon her companion some little mark of her
                  affection, this exhibition of feeling is soon suppressed; the old gravity returns;
                  and the young chief glides into the deep woods, and disappears, as lightly and
                  silently as a shadow.
               And Falconbridge—what of him? Has the darkness which enveloped all his life upon
                  that awful evening, when he read the letter of the suicide, been dissipated?
               Wholly.
               A few days afterwards he encountered Captain Wagner at the Ordinary; the soldier,
                  who had been informed by Mrs. Butterton of the step which she had taken, almost
                  feared to meet the young man, or witness his agony. He expected to find
                  Falconbridge bowed to the earth with anguish—to hear only groans and stifled
                  sighs—to see, in the pale cheek, the lack-lustre eye, the drooping form, those
                  evidences of suffering fering which betray the victim of despair. Instead of such
                  a figure, he saw Falconbridge happy, smiling, buoyant. His head rose proudly
                  erect; his eyes shone with a joyous light; his lips were wreathed with smiles; he
                  was the picture of one across whose brow a cloud has never passed. The worthy
                  Captain started, and looked with unfeigned astonishment upon his companion. The
                  quick eye of Falconbridge discerned at once the meaning of this expression. He
                  laughed gaily, and then said, with earnest simplicity:
               "I know why you start so, comrade—why you are astounded at seeing me thus
                  happy-looking. That well-meaning lady, your friend, has doubtless told you of her
                  warning to me. It was honest and kind in her—but it made me very miserable."
               "And then," said Captain Wagner gloomily, "what happened afterwards?"
               "What happened? Why what could happen, comrade? I went to the person charged with
                  this awful duplicity and heartlessness. I asked her to say what was the real
                  truth—and I heard it. She raged at the accusation; vainly attempted to extort from
                  me the author—and then giving way to her feelings, burst into tears, and told me
                  all, explained everything."
               "Oh! she explained everything, did she?" said Captain Wagner, with gloomy irony;
                  "no doubt she made all quite clear."
               "Oh, perfectly! How could your friend have seriously thought that paper written by
                  the poor unfortunate youth who killed himself, an actual narrative of facts?"
               "It was all a romance then?" said the Captain, with the same sardonic contortion
                  of his lip, "it was only a little imaginary story which he amused himself in
                  writing, to wile away the time before he blew his brains out!'
               "Captain, Captain!" said Falconbridge earnestly, "your voice has a terrible sneer
                  in it; your curling lip betrays scorn and incredulity!"
               
               "Well, it betrays what I feel," returned the soldier, looking at the young man
                  with wistful and gloomy eyes; "it talks plainly, does this curling lip you speak
                  of, or I'm a dandy! But I'll uncurl it; I'll sneer no more; I'll not wound you
                  Falconbridge—and have only to say that 'twas truly unfortunate that this mad youth
                  made up such a horrible story."
               "Mad!" said Falconbridge, with a quick glance at his companion, "then
                  you heard of his madness!"
               "No," said Captain Wagner, "but I have no doubt that is the fair young lady's
                  explanation."
               "Yes, assuredly! who could have doubted it? The truth is that the unhappy lover's
                  tale was only the sick fancy of a diseased mind. He did pay his addresses to Miss
                  Argal—he did love her passionately—but she told him frankly a hundred times that
                  she could not respond to his affection. She tried to do this as kindly and
                  tenderly as possible, but her reply only enraged him. There was a tendency to
                  madness in his family, and this made her peculiarly anxious to soothe him. He
                  would not be soothed however; in their last interview he yielded to a crazy fit of
                  wrath—he rushed furiously away with his hand upon his forehead, and three days
                  afterwards Miss Argal heard with inexpressible astonishment and horror that he had
                  put an end to his life. The statements of the paper were the mere fabrications of
                  his rage and madness—the creations of a diseased intellect, aiming at revenge.
                  That is all. Is not the explanation perfect?"
               "Yes," said Captain Wagner, as calm and cold as ice, "perfect. I have rarely heard
                  anything so simple. And what did you do with the dead man's letter?"
               "I begged it of Mrs. Butterton, she yielded—it is ashes."
               Captain Wagner moved his head up and down with the same icy expression; set his
                  teeth firmly together; and, after a moment's silence, said in a low voice:
               "Falconbridge, are you a fatalist?"
               "A fatalist?" said the young man, looking curiously at his companion, "surely not,
                  comrade. God rules us and directs our lives—all issues rest in his merciful hands,
                  and we are told that not even a sparrow falls without the 
                     knowlege
                     knowledge
                   of the kind Father of the Universe. I trust in all to him—as I pray to
                  him night and morning as my mother taught me at her knee. No, I am not a
                  fatalist."
               "Well, from this moment I am," said the soldier, with a sombre
                  glance; "I don't deny your religious views—but I am none the less, from this day,
                  a fatalist!"
               With these words the Captain entered the Ordinary, and Falconbridge, with a
                  serious expression, mounted his horse to go to Mr. Argal's.
               This was the state of things, in connection with the main personages of our
                  narrative, at the moment when we again take up the thread of events. From this
                  time forth, each day and hour, everything ripened and advanced toward the
                  catastrophe of the drama.
            
            
               
               XXX.
               THE ARREST.
               ACROSS the prairie, sobbing mournfully now in the chill, autumn wind—under the
                  bare boughs of the forest, studded here and there with evergreens, which only
                  looked more cheerless from the surrounding desolation—through the sparkling waves
                  of the Shenandoah, and into the rugged defile of the Fort Mountain, George passed
                  at a rapid gallop, his eyes full of gloom, and his brow contracted.
               Lord Fairfax had informed him that on this day "Old Powell," as he was called,
                  would be arrested on the charges made against him by a justice named Hastyluck,
                  and the officials would probably go early.
               George had received this information on the night before, with utter horror and
                  astonishment, and had besought Lord Fairfax, if the charge were witchcraft, to
                  dismiss it as absurd and ridiculous. His lordship had replied coolly that this was
                  quite out of his power, even if consistent with his convictions; all he could
                  promise was, that no act of oppression should be performed; and with this George
                  was compelled to be content.
               He scarcely slept, and at daybreak was on his way to the mountain.
               Never moderating the speed of his horse, whose mouth was filled with foam, he
                  rapidly ascended the steep bridle-path and reached the door of the little
                  mansion.
               The scene which greeted him made his cheek flush and his eyes flash fire.
               The officers of the law had already arrived, and placed the old man under arrest.
                  One of them was curiously examining the strange coin which George had seen on a
                  former occasion, and which the man had picked up from among some books on a
                  table—the other was about to place upon the wrists of old Powell a pair of iron
                  hand-cuffs, in spite of the tearful and trembling prayers of little Cannie, who
                  had clasped the arm of his shaggy overcoat, and begged him, crying, not to use
                  them.
               George advanced quickly into the apartment, and confronting the officer, said
                  sternly:
               "That is quite unnecessary, sir! Mr. Powell cannot escape from you!'
               The officer turned hastily, and said with an insolent scowl:
               "Who are you, pray?"
               "My name is of no importance," George returned, with a hauteur in strong contrast
                  to his democratic opinions; "it is enough, sir, that I command you in the name of
                  Lord Fairfax to conduct the prisoner unfettered to Van Doring's Ordinary."
               And putting his hand into his breast he extended toward the person whom he
                  addressed a slip of paper, upon which was written:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "I desire, and if necessary require that the prisoner Powell may be
                              treated with all respect, and especially brought to Court without
                              handcuffs.
                           
                              "FAIRFAX.
                              "GREENWAY COURT, 5th Nov. 1748."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               George's foresight had led him to ask this favor of the Earl, which had been
                  readily granted—and the vulgar official had no courage to resist. He scowled at
                  the young man, whose cold, fixed look cowed him in spite of himself, and putting
                  the hand-cuffs in his pocket, growled:
               "Well it's nothing to me; and you, old fellow, just come along with you? You'll have a hard time of it,
                  cuffs or no cuffs."
               "It'll be harder'n he thinks," here put in the other worthy with a sneer. "If I
                  ain't mistaken, this is a counterfeit—he's a coiner, as I've heard hinted."
               A flash darted from beneath the shaggy white brows of the old man, and he reached
                  forth to take the coin from the hands of the speaker. But the hand fell at his
                  side. An expression of scorn which might have become a royal prince, passed over
                  his features, and he turned away.
               "Mr. George," he said, bowing with courtly gravity to the young man, "I need not
                  say that I thank you from my heart for this kind and thoughtful action. Of the
                  result of this foolish business I have no manner of fear. I commit my child to
                  you, in my absence—it is enough, to so honest a gentleman."
               Then adding calmly to the officials, who were evidently impressed in spite of
                  themselves, by the dignity and coolness of his bearing,—"I will be ready in a few
                  moments to attend you,"—the old man entered the inner apartment. He soon returned
                  wrapped in a comfortable overcoat, which reached beneath the knee, and issuing
                  forth, mounted the spare horse which had been brought for him. How those
                  intelligent gentlemen, the constables, had expected him to hold the bridle with
                  his hands secured remains a mystery to this day—but the obstacle no longer
                  existed—and with a tender kiss upon Cannie's tremulous lips, and another bow to
                  George, the prisoner set forward, between the two officers.
               We shall pass over the scene between George and Cannie—such distressing pictures
                  are not to our taste. He consoled her with every possible assurance calculated to
                  calm her emotion—but all was in vain. The girl begged him, with tears in her eyes,
                  and nervous sobs, to take her to her grandfather, and it was one of the hardest
                  tasks which George had ever undertaken, to resist these moving entreaties. He did
                  resist, however, by an immense exertion of will, for he knew that to yield would
                  be to add to the child's unhappiness by showing her the old man, formally
                  arraigned for trial—and all Cannie could procure from him was a promise that he
                  would go at once and see that her grandfather was not treated cruelly.
               "That should never be!" George said, with that flash of the eye which betrayed the
                  depth of his character, and the strength of will lying beneath the calm
                  exterior—"he would go at once! there was nothing to fear!"
               And leaping on his horse, he put spur to the animal, and galloped at full speed
                  down the mountain.
               Cannie followed him with her eyes, which the tears almost blinded, and prayed
                  inaudibly for strength and protection from One in whom she was accustomed to place
                  all her trust. She saw George disappear, in the forest—than reappear in the open
                  space, galloping violently as before: and finally, on the banks of the river, saw
                  him join the officers and their prisoner.
               Then the whole cavalcade disappeared, and Cannie fell upon the bench of the little
                  porch, covering her face with her hands, and uttering sobs so passionate that her
                  bosom, and the long, fair hair, which had fallen, and now rested upon her
                  shoulders, were shaken, as by a convulsion.
            
            
               
               XXXI.
               LIGHTFOOT.
               SHE preserved this attitude still, when a footstep was heard upon the path near at
                  hand, and raising her head she saw the young Indian, whom we have twice alluded to
                  in our chronicle.
               He was clad as before, in fringed leggins, joined by a pliable garment of soft
                  doeskin, reaching to his waist, which was encircled by a leathern belt, upon one
                  side of which were secured a bundle of arrows:—his feet were protected by
                  ornamented moccasins, fitting tightly to the high instep and nervous ankle:—above
                  his brow drooped, as before, the variegated plume, his badge of chieftainship. As
                  he leaned upon his long cedar bow and looked upon the child, his bare breast
                  slightly heaving, and his noble features full of tender pity and affection, he
                  presented a subject for a great painter.
               Cannie rose quickly to her feet, and hastening to his side said hurriedly:
               "Oh, Lightfoot! I thought you were far away! I know you will help me! Can you take
                  me over the river? Grandpa is to be tried, and I must not, cannot stay
                  here!—Lightfoot, you are a good, true friend."
               She stopped, overcome with agitation:—one hand resting on his arm, her eyes turned
                  up to his face beseechingly. The young Indian looked into the sweet countenance
                  with a sudden color on his swarthy cheek, which betrayed the extent of the
                  interest he felt in the speaker. But when he spoke, his words were calm and
                  measured; long training had made self-control a second nature with him. We shall
                  not record his reply in the broken English which was all he possessed—though the
                  sad, musical tones made that defective dialect not destitute of a singular
                  charm.
               "Is not Lightfoot the true friend of the Mountain Dove?" he said. "He has known
                  her very well, and loved her for many moons—and her father has been kind to the
                  poor Indian who left his tribe to wander here among the places of his
                  childhood."
               "And you have been kind, very kind to us, Lightfoot. You have more than once kept
                  the Indians from attacking us—and I would have died that day when the moccasin bit
                  me, if you had not brought the herb to cure me. And now, Lightfoot, you must be my
                  friend. You must take me over the river to Mr. Yeardley's—I know he will let me go
                  in his wagon to the court. Will you, Lightfoot?—do not refuse me, dear
                  Lightfoot!"
               The swarthy cheek again colored slightly, but the voice was calm when he said:
               "Lightfoot loves the little dove of the mountain—he will do her bidding now and
                  always—he would willingly die for her."
               And with these grave words, which were accompanied by a sudden flash of the eye,
                  in which might have been read an expression of deep tenderness, the young chief
                  assumed the attitude of one who waits patiently.
               Cannie hastened into the house, threw a cloak upon her shoulders, tied her chip
                  hat under her chin, and came forth again quickly. The two then rapidly descended
                  the mountain—the Indian often taking the little hand to assist his companion over
                  some obstacle in the path—and thus they finally reached the river. From a
                  sheltered nook, overshadowed by a great drooping pine tree, Lightfoot silently
                  produced a gum-log canoe, and placed the girl in it. A sweep of the long paddle
                  sent it ten yards into the current, and they were soon on the opposite side of the
                  river. As carefully concealing the skiff as before, the Indian and his companion then hastened on, and before
                  very long, came in sight of Mr. Yeardley's. Lightfoot allowed the girl to go on
                  alone—and from his hiding-place saw her enter the rude mansion of the settler,
                  before which a light wagon, drawn by a pony, was standing. In ten minutes she came
                  out again, with the rough, but good-humored borderer, who placed her in the
                  vehicle, got in himself, and drove off.
               Lightfoot leaned upon his cedar bow, and followed the wagon until it was out of
                  sight, with his sad smile and look of wistful affection. He was thinking of
                  Cannie's parting words, as she pressed his hand in both of hers and said:
               "Come to our house to-morrow, Lightfoot!—you are my dear, kind friend!"
               The words had made his breast thrill, and a joyful light illumined his features.
                  Then the sadness came, and he murmured:
               "She loves the pale-faced youth. I am naught to her. But Manitou will speak. It is
                  well."
               With these words he turned and disappeared in the forest.
            
            
               XXXII.
               HOW CAPTAIN WAGNER OVERTHREW HIS ADVERSARY.
               IN the main apartment of Van Doring's Ordinary, the worshipful justices of the
                  County of Frederick were assembled, to take into consideration all questions
                  touching the order, defence, government, and general condition of the region under
                  their supervision.
               The Ordinary had been selected for the place of meeting at the request of Lord
                  Fairfax. As one of the pieces of business which would come before the worshipful
                  justices, was the selection of a permanent locality for the court, and as
                  Winchester and Stephensburg contended for the honor, and emolument in
                  question—said his lordship—it would be fair to meet on the present occasion at
                  neither of those places. Thus they would enter the arena of friendly competition
                  impartially, and without undue advantage.
               These views had received the approbation of the enlightened justices, and they had
                  accordingly assembled from every direction at the Ordinary of Mr. Van
                  Doring—riding every description of animal of the horse species, and clad in the
                  most extraordinary diversity of apparel. Some of them were gentlemen of the first
                  class, and these were well dressed, with some pretensions to grace and elegance.
                  But the majority were like Major Hastyluck, rather unfavorable specimens of their
                  species—low-browed, sharp-faced, wiry, keen-looking individuals, who evidently had
                  an eye to the main chance under all possible circumstances, and, like a celebrated
                  gentleman of more modern times, thought it well to be "shifty in a new
                  country."
               A large crowd of a nondescript character had assembled on the occasion—hunters, trappers, settlers—many of
                  them portly Germans, others trim, active Scotchmen:—and this crowd moved about in
                  front of the Ordinary, drank systematically of Mynheer Van Doring's Jamaica, and
                  during the first hours of the day, entered with enthusiasm into the business of
                  trading horses—the animals being, for the most part, plain to the inspection of
                  all, at the long rack in front of the tavern door.
               About twelve o'clock a decided sensation was created in the crowd by the
                  appearance of a large English chariot, drawn by four glossy horses, from which
                  vehicle, when it paused before the door, descended his lordship, the Earl of
                  Fairfax, Lieutenant of the County of Frederick, and President of the body of
                  justices. Lord Fairfax, who carried into the wilds of the New World something of
                  the English idea of the propriety of full dress, on occasions of ceremony, was
                  very richly clad. His coat was of brown cloth, decorated with embroidery; his
                  waistcoat of yellow silk, ornamented with flowers in silver thread; from his bosom
                  protruded a mass of snowy ruffles, and his peruke was carefully powdered. Around
                  him, as he issued from the chariot, he drew the folds of a rich red velvet
                  cloak—and then inclining his head slightly to the admiring crowd, he entered the
                     Ordinary.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The chief details of this description are faithful to accurately preserved
                     tradition. The tradition was communicated to the present writer by the son
                     of a gentleman who visited the Earl at Greenway Court—saw his handsome
                     chariot, and red velvet cloak—and dined in state at the broad board.
               
               A quarter of an hour after the appearance of his lordship, the sheriff was heard
                  uttering his loud brazen "Oyez! oyez! oyez! Silence is
                  commanded—humhum—humhum—hum!—God save the King!"—and the justices took their seats
                  at a long table, at the further end of the apartment, the Earl occupying a large
                  arm-chair in the centre. A little gentleman, with an irresistible business air,
                  sat at one corner of the board with a huge volume bound in leather, lying before
                  him—and near the door, at a respectful distance from the members of the court, the
                  crowd—among whom might be seen Falconbridge, George, and Captain Wagner,
                  conversing—looked on with interest.
               The clerk read some previous proceedings in a monotonous voice—the justices
                  consulted in a low tone with Lord Fairfax;—and then the Earl leaned forward and
                  said, turning his head first to the right, then to the left:
               "Is the court prepared to vote upon the selection of a county-seat? I need not
                  inform you, gentlemen, that the question will chiefly lie between Stephensburg and
                  Winchester. I shall, therefore, request each justice, as I address him, to
                  pronounce one or the other name, which I will note down as it is uttered."
               A considerable sensation among the crowd greeted these words, and a hubbub of
                  voices for a moment deafened every one.
               "Silence in the court!" cried the sheriff, with fierce indignation; "silence, or
                  the court-room will be cleared!"
               "No, sir! Winchester, or the devil take it!" resounded clear and sonorous in the
                  sudden silence, and the sheriff started up with ferocious abruptness.
               "Silence! Captain Wagner, you are disturbing the court! Silence!"
               "My dear friend," said the voice of Captain Wagner, as that worthy advanced from
                  the mass, with clanking spurs and sabre, "I have the utmost possible respect for
                  this most honorable court, and the little remark which fell from me was spoken
                  confidentially to a friend, who is an advocate of Stephensburg. Now, I'm only a
                  poor soldier, and nothing of a lawyer, but I will maintain that Winchester, and no
                  other place, ought to be selected for the county-seat. I have my reasons," added
                  the Captain, mysteriously, "and if this most honorable and respectable body would
                  listen to the said reasons, I could satisfy their minds, or may the"—
               
               What followed, or nearly followed, was lost in the Captain's huge beard.
               The ghost of a smile flitted over the countenance of Lord Fairfax:—it was his
                  favorite music, the sound of that martial and sonorous voice—and he recalled all
                  at once the "declaration of war" by the soldier, on his arrival in the Valley. As
                  to the Captain, he pushed up his great black moustache with his finger—ran his
                  eyes along the line of justices, among whom were Mr. Argal, and Major
                  Hastyluck—and finally concentrated his gaze upon the face of the Earl, with an
                  expression which said, plainly, "Honor bright, my lord!"
               The lurking smile came again to the Earl's face, and turning to the court, he
                  said:
               "Gentlemen, if it is your pleasure, we will listen to Captain Wagner's reasons for
                  selecting Winchester. He is well acquainted with the country, and its interests,
                  and if you permit him, may throw light upon the question."
               A glance of much admiration from the soldier rewarded his generous enemy; and when
                  the court acquiesced in the Earl's recommendation, the countenance of the worthy,
                  which before had been filled with the elements of fear, was now fringed with the
                  radiance of hope, and expanded with the delight of a great orator who feels that
                  the moment has arrived for his triumph. The Captain bowed his head, then raised
                  his martial brow erect—and extending one arm persuasively, plunged with eloquence
                  into the middle of the subject.
               It is again, as on a former occasion, matter of deep regret to the faithful
                  historian of Captain Wagner's exploits, that the absence of professional
                  reporters, at that remote period, renders it impossible to accurately record the
                  vivid eloquence of his speeches. As in the case of Patrick Henry, and other
                  celebrated men, the legend of his power alone remains. We may safely say, however,
                  that the eulogium pronounced upon the town of Winchester, by the military orator,
                  was one of transcendent beauty and stirring impressiveness—while Stephensburg
                  dwindled away into a tenth-rate cross-road assemblage of huts, unworthy of the
                  attention of any one for an instant. The Captain concluded by a pathetic and
                  affecting appeal to the honorable justices to be guided in their decision by no
                  considerations of self-interest, by no preference for persons—to remember that
                  unborn millions would be affected by their determination, and form their opinion
                  of the members of the court by the manner in which they discharged, on this great
                  occasion, their solemn and responsible obligations.
               With this eloquent appeal the Captain ended his oration, and retired modestly into
                  the crowd.
               The smile on the Earl's face had come back in full force—and turning to his
                  associates, he said:
               "Gentlemen, you have heard the reasons given by Captain Wagner, but I imagine you
                  have discovered in them nothing to largely modify any opinions which you may have
                  before made up. If the members of the court are ready to vote, I will submit the
                  question."
               As no objection was made, the Earl called in turn the name of each—making a mark
                  as they responded, either under "Winchester," or "Stephensburg," which were
                  written upon a sheet of paper. The result was that the first had five marks, the
                  latter but four—and Winchester was selected as the county-seat of Frederick by a
                  majority of one.
               As he inscribed the last vote—that of the worthy Major Hastyluck—a slight flush
                  invaded the swarthy cheek of the Earl, and he leaned back haughtily in his
                  arm-chair. The result seemed to cause him no less surprise than 
                     dissatistion
                     dissatisfaction
                  ; and for a moment he remained silent, looking coldly at the court. Then
                  with an irritated flirt of the hand he tossed down the paper, saying, simply:
               "Winchester is chosen."
               The Earl's displeasure did not last, however. It plainly subsided after the transaction of some additional
                  business of a common-place nature; and when a short period for rest was taken by
                  the court, who went to supply themselves with cups of Jamaica, Lord Fairfax
                  approached Captain Wagner, and said, calmly:
               "Well, you are victor, sir—I congratulate you upon your triumph!"
               "My lord," said Captain Wagner, making the military salute, "there is something
                  finer than to get the better of an adversary—it is to act toward that adversary
                  with the chivalry and fairness that your lordship has displayed on this
                  occasion."
               It was the Captain's honest opinion, and the ill-humor of the gratified Earl
                  completely disappeared.
            
            
               XXXIII.
               THE WIZARD OF THE MASSINUTTON.
               IT was not until late in the evening that the case of the singular inhabitant of
                  the Fort Mountain came up for examination.
               He was brought from the private apartment in which he had been confined, into the
                  main room in which the array of justices were seated behind the long table, and
                  directed to sit down until he was called—"when," added the individual who had
                  arrested him, "you'll have a chance, my proud-looking old fellow, to say if you
                  are guilty, or not guilty, and I've got my opinion as to how it'll turn out."
               With these comforting words the vulgar officer retired, and left his prisoner to
                  himself. That personage seemed to pay no manner of attention to him who thus
                  addressed him. Had no one been beside him—no voice sounded in his ears—he could
                  not have exhibited a more perfect unconsciousness of being spoken to. He was
                  looking with a gloomy and fixed glance at Lord Fairfax, who occupied his former
                  position in the middle of the line of justices: and thus, motionless, stern,
                  wrapped from head to foot in his old gray over-coat, shaggy and soiled with long
                  use, he presented a singular spectacle. His long gray hair half covered his face,
                  which inclined forward, and the keen eyes, burning beneath the bushy white
                  eyebrows, were never removed for a moment from the face of the Earl.
               The rude crowd swaying to and fro at the door, regarded the prisoner with
                  superstitious interest; and as the shades of evening began to descend, and his
                  figure grow gradually less distinct in its outlines, they watched him with as
                     much intensity as if they had
                  expected him ere long to melt into thin air, and disappear, with a disagreeable
                  smell of sulphur only left behind.
               The remote and retired life of the old man, his systematic non-attendance upon any
                  occasions of public 
                     assembage
                     assemblage
                   in the small towns, or at social gatherings—the mysterious manner in
                  which he had arrived a year or two before, no one knew whence—and above all, the
                  dense smoke which was frequently seen, even in the hottest days of summer, curling
                  above the summit just beneath which his cottage was situated—all these things had
                  strangely impressed the rude and credulous inhabitants of the frontier, and led
                  them to bestow upon him the name by which he was known throughout the region—"The
                  Wizard of the Massinutton."
               What had induced the drunken justice, Hastyluck, to set on foot a prosecution
                  against him for diabolical proceedings, it was difficult to say. It may have been
                  some private spite—or the attempt of a sottish hanger-on to bolster up a damaged
                  reputation by an affectation of zeal in his office of justice—or lastly, the mere
                  enmity of a small, ill-natured mind against one apparently without friends.
               However this may be, it is certain that Hastyluck set the matter on foot; and in
                  his vagabond wanderings among the rude and ignorant settlers—especially those from
                  the witch-haunted land of Germany—he had experienced little difficulty in
                  impressing upon their minds the idea that every misfortune which had ever happened
                  to them had been caused by the "Wizard of the Massinutton." More than one of these
                  superstitious people were now present, prepared to testify with the utmost
                  distinctness against the prisoner—and Major Hastyluck, who had spent a
                  considerable portion of the day in swilling Jamaica in Mynheer Van Doring's inner
                  room, now rubbed his hands and regarded the two wizards seated before
                  him with maudlin triumph.
               "The prisoner, Powell," said Major Hastyluck, in a thick and stammering voice,
                  "will now be arraigned."
               Lord Fairfax, whose place had thus been unceremoniously assumed by the drunken
                  Major, turned with a frown to that gentleman, and said with some hauteur:
               "I pray you, sir, permit the business of the court to proceed regularly."
               To which cold words Major Hastyluck, who was quite beyond the influence of
                  hauteur, responded with the remarkable words, uttered with shocking
                  indistinctness:
               "Hans Doppelkraut 'll tell you!"
               After which the Major assumed an expression of much dignity, and attempted to pare
                  his nails with a goosequill.
               The Earl bestowed a withering glance upon his associate, which, however, fell
                  powerless, and making a sign to the sheriff, that excitable gentleman summoned the
                  prisoner to stand and say whether or not he was guilty of witchcraft. The
                  prisoner, thereupon, rose and said, "I am not guilty," in a calm and indifferent
                  voice. Then taking his seat, he fixed his eyes as before upon Lord Fairfax.
               Carl Zellycreffer being called, testified in broad German, that his child had been
                  afflicted with internal dropsy and rickets, which he believed to have been caused
                  by the wizard. Being interrogated as to the foundation for this opinion, his reply
                  was unsatisfactory.
               Hans Doppelkraut succeeded this worthy. Hans testified that he believed his cattle
                  to have been destroyed by the wizard's shooting them with hair balls, as no marks
                  of disease, or violence were discovered upon them:—his neighbor, Flangel, who was
                  too sick to attend, was certain that his illness was caused by the wizard's
                  changing him into a horse, bridling and saddling him, and riding him at full speed
                  over the very top of the Fort Mountain, to a meeting of witches and wizards in the
                  "Hog Back." He, the witness, did not know how this was—but he could say, that in
                  his opinion his own cows had been made dry by the prisoner, by fixing a pin in a towel for each cow—hanging
                  the towel over a door, and drawing the milk from the fringes. The officer had told
                  him they had seen a towel at the prisoner's house:—and that the "Hog Back" was the
                  most probable place for a meeting, such as neighbor Flangel had declared he was
                  ridden to, saddled and bridled, with heavy spurs dug every instant into his
                  sides—which marks, by some witchcraft of the prisoner, were, however, not visible
                  when he returned to his human shape.
               Having given this perspicuous testimony, Hans Doppelkraut stood aside, and Joe
                  Gunn, hunter and trapper, was called.
               Joe Gunn, for his part, didn't know whether there was any sech thing as witchcraft
                  or not, and only hearn about it. He had been acquainted with hunters who said
                  their guns were bewitched and wouldn't shoot straight—and when Black, one of his
                  hounds, couldn't be got to hunt of late, he had burnt him in the forehead with a
                  hot iron—after which he didn't know whether he hunted or not, for, like an
                  ongrateful varmaint, he run away. Major Hastyluck there had told him, Joe Gunn,
                  "strange things was in the wind now-abouts"—and asked him if he was well; when he,
                  Joe Gunn, told the Major that he did have a little tetch of the rhumatiz from
                  sleeping out o'-nights on the ground, the Major had asked him solemnly if he was
                  sure that this was not caused by Powell. He, Joe Gunn, replying that in this
                  miserable world there was nothing whatsoever that was nat'rally sartin but
                  unsartinty, the Major had advised him to draw a picture of the wizard on a plank,
                  and shoot at it with a bullet containing a bit of silver. His old woman wouldn't
                  hear of any such waste of precious metals, and he fired away at the picture, drawn
                  on the fence in charcoal, with an ordinary bullet. The Major told him the bullet
                  would hit the old wizard all the same as if he was really there—and so, not
                  wanting to kill anybody, and knowing Long July Ann, his rifle, sent the ball right
                  where he put the bead, he aimed at the right shoulder, and put it there. If the
                  talk about wizards was true, the prisoner ought to have an ounce of lead in his
                  right shoulder—which he, Joe Gunn, wouldn't like to have in his own—and that was
                  all he knew about it.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *"The belief in witchcraft was prevalent among the early settlers of the
                     Western country. To the witch was ascribed the tremendous power of
                     inflicting strange and in curable diseases, particularly on children—of
                     destroying cattle by shooting them with hair balls, and a great variety of
                     other means of destruction—of inflicting spells and curses on guns and other
                     things—and lastly, of changing men into horses, and after bridling and
                     saddling them, riding them at full speed over hill and dale to their
                     frolicks and other rendezvous. . . . Wizards were men supposed to possess
                     the same mischievous power as the witches. . . . . The diseases of children,
                     supposed to be inflicted by witchcraft, were those of the internal dropsy
                     and the rickets. The symptoms and cure of these destructive diseases were
                     utterly unknown in former times in the country. Diseases which could neither
                     be accounted for nor cured, were usually ascribed to some supernatural
                     agency of a malignant kind. For the cure of the diseases inflicted by
                     witchcraft, the picture of the supposed witch was drawn on a stump, or piece
                     of board, and shot at with a bullet containing a little bit of silver. This
                     bullet transferred a painful and sometimes a mortal spell on that part of
                     the witch corresponding with the part of the portrait struck by the bullet.
                     . . . . The witch had but one way of relieving herself from any spell
                     inflicted upon her in any way which was that of borrowing something, no
                     matter what, of the family to which the subject of the exercise of her
                     witchcraft belonged! I have known several poor old women much surprised at
                     being refused requests which had usually been granted without hesitation,
                     and almost heart-broken when informed of the cause of the refusal. When
                     cattle or dogs were supposed to be under the influence of witchcraft, they
                     were burnt in the forehead by a branding-iron, or when dead, burned wholly
                     to ashes. This inflicted a spell upon the witch, which could only by removed
                     by borrowing as above stated. Witches were often said to milk the cows of
                     their neighbors. This they did by fixing a new pin in a new towel for each
                     cow intended to be milked. This towel was hung over her own door, and by
                     means of certain incantations, the milk was extracted from the fringes of
                     the towel after the manner of milking a cow. This happened," adds the
                     reverend historian with dry humor, "when the cows were too poor to give much
                     milk."—Doddridge's Notes: pp. 376-7, in Kercheval's
                        History of the Valley of Virginia.
               
               A singular expression of surprise passed over the face of the prisoner, who
                  nevertheless did not move.
               "Search him, search him, according to the law of witchcraft!" came with maudlin
                  energy from the drunken Major on the bench:—and many of the justices evidently
                  acquiesced in the propriety of this proceeding. But before the officious worthies
                  of the law could approach, the prisoner rose slowly to his feet, and opened his
                  lips to address the court.
               
               At the same moment a stir was heard at the door, some pitying exclamations were
                  uttered by the crowd, and through an opening which was speedily made for her,
                  Cannie advanced into the court room. The wagon of good Mr. Yeardly had broken
                  down, and she had just arrived at the Ordinary—trembling, pale, shaking with an
                  indefinable fear.
               The sight of the old man, however, seemed to give her strength. The power of a
                  resolute will, and a devotion which spurned all fear, came to her
                  assistance—without shedding a tear, or hesitating a moment, the young girl, with
                  the air of a little queen, went to the side of the prisoner, and throwing one arm
                  around him, nestled close to his bosom.
               But the trial was too much for her—the agitation she had undergone too
                  excessive—the proud and defiant look which she directed at Lord Fairfax and the
                  justices, was succeeded by a nervous tremor, and burying her face in the old man's
                  breast, she clung to him, and sobbed wildly:
               "Grand papa! grand papa! they shall not take you from me! They shall not!—no they
                  shall not, while I am alive!"
               A flood of tears followed these words, and for an instant a dead silence reigned
                  throughout the apartment. All eyes were fixed upon the tall gray-haired man,
                  clasped in the embrace of the beautiful and devoted child—and as they stood thus,
                  bathed in the red light of the declining sun, there was something so proud and
                  noble in the forms of both, that the crowd was hushed and awed.
               The silence was broken by the prisoner.
               "My Lord," he said, calmly, in his cold, austere voice, "my Lord and Gentlemen of
                  the Court, I beg you to take notice that this presence of my child was against my
                  wishes—I would scorn to make use of any such vulgar trick to excite your
                  sympathies. This absurd accusation of witchcraft has been heard—the witnesses have
                  testified—I might go to my house again, cleared of the foolish imputation—but
                  there is still another charge to be brought against me, I believe. Before that
                  charge is made, I crave a few moments' private conversation with the presiding
                  justice of the court—my lord Fairfax. In making this request, I am not impelled by
                  any fear of the result, or any wish to conciliate your lordship's favor. My child
                  is agitated—I would be home again—I have other reasons, my Lord Thomas of
                  Denton—Fairfax, I should say. I pray that I may speak with your lordship."
               At the words "Lord Thomas of Denton," the Earl gave a visible start and leaned
                  forward in his chair, vainly endeavouring to read some secret in the countenance
                  of the prisoner. But that countenance defied all his penetration—it was cold and
                  impenetrable—a mask might have conveyed more expression.
               Lord Fairfax drew back with a deep sigh and a bewildered look, which was extremely
                  unusual with him—but said nothing. Then seeming suddenly to recollect the request
                  of the prisoner, he rose to his feet and said hurriedly:
               "I pray the court to suspend its business for a brief period. I am willing to
                  grant the private interview which the prisoner craves. I know not the character of
                  the communication which he is about to make to me, if it be a communication—but
                  trust I may rely upon the good opinion of my honorable associates, that nothing
                  will be taken into consideration by me without their privity and advice."
               Major Hastyluck, who had been for at least an hour without a fresh potation,
                  cheerfully replied for his brethren, that they had perfect confidence in his
                  lordship—and then the Major showed the example by staggering pompously from his
                  seat toward the inner room.
               Lord Fairfax, still absent and looking with vague curiosity toward the prisoner,
                  made a sign to that personage, and passed up the staircase to his private
                  room.
               The old man, with soothing words and a smiling caress, entrusted Cannie into the
                  hands of George, who hastened forward
                  to offer her his arm, and then wrapping his shaggy over-coat more closely around
                  him, stalked through the group of insolent and astounded bailiffs after the
                  Earl.
               In a few moments the door was locked behind them, and they were alone
                  together.
            
            
               XXXIV.
               THE PRISONER AND THE JUDGE.
               THE two men looked at each other for some moments in silence. There was something
                  striking and impressive in this silent examination by each of his adversary; and
                  points of great similarity were not wanting, at least in the carriage of their
                  persons.
               Neither of them had anything in common with the humbler class of human beings.
                  Both men, in their attitudes, bearing, and poise of head and feet, were plainly of
                  that rank accustomed to command and not to be commanded,—to question but not to be
                  questioned. An indifferent spectator would have said, however, that the mysterious
                  "wizard" was the superior, and the stronger of the two. There was something superb
                  and haughty in the figure no longer bent, but as straight as an arrow, in the eye
                  flashing clearly beneath the shaggy white eye-brow, in the proudly compressed lip,
                  the forehead raised calmly aloft. Lord Fairfax had the air of a nobleman, but the
                  stranger that of a monarch.
               "Well, sir," said the Earl, betraying unmistakable astonishment, for no man had a
                  quicker eye for the indefinable evidences of superior character. "Well, sir, now
                  for your private communication. You have made a somewhat singular request, and
                  used a mode of address which indicates former acquaintance. Where and how did you
                  learn that 'Lord Thomas of Denton' was my name upon my patrimonial estate, and
                  there alone? Speak, sir!—let us end this mystery. I listen!"
               
               And sitting down, his lordship motioned with cold courtesy toward a chair opposite
                  to his own.
               His companion did not take the offered seat, but said coolly:
               "Then you do not recognize me, my lord?"
               "No, sir; I find, it is true, something 
                     strangly
                     strangely
                   familiar in your features, but"—
               "Possibly I may assist your recollection," interrupted the other; and throwing off
                  his long overcoat, he stood before Lord Fairfax metamorphosed from a rude
                  backwoodsman into an English gentleman clad in the most courtly and imposing
                  costume. His coat was richly embroidered in scarlet—his frill snow-white,—his
                  waistcoat of blue silk, loaded with decorations, and falling over knee-breeches of
                  the finest material.
               "Have you forgotten me?" he said coldly, as he saw the Earl give a great start and
                  suddenly turn pale.
               Lord Fairfax almost recoiled, as the stranger advanced toward him, but by a
                  powerful effort summoned his strength again, and replied:
               "I have not, sir. You are Sir William Powys!"
               "Yes, my lord," returned the wizard with a frown, "I am Sir William Powys! Sir
                  William Powys whom your lordship's father stripped of nearly all his possessions
                  in Yorkshire—who swore enmity thirty years ago against your family—whose body
                  bears the scar of a pistol ball lodged therein by your lordship, in the right
                  shoulder here, as that hunter by a strange coincidence, declared—who has left the
                  Old World, as your lordship has left it, to come to the New, and who here, as
                  there, finds one of the house of Fairfax eternally in his path, set in judgment
                  over him, to oppose him, and strive to direct him, in all his acts; to
                  endeavor—vainly! vainly my lord!—to thwart and to crush him! Not content with
                  alienating from me the heart of my daughter, and marrying her against my
                  wishes!—not content with shipwrecking my happiness and hope in the Old World, your
                  lordship has followed me hither!—you assemble a body of low yeomen to try an
                  English gentleman for witchcraft! Had I not requested this interview,
                  the vulgar fellow who arrested me yonder would have preferred in addition a charge
                  of counterfeiting coin!—against me. me, my lord!
                  me!"
               And the old man, with flushed cheeks and forehead, looked down upon the Earl with
                  a fiery wrath which made his countenance almost terrible in its indignation.
               Lord Fairfax did not immediately reply. He seemed endeavoring to control a
                  sentiment as violent as that of his companion. His compressed lips and heaving
                  bosom indicated the struggle which was passing in his mind, and he was silent for
                  some moments. The effort at self-control was successful. His features slowly grew
                  calm. The flush disappeared from his face, and returning the other's gaze with
                  cold solemnity he said:
               "Sir William Powys, what you have just uttered is an injustice unworthy of your
                  character, and unlike your blood, which, in all its 
                     representives
                     representatives
                   with whom I am acquainted, has been violent and implacable, but neither
                  unfair nor ungenerous. You know well that I have had no part in originating this
                  silly prosecution of you for witchcraft. You know that I am simply
                     among these people, not of them,—as the Lieutenant of the county,
                  as an official bound to act officially. So much for that. And touching the subject
                  of counterfeiting, it was mentioned in my hearing but an hour ago. These are the
                  wrongs which I have inflicted upon you, as you declare, in the New World!"
               The Earl paused a moment, then continued gloomily:
               "Of events in England I would rather not speak: except to say that you have here
                  done me equal injustice. I do not believe that my father was harsh toward you—but
                  let that pass. In a single accusation, you are just. I did force a quarrel with
                  you and wound you,—I regretted it. I still regret it; it was unnecessary. But
                  touching the last charge,—here, Sir William Powys, I have nothing to blame
                     myself with. I honestly loved your
                  daughter—she honestly loved me; in spite of your hatred for my family, she became
                  my Countess—if against your wish, as you say, still not without your legal
                  consent. But enough, sir. These memories move me bitterly. Let the past sleep. I
                  do not speak angrily as you see, Sir William; I address you as your rank and
                  position demand. I have done, sir."
               There was so much nobility and sincerity in the tone of the Earl, that his words
                  evidently affected the listener strangely. The menacing expression disappeared,
                  and a gloomy calm succeeded.
               "My lord," he said, "I so far acquit you of this present annoyance as to fully
                  believe that you had no part in it. The pain it has occasioned both me and my
                  child, no less remain. There is, besides, no certainty that in future it will not
                  be repeated—and thus I have reason when I say that the name of Fairfax is my evil
                  genius, for you are the real master and controlling influence in the country. But
                  I pass that by. You have said that my family is implacable. That is only partly
                  true of myself; but I shall not discuss the question. I shall simply say that
                  toward yourself personally I have no ill feeling; indeed I am conscious of having
                  more than repaired all your injuries, as some day you will know."
               Lord Fairfax made a motion with his hand and said with noble simplicity:
               "I would rather have it so than otherwise, sir."
               The words seemed to dissipate still further the enmity of his companion. He sat
                  down, and when he spoke again, his voice was greatly changed. It was almost
                  sad.
               "My lord," he said, "this is a strange and sorrowful world—have you not found it
                  so?"
               "Eminently," replied the Earl, sadly.
               "I am more than seventy years old; you must be nearly or quite fifty. Well, at our
                  respective ages, men should strive to forget the passions of their youth—the
                  enmities and hatreds which sear the soul. You have wronged me—I have wronged you.
                  There let it rest. I am willing to forget all, and to go upon my way without
                  cherishing any thoughts of vengeance in my heart. I will do more: I will right the
                  wrong I have done you;"—here the brows of the speaker contracted painfully—"but
                  not now. Let us come to the business which made me request this interview."
               The Earl inclined his head with great courtesy, and listened.
               "Nearly two years ago," said his companion, "I bought of your agent here—I never
                  expected to see you in Virginia—the tract of land upon which I live with my
                  granddaughter. I removed from my small estate on the seaboard, because the chills
                  and fevers of that region, for a portion of the year, render it dangerous to her
                  constitution; and again because she derives singular benefit from a mineral spring
                  in the 'fort' yonder. I brought with me only a man and a maid, intending to return
                  in the cold season, but have remained. One of the reasons for this decision, in
                  addition to the health of my granddaughter, was the discovery of a mine of gold
                  and silver, upon the tract, which I have worked with the utmost success."
               The Earl bowed with the same calm courtesy, and the speaker continued:
               "I know that by the charter granted to Lord Culpeper, from whom you derive your
                  property in this province, you are entitled to one-fourth of the proceeds of all
                  mines of gold and silver discovered upon all lands within Lord Culpeper's grant,
                  and I have accordingly laid aside carefully one ingot from every four, in a box
                  marked "Lord Fairfax." In relation to the coin discovered by the bailiff, in one
                  sense it is counterfeit. I cast it from pure gold in a mould of clay, as the
                  amusement of an idle moment; and inasmuch as its value, from the absence of all
                  alloy, is one-fourth more than that of real coin, I imagine my moral innocence of
                  the charge of coining may be established. I have made this explanation," continued the speaker, "in order to
                  propound to you an interrogatory. I do so that there may be no misunderstanding,
                  no ambiguity. Shall I be permitted to remain in this region undisturbed by legal
                  annoyances, or must I go with my child to another? The heart beats chill at
                  seventy, my lord, and a man is disposed to quiet. I would ask no favor; I would
                  have you reply as a mere matter of business; I address myself to you as Lord
                  Proprietor of the Northern Neck in which I live, and chief executive officer of
                  the country."
               "As such I reply, Sir William," said the Earl, calmly, "that your further sojourn
                  in the region shall be, as far as lies in my power, wholly freed from all
                  annoyance. If I were not disposed to make you this assurance, with reference to
                  yourself, I should do so for your granddaughter's sake. I cannot forget that she
                  would have been the cousin of my children. No more of that. In regard to the
                  fourth part of all gold mines, I do not claim that right in my charter—or, if you
                  insist, I reply that I wish the child to receive the sum which you have laid
                  aside—as a present from her uncle by marriage. I pray you, sir, not to refuse me
                  this trifle. I shall not stop here, with your permission, in my privilege of
                  displaying my affection for my little niece. I am truly proud to think of her as
                  such; a more perfect young princess I have never seen than the child, as she came
                  to you in the court-room. But enough, sir. I shall not let you offer me this gold
                  again, as I think you intend; let us return and terminate this business. All shall
                  end at once."
               And opening the door, the Earl made a courteous gesture to the old man, who had
                  again donned his long coat, to precede him, which resulted in their issuing forth
                  together. In the two hearts thus close to each other, there was no longer any
                  enmity; but in the elder's there was pain, and a cruel hesitation.
               They entered the room where the members of the court were seated, and in ten
                  minutes Lord Fairfax had impressed upon his associates, in private conference, the
                  entire absurdity of all charges brought against the prisoner. Indeed the honorable
                  justices were rather ashamed of themselves; and many looks of disgust were
                  directed toward the person of Major Hastyluck, chief instigator and persecutor,
                  who was slumbering serenely with his face on the table. The toils of his arduous
                  position had overcome this watch-dog of justice; after all his labors and his
                  Jamaica, he "slept well."
               The Wizard of the Massinutton was thus promptly discharged, and in a moment two
                  soft arms were around his neck, and a face wet with tears was pressed to his thin
                  cheek.
               Cannie was crying on the old man's bosom.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The following extract from "A visit to the Fort Mountain," in the
                     Southern Literary Messenger for February, 1841, will
                     indicate the origin of the character of "Old Powell;" the first lines
                     describe the Massinutton:
                  "On the left bank of the creek, the mountain crowds against the narrow
                     road—on the right, a granite escarpment of a thousand feet frowns down upon
                     you—and the ravine itself, clothed with a luxuriant growth of pines,
                     cypresses, and laurels, deepens the gloom of the overshadowing rocks. . . .
                     On a sultry day, dispersed along the comb of the precipice, groups of these
                     vultures (turkey buzzards) may be seen, with their broad, rusty wings, half
                     expanded to the breeze—resembling so many spirits of darkness, brooding over
                     the gulf of perdition. The view from the bank is splendid. Passage Creek is
                     diminished to a rivulet, whose murmurs are faint as the dying wind in the
                     pines around us. The highway along its bank, seems but a winding footpath,
                     over which the millboy's horse—didst think it was a small brindled dog with
                     a white spot on its back?-steals without any apparent effort or motion of
                     its own. What a majestic mountain is this across the defile! It looks like
                     Atlas, strong enough to sustain the world upon its shoulders. Within this
                     fort a comparative abundance of wild game is still to be found, particularly
                     wild hogs descended from the domestic breeds, but fierce as the monsters of
                     the Pyrenees. It is called "Powell's Fort," after one of the first settlers
                     of the country, the valley of the creek is also known as "the Fort." There
                     is a curious and popular tradition cherished in the neighborhood regarding
                     "Old Powell." It is said that he was an advocate of a specie currency, and
                     to assist the Government in the promotion of a specie circulation,
                     (established a hard money factory on his own responsibility, and coined
                     thousands of the genuine "Carolus
                     III.—Dei gratia"—procuring his metal
                     from mines in the vicinity only known to him. Suspected, and fearing
                     detection, he barreled up his immense treasure, and buried it at various
                     places in the mountains. Without disclosing the secret he died, and the
                     barrels of silver still remain undisturbed because undiscovered."
               
            
            
               
               XXXV.
               THE RESEMBLANCE.
               THE old man gently caressed the soft hair of the child, and gazed into her face,
                  which was all April smiles and tears, with a depth of tender affection which made
                  the countenance, ordinarily so proud and cold, almost beautiful and winning.
               Then raising his head, Sir William Powys, or the Wizard, if we may be allowed to
                  still employ the name by which he was most generally known, looked around upon the
                  crowd, who regarded him with strange and superstitious interest. There were many
                  persons in the assembly whose heads had moved significantly from side to side when
                  the strange personage demanded a private interview with Lord Fairfax. No good
                  would result for his lordship, these wiseacres declared, from yielding to this
                  demand. Once alone with him, the wizard would be sure to "bewitch" him—he would
                  cast a spell on him, and then vanish in a cloud of brimstone. Some of these
                  philosophers were by no means certain that if this were not the case, the
                  mysterious wizard would not be seen issuing from the window of the tavern, mounted
                  upon a handsome flying horse, once Lord Fairfax; now destined to bear the prisoner
                  away in triumph to some diabolical revel of witches in the depths of the
                  "Hog-Back."
               It resulted from this condition of public feeling, that when the wizard, who had
                  fulfilled the expectations of the more moderate among the wiseacres, by procuring
                  a prompt acquittal through his interview with the Earl, looked round upon the
                  crowd, they recoiled with an unmistakable expression sion of dread, and left him
                  standing, almost alone, with his child, in the middle of the apartment.
               A slight curl of the firm lip greeted this movement, and the wizard was about to
                  turn away indifferently, when suddenly his eyes were riveted upon a richly-clad
                  figure, framed, as it were, in the doorway, and gazing upon him with deep interest
                  and sympathy.
               That figure was that of Falconbridge, who, having watched the absurd trial, and
                  witnessed the scene between the prisoner and his daughter, now rejoiced at the
                  result, and regarded them, as they stood wrapped in each other's embrace, with
                  kindly smiles and pleasure.
               The wizard fixed upon the young man, as he stood thus framed in the doorway, like
                  a picture, one of those glances which seem to penetrate into the soul of the
                  person upon whom they are riveted. There was much in the gallant and graceful form
                  of Falconbridge—in his proud, laughing face, and elegant costume—to attract
                  attention; but the look now bent upon him was not one of simple admiration or
                  curiosity. It expressed surprise, deep feeling, and a species of wondering
                  doubt.
               The young man perceived the glance directed toward him, and without understanding
                  it, approached, and said, kindly:
               "I am rejoiced at your acquittal, sir; as much for your own sake, as you seem very
                  old, as for your little daughter. My father taught me to respect and bow to purity
                  and devotion wherever I met with them, and I think I cannot be mistaken in saying
                  that your child is both innocent and courageous—faithful and noble-hearted."
               With these words, which were uttered in that tone of simplicity and sincerity,
                  which characterized his voice, the young man held out his hand to Cannie,
                  extending the other toward the old man.
               The girl's soft, little fingers glided into those of Falconbridge bridge, and a grave, sweet glance, shining through
                  the tears in her eyes, rewarded the speaker.
               "Thank you, sir," she said, in her low, musical voice, "for speaking so kindly to
                  us—to grandpapa. You are not like those people who have gone—your face is
                  kind."
               And Cannie pressed the hand frankly, and looked "thanks!" with her whole
                  heart.
               The old man had, however, drawn back unconsciously when Falconbridge greeted him.
                  He had not taken the hand. Still, looking at him with that strange air which we
                  have described, he said:
               "What is your name, sir?"
               The words were almost rude, but the tone in which they were pronounced did not so
                  impress the hearer. The wizard plainly intended no slight—it was some mysterious
                  sentiment of wonder which spoke in his voice, in his abrupt question: and the
                  young man comprehended this instinctively.
               "My name is Falconbridge, sir," he replied, 
                     wth
                     with
                   a courteous inclination; "I have but recently come to this region."
               "Falconbridge! I thought so! I was sure of it!" murmured the wizard. "Strange!
                  Strange! who would ever have believed!"—
               There he suddenly stopped. By a sudden and powerful effort he controlled his
                  emotion; his countenance subsided again into its customary calmness, and he bowed
                  in return, taking the hand which was still half extended.
               "I thank you, Mr. Falconbridge," he said, coolly, "and beg you will not attribute
                  my singular question to any disposition to affront you. You bear a very remarkable
                  resemblance to a person whom I once knew; this must be my excuse for the very rude
                  reception I have given to your kind speech and sympathy."
               "It is nothing—I scarcely noted it," returned the young man, smiling, "and as to
                  any kindness, I am sure, sir, that I deserve no praise. My heart leaped when your
                  child came so bravely to your side—and I bow to, and honor her. I have never seen
                  a princess or a queen—but I think she is worthy to be either!"
               "Oh, sir," exclaimed Cannie, blushing, "you make me feel ashamed! It was nothing
                  for me to come to grandpapa's side. He is all I have in world, and I love him
                  dearly, with my whole heart. And you, grandpapa," added Cannie, turning and
                  whispering to the old man with a smile, "you know you love me just as
                  dearly."
               "That is very certain," was the low reply, accompanied by the look which always
                  came to the face when it was turned toward the girl; "and now, my child, let us go
                  to our private room. We must remain here all night—but we will return home early
                  in the morning."
               "Come with me, sir," said the voice of Lord Fairfax, at the speaker's elbow, "I
                  have ample room for you and your daughter at Greenway Court—it will be far more
                  comfortable."
               "I thank you, my lord," returned the other, with a ceremonious inclination, "but
                  the nights grow chill, and my daughter is delicate."
               "The blinds of the chariot may be easily closed, sir," said the Earl, looking
                  wistfully at Cannie.
               "Your lordship will not consider me ill-bred—that is to say ungrateful—if I still
                  decline your goodness. If my child should wish at another time to visit Greenway
                  Court," added the old man, exchanging a look with the Earl, "it will give me true
                  pleasure to bring her thither—or to entrust her to our good friend here, Mr.
                  George. May I take that liberty, Mr. George?"
               That liberty! thought George, as his heart gave a bound at the idea of a long
                  gallop through the prairie, with Cannie's arm around his waist; but he suppressed
                  his delight, and replied with extreme gravity and politeness, that it would give
                  him very great pleasure.
               "And now, my lord," said the wizard, "let me, before I leave you, say how much I am indebted to your
                  lordship, for my release from this prosecution—a prosecution which I dreaded far
                  more for the grief it caused my child than on my own account. I am old, and care
                  little what comes to me—whether of weal or woe—but she is young and
                  tender-hearted. Thanks! thanks, again for our freedom!"
               The speaker was standing as before, with his arm around Cannie, and by them stood
                  Falconbridge, smiling. Not only the Earl, but George, and Captain Wagner, who were
                  near at hand, were struck with the singular resemblance between the three, and
                  afterwards spoke of it. One was seventy, and gray-headed; the second twenty-three
                  or four, and in the bloom of manhood; the child, a girl of fifteen, with innocent,
                  sweet eyes, and tender lips. But the resemblance was as perfect in all three as if
                  they were the offspring of the same parents.
               For a moment they remained thus motionless, then bowing again, the wizard retired
                  with Cannie to a private room, having arranged with Mynheer Van Doring on the way,
                  for a vehicle in the morning.
               Lord Fairfax turned to Falconbridge, and said;
               "I think you have not yet consulted me upon your affairs, Mr. Falconbridge. If it
                  suits your convenience at the present moment, you might accept a seat in my
                  chariot, and sleep at Greenway. What say you, sir?"
               "I accept your lordship's offer with many thanks," was the reply.
               And very soon the young man and the Earl were rolling toward Greenway, beneath the
                  new risen moon, which mingled its light with that of the setting sun, and
                  communicated to the dreary stretch of prairie land a wild and mysterious
                  charm.
               As to George, and Captain Wagner, they remained at the Ordinary for reasons best
                  known to themselves, but easily comprehensible by the reader. George staid because
                  Cannie would spend the night there; the Captain because his eloquence had
                  triumphed in favor of Winchester; and the fair Mrs. Butterton was, no doubt, ready
                  to thank, perhaps to reward him.
               Meanwhile the chariot containing the Earl and Falconbridge rolled on in silence.
                  The few common-place words had died away. Lord Fairfax seemed deeply
                  preoccupied.
               At last, as they approached the clump of trees, indicating Greenway, the Earl
                  raised his drooping shoulders, uttered a long, deep sigh, and muttered:
               "I wonder if a single heart beats still for me, in dear old England. No, I think
                  not one!—not one!"
            
            
               
               XXXVI.
               CAMPAIGN OF GENERAL LONGKNIFE.
               THE Captain twirled his moustache.
               We would call the attention of the reader to the fact, which we have hitherto
                  omitted to mention, that Captain Wagner was always engaged in twirling his
                  moustache. Or, if the statement seems extreme and improbable, let us simply say
                  that he was often thus laboriously occupied, and seemed to derive much innocent
                  satisfaction from the ceremony.
               On the present occasion he gave to the martial appendage a jaunty and gallant curl
                  toward the eyes; then he looked at Mrs. Butterton, who was busily knitting
                  opposite the Captain, and the table by the Captain, upon which was deposited the
                  Captain's warm glass of punch and unfilled pipe.
               Monsieur Jambot, for the moment in deep disgrace, was forlornly carrying on a
                  sleepy conversation with Mynheer Van Doring in one corner—a ceremony which
                  resulted between the two in an awful mutilation of King George the Second's
                  English. In another corner George and Cannie were talking in a low tone, and
                  assisting what they uttered with smiles and confidential glances.
               "My dear Mrs. Butterton," said the Captain, "have you any commands in Belhaven—or,
                  as these new-fangled folks will call it, Alexandria? It's a shame to
                  be re-christening so promising a child—or I'm a dandy!
               "Any commands in Belhaven?" asked the lady with a little simper and flutter; "why
                  do you ask, Captain?"
               "Because I think it likely that I'll go back soon to amuse myself. You remain
                  here, I believe."
               These cold and cruel words made the lady's heart throb. Then Captain Wagner cared
                  nothing for her!
               "Yes," she said, faintly, "perhaps till the spring."
               "I would like to do as much myself," continued the worthy, "but the rascally
                  Injuns, whose scalps I was to have, won't come, and it is repugnant to the
                  feelings of a soldier to be living on that honest fellow, Fairfax, without doing
                  him any service in return."
               "Why, Captain," said Mrs. Butterton, with evident admiration in her eyes, for one
                  who spoke in this free and easy way of so great a nobleman, "why, Captain, his
                  lordship is delighted at your visit, and I heard him with my own ears say, no
                  longer ago than this morning, that you were worth a thousand pounds a year to him
                  in good spirits!"
               "All flattery!" returned the soldier, "or I'm a dandy! I have remonstrated with
                  Fairfax about that bad habit he has of trying to ingratiate himself with people by
                  flattering them. He knew you were my friend—that you would repeat it—and he is
                  trying to get around me."
               "Oh, Captain! How can you talk so of his lordship!"
               The worthy laughed.
               "He's only a man like anybody else, my dear Mrs. Butterton; it's not his fault
                  that he is called Earl and Baron. I'm free to say he'd be a dooms good fellow
                  under any circumstances. I like Fairfax. He's no pretender. And I repeat that I
                  don't like to be eating and drinking, as I eat and drink, at his
                  expense, when the Injun devils decline coming along and getting themselves done
                  for! I was sent for to eat Injuns, not beef! to drink blood, not Jamaica! And
                  these Injuns—where are they? Nowhere, or may the—hum!"
               The soldier terminated this sentence by swallowing a mouthful of punch, which
                  seemed to refresh him greatly.
               "Why, Captain," said Mrs. Butterton, "you are certainly mistaken about the chance of an inroad. They say
                  there's no certainty of peace from day to day."
               "My dear madam," returned the Borderer, "it has been my habit for a number of
                  years to hunt up Mr. 'They Say,' and when I have heard his views to go and lay my
                  plans precisely to the contrary. I have no respect for 'They Say.' I know the
                  rascal—he is as completely ignorant of what is really going on as a mole! Even if
                  the Injun rascals do come along, let Fairfax send down for me! I can't be
                  neglecting my most important affairs dangling hereabouts, and chopping arguments
                  with his earlship!"
               "Your affairs?" persisted the lady, smiling, "why, Captain, you have no
                     business in Belhaven, have you?"
               The conversation was taking the direction which the cunning Captain desired. He
                  smiled.
               "Well, really," he said, "I hardly know how to reply to you, my dear madam—to
                  reply without touching upon a most delicate subject—you comprehend?"
               The lady blushed, but said nothing.
               "It is true," continued Captain Wagner, "that many people would say I had no
                     business whatsoever to attend to in Belhaven, like merchants, and
                  shopkeepers, lawyers, and all that small fry, who are thinking all the time of
                  money and nothing else—not like us soldiers, of honor and glory,
                  and—hem!—love."
               "Of—love?" asked Mrs. Butterton, faintly. What could the Captain
                  mean?
               "I would not refer to these matters with any one else, my dear madam," said the
                  worthy, edging his chair across to Mrs. Butterton's side, and speaking in low,
                  confidential tones; "but you are my good friend, and are well acquainted with—the
                  lady."
               "The lady"— And Mrs. Butterton's voice died away in her throat.
               "The fair Emmelina, your friend," whispered the Captain tain, bending over. But
                  his companion's agitation made her turn away her head—she could not reply.
               "Miss Emmelina," continued the subtle campaigner, in the same confidential tone,
                  "is, it is true, past the bloom of youth. She is nearly my own age, indeed, I
                  fancy, and this might seem to many persons an objection. But is it really such? I
                  am tired, my dear madam, of your school-girls and young misses—your sweet young
                  creatures, full of sentiment and romance—who clasp their hands when they look at
                  the moon, and read poetry verses and say, 'Oh, how beautiful!' I don't say I never
                  admired 'em, but I'm past all that, or may—ahem! I now admire the ripe flower, not
                  the bud—I confess I want a wife, and it has seemed to me that Miss Emmelina, your
                  friend, whom you have so often praised, would make a noble spouse—and likes me
                  well enough to give me a fair start—don't you think so—Emmelina?"
               And the Captain scratched his nose, and regarded the ceiling, after this tender
                  exclamation, with an absent and pre-occupied air, which was very striking.
               As to Mrs. Butterton, that fair lady remained for some time silent and
                  blushing—then, on being again pressed by the Captain, replied that she thought—she
                  had hoped—she—No! Emmelina was not calculated to adorn the married
                  state. No doubt Captain Wagner would think—and here Mrs. Butterton 
                     assnmed
                     assumed
                   a tone meant for hauteur—that she was unjust and unfriendly. Yet candor
                  compelled her to say that she knew Emmelina well, but in spite of a most tender
                  friendship for that lady, must say she was in the sphere she was best calculated
                  to fill—that of an old maid. In that sphere, said Mrs. Butterton with animated
                  feeling, Emmelina was worthy of all praise. She had her little faults, such as a
                  propensity to gossip, a disposition to pry into her neighbors' matters, and a
                  talent for adding to and coloring all that she repeated, which no doubt arose from
                  her smartness. She had certainly been the cause of that terrible fight at the corner of King Street, where
                  the two lovers of her corner neighbor bruised each other so awfully, and created
                  such a horrible scandal; but she, Mrs. Butterton, was quite sure that Emmelina had
                  never expected any such misfortune to take place in consequence of her
                  communicating the trifle which she did to one of the young men—it had given her
                  great pain, and she had deeply regretted it. With these, and a few other little
                  drawbacks—such as an undue love of money, a disposition to spend nothing more than
                  she was absolutely compelled to—a strong dislike and suspicion of every one who
                  did not belong to her particular church, she was very well in her way, as an old
                  maid. Out of that condition, she, Mrs. Butterton, very greatly feared that
                  Emmelina would not be a very perfect character. She was little suited for a wife,
                  still, if Captain Wagner thought differently, it was no affair of
                     hers. She hoped he would not find out too late the failings in
                  Emmelina's character.
               Having made this lengthy speech, which the Captain listened to with silent
                  attention and a subtle smile, Mrs. Butterton applied herself to her knitting in a
                  more hurried manner than before, and assumed an air of studied indifference.
               "My dear madam," replied the Captain, with earnest and solemn feeling, "I thank
                  you for this interest in me, but are you not misled somewhat in your estimate of
                  the sweet Emmelina, by the opinions of those persons who dislike her? Are the fair
                  sex at all given to gossip? I do not, I cannot believe it, my dear madam! I will
                  never credit the assertion! True, I have heard it said that when they get to be
                  old women—even after the tender and still blooming age of twenty-five, they
                  experience the extremest pleasure in the circulation of intelligence about their
                  friends. The irreverent and low-minded individual who made this statement in my
                  hearing, added, that the truth was so dear to these angelic
                  newscarriers, that much of their existence was heroically and fondly dedicated to
                  the task of decking it in bright apparel, and presenting it in such a manner as to
                  forcibly impress it on the minds of those who made its acquaintance. 'The poor,
                  plain maiden Truth,' this wretched person added, 'scarcely knew herself when she
                  was thus pranked out; and none of her old friends could recognize her.' Now, all
                  these base insinuations I abhor and utterly reject and despise! Attribute to the
                  fair sex any such poor, narrow conduct? regard them as laboring under this
                     'disease,' as the low fellow worded it—as the victims of a sickly
                  craving? Never! never! I don't respect the man who allows his mind to be filled
                  with such base prejudices! What, madam! Acknowledge that the beautiful and
                  superior sex—the better half of human beings—fritter away their time and intellect
                  on little smirking gossip and tittle-tattle! Believe that they go round and smile
                  and whisper, and stab people in secret behind their backs—and when they meet them
                  afterwards, squeeze their hands and look into their eyes with tender friendship!
                  Believe that when the female mind should grow in dignity and sweetness, that it
                  only waxes smaller and more narrow—festering away into nods and smirks, and
                  'guggle—guggle—guggle—whish—sh—sh—sh!' beneath the breath! Credit this statement,
                  madam! think thus of the ladies!—never! never! The cynical and sneering may
                  believe it, but Captain Julius Wagner? Never!"
               The worthy uttered these indignant words with such solemnity and emphasis that
                  Mrs. Butterton experienced a sentiment of admiration for the speaker and his lofty
                  views, amounting almost to enthusiasm.
               What he said of women was quite worthy of his generous and liberal heart, she
                  replied, and did him honor. It was rare to find a gentleman so magnanimous toward
                  the fair sex, and she would not have him think that she intended to 
                     speek
                     speak
                   harshly of her friend Emmelina. She had alluded to those little foibles
                  in her character, without the least intention or desire of doing her injustice—and
                  perhaps she was mistaken in her. It was
                  more than human nature could accomplish, to become free from every failing—and
                  Emmelina was, perhaps, no worse than many others.
               "Again I thank you, my dear madam," said the Captain; "you are a friend indeed!
                  But let me ask if there is not a chance of all these little foibles disappearing
                  after matrimony—I mean in case I were to become the happy—hum!—possessor of the
                  beauteous Emmelina? I have frequently observed this singular change. There was my
                  friend, Dick Thonderguste—he married a perfect vixen, and I assure you, on the
                  word of Wagner, that in six months you wouldn't have known her—she was so meek and
                  mild! There, again, was my old playmate, Charley Ryan, who always smiled when
                  people got angry. He married his cousin, a quiet, sunny little thing, who seemed
                  as good-natured and soft as a May morning. And what was the consequence? In a
                  year, madam, Mrs. Ryan was a tartar—yes, a terror to her household, including
                  Charley! I never dared to go and see him—she looked so black at me. I would
                  sometimes call on Charley when I knew she was out; but when her footstep was heard
                  on the porch, I would take my hat unconsciously, wring Charley's hand with deep
                  commiseration, and get off, if possible, without meeting the lady. You see I was
                  afraid of her—of that timid little thing!—I, Captain Longknife!—and all this has
                  induced me to suppose that marriage frequently changes the fair sex. Don't you
                  think so, my dear madam?—and might it not change Emmelina—Emmelina!"
               And the worthy again gazed at the ceiling.
               "It may," said Mrs. Butterton, curtly but sadly too.
               "If I return to my home yonder," however added the Captain, "I shall take with me
                  the satisfaction of reflecting, madam, that I have been of some service to you. It
                  rejoices me to reflect that this day the town of Winchester has been selected as
                  the county seat. I rejoice upon your account wholly, madam; for confidentially
                  speaking, I regard the village of Winchester as the poorest place on the habitable
                  globe. It is a failure—it always will be!—there are no men of public spirit
                  there—no natural advantages—and mark me! there is no future for Winchester!
                  Stephensburg, on the contrary, is the pearl of towns, the diamond of villages. It
                  bids fair to become a gigantic city. Fairfax is a man of intelligence, and he
                  understood this, and preferred Stephensburg. But for you I should have gone for
                  it—when, of course, madam, it would have been chosen. But I could not desert a
                  friend, one for whom I had so great a—hum—regard; so real a—hum—attachment! I
                  declared war against Fairfax on my own private account—I went about to see the
                  justices—I made a little speech—it was nothing," said the Captain, modestly, "a
                  mere series of remarks—and I beat his lordship, ha! ha! I say, my dear madam, that
                  if I go, I shall take away with me this pleasing reflection—if I go."
               "Why do you go?" said Mrs. Butterton, fixing upon Captain Wagner her most
                  significant glance.
               The Captain sighed, and looked deeply depressed.
               "Because—I have not told you—" he said in almost a whisper, "because there is
                  another reason, stronger than any I have given."
               "Another reason?"
               The Captain accidentally secured one of the lady's hands, which hung at her
                  side.
               "Because I have been defeated once, madam, and am afraid to remain near the
                  enemy—like a coward! afraid! Because I am subjected to the pain of seeing what I
                  wish to possess, ever before me, yet beyond my reach! Because I am humiliated,
                  mortified, lowered in my own opinion, by finding myself distanced by a professor
                  of the frivolous art of dancing and music playing"—here the Captain darted a
                  terrific scowl, full of gloomy rage, at the unconscious Monsieur Jambot—"and
                  because it does not become a soldier to get on his knees and beg, or crouch like a
                  hound to be cut! These, madam," said Captain Wagner, with an air of touching sorrow, "are the reasons which impel me
                  to leave this neighborhood—which drive me away from your side! If I thought this
                  fair hand, which I hold, cared to rest in my clasp—if I thought it would not drop
                  mine like a hot—hum—indifferently:—if I thought it would retain me, when I was
                  going away forever—then I would stay, for it is my most coveted treasure. But this
                  is folly—farewell! farewell!"
               Having uttered these whispered words in a tone of dignified misery and unfaltering
                  resolve, the Captain made a motion to withdraw his hand and go. But
                  strange!—unexpected!—astounding event!—event wholly unanticipated or thought of by
                  the Captain!—the hand which he would have released would not suffer that ceremony
                  to be performed. With a gentle pressure it retained the soldier's, and the owner
                  of the hand turned away her blushing countenance, but not before she had bestowed
                  upon her companion a glance which said plainly as glance could say: "If another
                  defeat is all that you fear, you need fear no longer—for the enemy whom you are
                  afraid of is ready to capitulate—the hand which you think cold, is ready to rest
                  here, in your own for life!"
               The fair Mrs. Butterton may not have made use of this elegant and graceful speech,
                  which we have skillfully attributed, therefore, to the "glance of her eye," but
                  before the interview terminated, the overjoyed Captain received from the lady's
                  lips the assurance that she was willing to become Mrs. Captain Wagner.
               The rest of the company could not tell what made the Captain's countenance shine
                  so resplendently as he finished his punch at a single gulp, or why Mrs. Butterton
                  was so gay and so sorrowful by turns.
               We know the meaning of the first of these emotions; the second is as simply
                  explained. The dame was looking with pity at her disappointed suitor, Monsieur
                  Jambot.
            
            
               XXXVII.
               THE EARL AND FALCONBRIDGE.
               IN the large apartment at Greenway Court, whose picturesque decorations—stags'
                  horns, guns, old swords, and long tapering rods—were lit up by the cheerful
                  fire-light, and the more steady radiance of two candles in the tall, silver
                  candlesticks, the Earl and Falconbridge talked long, and on many subjects.
               The young man speedily found that nothing need now detain him in the region. There
                  was no longer any occasion to proceed to the far South Branch of the Potomac,
                  whither he had promised himself a trip with George, who had completely won his
                  heart. The lands which he came to look after, were all laid down upon the
                  rudely-traced maps which Lord Fairfax spread before him: his title was secured
                  beyond all question; and the slight quit-rent only, a mere nothing, guaranteed the
                  right of property conclusively.
               It was then that, passing away from business, the host and his guest conversed on
                  other things for hours—those long hours of the autumn night, which glide by
                  rapidly like joyful dreams, for the happy and light-hearted, but which lag so
                  drearily for those whose spirits are oppressed.
               Falconbridge listened with a strange interest to the melancholy tones of this
                  singular man. Everything about the Earl excited his imagination. Here, beyond the
                  Blue Ridge Mountains, in the Virginia wilderness, he conversed with one who had
                  once shone among the most splendid noblemen of the English Court; who had lived in
                  the brilliant circle of which Bolingbroke, and Somerset, and Shaftesbury, and
                  Joseph Addison were the ornaments; who had written for the "Spectator"—and been
                  equally distinguished in fashion and in
                  letters: this exile was his host, in the lonely mansion, and in his melancholy
                  monologue, there was an irresistible attraction, a strange spell which the young
                  man could not throw off. He leaned forward in his chair, and gathered every word
                  which fell from the grim lips; every word was a new thought, a new emotion.
               The gallant face of Falconbridge had in its turn strongly impressed the Earl,
                  though he exhibited little evidence of the fact. We have said that his long
                  commerce with the great world had made him wonderfully penetrating in his views
                  and judgment of character. He thus comprehended quickly the man with whom he was
                  conversing. In Falconbridge he recognized an organization of singular nobility and
                  sincerity. The spirit breathed by the Almighty into this clay, was plainly of
                  extraordinary delicacy. He understood the silent indications of eye, and lip, and
                  smile, and gesture; he saw in the nature of this youth, the scorn of falsehood;
                  the love of truth; the pride of which made him bow only before honesty and what
                  was noble and sincere; all the traits which go to form that lofty character, the
                  true gentleman.
               The Earl saw all this at a single glance, and watched with a grim and wistful
                  interest, the emotions chasing each other rapidly across the eloquent face. He saw
                  that he was appreciated; and this is always an agreeable conviction with men of
                  proud, strong natures, and original minds. The colloquy thus came at last to
                  embrace a great variety of subjects; the different worlds in which the two men had
                  been dwellers; England over the sea, and Virginia here, with all that made them
                  what they were; the aims of noble manhood, the 
                     philosoply
                     philosophy
                   of life; the past, the future, and what lay beyond the future of this
                  world, in the undiscovered realm of silence. These mortals who represented from a
                  different point of view a single class—the class who take the pole-star Honor for
                  their guide, and sail toward the course it points, through gloom and tempest,
                  whether that sail be in a crazy skiff or a mighty ship—these men, both eminent for
                  lofty traits, for cultivated intellects, and noble instincts, recognized in each
                  other something strangely similar, and gave their confidence unasked.
               Falconbridge spoke without reserve of his life, his surroundings in the Lowland,
                  his amusements—of everything: and the Earl gave a picture in his turn of life in
                  England, without, however, touching upon his private history. It was only in
                  certain moods, and in presence of such old acquaintances as Captain Wagner, that
                  the stern and melancholy nobleman threw off his mask of cold reserve. His manner
                  to Falconbridge was perfectly polite, but perfectly ceremonious too; the young man
                  was plainly nothing more to him than a very agreeable stranger.
               "Virginia, Mr. Falconbridge," he said, "is England simply under a different form.
                  It is true that our white retainers, essentially parts of the soil, are replaced
                  by negroes who are legally serfs for life; but I question which is the happier of
                  these classes."
               "I know our servants are happy," replied Falconbridge, "and we love them as they
                  love us. I have an old nurse who is quite as dear to me, as many of my relations.
                  She nursed me in my childhood; has loved me in my manhood; and I am less her
                  master than she is my mistress! for she scolds, and reprimands, and makes me do
                  just what she pleases. I would rage at one half she says from any man
                  in the world, however much above me, but I can't rage at her. I love her because I
                  know she loves me, and I think I would defend her at the peril of my life."
               "I really think you would," returned Lord Fairfax, looking at the speaker with
                  grim interest; "you have a cordial nature, Mr. Falconbridge."
               "I don't regard my feeling as at all meritorious, my lord. I should be more than a
                  heathen were I not to love the old nurse who has loved me so faithfully. I would
                  see to her comfort before that of the greatest lady in the province, and would rather she would smile on me than
                  have his Excellency, the governor, take off his hat to me. That would seem very
                  simple to you if you knew how she has loved and cherished me."
               "I can understand," said the Earl, with the same melancholy smile. "You are a
                  perfect democrat, and would rather talk with some old 'Colonel' on Tide-water,
                  than with the greatest Duke of England."
               "You are laughing at me, my lord," said Falconbridge. "What would a Duke take the
                  trouble to talk with me for?"
               "There might be no inequality," returned the Earl. "I mean, Mr. Falconbridge, that
                  in England, there is a very absurd mode of viewing the people of the American
                  provinces. They are regarded as persons of an inferior race, which is simply
                  nonsense. A very great number of persons in the Colonies here, are either
                  descended from our nobility—the sons and grandsons, it may be, of "younger sons,"
                  but of course no less inheriting the family blood—or they are the offshoots of
                  that "untitled nobility," as they have been called, the country gentlemen of
                  England. This class, sir, is after all the real strength of the British Empire:
                  our peerage is the flower, simply, of the vigorous plant. What matter if a
                  coronet, or noble order, does not decorate these men? They are the life-blood of
                  the Anglo-Saxon body; the foremost men of all this world, as Shakspeare writes it;
                  and the time may come when our exhausted stem will look with pride upon its
                  flourishing offshoots, growing in the soil of the west. Thus, sir," added the
                  Earl, gravely, "I may now have the honor of conversing with a young nobleman above
                  my own poor rank; one who is such by right of blood, if not by title."
               Falconbridge laughed as he listened to this grave statement.
               "I am afraid you flatter me, my lord," he replied, "we are only gentlemen."
               "Gentlemen!" returned the Earl, "only gentlemen? My dear Mr.
                  Falconbridge, you will find, as you go on in life, that this is an unphilosophical
                  phrase. It is no slight task to be "only" this. It is better to be a gentleman
                  than a lord—and the greatest lord can be no more. I pray that the historian of my
                  life, if I shall have one, may give me that noble title only. 'Tis my sole
                  ambition, sir, I crave no more. My career has been troubled and unhappy; my
                  fortune adverse. I am growing old in a foreign land—alone in this wilderness after
                  living at the finest Courts in Europe—but this does not afflict me very greatly,
                  'tis a matter of small importance. If my 'scutcheon is untarnished, my name free
                  from all stain, I shall think myself fortunate and happy."
               There was something so noble and moving in the melancholy earnestness of the
                  speaker, that Falconbridge unconsciously stretched out his hand. The Earl pressed
                  it gravely, and said:
               "I take your hand as 'tis offered, sir—as the hand of an honest gentleman—and now,
                  sir, I will no longer detain you with my talk. You are young and must require
                  rest, and I too am weary after this annoying day, in which I have filled a
                  position which is far from agreeable to me."
               With these words the Earl rang his little bell, which was promptly answered by the
                  appearance of the old body-servant, and with grave inclinations the two men
                  separated.
               The Earl sat down in his carved chair, as the door closed, and leaning his pale
                  face upon his hand, mused long and moodily. At last he rose with a deep sigh, and
                  muttered:
               "The eyes and lips of this youth have a singular effect upon me; they are
                  wonderfully similar—wonderfully. Well, well, I have arranged an idle trap for him
                  yonder. He must see it, and I will question him. Folly! folly! but what is life,
                  but a tissue of folly?"
               And Lord Fairfax slowly left the apartment.
            
            
               
               XXXVIII.
               THE PORTRAIT.
               FALCONBRIDGE found a cheerful fire burning in the wide fire-place of his sleeping
                  apartment, for the November nights were growing cold, and rendered it
                  necessary.
               Old John saw that all was disposed agreeably for his master's guest, and then
                  respectfully edging toward the door, quietly disappeared. Falconbridge was left
                  alone, seated in front of the fire, into which he gazed long, with thoughtful
                  eyes. His mind had been filled with new emotions lately; his life subjected to
                  many novel influences. The beautiful woman, the melancholy nobleman, the jovial
                  Borderer, the wild region, into which he had been so grimly welcomed by the Indian
                  assault; all these personages and objects had flooded his life with new thoughts
                  and feelings, and were now the subject of his vague reverie.
               From time to time a smile would flit over the handsome features of the young man;
                  and then a frown and an expression of pity would succeed. Miss Argal was the
                  origin of the happy smile, the strange letter of the mad lover who had killed
                  himself, caused the frown, and the commiserating shadow.
               Falconbridge mused thus for more than an hour, taking no notice of the pattering
                  drops which fell down from the wax candle on the silver candlestick, without
                  observing that the fire was dying out, and that the dimly-lit apartment began to
                  grow chill, as well as to assume a weird, ghost-like appearance in the flickering
                  light of the single candle. As the light wavered to and fro, immense shadows
                  chased each other across the walls and the ceiling; a melancholy "deathwatch"
                  tapped in the wainscoting; and a bough of one of the trees creaked nervously
                  against the pane of the window. A fanciful imagination might have seen shadowy
                  faces, peering in through the dim panes, or fancied that goblin fingers were
                  tugging at the grating bells in the old belfries.
               Falconbridge heard all these weird, low sounds, but did not heed them; he pursued
                  his reverie. But finally his meditations came to an end; he banished them from his
                  mind, and drawing a long breath, rose erect, and looked around him. As his eyes
                  fell upon a picture hanging above the mantelpiece, he almost recoiled.
               It represented a gentleman of about twenty-five, clad in an elegant costume,
                  covered with embroidery. The white hand, half covered with lace, was thrust into
                  the scarlet waistcoat, and the figure was erect and proud. The strange
                  circumstance, however, which impressed the young man so strongly, was the
                  startling resemblance which the portrait—for such it plainly was—bore to himself.
                  It was not so much a resemblance, as a perfect copy of his own features. No trait
                  was different, no detail wanting. The clear eyes, large, frank, filled with
                  smiling pride; the clearly defined lips, expressing equal resolution and good
                  humor; the raised head, the smooth forehead, the brown curling hair, all was
                  identical with the traits of the real man. Had the picture descended from the
                  canvas into the apartment, and any one been asked which was Falconbridge, which
                  the other, he would have found it impossible to decide.
               The young man's astonishment was so great that he remained for a long time gazing
                  with deep wonder, and in silence upon the picture. Then taking the candle from the
                  table he held it above his head, so that the light fell in a clear stream upon the
                  portrait, and muttered:
               "Why, that's no picture! 'Tis my other self!"
               He sat down again, but could not remove his eyes from the strange portrait. Could
                  it possibly have hung there, when he
                  occupied the room before, without attracting his attention? He could not believe
                  it. Why, then, had it been hung up since? Had Lord Fairfax placed it there? Was it
                  intended to attract his notice? Whose could it be? what original sat
                  for it? It was plainly no recent picture; whence did it come, and why was it here
                  in his chamber, with its eyes fixed on him with that motionless stare?
               The young man's mind was filled with conflicting thoughts. He could arrive at no
                  conclusion; the strange picture was as absolute a mystery to him at the end of an
                  hour, as when his eyes first fell upon it.
               It was not until the old clock on the stairway struck twelve, slowly
                  and solemnly, that Falconbridge, finding the apartment grow cold, retired to
                  sleep. The strange copy of himself followed him in his dreams; the eyes shone on
                  him in slumber, as when awake.
               He slept uneasily, and started more than once; but finally toward daybreak fell
                  into a sweet and soothing slumber, which was undisturbed by the haunting eyes.
                  From his murmured words and smiles, it was plain that the young man was dreaming
                  of his home in the Lowlands. His strange past, the stranger picture, the life
                  around him, had all disappeared: he was far away from the valley and the
                  mountains, in his own land again.
               When he woke, and saw the bright sun streaming in, he smiled and welcomed it. Then
                  a sudden movement proved that he recalled the night before. He turned his head
                  quickly.
               There was the picture.
            
            
               XXXIX.
               THE OLYMPIAN IRE OF CAPTAIN LONGKNIFE.
               CAPTAIN WAGNER had just mounted Injunhater, and happy, triumphant, his chin in the
                  air, was about to set out from the Ordinary for Greenway Court, when all at once,
                  Falconbridge emerged from the forest, and galloped toward him.
               He rode one of Fairfax's horses, whose speed he had well tested, according to the
                  recommendation of the Earl, and in the bright morning sun presented a very
                  attractive appearance.
               "Whither bound, comrade?" said the Captain, reining in the active Injunhater, "you
                  come on like a thunderbolt!"
               "I am a very harmless one, Captain," returned Falconbridge, "and the Ordinary is
                  my mark."
               "You are from Greenway?"
               "Yes."
               "Any news?"
               "None at all; his lordship, whom I left a short time ago, is quite well."
               "He always is that, or the devil take it! He rides over the mountains enough to
                  make anybody well and strong. You had a pleasant time?"
               "Very pleasant."
               "And a sound night's rest, doubtless?"
               "Well, yes—I slept well enough; but a strange thing happened."
               "Strange? What was that? Did you have any more visions?"
               
               "No, Captain, but I saw myself."
               "Saw yourself? Oh, you mean you were guilty of the vanity of looking into a
                  mirror, of which there are not so many in this region. Well, companion, when one's
                  as good looking a fellow as you are, that's not unnatural, or may the devil take
                  it!"
               "I did not say that I saw myself in a mirror—I was on canvas."
               "On canvas!"
               "Yes, my actual self, Captain!"
               And Falconbridge described the portrait, the manner in which he had seen it, and
                  the effect which it had produced upon him.
               "Strange enough," said the soldier; "and did you mention it to his lordship?"
               "He alluded to it himself at breakfast, and asked me if I had slept well with this
                     second nocturnal visitor—you remember the first?"
               "Yes, companion, and what was the explanation?"
               "A very simple one. His lordship had placed the picture there as an agreeable
                  surprise to me. It was the portrait of a friend of his who had been long dead—and
                  my resemblance, he said, to this friend, had impressed him, upon our very first
                  meeting."
               "Well," said the soldier, "all that's very interesting and striking. I never saw
                  the picture, but mean, as soon as I arrive, to go up stairs and look at it. Did
                  you arrange your business?"
               "In half an hour. I need not have come from the Low country hither."
               "And you return?"
               "Well, yes, I imagine so, Captain," said Falconbridge with some hesitation,
                  "before very long."
               "I'm glad to hear it," was Captain Wagner's apparently unfriendly reply. "I think
                  of going down to see Gooch who, I'm told, sails for England in the spring, and we
                  might jog along together."
               "Then you have business with Governor Gooch?"
               "Yes—about my lands."
               And Captain Wagner gave a twist to his moustache, which made that decoration stand
                  out prominently from his martial countenance.
               "I own, or shall very soon own, my dear comrade, some of the prettiest pieces of
                  ground in the Virginia valley. I will be mysterious, I will shirk the subject for
                  the present, but I have said what I have said," added the soldier in a determined
                  voice, as though some opponent disputed his statement. "My property lies in and
                  around the town of Winchester—a noble place, Falconbridge, the pearl of the entire
                  universe. It is my intention to make Gooch build a fort there, appoint me
                  commandant, and commission me generalissimo of the frontier."
               "Oh! really? But he could do worse."
               "Thank you, comrade—and to be frank, I agree with you. Once commandant of an armed
                  post, let me hear of the rascally Injuns daring to set foot on my ground! Let me
                  hear that any of the copper-nosed scoundrels think of coming to the place or the
                  neighborhood! I'll march on 'em, and exterminate 'em off the face of the earth! I
                  will make the Opequon and Lost River run with their blood! I will choke those
                  streams with their miserable carcasses, as I'm told Julius Cæsar did at the battle
                  of Marathon in Africa! I'll cut 'em into slices, and fry, and eat 'em! If I don't
                  I'm a dandy, Falconbridge!"
               With which words, the Captain assumed a terrific frown, made a farewell sign to
                  his companion, and setting spur to Injunhater, went on toward Greenway.
               Falconbridge laughed, and dismounting, gave his horse into the hands of an ostler,
                  directing him to lead the animal back in the afternoon to Greenway. Then he
                  ordered his own horse, Sir John, to be
                  saddled, and was ere long curbing that intelligent quadruped, with a joyous
                  hand.
               To his inquiries regarding the wizard, his daughter, and George, Mrs. Butterton
                  replied that all three persons had set out some hours before on their return to
                  the Fort Mountain—George riding his sorrel, the old man and his daughter occupying
                  the landlord's sole vehicle. It was very plain, added the dame, that Mr. George
                  was a friend of theirs.
               Replying to this significant observation with a smile only, and saluting the lady
                  with a low inclination, Falconbridge set forward at a round pace, for Mr.
                  Argal's.
               He had not seen Miss Argal for almost a whole—day.
            
            
               XL.
               THE BEGINNING OF THE END.
               IT was only a few days after these scenes, when as Falconbridge arrived one
                  morning in sight of Mr. Argal's he saw, affixed to the drooping boughs of an elm,
                  in the midst of many hounds, the large chestnut, which was the favorite-riding
                  horse of Lord Fairfax.
               As the young man entered he saw the Earl, who wore his hunting costume, seated
                  near Miss Argal, and engaged in earnest conversation with her. Mr. Argal was not
                  visible.
               The young lady did not seem overjoyed at Falconbridge's appearance—indeed her
                  greeting was rather cool than warm. It was no more than she could have bestowed
                  upon a common acquaintance—and although the nice sense of delicacy possessed by
                  Falconbridge led him to approve of this reserve in the abstract, he could not
                  divest himself of the idea that something more than the presence of a third person
                  actuated the young lady in her demeanor toward him.
               He had caught, indeed, as he entered, one of those strangely fascinating glances
                  fixed upon Lord Fairfax, and the circumstance, trifling as it was, made his heart
                  sink unconsciously. It was folly, he reflected, to expect a young lady, because
                  she had plighted her word to one gentleman, to assume toward all others an air of
                  coldness and indifference; but none the less did the electric smile which Miss
                  Argal had directed toward the Earl make the pulse of Falconbridge throb with
                  disquiet, and his brow contract.
               
               Lord Fairfax rose courteously and greeted the young man with grave politeness.
               "Give you good day, Mr. Falconbridge," he said; "I am glad to meet you again."
               "Many thanks, my lord,—I trust you are well."
               "Perfectly, sir. I am always well when I move about, as I have been doing now
                  since daybreak."
               "You have been hunting, I imagine, from your dress."
               "Yes, all the morning. I had a chase after a deer, but made nothing of it. It led
                  me some miles to the west, and I stopped here to see Mr. Argal and his family. I
                  believe they are friends of yours, are they not, sir?"
               "Oh yes—is not that true, Miss Bertha?" said Falconbridge, smiling.
               "Certainly, sir, we are friends," was the young lady's reply. But the expression
                  of the face seemed to say, "that is all"—in her voice there was something strange
                  and indescribable; but its tones were plainly altered.
               The quick ear of Falconbridge, sharpened and rendered nervously acute by the depth
                  of his infatuation, did not fail to mark the change. The furrow in his brow became
                  deeper, and he fixed upon the young lady one of those clear and searching glances
                  which aim at reading the thoughts of those who are the objects of them.
               The tone in which Miss Argal had spoken was either accidental, or she thought that
                  she had gone too far. The indifferent, almost cold expression disappeared from her
                  eyes—the beautiful face broke into smiles, and holding out her hand, she said:
               "Friends should treat each other more kindly than you do us, Mr. Falconbridge—I
                  have not seen you for a very long while!"
               And with this ambiguous speech, which conveyed the idea to Lord Fairfax that the
                  young man had not called for a month—but to him, the meaning that
                     twenty-four hours was a "very long while" for him to be away from
                  her,—the young lady bestowed upon Falconbridge a new edition of the glance at the
                  Earl which he had intercepted on his entrance.
               "At your age, Mr. Falconbridge," said the Earl, with his weary smile, "I would
                  have made many visits to Mr. Argal's here, especially if I were detained, as I
                  believe you are, sir, at that dull old Ordinary yonder. Pray leave it, and come
                  and stay at Greenway Court as long as your affairs engage you in the region. It is
                  really inhospitable in me to permit a gentleman like yourself to thus tarry at a
                  roadside tavern, so near my house."
               Falconbridge inclined his head courteously and replied:
               "Many thanks to your lordship. But I shall soon return now—I have been away too
                  long already from home."
               "Ah, that need not draw you, I fancy," said the Earl, smiling; "when a young
                  seigneur goes on his travels in Europe, we are accustomed to give him the length
                  of his tether."
               The young man smiled in return, and shaking his head replied:
               "That may be true of young seigneurs, as you say, my lord, but I am not such a
                  person. My father is in straitened circumstances, although we live well—requires
                  my assistance, and I must go back soon.
               The Earl gravely inclined his head, and then turning to the young lady, said:
               "Do you expect your father to return this morning, Miss Argal? I now remember that
                  he desires to consult me upon some land business, and my visit may save him
                  trouble."
               "Yes, he will soon return, my lord," was the reply; "I am sure he will not stay
                  long."
               "I will wait then, madam."
               And the Earl resumed the chair from which he had half risen. He did not look at
                  Falconbridge. The expression of the young man's countenance would have surprised
                  him. He was gazing at Miss Argal with unaffected astonishment —and he had abundant reason for doing so. Mr. Argal
                  had announced in his presence, on the evening before, that business of importance
                  made it necessary for him to go into Maryland, and had begged the young man to be
                  as much with his daughter as he found it convenient—it would relieve his mind. He
                  had gone on the journey, which would occupy two or three days, at least—and now
                  Falconbridge heard the assurance given to Lord Fairfax by his hostess, that her
                  father would "soon return," that he "would not stay long"—as though he had ridden
                  out for an hour simply.
               We shall do Miss Argal the justice to say, that no sooner had she uttered the
                  words, than she blushed and seemed to regret them. She darted a rapid glance at
                  Falconbridge, played with the ribbon at her belt, turned carelessly a handsome
                  bracelet on her snowy arm—and ended by winding around her finger with graceful
                  indifference one of the profuse curls of her raven hair.
               She hesitated for a moment; looked out of the window, and said:
               "Perhaps I have unintentionally misled you, my lord. I now remember that my father
                  has ridden to some distance, and may not return so soon. If your lordship,
                  however, will remain until the evening, I shall esteem it a favor. The
                  neighborhood is very lonely."
               "I regret that 'tis impossible, Miss Argal. I promised to leave a deed which I
                  have in my pocket, for a new settler in the region, who will call for it. If my
                  body-servant were with me, as is sometimes the case when I hunt, I might comply
                  with your most obliging request."
               The young lady turned the bracelet round again on the white arm, beat the floor
                  with her foot, and then said:
               "Our servants are all away; but Mr. Falconbridge might take it for you, my lord.
                  He might then return"—
               The mark was overshot. Lord Fairfax greeted the proposition with an unmistakable
                  stare of astonishment. As to Falconbridge, his face turned crimson, and from his
                  eyes darted one of those flashes which at times indicated how dangerous he was
                  when aroused.
               "That is—I mean"—said Miss Argal, with some agitation, "I meant that your lordship
                  might be worn out with fatigue—you might be greatly in need of rest—and as all our
                  servants are in the woods, I thought I might treat Mr. Falconbridge, as a
                  friend,—without ceremony. If I have offended you, pray pardon me," added the young
                  lady, fixing upon the young man her saddest and most beseeching glance. "I am very
                  young and inexperienced—I did not think—if I have shocked you"—
               And turning away her head, Miss Argal seemed overcome with emotion.
               The young man no longer betrayed any anger. There was nothing but sadness now in
                  his eyes. He did not reply for an instant; when he did speak, it was only to
                  say:
               "I freely pardon any apparent slight, Miss Argal—I am sure you did not mean any—as
                  I am sure that his lordship feels that I would willingly spare him fatigue were he
                  greatly exhausted."
               "No, no, sir," said the Earl with a low inclination, "by no means. I am quite
                  rested, and feel as fresh as possible."
               "But you think my conduct unbecoming, my lord," murmured the young lady, "to treat
                  Mr. Falconbridge with such rudeness and want of ceremony—I fear you regard me as
                  thoughtless and ill-bred—I pray Mr. Falconbridge will pardon me!"
               The cloud disappeared from the brow of the Earl. That voice of subtle and
                  wonderful melody dissipated all the displeasure which he had felt. Indeed he
                  seemed fully under the spell of her beauty, and had more than once displayed
                  during the progress of their interview that admiration which he had conceived for
                  her on the first day of their meeting,—and which lingering unknown to him, in the
                  depths of his nature, had come at last to be something more than a vague sentiment
                  of pleasure in her society.
               
               As she spoke now, or rather murmured in her low sweet voice those words, "I pray
                  Mr. Falconbridge will pardon me!" all traces of displeasure disappeared, as we
                  have said, from his countenance, and the cold swarthy face almost glowed:—that
                  dark eye shone strangely.
               "My dear Miss Argal," he said with something approaching feeling, "I pray you do
                  not think so very seriously of a trifle—I am sure Mr. Falconbridge so regards it.
                  'Twas nothing,—mere thoughtlessness I am sure. And now I am constrained to leave
                  you. Pray present my regards to your father on his return, and beg him to call on
                  me at my house. I need not say that I shall feel honored should you choose to
                  accompany him—at any time."
               With these words, Lord Fairfax bowed low, and left the apartment. Falconbridge
                  followed him to the door, declaring his intention to remain. No sooner had the two
                  men disappeared than the sad and submissive expression vanished from Miss Argal's
                  face, her head rose erect, her brows contracted furiously, and she imprisoned her
                  red underlip between the white teeth,—so unmistakable was the fire of anger in her
                  eyes.
               When Falconbridge returned, in five minutes after bidding the Earl farewell, he
                  found the young lady in the position in which he had left her—leaning sadly on the
                  arm of her chair, and presenting the image of a statue of sad sweetness and
                  regret.
               He had never loved her more than at that moment.
            
            
               XLI.
               PROGRESS.
               TWO days after Mr. Argal's return, he set out for Greenway Court, accompanied by
                  his daughter, who had delivered the Earl's message, and expressed a desire to
                  "breathe a little fresh air."
               Her father had readily acquiesced in this proposal, and mounting their horses—Mr.
                  Argal his stout cab, and his daughter her slender-legged filly—they were soon upon
                  the road. There were two routes to Greenway Court. One led by the Ordinary;
                  another branching to the right, and following a mere bridle path, wound over the
                  prairie, and approached the house on a different side.
               In compliance with the request of the young lady, who said she was heartily tired
                  of the common road, they pursued this latter, and very soon arrived at the
                  Earl's.
               He met them at the door, and exhibited a satisfaction upon seeing Miss Argal, very
                  unusual with one who seemed hard to arouse or interest. He assisted the young lady
                  from her animal, gave her his arm, and led her into the mansion with grave
                  courtesy. Mr. Argal followed, and they were, all three, seated ere long before the
                  crackling fire of light sticks, which was far from unpleasant.
               Whilst her father and the Earl were engaged in discussing the business matters
                  which were the occasion of the visit, Miss Argal amused herself looking over the
                  bookshelves; and finally bore away a volume of the "Spectator," in which she very
                  soon seemed to become absorbed. She presented a fascinating picture as she sat by
                  the window, poring over the book. One of her plump, white arms, from which the wide sleeve had fallen back,
                  sustained her bent head, the elbow resting on the window-sill, the rounded wrist,
                  adorned with its fine bracelet, half buried in the profuse curls of her ebon hair.
                  Her full, but graceful figure, was inclined forward, and her black eyes were
                  nearly concealed by the long, dark lashes, almost resting on the rosy cheek.
               She was still poring over the volume, when a grave and courteous voice said behind
                  her:
               "Pray what have you there, Miss Argal—a romance from my collection?"
               "Oh no, my lord, I never could read romances," was the smiling reply; "it is a
                  volume of Mr. Addison's 'Spectator,' which I admire very much."
               "And I also, madam," replied the Earl. "He is a writer of rare wit and humor."
               "Oh, he certainly is!"
               "Pray what paper did you open at—his attack on the ladies, and their fashions? It
                  created a great talk, I remember, at the time."
               "So I suppose, my lord; but I was not reading that. I was interested very much in
                  this paper."
               And she held up the book with her fascinating smile. The Earl looked at it. The
                  paper was one which he had contributed to the "Spectator" in his youth.
               "I have heard that Mr. Addison and Mr. Steele wrote together," said Miss Argal;
                  "can your lordship tell me which of them wrote this? It is so elegantly
                  composed—so delightful!"
               The Earl smiled. He had prided himself much on his literary reputation, and the
                  old leaven of a former vanity had not spent its strength.
               "I am almost ashamed to reply after such high commendation, madam," he said; "but
                  truth renders it necessary for me to say that I am myself the author of that
                  number."
               "You, my lord! Have you ever written for the printers?"
               The Earl smiled again: there was something singularly delightful to him in the
                  young lady's admiration and surprise.
               "I am obliged to say yes," he answered. "I knew Mr. Addison, and esteemed him
                  highly; and rather received, than conferred a favor by having a place in the
                  "Spectator." Indeed, the man himself was of such conspicuous gifts, that the
                  greatest noblemen, much more my poor self, were honored by his friendship and
                  conversation. He lived but simply when I knew him first, and dressed very meanly:
                  but you forgot what he wore, and the poor apartment he occupied, when his calm,
                  clear voice began. He would smoke his pipe and converse for hours, and I still
                  recall his smile, with its extraordinary sweetness and serenity, as though his
                  thoughts were fixed upon some delightful recollection, or unseen spirits were
                  whispering to him. All who knew him admired and loved him; I was honored by his
                  friendship. He was a very great man; I am not—that explains all, madam."
               "And you wrote this beautiful paper?" said Miss Argal, with a
                  contemplative air, "this paper I was reading with so much interest?"
               "I believe so. And I think you will find my name affixed at the end."
               The young lady turned the leaf, and said, innocently:
               "Why here it is, sure enough! 'Thomas, Lord Fairfax.' I ought to have looked."
               
                  Had she looked? Yes. The connection of the Earl with the "Spectator"
                  had been known to her, and she had sought for and found, and commenced reading the
                  number marked with his name.
               After some more conversation on literature, the book was replaced on the shelf,
                  and at the same moment a savory odor
                  invaded the apartment. The dinner hour had arrived, and with a little urging Mr.
                  Argal remained.
               Dinner was served after the English fashion, in courses, and the three persons
                  remained at table until the sun began to stream through the western window. Miss
                  Argal had summoned all her wonderful powers to attract the admiring attention of
                  the Earl, and she had succeeded. She had commenced by flattering his vanity; she
                  ended by impressing upon him the fact that she regarded him with a mixture of
                  respect and affection, which she struggled against, but could not overcome. The
                  conversation had turned upon marriage and the philosophy of that relation; and the
                  young lady, in the most casual and unintentional way, had declared that for her
                  part, she never could understand the taste of women for "mere boys." Young men
                  were no favorites of hers. They were so terribly vain, and prided themselves so
                  much upon their youth and beauty; they seemed to bestow their affection as a sort
                  of favor on the ladies, and, indeed, she never could bear them, the vain
                  creatures! If she ever thought of marrying, she would select some one else. It
                  should be a serious person; no matter if he had reached or even passed middle age.
                  She would be sure at least of his love, and could rely upon his judgment and his
                  protection. She would rather a thousand times trust her happiness to such a one,
                  than to a giddy-pated youth, however handsome he might be.
               All this was uttered by Miss Argal in the most innocent and careless way: the mere
                  outpouring, it appeared, of her confiding disposition. And it thrilled the cold
                  heart of the weary exile with a new and delightful emotion. His vanity was soothed
                  and flattered—his admiration was excited by the lovely speaker—his ears drank in
                  the music of her voice, and his eyes dwelt with unaccustomed intensity upon her
                  countenance, so instinct with beauty and fascination.
               When, very soon after dinner, Mr. Argal declared the necessity of his departure,
                  the Earl pressed him warmly to remain. The young lady, as before, discovered that
                  she was laboring under a cough, but this only hurried her departure. Mr. Argal
                  thanked his lordship, but said that it was absolutely necessary for him to return
                  that evening. And so the horses were brought up, and the Earl assisted the young
                  lady to her seat in the saddle.
               Did her ungloved hand retain his own, as it had retained Falconbridge's on that
                  evening of their first meeting? Was the slight but clearly perceptible pressure
                  intentional?
               The Earl stood on the porch and watched them until they were out of sight; the
                  languishing smile of Miss Argal as she departed, still before him. As he turned
                  finally, and re-entered the house, he muttered:
               "I have never seen a beauty as superb, or a more brilliant mind! Let me beware!
                  Love a woman again? It would be monstrous!"
               But all the evening he was thinking of her.
            
            
               
               XLII.
               IN THE MOUNTAIN.
               HALF an hour after the departure of Mr. Argal and his daughter for Greenway Court,
                  Falconbridge drew up before the house, and leaping from his horse, entered the
                  mansion, smiling and joyful.
               His love for the young lady had reached that point now, that out of her presence
                  he scarcely lived. His life was concentrated into those hours of each day when he
                  sat by her, and looked into her eyes. All the rest was a dull, cold blank to him,
                  with no pleasure in it all. He existed, simply, there at the
                  Ordinary, and passed all his moments in musing upon the interview which had passed
                  by, or on the one which was to occur again on the morrow. As he mounted his horse
                  to go away, his form would droop, his eyes become gloomy—when he put spur to Sir
                  John, to go and see her, he was the picture of buoyant joy and
                  light-heartedness.
               These words will explain the emotion of the young man, when one of the servants
                  informed him that Miss Argal had departed, and above all, departed for "Lord
                  Fairfax's."
               As the words were uttered, he felt a dizziness, a sudden sinking of the heart.
                  Lord Fairfax's! She had gone to Greenway Court! All the scene, when that morning
                  she had insulted him so carelessly, rushed back; he remembered the whole
                  interview; he saw her glances, her wiles, her witcheries to attract his lordship.
                  For a moment, then, he stood still and gazed at the servant with an expression
                  which almost frightened her.
               It was for a moment only. His presence of mind returned, and simply requesting her
                  to inform Miss Argal of his visit, on her return, he issued forth and mounted his
                  horse again.
               Should he go thither? Yes! He would go and be a witness of what he felt was the
                  scene at Greenway—a witness of her smiles and cajoleries, and fascinations, aimed
                  at the Earl—he would go and sup full upon his jealousy and resentment!
               And digging the spur into the side of Sir John, he set forward like lightning upon
                  the road to Greenway.
               A mile from Mr. Argal's he suddenly drew rein, so suddenly that Sir John reared
                  and almost fell upon his haunches. Was it advisable to go there? Would she relish
                  this persistent pursuit of her—this jealous supervision, as though he suspected
                  her fidelity to him? Was it worth while to go and suffer, and get no thanks,
                  rather coldness for it? No! He would return to his lonely chamber and see no
                  one.
               And he turned his horse's head in the direction of the Ordinary, going along now
                  very slowly, his head drooping, his brow overshadowed.
               "No, no," he murmured, "no, I cannot go back there. Mrs. Butterton would annoy me
                  with her wearying conversation—I need movement, fresh air."
               With these words he stopped and looked round. The Fort Mountain raised its great
                  ramparts and seemed to beckon him; the prairie, swept by the wind, whispered to
                  him. He had met George in the morning, at the Ordinary, on his way to the "Fort,"
                  and now remembering the fact, directed his course straight toward it.
               He at last reached the river; pushed his horse through the current, and skirting
                  the noisy Passage Creek, ascended the winding bridle-path toward the cottage of
                  the wizard.
               As he went onward many wild sights and sounds greeted him, and dissipated, in a
                  measure, his possessing thoughts. A
                  great eagle rose, with slow, flapping wings, from a crag near at hand, and swept
                  away into the opposite mountain: a stag flitted across a distant opening, and
                  disappeared; more than once he heard in the tangled thicket near at hand, the
                  stealthy tread of a panther or a bear, crackling over the dry twigs, and rustling
                  the dead leaves of the forest. He went on without heeding these things, however,
                  and soon reached the steep knoll upon which the wizard's cottage was situated. As
                  he arrived at this point, he all at once saw, in the porch of the house, a
                  pleasant little rustic picture.
               On one of the benches a young girl was seated, graceful and smiling; and her
                  smiles seemed to be occasioned by the attempt which a young man, occupying a lower
                  seat at her feet, was making to place a wreath of pale primroses on her
                  forehead.
               Beside them was stretched, indolently sleeping, a huge black bear, to whose
                  presence no attention at all seemed to be paid.
               Cannie and George were so much interested in their occupation that they did not
                  hear the foot-falls of the horse, and it was not until Falconbridge had tied Sir
                  John to a bough, and ascended the declivity on foot, that they became aware of his
                  presence.
               The bear rose with a growl, and exhibited a ferocious mouth filled with white,
                  sharp teeth, but at a word from the young girl, accompanied by a warning tap on
                  his head from her little hand, lay down quietly again, and dozed serenely.
               The boy and the girl welcomed Falconbridge with the warmest cordiality, and
                  Cannie, with a smile, informed him that he need fear nothing from "Bruin," who was
                  a long tried friend and pet, and quite harmless. With these words she pushed the
                  animal with her small foot, and bade him move. Bruin acquiesced with perfect good
                  humor, and rising ing lazily, waddled off to a sunny knoll, and lying down,
                  speedily went to sleep again.
               Cannie, meanwhile, had entered the house, and announced the visit of Falconbridge
                  to her grandfather, who soon came forth and welcomed him. They were still
                  exchanging courteous expressions, and the young man was looking with great
                  interest at Cannie, when another incident occurred. A sudden fluttering in the air
                  attracted their attention—a suppressed croak was heard—and an immense hawk, with
                  an arrow through his wing, fell almost at the young man's feet.
               "Why, Lightfoot is here!" said Cannie; "he has shot the hawk that was after my
                  pigeons!"
               "Who is Lightfoot?" asked Falconbridge, whose gloom began to yield before the
                  innocent smiles of the girl; "another friend, like the bear?"
               "Oh, no sir! he is an Indian. He is a true friend, however. He once saved my life,
                  and we love him, even George. There he comes—he has been to see us twice lately—he
                  lives in the mountain."
               As Cannie spoke, the young Indian was seen approaching down the abrupt, almost
                  precipitous path which led upward to the summit. From the tall mass of rock above,
                  he had seen and transfixed the hawk, and now came to pick it up. He was welcomed
                  with great affection by Cannie, and when she pointed to Falconbridge, and said:
                  "This is another good friend, Lightfoot," the Indian stretched out his arm, and
                  shook hands, as he had learned to do, with a grave dignity and courtesy which
                  might have graced an emperor.
            
            
               
               XLIII.
               HOW AN ANIMAL CHANGED THE DESTINIES OF THREE HUMAN BEINGS.
               THE day was spent happily by all. That confidence which soon springs up between
                  persons of sincere and truthful natures, made the hours glide away without
                  constraint or ceremony.
               The Indian and Falconbridge were not regarded in the light of strangers by the old
                  man or his daughter; and as to George, we already know that he was on a footing of
                  the most perfect familiarity and friendship. As they sat on the little porch, and
                  looked forth on the beautiful scene of the forest and mountain, dancing streamlet
                  and moss-clad rocks, a cheerful and inspiring influence seemed to fill every
                  bosom, and Falconbridge was no exception. The shadows which had lain upon his brow
                  slowly passed away. His equanimity returned. From the little mountain cottage,
                  nestling in a gash of the great lofty range, he looked down as it were upon the
                  events of the morning, there in the Lowland, and regarded them in a different and
                  more hopeful light.
               Had he not suffered himself to be carried away by a mere rush of jealous and
                  irrational suspicion—by a fit of angry disappointment at not meeting the young
                  lady? What reason was there to find fault with her for accompanying her father on
                  a ride across the prairie, when he doubtless had some business matters to transact
                  with Lord Fairfax? Could he blame her—was there any, the least, ground for
                  complaint or dissatisfaction? Indeed, ought he not to feel some shame at having
                  charged her with unworthy motives even in his imagination?
               When his reflections brought him to this point, the whole matter was ended. A
                  noble nature always suffers deeply from the consciousness that it has committed an
                  injustice; with such the recoil is always powerful; the longing to make amends is
                  irresistible. Falconbridge determined to be, in future, more kind and unsuspicious
                  than he had ever been before!—and thus having banished his absorbing thought, he
                  became cheerful and even joyous again.
               Every object around him increased this sentiment. The fresh bracing air caressed
                  his cheeks and forehead, and filled his pulses with buoyant life. He inhaled it
                  with delight, and felt the last traces of his gloomy thought disappear. His
                  companions were not unsuited to the scenes, nor to his change of mood—Cannie
                  looked up into his face with her bright smile, her tender eyes, and air of
                  confiding affection. She had not forgotten how he came to the side of her
                  grandfather on the day of the trial, and greeted him in his sincere voice, full of
                  sympathy and kindness—how he had held his hand out to herself, and said she was a
                  little countess, and a good daughter. She had recalled his tones and looks and
                  words, on her return, with strange pleasure; and now met him as a friend whom she
                  had known and loved. And Falconbridge derived no less pleasure from the
                  countenance of Cannie. He thought many times during the day that there was
                  something in the clear eyes and innocent lips strangely familiar—he seemed to have
                  met with the girl far away in some other land, of which he retained only a shadowy
                  recollection. Unable to define or explain this emotion, he at last yielded himself
                  up to the charm, and was happy at her side.
               If he turned from Cannie or the old man, or George, who was a favorite with him,
                  it was to gaze with much interest on the graceful young Indian. Lightfoot
                  evidently excited his curiosity and admiration. There was something simple and
                  majestic about the Indian—the evidence of the possession of those traits which
                  Falconbridge had been taught to love
                  and reverence all his life; true native dignity, simplicity and goodness. A close
                  observer would have said, indeed, that these two youths of different race and
                  training had come of the same blood. Both bore themselves with an unconscious
                  pride,—both had the native truth and honesty of the forest, in eye and lip and
                  tone of voice.
               "You are from the Lowland, I believe, sir?" said the old man in his calm,
                  collected voice, "the Tide-water region?"
               "Yes, sir," returned Falconbridge; "from the banks of Chesapeake—and I seem to
                  have met with you, or some one nearly resembling you, somewhere"—
               And the young man seemed to reflect.
               "Yes," he added suddenly, "it was in Williamsburg one day! You were conversing
                  with his Excellency the Governor, on Gloucester Street—were you not, sir?"
               The old man smiled, but replied guardedly.
               "I have visited Williamsburg, sir, and I am acquainted with his Excellency."
               "I was sure of it, Mr. Powell—I was there at College, and was walking out that
                  evening with a friend, when I saw you. Did you live near the town?"
               "No, sir," returned the other, "higher up the country. You see I have come up
                  still further into the mountains, and perhaps I shall spend all my days here.
                  There is something strangely noble to my eye in these bristling ranges, and I
                  should like to sleep my last sleep on the summit of one of those peaks."
               "And I, too," said Falconbridge musing: "true, it is a matter of small importance
                  where the poor body rests when the spirit has left it—in the depths of the ocean,
                  in the desert, in the air as the Indian race prefer—in the lowland or the
                  mountains. But something of the old preferences govern us even in this. For my
                  part I would like my grave to be on the summit of this very mountain—on the
                  forehead itself of the sleeping giant, if I may call it such—yonder, where that
                  great eagle is swooping toward the immense pine against the sky, full in the
                  sinking sun. And that reminds me, George," added the speaker, turning to his
                  companion, "that we should set out for home unless we wish to be benighted. I have
                  had a happy day, sir, and thank you all for it."
               With these words Falconbridge rose.
               "I have something to give you for Lord Fairfax, sir," said the old man, "as you no
                  doubt will see him. I will procure it, and request you to take charge of it."
               He retired as he spoke, and soon returned with a small package, secured with a
                  heavy wax seal, which he handed to Falconbridge. The young man thought it somewhat
                  singular that it had not been entrusted to George, who was going straight to
                  Greenway, but said nothing, and bade all farewell.
               George, however, was not ready: a circumstance which he explained by saying that
                  he wished to discover if the stories about carrier-pigeons were true—and
                  especially if Cannie's favorite one "would carry a message" from Greenway to the
                  mountain. He accordingly proceeded to coax the pigeon to descend by scattering
                  some crumbs, and gradually approach it, as it tipped about, picking them up.
                  Cannie had meanwhile called Falconbridge's attention to her prince's feathers,
                  cardinal flowers, and primroses in a bed near the fence, and the young man bent
                  down and examined them with a pleasure and interest which was rather on account of
                  their mistress than their own, but no less delighted the smiling girl.
               As he did so, he did not observe that in turning round he had dropped from the
                  breast pocket of his doublet the package which the old man had entrusted to
                  him.
               George soon secured the pigeon, and imprisoning it carefully in his bosom,
                  announced his readiness to depart. With many cordial pressures of the hand, and
                  kind words, the two young men then mounted their horses, and were rapidly
                  proceeding on the way to their respective abodes.
               
               They parted at a point where they encountered the road leading from Greenway to
                  the Ordinary—George turning to the right, Falconbridge to the left—with friendly
                  smiles, and a promise on George's part to come soon and see his friend, at Mynheer
                  Van Doring's.
               Falconbridge rode on, busy with his own thoughts, and had nearly reached the
                  Ordinary, when suddenly he remembered the package entrusted to him by the old man,
                  which he had intended to deliver to George for the hands of the Earl. He put his
                  hand into his doublet—it was gone! Greatly annoyed at the circumstance, and
                  wondering how he had lost it, he thought at first of retracing his steps, but gave
                  up the intention, as the setting sun preluded night, and he would not be able to
                  find it.
               Promising himself to search for it on the succeeding morning, he continued his
                  way.
               The search on the next day proved useless.
               Ten minutes after the departure of the young men from the mountain cottage, and
                  soon after Cannie and her grandfather had entered the house, the bear Bruin
                  descried the glittering object, and either attracted by the color, or liking the
                  flavor of the wax, bore it off to a spot in the forest, and amused himself in
                  mouthing and tearing it. Unimportant as it seemed, the circumstance had an
                  influence almost fatal upon the destinies of three persons.
            
            
               XLV.
               IN WHICH CAPTAIN WAGNER REQUESTS MONSIEUR JAMBOT TO PULL HIS
                  NOSE.
               THE spectacle which greeted Falconbridge as he entered the doorway of the
                  Ordinary, was one of those tableaux which are only presented upon extraordinary
                  occasions, and under peculiar circumstances.
               In the middle of the apartment, Captain Wagner and Monsieur Jambot were locked in
                  a tender, and fraternal embrace, upon which Mrs. Butterton looked with tears of
                  joyous agitation and hysterical delight.
               What had caused this fine picture? Let us explain.
               Since the evening when Mrs. Butterton yielded to the onset of the valiant
                  Borderer, the bosom of Monsieur Jambot had been consumed by a gloomy internal
                  fire. He had speedily discovered the result of that low-toned conversation between
                  the Captain and the widow—and the discovery was gall and wormwood to him. He had
                  flattered himself, with that talent for hope which characterizes his nation, that
                  all obstacles to an union with himself would disappear from the mind of Mrs.
                  Butterton—that she regarded Captain Wagner with nothing more than ordinary
                  friendship—and that he himself had only to wait, and the prize would be his
                  own.
               When he now found his rival successful, his own hopes all crushed, the demon of
                  revenge invaded his breast; and he set about obeying its dictates.
               On the evening of the day to which we have now arrived, he clad himself carefully
                  from top to toe, and paid minute attention to every detail of his costume and
                  appearance. His silk stockings were
                  irreproachable; his coat almost as good as new; his frill immense and snow-white;
                  his cocked hat resting gallantly on his powdered peruke, the model chapeau of a
                  noble chevalier. Indeed Jambot was truly a chevalier of Touraine, of no means; but
                  vastly ancient race,—and had much of the bel air
                  in his carriage when he chose to adopt it—he was a noble still.
               In this guise he presented himself before Mrs. Butterton, and declared with deep
                  sadness that in the distant land to which he was soon about to proceed, he would
                  always remember her, and speak of her to his friends with admiration and
                  respect.
               The fair lady looked surprised at this announcement, and said:
               "Why, where are you going, Monsieur Jambot?"
               "I go to my native Touraine, madame," returned Monsieur Jambot with a touching
                  air, "I am desolated to announce this to madame, but 'tis necessary. I go to the
                  home of my race, to my native land. My worthy aunt has had the politeness to die—I
                  have some rentes—my cousin, the Vicomte de
                  Louvais, will give the poor exile home—or in the most hospitable mansion of my
                  uncle, Monsieur le Chevalier de Sautry, I shall linger out, it may be, these few
                  sad years, which, alas! will pass themselves so far from madame!"
               With these words Monsieur Jambot assumed an expression of mingled love and sorrow,
                  which really became him, and had no little effect upon the widow. She had liked
                  Monsieur Jambot—had indeed thought seriously of bestowing her hand upon him—a
                  possession which he evidently coveted. He was poor and homeless, but then he was
                  gallant and chivalric; he might be romantic and unfit for business, but then he
                  was devoted and kind-hearted—he would love her and wait upon her; she might do
                  worse than become Madame Jambot. These reflections, we say, had more than once
                  passed through the mind of Mrs. Butterton, and now when the triste exilé as he often called himself, spoke of
                  departing—when he addressed her in a strain of such touching regret and
                  affection—the heart of the lady felt all its old impressions revive, and the
                  graces of Captain Wagner for the moment quite disappeared from her memory. She
                  therefore responded to the touching address of her admirer by looking sadly at
                  him, and saying:
               "Are you really obliged to go, Monsieur Jambot?"
               "'Tis better," replied her sorrowful companion; "'tis best for the peace of mind
                  of madame's poor friend. That friend will not make himself too free with those
                  events, he will say those tragic events, which have come to desolate his life, to
                  crush his hopes, to make the life of him but a mocking dream, a chimera, which
                  disappears! May the friend of the poor chevalier be happy in one who goes to love
                  her much, though not so greatly as another! May he feel in his native home, at the
                  board of De Sautry, or on the battlements of the Chateau de Louvais which makes
                  itself admired by all upon the green banks of the Loire, that he has still a
                  friend—a fair and beautiful friend in the distant land from which he now goes to
                  depart—may he know that one whom he has loved, with a love so profound, so
                  devoted, so ineffable, has not forgotten him, but thinks still of him, and perhaps
                  in the bright days will murmur, 'Finally he loved me very much, this poor sad
                  chevalier—this exile!'"
               The head of the fair widow sank. The mournful words impressed her deeply, and
                  revived all her old affection. There was more than one emotion in her heart as she
                  gazed at him now, sadly and kindly. There was pity, regard, that sympathy which
                  the female bosom never fails to conceive for the man who loves with real
                  devotion—there was more. Monsieur Jambot was thus, after all, a nobleman! His
                  family were Chevaliers and Viscounts! He was going back to the battlements of
                  castles and chateaus, the possessions of his uncles and cousins! As Madame Jambot,
                  she would have sat at the right hand of the noble De Sautry, and De Louvais—been a
                  member of that elevated and refined society ty—this was lost to her! Such reflections were
                  passing through the mind of the lady, and they were not without their effect upon
                  her. She had abundant reason to know that all that Monsieur Jambot said was
                  true—and her head drooped as she gazed at him. It is no more than justice to add,
                  however, that pity and grief at parting with an old friend were the chief causes
                  of her sadness. The tone of her companion was hopeless and resigned—he was
                  yielding like an honest chevalier to a more favored rival,—without complaint, with
                  the air of a gentleman who is unfortunate and retires. Could she suffer him to
                  depart without assuring him of her lasting affection?
               These reflections had so much influence upon her, that the fair Mrs. Butterton
                  begged Monsieur Jambot to come and sit beside her. He obeyed with a resigned and
                  touching air, which deepened the impression produced by his words.
               The lady then proceeded to reply to his sad address. Gracefully evading the
                  allusion to "another," she professed for Monsieur Jambot a lasting and most
                  affectionate regard. He had proved 
                     himseif
                     himself
                  , she said, a true friend, on very many occasions—she had found from many
                  circumstances, that he was as reliable and devoted in his regard, as he was kindly
                  and sincere in his feelings, and she could not give him up—she could not bid him
                  farewell—he must not—must not—go!
               With these words, the last of which were uttered in a broken and agitated voice,
                  the fair widow turned her head away, placed her handkerchief to her eyes, and
                  uttered a sob.
               The sound seemed to act like an electric shock upon Monsieur Jambot. He uttered a
                  deep groan—cried, "Oh heaven! She weeps!"—and falling upon his knees, caught her
                  other hand in his own, and pressed it ardently to his lips.
               It was just at this moment that a heavy step resounded behind Monsieur Jambot, a
                  tremendous growl was heard, and a sonorous voice, full of wrath and astonishment,
                  cried:
               "Ho there! On his knees, or the devil fly away with me!"
               It was Captain Wagner:—Captain Wagner astounded; Captain Wagner furious; Captain
                  Wagner boiling with fiery jealousy and indignation, and threatening with his drawn
                  sword to let loose the bloody dogs of war upon his enemy.
               Monsieur Jambot rose quickly to his feet, and returned the look of the Captain
                  with one equally ferocious.
               "Ah? ventrebleu! Monsieur le Capitaine goes to get angry!" he hissed in a mocking
                  and satiric tone. "Monsieur is of the jealous!"
               "No sir! I'm not jealous," returned the Captain, "but it is my intention to spit
                  your carcass on this little trinket—to skin you, and eat you, hind legs and all,
                  Monsieur Frog-eater! If I don't I'm a dandy and a kitten!"
               With these awful words, the Captain advanced straight on Monsieur Jambot, who had
                  whipped out his little dress-sword, and did not budge an inch; and in an instant
                  the weapons clashed together.
               A grim pleasure at his opponent's pluck came to the face of the Captain, and
                  gravely saluting with his other hand, he made a lunge at his foe which would have
                  carried out the terrible threat just uttered, had it not been for an unexpected
                  circumstance. This circumstance was nothing less than the disappearance of the
                  valiant Captain's head, shoulders, arm and sabre, beneath a huge horse-blanket,
                  from the folds of which the weapon of the soldier made ineffectual slashes in the
                  air.
               The hysterical Mrs. Butterton had performed this feat. In her agitation she had
                  seized and made use of the huge wrapping, and it had answered the purpose which
                  she designed. Captain Wagner resembled, as he struggled and struck out wildly, one
                  of those luckless individuals whom the Venetian "Ten" doomed to the stiletto, a
                  mantle being thrown over their heads before the blow.
               
               In an instant he extricated himself, breathing fire and slaughter; but it was only
                  to find his sword arm drawn down by the entire weight of Mrs. Butterton's
                  person.
               "For shame, Captain! for shame!" cried the lady, with blushing agitation, and
                  pouting; "how could you treat Monsieur Jambot so badly, so cruelly!"
               "Badly, madam!" thundered the Captain, with Olympian indignation and astonishment.
                  "Cruelly! Did I not see him with my own eyes kneeling there! Did I not see him
                  kissing your hand, madam, and making love to you?"
               "And if he did kiss my hand, what of that?" said the lady, with a more obvious
                  pout still; "my hand is my own, and no one else's!"
               "That may be, madam," returned the soldier, still irate, but growing cooler at
                  these significant words, "but I'll none the less have Monsieur's blood!"
               "You shall not fight with him, or he with you!" cried the widow, again, alarmed at
                  the Captain's ferocity; "I tell you it was nothing; Monsieur Jambot is going
                     away!"
               And Mrs. Butterton rapidly related the particulars of the interview; forgetting,
                  however, to mention the unimportant circumstance that she had urged the nephew of
                  the Chevaier de Sautry not to depart. The history quite changed the feelings and
                  intentions of the worthy Captain. He grew gradually cooler, and soon recovered all
                  his equanimity, when he reflected that his rival was about to go. Had he not been
                  guilty, indeed, of wanton insult and annoyance to that gentleman? Was his
                  ferocious attack well calculated to advance him in the estimation of his lady
                  love? Did he not owe Monsieur Jambot a full and frank explanation—an apology, and
                  a disclaimer of all intent to outrage him?
               These thoughts passed seriatim through the mind
                  of the worthy, as he listened; and at the end of the relation, his mind was made
                  up. Replacing his sword in its scabbard, he fixed upon Mrs. Butterton a look full
                  of sorrowful but ardent adoration, and said:
               "I am glad that you arrested me in my course, madam! I was wrong. But in certain
                  states of mind, I have always observed that the most intelligent men act like
                  fools, or non compos mentis people, as the
                  Greeks say. You understand me, madam," said the Captain, with immense
                  significance; "and I leave you to decide. As to Monsieur Jambot, I am willing and
                  even desirous to assure that gentleman, for whom I have a very high esteem, of my
                  regrets. I was wrong—I was a fool and ninny, or I'm a dandy! Monsieur Jambot, I
                  have grown a pair of long ears, I'm a donkey, or the devil take it! If it will be
                  any satisfaction, and productive of any pleasure to you, you are at liberty to
                  pull my miserable nose, or cut off, with that handsome sword of yours, the lengthy
                  ears of which I spoke—only I beg of you to pull with a gentle and tender hand, and
                  to leave enough of the said ears to grow out again—or the future historian of my
                  eventful life will write in the book which he makes about my adventures, the
                  words, 'Captain Longknife was destitute of ears!' which would be shocking and
                  mortifying to my descendants—to my very great grandchildren!"
               With these solemn words, Captain Wagner bowed courteously to Monsieur Jambot, and
                  added:
               "I am ready to shake hands, my dear friend, and beg your pardon—I'll do it—if I
                  don't, I'm a dandy!"
               "Shake hands!" cried Monsieur Jambot, whose temper was excitable, but as generous
                  as the day, "it shall not be that we shake hands, Mon cher
                     Capitaine and friend—that we embrace!"
               As he spoke the worthy Jambot extended his arms, and the two bloody foes were
                  locked in a fraternal embrace. The chin of Captain Wagner reposed affectionately
                  between the shoulders of his friend; the countenance of Monsieur Jambot appeared
                  above the arm of the other; and to make the whole complete, the fair lady who had
                  caused all the commotion, stood by crying—but laughing too, and rejoicing at the
                  result.
               
               It was then that Falconbridge entered, and stood silent with astonishment; but all
                  was soon explained to him.
               "The fact is, my dear Falconbridge, your friend Wagner is a fool," said the
                  Captain; "but when a man grows jealous he sees things double, or I'm a dandy! I
                  remember hearing about a black fellow who knocked up a courtship with some king's
                  daughter or other, by his nigger-witchcraft, and ran off with her*
                  —after which he got jealous without any reason, and choked her to death
                  with a bolster. Falconbridge," said the Captain, with affecting solemnity of
                  accent, "beware of jealousy!"
               
                  
                  *This somewhat free description of the "noble Moor" of Shakespeare, and his
                     means of influencing Desdemona, was uttered in the hearing of the writer, by
                     a worthy, who added that the name of the lady, as well as he could
                     recollect, was Arabella.
               
            
            
               XLV.
               THE LAMIA.
               THE passion of Lord Fairfax for Miss Argal ripened rapidly, and soon attained its
                  full strength. It was one of those fatal infatuations which paralyze the reason,
                  and lead captive the wills of the strongest and most resolute men.
               From that evening when George encountered him in the Massinutton, and when they
                  met Miss Argal and Falconbridge on the prairie, the Earl had not ceased to think
                  of her with a singular emotion. There was something in this young lady which no
                  one could describe—an impalpable and wondrous fascination—which, when it had once
                  been felt, was an influence on the life, an irresistible spell which could not be
                  thrown off. Her beauty was but a small part of this magnetic power. Her face, it
                  is true, with its rosy cheeks, crimson lips, and framework of black curls, was of
                  rare loveliness: her figure, both full and undulating, both sweeping and
                  redundant, was enough to attract admiration; but the secret of her influence lay
                  deeper, and was difficult to define. It was chiefly, a keen observer might have
                  said, in the eye, and its expression, or its thousand expressions, rather. It was
                  a strange and wonderful pair of eyes. The lamia
                  of the poets—that mythological creature, with the form of a woman, and the
                  instincts of a serpent—might have afforded an illustration of Miss Argal at times.
                  Indeed, this serpent-like glance, dark and glittering, but full of caressing
                  sweetness and subtle fascination as well, almost always shone from beneath her
                  long silken lashes. It was a sidelong and wary glance, as if the person were
                     watching
                   —a cunning and yet confiding gaze,
                  lying in wait, as it were, for its prey. It could coax and cajole, and beseech,
                  and wheedle—it took all characters, and bewildered the mind, but ended by bringing
                  the victim to her feet.
               It was wonderful, miraculous, almost, what a magnetic power lay in those eyes—a
                  power to fascinate, to persuade, to bend the reason, however strong-willed and
                  imperial. It had been nothing to draw the ardent and impulsive young man to her
                  side—Falconbridge was ripe for a passionate attachment—he was young, unsuspecting,
                  an admirer of the beautiful; with a heart which the first beautiful woman might
                  enslave from the very enthusiasm and warmth of his nature. But Lord Fairfax! To
                  win that cold and collected man!—to turn the old dry nobleman, past middle life,
                  into a bashful and embarrassed lover! To move a heart long unmoved—to bend a will
                  so resolute and determined—to make that woman-hater, or woman-fearer, yield to her
                  wiles, and follow her when she beckoned! That was truly an undertaking worthy of
                  her ambition. She worked for it—and she achieved her end.
               It is not pleasant to analyze such a character. We touch upon those mysterious and
                  shifting motives and impulses as the mariner in the frozen regions of the North,
                  in the gloomy night, treads cautiously and with repugnance on the floating mass of
                  ice which envelops his ship. There was little love in question, on
                  her part. She was attracted toward Lord Fairfax by his wealth and position—by the
                  ambition of becoming his Countess, and thus becoming mistress, in fact, of one
                  fourth, very nearly, of the province.
               Thread by thread the web was woven. The Earl of Fairfax soon came to feel a
                  passionate attachment for the fascinating woman, and to visit her
                  regularly—sometimes in the absence of Falconbridge, sometimes when he was present.
                  But he did not exhibit any indications of his passion beyond this. His cold mask
                  was never thrown off for a moment. His countenance, with its grim, sad smile,
                  scarcely ly relaxed—he was the same calm, and cynical philosopher as before, the
                  same courteous gentleman, but no more. One thing was apparent, however, in his
                  demeanor. He avoided Falconbridge, and seemed ill at ease in his society; but let
                  it not be supposed from this that the Earl was conscious of committing an
                  injustice in visiting the young lady. Miss Argal had distinctly informed him one
                  morning, that she was not bound in any way to Falconbridge—that he was merely a
                  friendly visitor who was lonely at the Ordinary, and came over to chat with her
                  and her father. The Earl had thus set his mind at rest on the subject, and
                  regarded himself as wholly irreproachable in the undertaking which he had
                  determined upon now, the attempt to make Miss Argal his Countess.
               We have forborne to describe the feelings of Falconbridge. The task was more than
                  we were willing to attempt. There is something awful and darkly tragic in the
                  picture of a noble and great heart writhing under the dominion of a mad passion
                  for a woman, and feeling that his passion is a vain one. For to this conclusion
                  had the young man now very nearly arrived. He could scarcely mistake the
                  indications of Miss Argal's manner. She was no longer what she had been to him.
                  All her delightful smiles, and caressing accents, had disappeared. She met him
                  when he came with ill-concealed disinclination, and opposed to his questions and
                  prayers for an explanation, an obdurate and unconquerable reserve. If she replied
                  at all, it was only to say, with cold politeness, that Mr. Falconbridge really
                  placed too much stress upon trifles; young ladies, like their superiors,
                     young men, were subject to changes of mood; she was not well to-day; the
                  discussion made her head ache; was there any news of interest at the Ordinary?—she
                  supposed he would soon return home now, as he had said his business in the region
                  was finished. She would advise him to. The air of the mountains, after October,
                  was very cold—he would catch a catarrh—and she really would advise him, as a friend to return. Ah! there was Lord
                  Fairfax! Would Mr. Falconbridge excuse her for a moment? His lordship was always
                  pleased when she met him at the door."
               That was all. And Falconbridge would grind his lip with his teeth, bow coldly as
                  the Earl entered, and discover that he had to meet George, or Captain Wagner, at
                  the Ordinary. He would go away raging; and bury himself in his chamber, and grow
                  old hour by hour, in presence of his misery.
               To this point the history of the persons had advanced, when we again return to
                  particular scenes in the narrative.
            
            
               XLVI.
               HOW FALCONBRIDGE KINDLED A FIRE TO SEE BY.
               IT was nearly sunset, and a heavy bank of lurid cloud, fringed with crimson, was
                  piled up in the western horizon. It was plain that a storm would burst before the
                  sunlight shone again, and every eye which witnessed the magnificent spectacle, was
                  entranced by its grandeur and wild beauty.
               Falconbridge alone, of all at the Ordinary, did not heed it. Seated in his
                  chamber, his shoulders bending forward, his face pale, his eyes blazing at times
                  with a menacing fire, he did not move or utter a word. The events of the last few
                  days had almost paralyzed him. He seemed to be growing old. His face had lost all
                  its bloom and freshness; his bearing all its buoyant grace and pride; he stooped
                  like an octogenarian, who approaches the end of human life, after much toil and
                  suffering and grief.
               The mood of the young man's mind was piteous. Rage and despair, love and hatred, a
                  thousand warring and discordant passions, held riotous carnival in the heaving
                  bosom, and tore him with their burning talons.
               He knew all now. He had become aware of Miss Argal's intentions with regard to the
                  Earl; and though the young lady had not distinctly broken with him, he foresaw
                  that she had resolved to do so, and would dismiss him on the first favorable
                  opportunity. Thus, then, would end his wild and delicious dream. The passionate
                  love, which permeated his very life-blood, would be swallowed up in this gulf of
                  despair. He would be thrown off like a useless garment, whose gloss has
                  departed—which no longer excites any emotion but contempt. The Countess of
                  Fairfax, if they ever met again, would smile or sneer at their past relations, and
                  greet him with an air of condescension or indifference. The Earl would not insult
                  him, perhaps—he would treat him with great politeness; a former friend of his
                  Countess would be entitled to so much attention; and he would be bowed out grandly
                  from their presence, he, the silly young adventurer, who had presumed to be the
                  rival of his betters!
               The thought flushed the pale cheek, and brought a threatening flash to the eyes.
                  He rose from his seat, and looked around him with a fiery glance. Where was he?
                  Why was he inactive? Was he to sit down and groan, and submit to his fate—or go
                  and dare the worst, and place everything upon a comprehensible footing?
               Yes, he would go! He would see her for the last time. He would know, beyond all
                  doubt, what she intended, what he might expect. He would endure no longer this
                  horrible state of doubt—all should be plain.
               Falconbridge acted quickly. He went and ordered his horse—passed through the main
                  apartment without speaking to any one,—and was soon in the saddle. The sky began
                  to grow darker, the distant thunder to mutter; and one or two vivid flashes of
                  lightning darted across the zenith, revealing the lurid depths more plainly.
                  Falconbridge paid no attention to these evidences of the approaching storm. He
                  struck the spur into his horse's sides; and set forward at a wild pace, towards
                  Mr. Argal's.
               He soon reached the place, and the fiery light in his eyes deepened and grew more
                  menacing at the sight which greeted him at the door. Lord Fairfax's horse stood
                  there—indeed the Earl had spent the entire afternoon with Miss Argal, her father
                  being again unavoidably absent, and the former excuse of her loneliness having
                  proved successful in retaining his lordship.
               Falconbridge set his teeth together like a vice, dismounted ed, and went and
                  knocked at the door. It was opened by a servant, who did not move aside for the
                  young gentleman.
               "Miss Argal?" he said, making a step in advance.
               Mistress had told her to say, replied the servant, if Mr. Falconbridge came, that
                  she was engaged and must be excused for not seeing him.
               That was all. The words sounded like a death-knell in the young man's ears. He
                  simply bowed his head and departed. He almost staggered as he walked.
               His brain was turning round. He mounted his horse again, and set forth on his
                  return. Then he would not even have an opportunity of arriving at a distinct
                  understanding! What she had done once she would do again. He was to be simply
                  dismissed contemptuously, as if unworthy of attention,—as a common individual,
                  whose society was disagreeable. Meanwhile, Lord Fairfax was sitting by the side of
                  the young lady, laughing, it might be, at the disappointment of his rival, and
                  basking in the love-light of her fascinating eyes, and those smiles which now
                  shone for him alone.
               The thought maddened the young man almost. He looked over his shoulder at the
                  illuminated window, through which he descried the shadows of the young lady and
                  the Earl, close beside each other. With a muttered imprecation, and clenched
                  hands, the young man struck his horse with the spur, and galloped forward. But he
                  did not proceed far. Just as the house began to disappear in the trees, he reined
                  in his animal and waited—his resolution was taken.
               He did not wait long. Lord Fairfax, as we have said, had spent many hours with
                  Miss Argal, and now desired to reach his home before the outburst of the storm. He
                  accordingly bade the young lady farewell. Falconbridge saw the two forms in the
                  brightly illuminated doorway, and mounting his horse, set forward rapidly toward
                  Greenway.
               The Earl passed within five paces of Falconbridge, but the darkness, which had
                  descended quickly, completely hid the motionless horse and his rider. It was no
                  part of the young man's design to force
                  an explanation of the character which he intended from the Earl, within sight or
                  hearing of Miss Argal. He accordingly permitted the tall horseman to pass him at
                  full gallop; and then giving rein to Sir John, he followed.
               The Earl heard the quick trampling behind him, and wondered at it. The hour and
                  the place were not calculated to remove his suspicions of the pursuer—but he
                  continued his way without noticing the circumstance.
               The hoof-strokes rapidly approached—he heard the quick breathing of the animal
                  behind him—then, before he could speak, a violent hand was laid on his bridle, and
                  the horse, suddenly arrested, reared erect almost, quivering with terror.
               At the same moment a vivid flash of lightning revealed Falconbridge.
               "Sir! Mr. Falconbridge!" exclaimed the Earl, in a voice of utter astonishment and
                  no less indignation, "pray, what is the meaning of this very extraordinary
                  proceeding?"
               "I will inform your lordship before our interview ends," returned Falconbridge, in
                  a deep, hollow voice, which his suffering had rendered almost unrecognizable.
               "Are you mad, sir?" said the Earl, from the darkness; "release my bridle!"
               "Willingly," was the cold reply; "you are no coward, and will not escape me!"
               "Escape! coward! You shall answer for those words, sir!"
               "I am ready to do so."
               "In the darkness, no doubt," returned the Earl, full of contempt and aroused
                  anger, "'tis the favorite cloak of assassins and lunatics."
               The words were scarcely uttered when Falconbridge was heard leaping from his
                  horse. Then a quick sound followed—the sound of steel striking against flint—and
                  almost immediately a pile of dry leaves and prairie grass was blazing aloft,
                  illuminating the forest and the threatening figures with its brilliant flame.
               "Now," said Falconbridge, in the same hollow voice, "if your lordship is not
                  afraid, you may dismount and listen to my questions."
               The word "afraid" acted like magic on Lord Fairfax. He threw himself from the
                  saddle, and gazing at his companion with mingled astonishment and anger,
                  confronted him in the full blaze of the fire.
               There was something strange and tragic in the scene as the two men stood thus. The
                  ruddy light streamed full upon them, and they already had their hands upon their
                  swords.
               "Speak, sir," said the Earl, controlling his anger; "speak, and explain this
                  astonishing encounter."
               "I will do so," said Falconbridge, "and first I will propound a question to you,
                  my lord. Have you visited Miss Argal to-day?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Were you not there when I came to the door and asked for the young lady?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "Are you aware that the young lady is plighted to me?"
               "Plighted, sir! No! She is not!"
               "Does your lordship design giving me the lie?"
               And the young man advanced a step, half drawing his sword.
               "Mr. Falconbridge," said the Earl, without moving, "are you a lunatic? I design
                  nothing, sir,—I reply to your question. I say that Miss Argal is not plighted to
                  you, because she assured me that she was not."
               "She assured you!"
               "Yes, sir."
               "My lord, I do not believe you."
               The Earl's face flushed crimson.
               "That is a deliberate insult!"
               "Yes!"
               
               "As such I receive it, and will make you answer for it, sir, at the point of the
                  sword!"
               "Good! good!" said Falconbridge, with gloomy pleasure, "now your lordship is
                  talking like a man. I thought, as you had tricked an honest gentleman—supplanted
                  him by craft and cunning in the heart of the only woman he ever loved—taken
                  advantage of your rank and wealth to wile away the affections of a lady plighted
                  to another—I thought, as you had done all this, my lord, pretending all the time
                  that you were the best friend I had,—that you would now discover some means of
                  evading my vengeance—of refusing me reparation at the sword's point! I compliment
                  your lordship—you are not frightened at the sight of cold steel at least—you are
                  aroused by my rudeness and my insults! That is well, sir! Let us end, then, all
                  our differences at once, and on this spot—with no witnesses, no preliminaries,
                  without ceremony!"
               And drawing his sword, Falconbridge advanced upon the Earl, whose weapon was also
                  in his hand.
               But it was not raised. The momentary madness of anger had disappeared from the
                  mind of Lord Fairfax—he seriously asked himself if he was not dealing with a
                  madman. The additional consideration immediately presented itself, that a combat
                  at such a time and place, without witnesses, would be productive of the most
                  serious results to the survivor. No evidence that the contest was fair and
                  honorable would exist. The simple fact would be that a man was killed; and there
                  were plenty of persons ready to utter the word murder. If he killed
                  the young man in that lonely spot, could he produce any evidence of the
                  provocation which had led to the act? Would not many of the miserable newsmongers
                  of the region say that jealousy and rivalry had made him waylay his adversary? As
                  these thoughts passed rapidly through the brain of the Earl, he drew back coldly,
                  and sheathed his weapon.
               "Mr. Falconbridge," he said, without moving, as the furious rious young man
                  advanced straight on him, "if you wish to kill me, do so. I will not even trust my
                  sword in my hand. You may not be aware of the fact, but I am, sir, that the
                  survivor in this combat will be regarded as a murderer. But understand me, sir, I
                  do not refuse your challenge—you have outraged and insulted me in a manner which
                  no gentleman can bear, and by heavens! you shall answer it! Go home, and do all
                  things decently and in order. Procure your second, and write me a formal
                  communication. Do not fear, sir! You have made me as desirous of this encounter as
                  yourself, and I am willing, nay, I insist upon it—my blood or your own must flow,
                  sir!"
               With which words the Earl deliberately mounted his horse, and gravely saluting his
                  adversary, continued his road toward Greenway.
               Falconbridge gazed after him for a few moments without moving. The excess of anger
                  in his bosom had somewhat moderated, as he listened to the collected voice of the
                  Earl—but it soon returned in full force again. He had thought of Miss Argal and
                  the two shadows on the wall. With lips firmly compressed, and a more fatal
                  determination in his eye than before, he leaped into the saddle, and just as the
                  storm began to roar around him, and extinguish the fire, darted forward in the
                  direction of the Ordinary.
               "The net is broken!" he muttered, with a bitter sneer, through his close-set
                  teeth, "but the prey has not escaped!"
            
            
               
               XLVII.
               PRELIMINARIES.
               A DUEL!" said Captain Wagner, when upon the following morning Falconbridge related
                  to him the events of the preceding night—"a duel! and about that woman! By the
                  snout of the old he-dragon! Falconbridge, both you and Fairfax are a bigger pair
                  of lunatics than I took you for."
               "So let it be," said Falconbridge, pale and collected as before, "and I do not
                  conceal from you—I cannot—that Miss Argal is connected with the matter."
               "Connected with it! Falconbridge, don't treat me like an idiot," said
                  the Captain, gloomily, "I am sane in mind, and see somewhat further than my
                  nose."
               The young man made no reply.
               "I knew it was coming in some form or other—this misery, and wretchedness and
                  blood!" continued the Captain in a sombre tone, "I smelt it in the air—this bloody
                  odor—or the devil take it!"
               "You were right in your warning," muttered the young man, with unutterable despair
                  in his altered voice! "Would that I had taken your advice."
               "About the nature of panthers, eh?" said Wagner, as grimly as before; "well, I
                  wish you had."
               "It would have been well for me."
               "But you did not believe me," said the Captain, frowning painfully. "And now see,
                  Falconbridge, how things have turned out. You doubted the miserable old bear who
                  growled at the pretty, variegated animal, with her shining coat, her brilliant
                  eyes, her caresses, and smiles, and bright glances! You were almost ready to
                  strike your sword hilt into the mouth that discoursed on the subject. And now,
                  what has happened? You have felt the sharp claws which I told you of! You have
                  rolled into the mortal hug! The long, glittering teeth which mangled Charles
                  Austin and left him in a pool of blood are gnawing you—you are her prey!"
               A groan answered the words. It was irrepressible.
               "Yes, yes," murmured the young man with cruel agony, "yes, yes, that's all true—I
                  am lost!"
               "Not that either! no, you're not, by the snout of the dragon!" returned the
                  soldier; "things are not that bad at least. Don't cry for spilt milk—look the
                  thing in the face. Let me speak like a doctor, comrade, and probe your wound,
                  though you shudder and cry out. I mean well—do you love that woman still?"
               "I know not," was the low reply.
               "Then you do love her still. And now what do you design?"
               "Nothing."
               "That means nothing. Are you going to return to her, Falconbridge?
                  Speak, and say if you are going back to crouch at her feet, to be whipped and spit
                  on, and spurned like a dog! Are you going to cry and bewail, and beg her to love
                  you, and make yourself her slave, her menial! Tell me this. Speak frankly,
                  Falconbridge—are you going to return? If so, though I love you as I would love my
                  own boy comrade, I'll wash my hands clear of the business."
               "Rest easy," was the reply, in the same low voice, "I shall never see her
                  again—except to get from her the ring which was my mother's."
               A contraction of the pale brow and quivering lip betrayed the agony of the
                  speaker, and he was silent. Then he added, in a voice which was almost
                  inaudible,
               "My mother gave me that ring on her death-bed, with her blessing. She cried as she placed it on my
                  finger, and I never removed it until the morning when—I was mad, companion! Don't
                  mind me—you see—I am thinking—of my mother."
               He was silent again. The words had forced their way by violence as it were,
                  through the clenched teeth, and the pale lips. The eyes of the young man were dry
                  and fixed—there were no tears in them.
               "Falconbridge," said Captain Wagner, with frowning brows, "stop that talk, or
                  you'll make me cry like a baby! To think of all this—of the way you have been
                  tricked—of your honesty and true manliness—by the horns of the devil! it makes me
                  flush—my nerves twitch! Would this woman were a man!"
               Indeed a flash of something like fiery rage darted from the eyes of the soldier,
                  and his hand stole down to the hilt of his weapon. Then, as he looked into the
                  countenance of his companion, this flash disappeared; he bent down murmuring: and
                  the old wistful, almost tender expression returned.
               "Falconbridge," he said, "my miserable old heart is bleeding for you, as I think
                  of what may happen in the next twenty-four hours. Whatever may be the result of
                  that combat you announce as coming, it must be horrible."
               "So let it be."
               "There's misery and death in the matter—the blood of one or both of you."
               "Doubtless," was the cold reply of the young man, who had completely mastered his
                  emotion, and was calm again.
               "Fairfax is an admirable swordsman; I have played with him; and you, do you use
                  the short-sword?"
               "Indifferent well."
               "That is well—at least there will be a fair and above-board fight—no unequal
                  combat. But I know not whether it is not unfortunate after all—if I do, may I be
                  scalped!"
               "What do you mean, Captain?" said Falconbridge.
               I mean plainly this—that in case you were ignorant of the use of the small-sword,
                  or completely out of practice, the affair could not take place—it might easily be
                  arranged—as I hope it will be yet. Without a swordsman for his opponent, the Earl
                  would retire—and you would necessarily do likewise."
               "Never! There would remain the pistol!" was the quick reply, between the close-set
                  teeth.
               "A villainous weapon! No! If there's a combat it shall be with short-swords. That
                  is fair and honorable—and now what are you going to do, Falconbridge?"
               "I shall set out at once to find some gentleman of the neighborhood, who'll act as
                  my second."
               "Hum! then you know some?"
               "One or two very slightly, but they cannot refuse me."
               "Hum! hum!" repeated the Captain, still gloomy and thoughtful, but gazing at his
                  companion from time to time with the strange, wistful glance which we have
                  noticed, "and is there no possible way of accommodating this difference?"
               "None on earth. If there is no regular duel, there will be a combat wherever we
                  meet—the blood of myself or Lord Fairfax must flow!"
               "Misery! misery!" muttered the soldier; "a wretched business in every way. And
                  pray, why don't you ask me to second you, Falconbridge?"
               "Because," said the young man, rewarding the speaker with one of his proud
                  glances, full of thanks and feeling, "because you live with Lord Fairfax, and are
                  naturally his second in the matter."
               "Nothing of the sort," returned Wagner, coolly; "you're my friend as much as
                  Fairfax, and by the dragon's snout, I'll not have you go looking for a friend,
                  when his lordship can select one out of a hundred. Wait here, companion. I'll
                  return in an hour. Do you promise?"
               "You say 'an hour?'"
               "Yes."
               "I will wait so long, Captain—but sacrifice nothing for me—have no jar with his lordship. I am not worthy
                  of such friendship, or of such a sacrifice of feeling. I soon pass. See the sun
                  there, comrade! He is mounting the sky—well, it is probable that I'll not see his
                  setting. So be it. I am tired of my life, and death cannot come too quickly. In an
                  hour!"
               And with these gloomy words, which affected the rough Borderer strangely, the
                  young man entered the building, and retired to his chamber.
            
            
               XLVIII.
               THE ARRANGEMENT.
               THE Captain set out at a thundering gallop, and soon reached Greenway Court. Lord
                  Fairfax met him at the door.
               "Ah! welcome Captain Wagner," he said, speaking in his habitual tone of calmness,
                  mingled with gloom; "I was just on the point of sending for you—to the Ordinary,
                  where you have been, I think."
               "Yes, my lord. I spent the night there."
               "And you saw Mr. Falconbridge?"
               "Yes, my lord. This morning."
               "Did he speak of the events which occurred last evening?"
               "As soon as I descended. I have come as quickly as possible to discuss in turn
                  with your lordship, the arrangement of the whole affair."
               The Earl inclined his head gravely, and pointed to a seat, which the Captain
                  assumed.
               "Speak, Captain Wagner," he said, calmly and courteously.
               "I will do so, my lord," returned the Borderer, "and frankly. It is necessary, in
                  this miserable business between yourself and Falconbridge, that I should act as
                  the friend of your opponent. I like candor, and honesty—I prefer talking it out
                  plainly. I am attached to you, my lord, I am your guest, and owe much to you—but I
                  love this young man as if he was my own blood—my son; and he's a stranger here.
                  Your lordship can find a friend who will be proud to act for you—any one of a
                  dozen in the country near at hand—while
                  Falconbridge is almost alone in this land. I announce this in advance, that no
                  misunderstanding may take place—and now, my lord, I await your pleasure."
               "Thanks, Captain Wagner," said the Earl, with a low bow; "it is pleasure indeed
                  which I have experienced as you spoke. I thank you, sir, for this new proof of
                  your confidence and esteem; you rate me as I wish, sir, as a gentleman and an
                  honest man. I not only acquiesce in your proposal to act for Mr. Falconbridge, and
                  acquit you of all want of friendship in so doing toward myself—I was prepared to
                  insist upon this very course. That we understand and treat each other with this
                  confidence, is another proof of that esteem which I think we feel mutually, sir.
                  Thanks, Captain Wagner."
               And the Earl inclined again.
               "Now to business," he continued; "I have already dispatched a request to Colonel
                  Carter that he will wait on me here, and I think he will soon come. Do you bear
                  any communication from Mr. Falconbridge?"
               "No, my lord, I am not regularly in the position of his second yet, and have
                  avoided becoming such, in order that I might act as the mutual friend of
                  both—bound exclusively to neither."
               "As the friend of both?"
               "Yes, my lord—and you know that such is the real truth. As a friend then, in no
                  wise connected with either, I ask, is no arrangement possible without
                  bloodshed?"
               "None, none at all," returned the Earl, with gloomy calmness; "I see no
                  possibility of such a thing. You have doubtless heard the particulars of the
                  encounter in the wood last night, and may easily understand that any explanation
                  is impossible. Let me speak more plainly, and place the whole in a clear light. I
                  have paid my addresses to Miss Argal in due form, and I think she is willing to
                  become the Countess of Fairfax. Let us not speak further of this private matter,
                  which I mention only to elucidate the rest. Well, sir, I often saw Mr.
                  Falconbridge at Mr. Argal's, and his attention to the young lady appeared somewhat
                  particular. I accordingly demanded of her the exact character of these attentions,
                  and she assured me that they were merely those of a friend. Was there any
                  contract, definite or implied, between herself and Mr. Falconbridge? I asked. None
                  whatever, was the reply. Why do you frown and sneer so Captain, with your
                  lip?"
               "I beg your lordship's pardon—'tis a deplorable habit I have acquired. Pray
                  proceed."
               "The rest may be related briefly. Once assured that Mr. Falconbridge had no claims
                  on Miss Argal, and believing that he regarded her in the light of a familiar
                  friend only, I paid her my addresses in a more marked manner. She received them in
                  a manner which induced me to hope that my attentions were agreeable, and my visits
                  became, accordingly, more frequent. Yesterday I spent the afternoon with the young
                  lady. Mr. Falconbridge called, and, to my great surprise, was informed that Miss
                  Argal was engaged, and could not see him. She explained the circumstance by saying
                  that he had grown so moody and disagreeable of late that she must really endeavor
                  to break off her intimacy with him—he made her melancholy. So the subject was
                  forgotten, and I thought no more of the young gentleman until he waylaid me in the
                  wood, and gave me the lie direct."
               The Earl flushed as he spoke; but controlled his emotion and added:
               "That is all, sir. I avoided a conflict then and there by promising to meet Mr.
                  Falconbridge at another and more favorable time. You must see, Captain Wagner,
                  that any overtures from myself are utterly impossible."
               The soldier knit his brows and looked more gloomy than ever.
               "It's a deadly looking mixture, or I'm a dandy!" he muttered, "and unless
                  Falconbridge will move in the matter, all's over."
               
               "What do you say, Captain?"
               "Nothing much, my lord. I will go and see Falconbridge, and return as soon as
                  possible, either bearing you the terms of an arrangement of the affair, or
                  delivering his cartel."
               "That is my duty," returned the Earl. "Mr. Falconbridge will thus have choice of
                  weapons, time and place."
               "There will be no trouble about that, my lord; now I'll go and see what I can
                  do."
               With these words the soldier mounted his horse, and returned rapidly to the
                  Ordinary. All his attempts to move the young man were utterly in vain—the
                  arguments of the Borderer fell back, so to speak, from his iron resolution, like
                  waves from an ocean rock. At the end of an hour there was nothing remaining but
                  the question of time, place and weapons. The Captain returned, and found Colonel
                  Carter at Greenway, and with this gentleman he now discussed, formally, as the
                  second of Falconbridge, the terms of the combat.
               It was arranged that it should take place on the same evening at a spot within the
                  Fort Mountain, which was secluded and favorable for the purpose, and then the
                  Captain returned to the Ordinary.
               He had never been more gloomy.
            
            
               XLIX.
               THE COMBAT.
               AS the hour which had been fixed for the combat drew near, the four men entered
                  the narrow defile of the Fort Mountain, and approached the secluded spot which had
                  been selected.
               They dismounted, tied their horses to the hanging boughs, and advanced slowly to
                  the arena.
               Captain Wagner and his principal returned the low salute of Lord Fairfax, and his
                  friend, with one equally courteous, and then the seconds approached each other,
                  and conversed for some moments in a low tone, which was inaudible to their
                  companions.
               The preliminaries were soon arranged, and the swords were produced and measured.
                  They tallied exactly in length, and were of the same weight and temper. A nod from
                  the Captain testified to his satisfaction.
               At a sign from the seconds, the Earl and Falconbridge then removed their coats and
                  waistcoats, and advanced to a spot indicated. They halted, saluted each other, and
                  received the weapons from the hands of Captain Wagner and Colonel Carter.
               "The terms of the combat are as follows, gentlemen," said the Captain. "You shall
                  engage, and so proceed for as long a time as seems proper. But in no case shall
                  any personal collision of bodies take place; there shall be no clutching, and no
                  resort to other weapons than the short-sword. Should either weapon break, or the
                  foot of either party slip, or stumble, the engagement shall terminate for the
                  time. I will give the signal by raising my hand."
               
               At the appointed signal, the two men advanced upon each other, and the weapons
                  clashed together, the light of the sinking sun darting vividly from their
                  burnished surfaces.
               Both were excellent swordsmen, and soon felt that all their science would be
                  necessary. The combat was thus guarded at first, and consisted of a series of
                  fencing lunges, rather than rapid thrusts, as though each were feeling the wrist
                  of his adversary. Falconbridge was the more active and supple of the two—the Earl
                  stronger and heavier in his fence. Still, as the combat grew more excited, neither
                  had gained any advantage—and the blood of both gradually grew heated. The Earl
                  glared at his enemy, and a spot in each cheek began to glow; on his forehead the
                  huge veins became black. Falconbridge was pale, but the fire in his eyes
                  contradicted his apparent calmness: his lips were set together like iron.
               Despite his most powerful exertions the Earl could not drive the young man back an
                  inch; and his most deadly lunges were regularly parried. The old swordsman grew
                  fiery and dangerous. His cheeks glowed as if from the light of a conflagration—he
                  braced his gaunt frame until it resembled a bundle of steel springs, and advanced
                  step by step upon Falconbridge. He did not yield or give ground—the points of the
                  weapons played in the very faces of the combatants—the hilts were almost wrapped
                  around each other.
               Then, in spite of the exclamations and protests of the seconds, who hastened
                  quickly toward them, a desperate, hand to hand, stabbing-match, rather than
                  sword-play, commenced. Both the Earl and Falconbridge received slight wounds—but
                  the sight of blood only enraged them more bitterly.
               In another moment each would have mortally wounded his adversary, and so brought
                  the combat to an end, when suddenly the two men were dragged violently asunder,
                  and the Wizard of the Massinutton interposed his tall form, shuddering with
                  strange emotion, between the adversaries. The respective seconds of the combatants
                  had rushed forward, crying, "Gentlemen! gentlemen! this must cease! no poniard
                  fight!"—but the towering resident of the Fort Mountain had forestalled them. He
                  had seen the party when they entered the gorge of the valley, and divining their
                  intention, hastened quickly toward them. He had arrived in time, and now stood
                  between the hot swordsmen, his form towering high above even that of the Earl—his
                  face, generally so pale, flushed with tragic emotion.
               The Earl gazed at him angrily, and raised his head haughtily as their eyes
                  encountered.
               "Pray, what is the meaning of this interruption, sir?" he said. "Are you aware
                  that you peril your life by this proceeding!"
               "Yes, my lord," said the wizard, still agitated in every muscle of his tall,
                  nervous frame by the singular tremor we have noticed. "Your weapon was within an
                  ace of penetrating my breast; and Mr. Falconbridge also nearly struck me. But that
                  is little!"
               "Your meaning, sir! Stand back!"
               "I will not! You may kill me, if the act will be productive of satisfaction to
                  your lordship; but you shall not even do that until you hear what I came to say to
                  you."
               There was something so resolute and gloomy in the voice of the old man, and his
                  eyes burned with such significance beneath his bushy white brows, that the Earl
                  unconsciously dropped the point of his sword, and was silent.
               "Your proceeding is extraordinary, very extraordinary, sir," he replied, coldly,
                  "but I respect your age, and say no more. I only request that you will communicate
                  to me speedily what you design to inform me of—I know not what it is—then we will
                  proceed!"
               "It is necessary," returned the wizard, "that your lordship should listen to it in
                  private."
               
               "Impossible, sir!" the Earl replied, impatiently shaking his head: "I cannot, and
                  will not leave this spot until this matter is terminated!"
               "You must!" was the resolute answer. "Yes, my lord, I tell you, and I know what I
                  say—I tell you that you must hear me speak, and privately. This combat shall not
                  continue, if it becomes necessary for me to interpose my own body between your
                  swords."
               "You speak in riddles, sir!" exclaimed the Earl; "stand back!"
               "Strike, then, gentlemen," replied the wizard, calmly folding his arms, and not
                  moving from the spot which he occupied between the combatants; "if you wish to
                  shed blood, shed my own to commence with. I swear to you that nothing shall move
                  me but the death-blow!"
               And he confronted the Earl with a majesty and determination in eye, lip, and
                  bearing, which produced an effect even on his angry opponent.
               "Well, have your wish, sir!" said Lord Fairfax, frowning, "with the permission of
                  Captain Wagner, I will retire for a moment, to the distance of ten paces—is it
                  permitted, sir?"
               "It is permitted, my lord," said the Captain.
               "Well, let us make haste, sir," said the Earl: and sheathing his sword, he
                  followed his companion, with quick steps. They had proceeded about ten paces, and
                  the wizard had commenced speaking in a low, guarded tone, when the Earl was
                  observed to start violently. As he did so, his head turned quickly, and he fixed
                  upon Falconbridge one of those glances of lightning, which, on extraordinary
                  occasions, made his eyes resemble flaming brands. His face was deadly pale, and
                  the contracted lips revealed his white teeth set like a vice together. He no
                  longer opposed the will of his companion, evidently—they walked a hundred yards,
                  talking in a low, agitated manner, and finally disappeared behind a huge mass of
                  rock, covered with moss and evergreens, which rose on the declivity of the
                  mountain.
               The three gentlemen who had been left by themselves in this unceremonious manner,
                  waited patiently for a quarter of an hour. Then they began to look curiously
                  toward the rocky screen. Another quarter of an hour passed slowly away, and
                  Colonel Carter, at the request of Captain Wagner, had just gone to summon the
                  Earl, when the two me were seen returning.
               An extraordinary change had taken place in the bearing and appearance of Lord
                  Fairfax. When he left the party, he had carried his head proudly erect, his eyes
                  were flashing with anger, and the aroused thirst for blood—he had resembled a
                  warhorse, snuffing the odor of battle, and champing at the bit which restrains
                  him. Now, all this had disappeared. His shoulders were drooping—his cheeks were
                  pale: his eyes, of late so fiery, were full of wistful light; and he gazed upon
                  his companions with an expression of absent wonder which impressed them with the
                  most vivid astonishment. Especially did they experience a sentiment amounting to
                  stupefaction, almost, when they saw the Earl glance toward Falconbridge. In that
                  glance there was no longer any enmity, any anger—all had vanished. It was a gaze
                  almost tender in its character; and plainly an unconscious one to the Earl. The
                  young man wondered at it, but replied only by a look haughtier than before, and
                  calmly tested the metal of his weapon by pressing the point upon his boot.
               Lord Fairfax soon recovered from his fit of absence, however, and by a great
                  effort, summoned his habitual calmness.
               He approached Captain Wagner, and Falconbridge, and bowing with grave courtesy,
                  said:
               "This affair cannot proceed, gentlemen, and the singular circumstances
                  accompanying the fact, is the entire silence which I am compelled to observe at
                  present upon the character of the considerations which render a further combat
                  impossible."
               
               Falconbridge flushed, and grasped his sword in a menacing manner.
               "I am aware," continued the Earl, in the same calm voice, "that my words are
                  enigmas, but I cannot prevent that. I will make any apology, or follow any course
                  which Mr. Falconbridge may see fit to demand."
               The seconds and Falconbridge greeted these words with incredulous wonder; but the
                  Earl did not seem to observe it, and added:
               "I propose, in all that relates to an affair in which Mr. Falconbridge and myself
                  hold the position of rival claimants, to withdraw my pretensions, and retire from
                  the field—his interests shall no longer suffer from my presence—and I am prepared
                  to make him any apology which he requires, for anything in which he may have
                  thought himself wronged, by any act of my own."
               The words were uttered as calmly and coldly as before, in spite of a faint tinge
                  which rose slowly to the cheek, and having finished them, the Earl bowed low and
                  was silent. The seconds and Falconbridge had listened with an amazement greater
                  than before; but this expression in the eyes of Wagner was succeeded by another of
                  unmistakable pleasure. As the Earl ended his address, he bowed low and
                  replied:
               "As the friend of Mr. Falconbridge, I accept your lordship's proposal. We shall
                  waive all further explanations or discussions, resting content with the general
                  disclaimer, and offer which has been made. You will permit me, my lord, to say on
                  the part of Mr. Falconbridge, whom I represent, that this proposition is no less
                  characteristic of your lordship's magnanimity, than of your fearless disregard of
                  appearances. And so, gentlemen, the matter's at an end—the fight's over—if it's
                  not, I'm a crop-eared dandy!"
               With this joyous outburst, the Captain twirled his moustache violently, and
                  picking up the coats of the combatants, handed them to those gentlemen, with an
                  air full of grace and politeness. With a clouded, and gloomy brow, Falconbridge
                  yielded to his representative, and the whole party were soon again in the saddle,
                  on their way back to the Lowland.
               The wizard was slowly retracing his steps up the mountain.
            
            
               
               L.
               HOW FALCONBRIDGE RECOVERED HIS MOTHER'S RING.
               ON the day after the events which have just been narrated, Falconbridge set out
                  from the Ordinary to visit Miss Argal for the last time.
               We know the design of his visit. All was over—there was no longer any hope—the
                  drama was played—he had fallen in the contest: but he must look upon her face once
                  more for a moment; he must recover the plain gold ring which had belonged to his
                  mother, and remained in the possession of the young lady.
               As he thus drew near to the secluded dwelling in which he had spent so many happy
                  hours, a painful and cruel shadow swept across the broad brow of the young man.
                  His shoulders drooped; his lip quivered; and the heavy-looking eyes were half
                  veiled by the long lashes which almost reposed upon the pallid cheeks.
                  Falconbridge was passing through that baptism of silent agony which sprinkles the
                  hair of youth with gray.
               As if to mock him, the face of nature was serene and benignant. The chill winds
                  had passed away—and that season which is called the "Indian Summer" had arrived.
                  The landscape was still, and bathed in imperceptible floods of vapor—every outline
                  was rounded, every angle had disappeared—the soft mellow haze rested like a veil
                  of gauze on the distant mountains, the prairie and the forest. A dreamy and mild
                  influence seemed to pervade the whole scene, and the genius of silence and repose
                  was enthroned, where lately the fresh breezes of October careered onward, rustling
                  the dry leaves.
               But the young man scarcely observed the change. His own thoughts made the world in
                  which he moved. An irresistible sadness invaded, and took possession of him; and
                  he went along, unconscious of the landscape around him, dead to all but his own
                  sombre meditations.
               When Sir John stopped at the door, now so well known and familiar, his master
                  looked up with a vague, absent wonder. Then slowly dismounting, he affixed his
                  bridle to a bough, and approached.
               He knocked at the door—no one answered. But hearing the sound of voices in the
                  apartment to the right, which was used as a sitting-room, he turned the knob, and
                  entered.
               The sight which greeted him sent the blood violently to his heart, and an
                  irresistible shudder ran through his frame. He leaned against the frame-work of
                  the door for support, as though his limbs were about to fail him.
               In the middle of the apartment Mr. Argal was holding, with a vigorous grasp, both
                  wrists of his daughter, and endeavoring to soothe her. It was the appearance of
                  the young lady, however, which made Falconbridge recoil, shuddering. She was
                  scarcely recognizable. Her dress was in rude disorder—her black hair was hanging
                  down on her naked shoulders in tangled masses, and the fiery dark eyes which
                  burned beneath her knit brows, were filled with an expression of rage and wildness
                  which was terrible. The small pearly teeth had bit the writhing lip until the
                  blood flowed—and in every muscle of her body, as in her face, the visitor
                  discerned an awful distortion.
               It was evidently as much as Mr. Argal could do to hold her. The nervous force
                  which she displayed was wonderful. The soft round arms seemed endowed with the
                  strength of a giant—and in spite of his most powerful exertions, the writhing form
                  almost escaped from her father's grasp.
               "I tell you!" she cried hoarsely, and in a voice which the young man did not
                  recognize as her own; "I tell you I saw
                  him last night! He was lying in his blood! His eyes called to me—I will go to
                  him!"
               "There, daughter, you are unwell," muttered the heavy-hearted father, in a voice
                  of deep anguish; "don't talk so, and sit down."
               "I will not! I will go! There, the eyes again!"
               "It is your fancy, my poor child."
               "My fancy! It is false! I tell you there he is looking at me—there is blood on his
                  bosom—blood for me to wipe away!"
               "My poor child"—
               "Let me go!"
               The words were followed by a superhuman effort to disengage herself; but the iron
                  grasp was not relaxed.
               "I loved him! I never loved any one before! I loved him with my whole heart—and he
                  is dead! That man killed him—he is gone!"
               "No, my child," murmured the poor father, who had taken no notice of the young
                  man's entrance, "he is not dead—there he stands."
               "Yes, I see him—it is his spirit! He is coming like Charles Austin to call me;
                  Edmund! Edmund! I am coming!"
               And again the terrible struggle commenced. The sharp, white teeth caught the
                  crimson lip and gnawed it cruelly—the round, supple form writhed violently in the
                  grasp of Mr. Argal. The paroxysm was succeeded by an interval of comparative
                  quiet, and the frame of the young lady exhibited evidences of exhaustion. A few
                  more struggles ensued, and then they ceased. Her features relaxed; the burning
                  eyes filled with leaden 
                     langour
                     languor
                  ; the form drooped slowly, and murmuring, "I loved him only!" the girl
                  fainted in the arms of her father.
               Without speaking, he bore her to the sofa, and placed her unresisting figure on
                  the cushioned seat. In a moment she revived, but it was only to burst into tears,
                  and sob hopelessly—she was plainly unconscious of any one's presence. Mr. Argal
                  gazed at her for a few moments, with an expression of wretchedness, mixed with
                  tenderness unutterable: then he turned and approached the young man.
               "You are shocked at this terrible scene, I see plainly, sir," he said in a low,
                  collected voice; "and there is little cause for wonder in the fact. Pray retire
                  with me—I have a few words to say to you."
               As he spoke, Mr. Argal summoned a maid, who went quietly to the side of her
                  mistress with the air of one who was quite familiar with such scenes, and then the
                  two men went out into the small porch. The youth walked in a dream as it were—his
                  mind was struggling—he could not think connectedly. Mr. Argal placed his hand, by
                  an unconscious movement, upon his heart, and mastering his agitation, said in a
                  low voice, full of gloomy sorrow:
               "Mr. Falconbridge, you have become the depositary of a terrible secret of my
                  family. Do you understand what you have just witnessed, sir?"
               "No," came from the white lips, in a tone almost inaudible, "I do not, sir."
               "I will explain it. My daughter is mad."
               The words sent a shudder through the frame of Falconbridge, and his face turned
                  paler than that of a corpse, but he said nothing.
               "The fit seized her to-day, sir," continued Mr. Argal, suppressing a groan; "it
                  was probably occasioned by the affair between yourself and Lord Fairfax, which the
                  servants repeated."
               The young man drew a long, deep breath, but was still silent.
               "And now, sir," continued Mr. Argal, slowly recovering his calmness, but speaking
                  in a voice of heart-broken woe; "and now, sir, I owe you a few words of
                  explanation, if only to vindicate my own character in this affair, from the
                  imputations which must otherwise rest upon me. I will be plain, I will conceal nothing—for I speak to a
                  gentleman, and a man of honor. I will keep back no particular. My daughter has
                  been subject to attacks of insanity, sir, from her childhood. It was not a defect
                  of her birth, but occasioned by a dangerous fall from a fruit-tree, which
                  inflicted a deep wound upon her head, and affected the brain. Soon after this
                  incident, I observed the indications of mental disease. Her character, which had
                  before been as open and ingenuous as the day, became secretive and subtile. She
                  would look sidewise and watch the persons with whom she conversed, and store away
                  in hidden places little objects which she had taken. Then, as the years passed on,
                  she changed more and more—she became cruel and pitiless, she, my own child! who
                  had been a very angel of goodness and tenderness—whose heart would have bled at
                  the suffering of the least insect—she grew hard and unpitying!"
               A low moan accompanied the words of the poor father; he controlled his agony with
                  difficulty, but resumed:
               "The strange lustre you must have seen in my child's eyes, sir, then appeared.
                  They glittered with a morbid light—an unnatural, insane light! It was the
                  misfortune of a poor youth to be attracted by their brightness—he loved her, and
                  when she dismissed him, at the moment when one of her paroxysms was approaching,
                  he put an end to himself!"
               Again the speaker paused, and a woful contraction of the lip showed the struggle
                  which he had passed through before revealing these things.
               "Well, to go on, sir. When she heard of the youth's death, she was seized with a
                  fit of madness. I passed through a scene like that which you have witnessed
                  to-day; it made me twenty years older. But it ended: and my child returned to
                  herself again; to wring her hands and weep, and exclaim that his death was caused
                  by her act. She wrote to the youth's brother and rival, a full history of her
                  mental aberration, and requested him to never approach her again. So that
                  terminated, and soon afterward I removed hither. I now come to the scenes
                  connected with yourself, sir; and I acknowledge in advance that I have been guilty
                  of a criminal weakness. I saw your attentions to my daughter, and feared the
                  result. But I could not speak! I should have done so, as a man of common
                  honesty—that is true, sir—but I could not! Look at my face, Mr. Falconbridge! See
                  the vulture that is gnawing me! I have been false to you—but I could not speak!
                  Oh, sir! may you never know what it is to feel this awful shame!—to be drawn one
                  way by your honor, and another way by love for a poor insane child! I could not
                  reveal her awful secret, degrade her in all eyes, make her name the laughing stock
                  or the horror of every one! I could not brand my own child in your eyes with the
                  stigma of madness! So I paltered, sir, with my terrible responsibility. I said to
                  myself that you were only a youth, in the region for a short time; that you would
                  soon go, and our existence be forgotten. My poor child denied any engagement
                  between you—I know not with what truth—I do not ask, sir. Then Lord Fairfax
                  appeared: she attracted his attention, and his admiration. This very day I had
                  intended to go and tell him what I have told you, sir, if it killed me. That is
                  all. I have spoken, Mr. Falconbridge, with an effort, and laboring under an agony
                  of feeling which no words can describe! It is little to declare to you that my
                  heart is broken—but that is beside the question. I know not whether I should ever
                  have found courage to tell you all, if you had not chanced to come when you did.
                  But you know all now. I have striven to show you that in concealing my child's
                  condition I did not act with deliberate dishonor, to entrap you. Before my Maker,
                  sir, I solemnly declare that I am guiltless at least in this. I was weak, my heart
                  was torn with shame and anguish—I could not speak! I should have fled from the
                  country with my daughter on the eve of her nuptials—that is all!"
               
               With heaving bosom and quivering lips, Mr. Argal was silent for some moments. Then
                  he added:
               "I have now told you everything, sir, and I feel less shame than before. In a few
                  weeks I go with my poor child from this region—in some distant land we may bury
                  our shame and suffering. Without her, I should have no life—she is dearer to me
                  than all the world. Speak well of her, Mr. Falconbridge—she is weak, not
                  sinful!—or if that is impossible, say nothing! God has heavily stricken her, and
                  her lot has been a terrible one—do not add to its darkness by your enmity or
                  contempt! After all, sir, however much she may have wronged you, she is a woman, a
                  mere girl, and should excite your pity! You heard her broken words—in her
                  madness—she loved you—I pray you, sir, to forgive my poor child and me."
               The broken and agitated voice died away, and no sound was heard but the flutter of
                  a single leaf, which parted from a bough of the oak above, and pattered down. The
                  young man remembered that sound afterwards, and shuddered at it. To the struggling
                  words of the sorrowful speaker he made no immediate reply; his eyes were full of
                  tears, his lips refused their office. At last he mastered his emotion in a partial
                  degree, and in a tone almost inaudible, said:
               "Thanks for your confidence, Mr. Argal. I am so far from blaming you for not
                  revealing all before, that I honor and respect your deep love and tenderness, and
                  think I would have acted as you did. You know me well enough to believe me when I
                  say that all this shall be locked up forever in my breast. I need scarcely add
                  that no word against you or your daughter shall ever pass my lips. From my heart,
                  from my soul, from the depths of my soul, sir, I pity and sympathize with you!
                  Your daughter is sacred to me—it is as a child that I shall regard her—my heart is
                  broken like yours, but I blame no one. In the presence of that God, sir, who
                  afflicted your child, I swear to guard her name from reproach or wrong. I have
                  nothing to forgive; if I had, I should forgive her."
               He held out his hand as he spoke, and a long pressure was exchanged. As the two
                  hands were thus clasped, a low sob at the elbow of the young man made him start
                  and tremble. He turned and saw Miss Argal standing motionless in the doorway, and
                  holding toward him his mother's ring. Her face was wet with tears—her eyes swam as
                  she gazed at him; she murmured, rather than said:
               "This is your ring, sir—I have deceived you. Will you forgive me?"
               The words were followed by a quiver of the bleeding lip, and bursting into tears,
                  the young lady placed her handkerchief to her eyes, and went hastily to her
                  chamber.
               Falconbridge stood looking after her, with the ring in his hand, and never did the
                  countenance of a human being express more unutterable anguish. He leaned against
                  the pillar of the portico for support, and uttered a groan of such despairing
                  wretchedness, that it seemed to tear its way from the very depths of his being,
                  and compress the woe of years into a second.
               Then, making a slight movement with his head toward Mr. Argal, he slowly went and
                  mounted his horse. The bridle lay untouched upon the neck of the animal, and
                  Falconbridge did not speak to or direct him.
               Sir John took the road at a gallop toward the Ordinary. The rider seemed to be
                  dreaming. His shoulders bent forward; his chin rested on his breast; from time to
                  time he passed his hand wearily across his forehead, and gazed absently around
                  him.
               The animal continued his headlong gallop.
               Half a mile from the Ordinary, the young man reeled in the saddle. Overcome by
                  vertigo, he would have fallen the next moment from his flying animal, when the
                  bridle was suddenly seized, the horse thrown on his haunches, and the arms of
                  Captain Wagner caught the drooping form.
               
               "So it ends!" cried the gloomy and sneering voice of the soldier, "all is
                  over!"
               Two words replied to him, as Falconbridge fainted—two words, in an accent of
                  unspeakable pity:
               "Poor child!"
            
            
               LI.
               THE APOLOGY.
               TWO or three days have passed. It is a beautiful morning of the "Indian Summer" as
                  before. The landscape of mountain and valley is reposing beneath the mellow haze;
                  and the air has that dreamy and delightful softness which inclines the heart to
                  reverie.
               In the large room of Greenway Court, Lord Fairfax is conversing with George and
                  Cannie. The youth had brought the girl behind him from the Fort on the preceding
                  evening—they had spent the night—and before setting out to return, Cannie examined
                  the objects around her, with evident interest.
               George was gazing at her with unconscious earnestness. His affection for the girl
                  had grown deeper and stronger. As he came to know her better, the rare charms of
                  her mind and heart had enthralled him. Her goodness and simplicity, and absence of
                  all littleness, irresistibly attracted his frank nature; and the unconscious
                  refinement and grace of the little maiden, riveted the influence which her
                  character had exerted upon the boy. He thus gazed at her with a fondness which was
                  plainly uncontrollable, and the Earl smiled with melancholy pleasure as he saw the
                  youth's secret. His countenance wore the old expression of sorrowful thought, but
                  there was nothing cynical in it now. The grim look had disappeared, and though
                  cheerfulness was not there, still the face was more pleasant for the change. He
                  leaned back in his arm-chair, caressing with one hand the solemn head of a huge
                  deer-hound at his side, and his gaze
                  wandered absently but pleasantly from George to Cannie.
               "So, you like my house, Cannie?" he said; "my old hunting-lodge?"
               "Yes, sir—oh, yes, I mean my lord," returned the girl; "I have been looking at the
                  books and the pictures and all. They remind me of home."
               "Of home? Do you remember your home? Where was that?"
               "In the Low Country, sir. But I was born in England."
               "And you do not remember England?"
               "Very slightly, sir. I look upon Virginia as my home, and love it—because
                  grandpapa is with me. He is all I have."
               The eyes of George seemed to contradict this statement, but he said nothing. Then
                  a sigh from the Earl made him turn his head,
               "You are right, my child," said the old nobleman, gazing at Cannie with wistful
                  tenderness; "our real home is the land where the heart finds its rest. 'Tis a
                  terrible disease, what is called home-sickness, Cannie, and I've felt it, as many
                  others have done."
               The quick look of sympathy in the eyes of the girl seemed to touch the Earl, and
                  he continued in the same tone of melancholy softness:
               "I was born and reared in England, and you see that I am living now in another
                  land. I long sometimes to look upon the familiar old scenes, and pluck a daisy
                  from the sod of old England, my mother soil. I remember the same feeling in a
                  nobleman of my acquaintance who was exiled by political troubles to France. His
                  name was Henry St. John, a very brilliant person, whom you, George, have read of,
                  I am sure, and it may be Cannie, also, though he's long dead, and she's very
                  young. I had known him in London, and spent many delightful hours with him—for his
                  conversation was wonderfully attractive. His favorite topic was the superiority of
                  a strong mind to misfortune—the strength he possessed to bear up against obloquy
                  and exile, sustained by his own thoughts and his philosophy. Well, see how it
                  ended. I went to visit him in France, and a more unhappy personage I have rarely
                  seen. All his philosophy was gone—he had yielded. 'The burst of the cloud had gone
                  near to overwhelm him,' he said one day: and he looked as he spoke toward the
                  cliffs of England, as a child does toward its mother. He never rested in his
                  efforts to regain his home—and sometimes I think I am his shadow in the New World.
                  I would return, and lay my bones in the soil where my forefathers sleep."
               The Earl was silent again, absently caressing the head of the great
                  deer-hound.
               "All is the same, however, my dear," he added, in a moment, "under the blue skies
                  of home, or the stormy clouds of distant countries, the one thing is to be honest
                  and true. One looks down on us who governs and directs for the best—do you not
                  feel that?"
               "Oh, yes, sir—my lord," returned Cannie, to whose eyes the sad tones of the old
                  cavalier had brought tears, "indeed I do, and that is enough to make us happy, I
                  am sure! In the 
                     mountaians
                     mountains
                   or the lowlands, He is still beside us. Whether we are buried in the
                  sands, or the ocean, it is still the same—as Mr. Falconbridge said, you remember,
                  George."
               "Mr. Falconbridge?" murmured the Earl; "do you know him, then, Cannie?"
               "Oh, yes, sir—he has been to see us, and I could not help loving him. His face is
                  so kind and true-looking—and when he smiles I feel as if it was sunshine."
               "That is true," said the Earl, with a bright light in his eyes which made his face
                  pleasant to behold. "Mr. Falbridge is truly a gentleman."
               "Oh, I'm sure he is. I loved him from the first moment I saw him."
               
               "He loved you as well," said a voice behind the speaker.
               And Falconbridge, who had entered without attracting attention, inclined his head
                  to the company. In a moment the girl, by an irresistible impulse, had risen to her
                  feet, and caught in her own warm little hand, the thin hand of the young man. Then
                  she gazed into his eyes with a wistful look, and said:
               "You are very, very pale, sir."
               Indeed the young man resembled a ghost rather than a human being. All the laughing
                  pride of the eye and lip had vanished; his cheeks had lost their bloom, and were
                  falling away; an unspeakable sadness stamped his entire countenance and bearing;
                  in a few days he seemed to have lived twenty years. As he smiled now, and pressed
                  the little hand in his own, there was something so touching and pathetic in his
                  appearance, that Cannie could not restrain her tears.
               "There, there, don't cry, my dear," said Falconbridge; "you distress me. The
                  change in my appearance moves you, I suppose—but 'tis nothing. I have been
                  somewhat unwell, but am better. I trust your lordship is well."
               And the speaker inclined low, with stately courtesy, before the Earl.
               "Thanks—yes, sir—very well," replied Lord Fairfax, who had scarcely moved, and
                  still regarded his visitor with evident agitation. But there was nothing hostile
                  in his emotion. On the contrary a strange earnestness and softness characterized
                  his bearing, as he pointed to a seat, and bowed low to his guest.
               "Many thanks, my lord," returned Falconbridge, "but my visit must be brief. In
                  three days I shall leave this region, and I come to make an explanation to your
                  lordship."
               The Earl, still singularly agitated, glanced uneasily at George and Cannie. The
                  two young persons rose with quick courtesy, and would have retired, but
                  Falconbridge arrested them by a movement of his hand.
               "No, do not retire," he said; "my explanation is not a private one—and I have
                  entire confidence in you both, George and Cannie. Pray remain, then—and now, my
                  lord, for my business. I have come hither to say, like an honest gentleman, that I
                  have wronged you, and to beg you to pardon me. I will imitate the reserve of your
                  lordship on the mountain yonder, and add in general terms what I mean. I accused
                  you, in my heart, and to your face, in the forest there, of an unworthy and
                  dishonorable action. I insulted and outraged you, and forced you to meet me in
                  single combat. I am truly glad at the issue of that business, for I wronged you,
                  not intentionally, but no less really. Since that time, I have discovered my
                  error, and your innocence. I have been ill, and had time to reflect. I have risen
                  from my sick couch to come and say to your lordship, that I am sorry for my words
                  and for my actions—to declare my conviction of your irreproachable honor—and to
                  entreat your pardon and forgiveness."
               With these words Falconbridge bowed low again, and was silent.
               "I have nothing to forgive, sir," replied the Earl, almost eagerly; "I should
                  rather sue to you—for I have wounded you, I fear, deeply. On my honor, sir, the
                  act was not malicious—I pray you to forget all, and receive my hand."
               There was something earnest and noble in the voice of the Earl as he thus spoke,
                  and a slight color came to the cheek of the young man. He took the proffered hand,
                  and the eyes of the strange rivals met in one long look of deep meaning.
               "I shall now beg your lordship's permission to retire," said Falconbridge. "I am
                  not well, and the ride hither has fatigued me. As I have declared, in three days I
                  leave this country. This will be my farewell to your lordship."
               Then turning to George and Cannie, he held out his hand, with the melancholy smile which had excited
                  the child's tears. She cried again as she took it, and George bit his lip to
                  conceal his emotion.
               "I am glad to have seen your kind face again," he said to Cannie; and yours,
                  George, though I trust you'll come to see me before I go. And now, good-bye. I
                  salute your lordship, and bid you farewell."
               In spite of the Earl's hospitable invitations to remain, which were uttered with
                  great earnestness, the young man then departed; and soon afterwards George and
                  Cannie set out on their return to the mountain.
               "In three days!" murmured the Earl,—"then he goes in three days! But he shall
                  not!—no, he shall not! How noble he is, and how pale! Poor boy, my heart ached
                  when he smiled as he did. In three days? We shall see!"
               As the Earl spoke thus, Captain Wagner hastily entered the apartment.
            
            
               LII.
               THE COURIER.
               THE appearance of the Borderer indicated news of importance.
               "What has occurred?" said the Earl.
               "The rascals are coming!" returned Wagner, throwing his hat on the table. "At
                  least they are on the way, my lord—the Injuns!"
               "Ah! What of them? What news of them?"
               "A plenty, and too much. A courier is following me, and he'll soon relate all to
                  your lordship. Well, I think we'll have stirring times at last. We'll eat 'em, or
                  be eat by 'em, or I'm a dandy!"
               As the Borderer spoke, the sound of a horse's hoofs was heard, and in a few
                  minutes a roughly-clad settler from the frontier entered, and bowed low to the
                  Earl. His tidings were soon imparted. The Indians had crossed the Alleghanies two
                  days before, in large numbers, and had laid waste the entire South Branch manor,
                  killing women and children, and even attacking Fort Pleasant and Edwards' Fort, on
                  Cacaphon. In all directions, homes were blazing, fields on fire, the dead bodies
                  of the settlers and their families were stretched across a hundred thresholds,
                  along the line of march of the savages. The incursion had been so sudden that no
                  preparation, on the part of the borderers, had opposed it; and the whole region
                  west of the town of Winchester was helpless at the feet of the advancing enemy.
                  Such was the information of the courier, who gave his account with long-drawn
                  breaths, as one laboring under great exhaustion. In fact he had ridden night and
                  day, and was worn out. Old John
                  speedily took charge of him, in obedience to the direction of his master, and the
                  Captain and Lord Fairfax were left alone together.
               "Well," said the Earl, his swarthy face glowing; "well, Captain, there seems every
                  probability of your prediction being verified. We'll have fighting, and that
                  speedily. What are the defences of the region immediately west of Winchester?"
               "Few or none," returned the soldier, knitting his brow and reflecting: "there's
                  Pugh's, and Enoch's and Parker's Forts, with Edwards', the strongest. Further
                  west, toward Fort Cumberland, are Pearsall's and Sellar's, and Fort Pleasant,
                  which is well fortified. But these are passed. Its dooms unlucky, my lord—but
                  these worthies seem to have heard nothing of the inroad until it was on 'em, and
                  the very devil will be to pay, or I'm a dandy! Where's the map? I know the region
                  by heart, but may forget some places?"
               The Earl drew it out of the drawer, and they were soon poring over it. The result
                  was discouraging. The forts mentioned by the Captain were all regularly laid down,
                  but no others.
               "There are plenty of cabins," said the Borderer, frowning thoughtfully; "but they
                  are shells that the first blow will smash. What remains? I tell your lordship I
                  have never been taken more aback. Messengers must, however, be sent immediately
                  throughout the river counties. I'll assemble the hunters and settlers around here
                  myself, and then let the bloody scoundrels look out. I have said I'd eat their
                  carcasses, and I'll do it, or my name's not Wagner!"
               A quick discussion of the details then took place, and the plan of operations was
                  agreed upon. In two hours couriers were departing in all directions, and Captain
                  Wagner himself was scouring the country, to assemble the settlers in the immediate
                  vicinity.
               On the next evening a messenger arrived with the intelligence that the band of
                  Indians had gone in an opposite direction, toward the Potomac, plundering and
                  burning on their march.
               "I'll go after 'em," said the Captain, who had returned from his long ride; "the
                  boys will assemble at Winchester to-morrow, and I'll take command, as your
                  lordship has directed."
               "Such is my wish, Captain," returned the Earl, "and thus we may take breath for a
                  moment."
               "And I'll take some Jamaica, with your permission, my lord, or zounds! without
                  your permission, for I'm broke down! I've been in the saddle till I feel as if I
                  grew there. I'm bow-legged, or the devil take it!"
               Having swallowed his Jamaica, the Captain became more tranquil, and listened in
                  silence to the Earl.
               "And now for a private matter of my own," said the Earl. "Where is Mr.
                  Falconbridge, Captain?"
               "At the Ordinary, my lord."
               "Does he return to the Lowland?"
               "He! return to the Lowland! Who? Falconbridge? You don't know him, my lord. He's a
                  good heart of oak, and you ought to have see his face when he heard of the killing
                  of the women and children! It was a glorious face, or I'm a dandy! The very devil
                  in his eyes. You don't know that man as I know him. He is one of the kindest and
                  softest-hearted fellows in the world, but I'd rather go through fire than arouse
                  him! He go to the Lowland, with those women and children kicking and squalling
                  over there, as the bloody scoundrels slit their windpipes? I fancy it! No! He'll
                  be duly in the ranks to-morrow, and I wouldn't give a sixpence for the red devil
                  that meets him!"
               "Good, good!" said the Earl, with glowing cheeks. "That is like him, Captain. I
                  knew it—I was sure of it; but he is weak, you know—he has been sick."
               
               And a strange pathos was discernible in the tones of the Earl.
               "Sick or well, he is with us," returned the Captain. "Your lordship seems really
                  interested in him."
               "I have reason to be."
               "How so?"
               The Earl did not immediately reply. He mused and hesitated. Then suddenly his
                  irresolution disappeared, and turning to the soldier, he said:
               "Captain, did you not think the scene on the Fort Mountain, on the day of our
                  duel, a very strange one?"
               "A perfect puzzle!—a mystery! I've been racking my brain to understand it ever
                  since."
               "Well, I'll tell you what it meant," replied the Earl, "if you will make me two
                  promises."
               "Two promises, my lord?"
               "Very simple ones. The first is to guard sacredly what I tell you, and the other
                  is to go this evening, in spite of your fatigue, and bring Falconbridge hither to
                  sleep. I must see him."
               "I promise both, my lord—and you know me. When a thing is told to me, I put it
                  under lock and key, and the rack couldn't get me to tell it. I don't talk in my
                  sleep, and I've carried this hatred of the practice of gossiping so far that I've
                  often forgot things on purpose. I knew a man once who always, when he got a letter
                  headed 'burn this,' lit one corner of it to read by. He read the last line as the
                  flame burnt his fingers. That's my habit. I don't repeat—I forget."
               The Earl nodded, well satisfied, and said:
               "I can trust you, Captain Wagner. I give you a mark of this entire confidence now.
                  I wish you to watch over and guard the person whom you know as Falconbridge, and
                  to explain this request, I am about to give you a brief history. Are we wholly
                  alone?"
               The Captain rose and examined the doors and windows, then returned to his
                  seat.
               "Completely, my lord; and now I listen. 'The person I know as Falconbridge?'
                  Hum!"
               The Earl looked into the fire for some moments, with thoughtful gravity; then
                  fixing his melancholy eyes upon the Borderer, commenced the narrative which he had
                  promised.
            
            
               
               LIII.
               THE BALL IN THE RIGHT SHOULDER.
               CAPTAIN," said the Earl, with that look of deep sadness which made his countenance
                  at times so touching, "my life has been more or less unhappy from its
                  commencement, but I think I have suffered, within the last month—nay, within a few
                  days—as much as, or more, than in many years before. I have learned what is one of
                  the most sorrowful things in all this world—that much happiness has been
                  wrongfully denied me by one of my fellow-creatures—that I have sighed where I
                  might have smiled—that the heaven above me has been obscured and gloomy, when the
                  simple act of a simple mortal might have dissipated every cloud, and made the sun
                  shine brightly for me.
               "But to drop these generalities and come to my narrative. It will not be long, but
                  shall contain the truth and the whole truth. Men at my age do not make intimate
                  confidences for the pleasure of talking—and yet I experience something like
                  pleasure, sir, in the thought that I am about to unburden my mind of some events
                  and thoughts which have long oppressed it. I do not conceal, nevertheless, that I
                  have my own personal object in this matter; I repeat what I said but now, that I
                  wish you to watch over the person whom you know by the name of Falconbridge—with
                  him is connected all that I shall say.
               "Listen, sir. I was born at the end of the last century, at my father's house of
                  'Denton,' in Yorkshire, and grew up in sight of the patrimonial oaks of my
                  family—in the familiar, rustic scenes of English life. My father, Thomas, Lord
                  Fairfax, the fifth of the name, was a cold, but not an unkind man; my mother,
                  Catherine, daughter of Lord Culpeper, was a very saint on earth. Under the tuition
                  of these beloved parents, and a worthy old gentleman who lived at Denton, I grew
                  to the age of seventeen; when I was sent to the University of Oxford. There, I
                  passed through the ordinary routine of study, and neglect of study, and on leaving
                  the University, obtained a commission in the royal regiment of the 'Blues.' This,
                  however, did not hold me long. I resigned my commission from distaste for the life
                  of barracks, and plunged into the whirlpool of London. My rank gave me access to
                  the finest society of the time, and at nineteen I had become, my friends informed
                  me, one of the most perfect specimens of a maccaroni to be found in the
                  club-houses and drawing-rooms of the capital. I enjoyed this dissipated mode of
                  life for some months, mingling with delight in the political and literary circles
                  which were ornamented by the presence of Bolingbroke, Addison, and other lights of
                  the day; and then, wearied out with play, with the theatres, with fine ladies, and
                  simpering beaux, I retired to Denton, and became a country gentleman again.
               "And now commences the series of events which I design relating. My life hitherto
                  had been gay and splendid—no cloud had crossed the bright sky of my youth; in the
                  brilliant circles of London, as in the jovial scenes of Oxford, I had basked in
                  uninterrupted sunshine, and never given a single thought to care; never indulged
                  in one violent or discordant emotion. I was ere long to learn that human life
                  cannot glide away in one unbroken current of limpid smoothness; that there are
                  breakers and reefs on the most smiling coast, which the most experienced pilot
                  cannot always avoid. I was no such experienced person, I need not tell you. To
                  great ignorance of the world, in spite of my years in London, I added an excitable
                  and headstrong temper when aroused: and this defect of my blood was not long in
                  revealing itself. I had never quarrelled with anybody at Oxford or in London: in both places I had lived
                  among scenes which are often disturbed by evil passions; but I passed through
                  intact. I had gone to the theatres, and supped with wits and gallants, played
                  tric-trac, and wandered forth with the Mohocks at three in the morning, on their
                  revels and absurdities, perpetrated at the expense of the watchmen of the city;
                  all this I passed through without once drawing my sword, without a single affair;
                  how was I to have an affair, in the apparently sluggish scene of Yorkshire.
               "There was a gentleman of the neighborhood about forty years of age, whose name
                  was Sir William Powys. He had once possessed a very fine estate, but owing to his
                  want of management, and the extravagant mode of living which he pursued, this
                  great property had gradually melted away. It was covered with mortgages, by means
                  of which Sir William had, from time to time, raised large sums of money to sustain
                  him in his mode of living—and among the holders of these mortgages was my father.
                  He was neither by habit nor inclination a money-lender, and long resisted the
                  request of Sir William, to advance him a large sum of money which had gradually
                  been saved from the proceeds of the Denton Estate. At last, however, he yielded to
                  the solicitations of the knight, and delivered to him the sum, taking a mortgage
                  on the bulk of the Powys Court manor. This had happened a year or two before my
                  arrival—and just before I came, my father had foreclosed the mortgage, and forced
                  Sir William to alienate almost his whole property. I know not if this action of my
                  father was harsh. From my knowledge of his character, as from the general tenor of
                  his life, I am convinced that he proceeded to this apparently unkind act, in the
                  purest defence of the interests of his family. My sister, since dead, was about to
                  be married, and a settlement was absolutely required on the part of the Fairfax
                  family. Sir William could not, or would not, repay the money borrowed—and as I
                  have said, the mortgage was foreclosed. He parted with his property without any
                  overt act of enmity; but it was soon whispered throughout the shire, that the
                  knight denounced my father at his own table and elsewhere, as a usurer, a Shylock,
                  a Jew money-lender, and in other terms equally insulting.
               "I need scarcely say, sir, that this intelligence set my blood on fire. My father
                  was then a gray-haired man, full of years; and I knew that he was physically
                  unable to right himself. A long, well-spent life, it is true, gave the lie to
                  these base insinuations and calumnies; but in our family we are restive under
                  insult, no matter whether it injures or not. I saw my father's face flush more
                  than once, when these expressions were unguardedly alluded to in his presence—and
                  I longed for an opportunity to revenge upon the calumniator the wrong which he had
                  perpetrated toward Lord Fairfax. I was determined to seek him, and pick a quarrel
                  upon some indifferent ground: and then—I said with clenched teeth—I will put an
                  end to him, or he shall put an end to me.' An opportunity of carrying out my
                  design soon presented itself. In the vicinity of Denton, and not far from Powys
                  Court, was the race-course of the county. Here, upon a certain day, were assembled
                  all the gentlemen and ladies of the region around. I repaired to the race-course
                  early, but not with any design of betting. I sought Sir William Powys, who would
                  attend I heard—and I was soon gratified. I descried his tall form approaching upon
                  horseback, in the midst of a number of his friends; and I even now recall his
                  athletic and powerful figure, which in bulk of muscle, pride of carriage, and its
                  haughty air of superiority, threw into the background every personage about him.
                  He dismounted and gave his bridle to a groom. Then, accompanied by his friends, he
                  approached the open space beneath the balcony, which was filled with ladies and
                  gentlemen, intent on the coming festivity. The horses, in their sweat-cloths, were
                  being led up and down; a hundred comments were made by the crowd who inspected
                     them; and bets were every moment
                  offered and taken by the gentlemen on the various racers which had been
                  entered.
               "I approached the group, in the midst of which Sir William was standing and
                  expatiating upon the merits of the horses. As I drew near I heard him say;
               "'Three to one on the bay—in tens or hundreds.'
               "'Done, Sir William,' responded the gentleman to whom he spoke, and who was an
                  acquaintance of mine. His name was Sir John Colburn.
               "'I congratulate you, Sir John,' I said, laughing; 'the bay's a miserable hack,
                  and will probably be distanced the first heat.'
               "I saw Sir William Powys turn as if an adder had stung him. He was proud of his
                  knowledge of horse-flesh; indeed, it was one of his weak points—and to have his
                  judgment thus sneered at, and by a mere boy, such as I happened to be, enraged him
                  profoundly. His eye flashed, and he surveyed me from head to foot with a glance
                  which was intended to annihilate me. It failed, however. I have a faculty of my
                  blood in a very marked degree—I grow cooler as I become more exasperated. I hated
                  Sir William at that moment, mortally—and I replied to his insulting look by a
                  satirical smile. This heated him more dangerously—I saw his cheek turn crimson
                  with anger.
               "'And who are you, sir!' he said, in a tone of excessive rudeness, 'who are you,
                  that presume to put your opinion against mine?'
               "'I thought you knew me, sir,' I said, with perfect coolness, 'as I remember
                  meeting you some years since. But no matter. My name is not important—and I
                  presume, in spite of your extreme dissatisfaction, to say that in my humble
                  opinion the bay is the poorest and most ludicrous horse entered; it is hard to
                  look at him without laughing in fact—and no one but a tyro would bet on him.'
               "'What do you mean, sir!' said Sir William, turning white with rage at my tone of
                  disdainful indifference, and advancing ing close to me as he spoke, 'your meaning,
                  sir!—if it is an insult you intend uttering, this horse-whip shall teach
                  you—!'
               "In an instant we had grappled. I had designed nothing of the sort; but the sight
                  of the degrading instrument raised above my head, aroused the devil in me, and
                  made me wild. I caught at it, fully intending to wrench it away, and apply it to
                  his own person—and in a moment we were locked in a furious embrace. We were parted
                  immediately by the bystanders, who rushed to us with loud exclamations—and a
                  glance at the balcony above showed me that a young lady had fainted, and was being
                  borne out.
               "'Who—is—this person?' panted Sir William, with powerless fury; 'had my right arm
                  been unmaimed I would have punished his insolence!' And he glared at me wildly,
                  and would have tried to strike me again, had not his friends restrained him and
                  told him my name.
               "'Tom Fairfax! Tom Fairfax!' he muttered, with clenched teeth; 'very well! this
                  may be arranged elsewhere! Ah! a Fairfax, is it?'
               "'Yes, sir,' I replied scornfully, 'my name is Fairfax, almost or quite as good a
                  name as your own, and you shall not have to wait very long for the "arrangement"
                  you desire!'
               "With these words we exchanged ceremonious bows, and separated—Sir John Colburn
                  accompanying me. In three hours all was 'arranged' as I had promised. We were to
                  meet with pistols, at a spot near the race-course, which had been agreed on. The
                  objection to the use of short-swords lay in the condition of Sir William's right
                  arm—he had been kicked a short time before by one of his horses, and somewhat
                  disabled. He insisted very generously and fearlessly upon swords, but his second
                  overruled him, and pistols were decided upon.
               "Well, not to lengthen my narrative unduly—we met: at the first fire my ball
                  penetrated his right shoulder, and so
                  great was the agony which it caused him, that he fell, and fainted from loss of
                  blood. His ball did not touch me. The duel ended thus, and Sir William was borne
                  home in his carriage. It was his daughter who had fainted in the balcony.
               "So terminated," continued the Earl, "an affair which was recalled to my
                  recollection in a very strange manner some time since—in the Ordinary yonder. But
                  to resume. I returned home only half pleased with the issue. Such is the depravity
                  of the human heart, and to such a height had I been aroused by the wrong done my
                  father, that—I am sorry to say it, but I must be candid—I thirsted for my enemy's
                  blood. For the present, however, this desire was doomed to disappointment. I
                  reflected—but on the very next day a new means presented itself. Sir William's
                  family consisted of a son and a daughter—Edith and Arthur, who were twins:—well,
                  Arthur, on the morning after my duel with his father, sent me a challenge, which I
                  accepted at once. He was a few months younger than myself, but was reputed to be
                  an excellent swordsman. I referred his friend to Sir John Colburn, and everything
                  was soon agreed upon—but the matter was all at once arrested. My father had
                  remonstrated with me strongly for my affair with Sir William, and begged me to
                  avoid in future any occasion of renewing the quarrel. If I insisted upon fighting
                  he would meet Sir William himself. He soon found out my design of meeting Arthur
                  Powys, and rode hastily to Powys Court. There had never been any open quarrel
                  between the two—and their meeting, I afterwards heard, was amicable. The
                  consequence of the visit was, that the elders forbade the juniors, on pain of
                  their displeasure and forfeit of affection, to proceed in the matter. In the end,
                  both Arthur and myself were summoned to the side of the sick man—and Sir William
                  very nobly apologized for his insult to me on the race-course.
               "'Had I known you, sir,' he said, 'I should never have been guilty of the act of
                  raising a horse-whip to strike you—that, I need not say. I saw no indication of
                  your rank or family—and now beg to say to you, that I deeply regret the whole
                  occurrence, as I regret some very inconsiderate and ill-advised expressions which
                  I doubt not, really led you to provoke me into a quarrel. There must be no more
                  contention, Viscount, and if you refuse me this request, I shall rise from my sick
                  couch and meet you when you will—if you require me, this moment.'
               "This speech ended all. The apology for the hasty reflections upon my father
                  calmed me somewhat, and the matter terminated by the withdrawal of Arthur's
                  challenge.
               "Ten days afterwards I was out fox-hunting with a number of gentlemen, among whom
                  was Arthur Powys. We were separated from the rest, and rode side by side at a
                  great pace. We came to a bad fence—Arthur's horse rolled into a ditch, and he fell
                  beneath. I drew up quickly, and dismounted. His leg was cruelly fractured, and
                  taking him in my arms like a child, I held him on the saddle, and slowly conveyed
                  him to Powys Court. As I entered the last gateway, the insensible figure resting
                  upon my bosom, the pale face near my own, I saw a young lady rush out, wild with
                  terror, and hasten toward me, weeping. It was Edith Powys, who received from my
                  arms the unconscious form of her brother.
               "Our hands touched: it was the first time.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LIII.
               THE ORIGINALS OF THE PORTRAIT.
               WITH this incident," the Earl gravely continued, "commenced my new life. From that
                  moment, when she came crying to take the young man upon her bosom, I loved Edith
                  Powys with all the ardor of youth and romance. I do not scoff at it, or laugh, as
                  some persons I think do; love to me, sir, has been a blessed reality, and
                  solace—the supreme comfort and charm of my existence. I have known many sneer at
                  women, and at the passion of pure love—for myself I regard it with a sacred
                  wonder, and kneel almost humbly before a true-hearted girl, be she the peasant
                  maid or queen on her throne. Oh no, sir! women are capricious—they are
                  fanciful—they have many great weaknesses—but at the bottom of all the folly which
                  appears in many of them, there is purest gold!
               "Well I loved Edith Powys—she is with me still, though long years have fled over
                  me, and dulled my heart, since the day when I buried her beneath the spring
                  violets at Denton. It was the decree of an All-merciful being that she should love
                  me too—in spite of all her prepossessions against me. She often told me afterwards
                  that her sentiment toward me, on the day when I grappled with her father in front
                  of the balcony on the race-course, was pure hatred—and that she had registered a
                  vow never to have any other for me. But the sight of her brother bleeding in my
                  arms—pressed to my heart—this touched her and paved the way for the entrance of
                  less bitter feelings; and then love came to answer the love I felt for her.
               "Powys Court was no longer closed against me now. Thanks to the incident which I
                  have related, entrance was freely accorded me. I had really conceived a strong
                  friendship for Arthur—first from the fact that we never afterward look
                  indifferently upon a person whom we have been kind to—whose weak form we have
                  carried in our arms—and secondly, from another and equally natural circumstance.
                  The brother and sister were not only twins—they were the most extraordinary copies
                  of each other. Both had delicate features—the same clear, frank eyes—the same lips
                  full of laughing pride—the same soft brown hair. Had Edith assumed the costume of
                  her brother, you would have said, that a miniature Arthur Powys stood before you.
                  Had the brother donned a female dress, Edith, larger it is true, and more
                  masculine, but still Edith, would have looked at you with the smile of her
                  brother.
               "I have a portrait of the young man, painted some years after these events—'tis up
                  stairs over the fireplace of one of the bed-chambers. I scarce dare to look at it
                  when melancholy oppresses me—for the resemblance to Edith Powys sends a thrill of
                  bitter anguish through my heart, and I recall all the past, as I gaze! To
                  continue: I say that this singular resemblance between the young man and the young
                  lady, insensibly drew me to his side. In his company I was almost enjoying the
                  society of his sister. I availed myself of the incident which had bound us
                  together, and went regularly to ask after his health. He soon improved. The
                  fracture was painful, but yielded to the treatment of the physicians, and he was
                  soon limping about the house again—leaning on my shoulder or his sister's, and
                  smiling as before. He was a noble youth—one of the truest hearts I've ever known.
                  He soon came to look upon me with affection and confidence, and the feud between
                  the houses of Fairfax and Powys seemed destined to terminate with the elders.
               "But I had calculated without my host. Sir William Powys was one of
                  those men who never forgive. He might
                  waive his enmity, for the occasion, and even utter words of courtesy and good
                  humor—but beneath all this was the implacable memory—the rooted and ineradicable
                  recollection of his real or fancied wrong. It thus happened that the keen-eyed
                  knight watched the growing intimacy between myself and his daughter with
                  ill-disguised disapprobation and opposition. He was too well bred to refuse her
                  hand before I had asked it; and evidently writhed with secret anger at the past.
                  As my object in visiting Powys Court became plainer and plainer, and the artless
                  affection of the young lady was less disguised, the Knight's dissatisfaction grew
                  more intense. I saw it, and ground my teeth as I thought of it, often—but that was
                  all. In the depths of my heart I think I really respected him more for it—for his
                  loyalty to the family feud and the dislike he exhibited and plainly experienced,
                  to a match between his daughter and a person, his social superior. He was only a
                  baronet, and his possessions were reduced to nothing nearly—but he nevertheless
                  opposed bitterly the union of his child with one who would soon be Earl of Fairfax
                  and Baron of Cameron, with ample means of keeping up both titles. Indeed there was
                  nothing small or mean about Sir William Powys. If he ever committed an action
                  which seemed to indicate those qualities, you had only to search deeper, and a
                  more noble passion would reveal itself. The craving for vengeance might induce him
                  to act basely—but mere paltry love of gain never could.
               "Thus, to return, I was obliged still to respect the knight, in spite of my bitter
                  feelings at his manifest opposition. I tried to soften him—it was all in vain.
                  Edith and Arthur became my advocates, and would sound my praises. The baronet only
                  sneered, and asked if both of them were in love with me. Thus things
                  went on until I could no longer control myself. I went to Sir William one
                  day—confessed my affection for his daughter—and requested his permission to pay my
                  addresses.
               "'My permission, sir!' he said, with a bitter laugh, 'why truly you are a very
                  entertaining person.'
               "'Sir William!' I exclaimed.
               "'Oh! don't let us argue,' he replied, 'I'm not such a dunce, sir, as not to see
                  beyond my nose. I have observed what has taken place in my house for some months
                  past, and I therefore say that your addresses have been paid without ceremony, and
                  without my leave, sir! You will judge yourself if the act was not
                  dishonorable!'
               "His face began to flush—and my own as darkly.
               "'Sir William,' I said, 'you have wronged and insulted me! It is not becoming to
                  do so, when I hold the position toward you which I do. And permit me to say, sir,
                  that I have done nothing unworthy of the name I bear—of the name of Fairfax, which
                  is as old and as honorable as that of Powys!
               "His reply was a burst of rage. The comparison of the two names seemed to arouse
                  all his old enmity. He gnashed his teeth, and seemed about to offer me some
                  outrage.
               "I had dared to come into his house, he said, and wile away the heart of his
                  daughter—and his son. Under the mask of friendship I had beguiled her affections,
                  and now came impudently to ask permission to pay my addresses. No! I should not
                  have his consent! I should never marry his daughter! No person who bore the
                  detested name of Fairfax should wed with one of the family of Powys! He had
                  intended to express to his daughter plainly, his feelings on the subject long
                  before—but pride restrained him. He had hoped that her sense of what was due to
                  himself, as well as the blood which ran in her veins, would preserve her from
                  yielding to this miserable infatuation! But he would no longer preserve silence!
                  He would speak his mind plainly! Then, if she chose, she might marry me and
                  welcome! She would at least have his curse for a dower!
               "The baronet uttered all this and much more with a fiery wrath and indignation
                  which seemed to increase as he
                  proceeded. When his speech ended, he was furious, and red with anger. I was
                  pale.
               "'Sir William Powys,' I said, with a sinking heart, but a collected voice, 'you
                  have done what gentlemen seldom do—insulted a visitor in your own house! But I
                  have no insult to hurl back in return. You know well that I cannot answer you—you
                  know why. I scorn to reply to your charges of dishonor—they fall harmless, for
                  they are unjust and unfounded, as you know. I shall now go, sir—this interview
                  ends all, as you desire. I will intrude myself upon no family which scorns me—you
                  need fear nothing, sir—it will not be necessary to curse your daughter.'
               "And I bowed and went away. On the portico I met Edith. She was as pale as death.
                  She had heard all through the open window. With a quivering lip she held out her
                  hand. I pressed it to my lips with a groan, and rode away, at a gallop, with a
                  choking sensation in my throat. I had acted as a gentleman of the house of Fairfax
                  should act—but my heart was almost broken in the struggle.
               "I will hasten on in my narrative. When old events return they beguile me into
                  unending details."
            
            
               LV.
               WHAT THE PACKAGE TORN BY THE BEAR CONTAINED.
               A FEW months afterward, Edith Powys had become my wife:—my father and mother were
                  both dead:—I was the head of the house, though I had not reached my majority."
               The Earl paused as he uttered these words, and a deep sigh issued from the depths
                  of his heart. These memories evidently agitated him profoundly—but controlling his
                  emotion, he continued his narrative.
               "I shall not pause to speak of the grief I experienced at the loss of my
                  parents—upon that subject I do not like to say anything. I shall confine my
                  attention to the events which I wish to relate. The explanation of my marriage
                  will not be either difficult or lengthy. From the day on which I held the angry
                  interview with Sir William Powys, the relations between himself, and his son and
                  daughter, had greatly changed. A mutual coldness sprung up. The father regarded
                  the daughter as a rebel against his authority—an unworthy scion of the house of
                  Powys. The daughter—with what justice you must decide—considered her father harsh
                  and unjust. The insults which he had heaped upon an unoffending gentleman, aroused
                  her nice sense of fairness and justice, and his coldness toward herself revolted
                  her pride and self-respect; in a word, the family at Powys Court were divided, and
                  marshalled on opposite sides. Arthur sided with his sister. He was never, in the
                  remotest degree, discourteous to his father; but a thousand trifling incidents
                  indicated his opinion of the amount of blame attaching taching to each. Under this household discord, the
                  baronet writhed vainly. There was nothing to find fault with, no disrespect ever
                  was shown him, much less any disobedience; his orders and requests were all
                  sedulously complied with, and no word of complaint was uttered. But the skeleton
                  was there. In the eyes of the young man and his sister, the knight read as plainly
                  as in a printed book, changed feeling, coolness, the revolt against injustice. The
                  baronet endured it in wrathful silence—but he endured it. It broke the health of
                  his daughter. She could not preserve her feeling toward her father without
                  bleeding inwardly—her cheek became paler and paler—she grew ill. Then she did not
                  rise from her couch, and the tragedy approached its catastrophe. The baronet went
                  to see her one morning, and she threw her arms around his neck, and burst into
                  tears. She could not go on feeling thus toward him, she said: it would kill her;
                  she loved him more than her life; he was her own dear father, and she had been
                  sinful.—Then her voice was choked with sobs. All the tenderness so long pent up in
                  the heart of the baronet responded. He took the girl to his heart, gazed with
                  apprehension upon her white worn cheeks, and groaned aloud. An hour afterward he
                  had passed through the great struggle between his affection and his pride. He came
                  to Denton and begged me to pardon his harsh words. Would I ride back to Powys
                  Court with him? He set his teeth close as he spoke, and breathed heavily.
               "I need scarcely say that I acceded to the invitation. The weeks which had
                  elapsed, had nearly killed me—my health and strength were gone—I was the mere
                  shadow of myself. The loss of Edith had nearly broken my heart, and I moped like
                  an octogenarian. Thus I had no pride to oppose to the baronet. I think my face
                  flushed with delight. His horse scarcely kept up with my own as we rode toward
                  Powys Court.
               "I did not see Edith, of course, but I saw Arthur. He dined with us; and I could
                  read in his frank face the happiness he felt at the event of the morning. The
                  baronet was sedulously courteous and attentive to me during dinner, and we sat
                  long at the table, drinking wine and talking on a variety of topics. We both
                  understood that the whole scene was a piece of acting—but when two men desire
                  mutually to carry on a drama, there is no failure in the dialogue or the gesture.
                  I knew that the obdurate father had relented; that he intended Arthur to relate
                  everything to Edith; and he doubtless knew that I rated his sudden courtesy at its
                  just value, and comprehended its design. When I left the house, I had promised to
                  return in a few days. When I again entered the old hall, I was told that Edith
                  awaited me in the drawing-room. Arthur handed me a paper as he said this, smiling;
                  and I read the words:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "'I consent that Viscount Fairfax shall proceed in the matter upon
                              which we had, some months since, a discussion, if it still be the
                              desire of that gentleman.
                           
                              WILLIAM POWYS.'
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I blushed with delight, and placing the paper in my bosom, hastened forward
                  toward Edith, who came to meet me with a faint color in her cheeks. Let me not
                  speak further of this scene, except to say that when I left Powys Court, late in
                  the evening, the young lady was affianced to me. Six months afterward we were
                  married.
               "I now speak of a portion of my life, which stands out clear and distinct from the
                  rest, as one of the great mountain headlands here, lit by the sunset, raises its
                  head above the gloomy valleys. For a time I was happy—wholly, perfectly. The days
                  glided away like hours, and they were days of unalloyed sunshine: for I loved my
                  wife with a depth of tenderness which is indescribable. She bloomed in the great
                  old hall at Denton, like a flower of the spring; blessing me with her sweet smile,
                  and tender eyes, and adding a new lustre to my life. Those months are now my most
                  cherished recollection; I go away from the lonely present, and live again in the past. I feel her
                  heart beat against my own, and—I wake from the dream to stretch out my widowed
                  arms and utter a groan—for she is past the stars!
               "My narrative is nearly ended. I proceed now to relate events which have been a
                  mystery to me for more than a quarter of a century—which I came to comprehend but
                  the other day—on the mountain there, when I retired with the personage who passes
                  under the name of Powell, but who is no other than the Sir William Powys, of whom
                  I am speaking. You start, but do not interrupt me. To continue: Left alone almost,
                  at his old country house, the baronet became silent and gloomy. His daughter had
                  been more to him than all else in the world, and by removing her from his side, I
                  had added another to the long list of wrongs which he had scored up in his
                  brooding memory against the name of Fairfax. Arthur was good company, and had been
                  the pride of his father; but the young man's espousal of his sister's cause, had
                  created a coolness toward him on the part of the baronet; and the old familiar
                  relations between them were thus interrupted. Another cause of complaint against
                  the young man was the frequency of his visits to Denton, whither the baronet
                  himself very seldom went; and thus the days of the master of Powys Court were
                  lonely and unhappy. Upon my head, as I now know, all the pent up storm was
                  secretly discharged. He had been forced by circumstances to sanction my union with
                  Edith, but his repugnance to myself remained undiminished; and this feeling
                  ripened rapidly into a sentiment of actual hatred—smouldering silently, and only
                  awaiting an opportunity of striking its object. This opportunity soon came. The
                  Countess of Fairfax returned, after the English custom, to the mansion of her
                  parents, to pass through that ordeal of suffering, which God has imposed upon
                  women as the penalty of their entrance into the sacred world of maternity. True,
                  Edith's mother was not living, but at Powys Court, she might fancy the presence of
                  the dear form at her bedside; and to Powys Court she accordingly went.
               "A month afterward, an heir of my name was born; but died in twelve hours. My wife
                  was already dead—she had surrendered her existence in giving life to another human
                  being. She died with her hand in my own, smiling sweetly as she always smiled when
                  she looked at me; as she will smile, I trust, when we are reunited in heaven,
                  where sorrow and tears come no more."
               The Earl pressed his hand to his forehead, and his weary eyes moistened as he thus
                  recalled the scenes of the past. His brows contracted with a weary shadow, and a
                  groan which issued from the bottom of his heart, revealed the extent of his
                  suffering. He remained thus silent, and overcome by emotion for some moments, then
                  his eyes suddenly became dry again, and a flash darted from them. A cold and
                  menacing expression came to the quivering lip, and he continued:
               "I said that my son died twelve hours after his birth. In so declaring, I gave the
                  statement of his nurse and Sir William Powys—a falsehood! Yes, a horrible, base
                  falsehood, unworthy of a menial, much more of a gentleman! The truth will serve to
                  display the awful depths of depravity, to which a man who profoundly hates another
                  will descend, under the influence of a thirst for vengeance. It was not my son who
                  died; it was the child of one of the maids, born almost at the same moment, and
                  substituted, in its death-throes, in place of my own. The unhappy man confessed
                  all to me on the Fort Mountain in our interview—confessed with shame and
                  repentance, and shuddering humiliation, the means which he had made use of to rob
                  me of this solace of my widowed heart. By a large bribe he induced a woman of the
                  household to make the change; the child of the servant thus died in the chamber
                  where my dead wife was lying; mine was placed in the arms of the servant as her
                  own.
               
               "Thus, under the stimulus of a horrible sentiment of hatred, and thirst for
                  vengeance, did Sir William Powys commit an action which has made him, he declares,
                  supremely miserable for more than a score of years. His object was a double one.
                  He aimed at depriving me of an inexpressible consolation, and at securing to
                  himself the child of his daughter. It was almost with burning jealousy, he
                  declares, that he thought of me, in possession of this memorial of his child, whom
                  he loved so tenderly, and relinquished to me only to make her happy. His scheme,
                  he declares, was to rear the boy carefully, to make him heir to his entire
                  possessions; and before I died to reveal the whole matter, and further secure for
                  him the earldom and wealth of the house of Fairfax. Such was his design—a portion
                  of it woefully succeeded. But to return.
               "I followed the dead bodies of my wife, and my supposed child, to the Denton
                  churchyard, and saw them placed in the earth. Then I mounted my horse and returned
                  to my desolate home, broken-hearted and longing for death to put an end to my
                  misery. I was destined to be struck again heavily. A servant handed me a package
                  as I dismounted; I opened and read it with a quivering lip; then I fell into a
                  seat, almost prostrated. My guardians had cut off the entail of Denton, in order
                  to preserve the great Leeds Castle Manor, derived from my mother, the daughter, as
                  I have said, of Lord Culpeper: the house of my forefathers was no longer my own; I
                  was tenant at Denton by sufferance. I despair of conveying to you any adequate
                  idea of the weight of the blow which thus struck me. It is true the project had
                  long been under consideration, in spite of my remonstrances and protests; but I
                  was now so near my legal majority, that I had abandoned all fears upon the
                  subject. I was tottering when the stroke came; it almost prostrated me. Denton was
                  lost to me! It was no longer my own! The house which I was born in, which recalled
                  to me every happy moment of my youth, which my wife had lived in, and made sacred
                  in my eyes—Denton was the property of strangers. To my overpowering pain,
                  succeeded a mad, speechless rage; and I stormed like a child at the men who had
                  done this. I went to them and told them I would never forgive them; but it was a
                  pitiful conclusion after all. I was powerless—finally I yielded, and grew calm. I
                  surrendered the house and went to London. I lay there for months tossing with
                  fever—then I rose, an old man at twenty-one.
               "Such were the events of my early years in England."
            
            
               
               LVI.
               CONCLUSION OF THE EARL'S NARRATIVE.
               THE rest of my narrative," continued the Earl, "may be related briefly. But, first
                  I shall tell you what you have no doubt understood ere this, that the young man
                  who passes here under the name of Falconbridge is my son. Let me go on.
               "After his terrible, and successful plot, Sir William Powys proceeded quietly to
                  adopt and rear the child, of whom he had deprived me. But events soon occurred
                  which overthrew all his calculations. A creditor who had a claim upon every foot
                  of land which the baronet possessed, forced the payment of the debt, and thus
                  Powys Court passed from its owner's hands, as Denton had escaped from mine. The
                  baronet was thrown upon the world, and had it not been for his son, Arthur, would
                  have had nowhere to lay his head. The young man had married some time before, and
                  now received his father and the child under his roof.
               "But Sir William was haunted eternally by a single thought. He dreaded the
                  discovery by himself of the infant's identity, and the thought of being compelled
                  by law to part with him, aroused all the old hatred and jealousy in his heart. The
                  boy already began to display unmistakable indications of his origin. He was the
                  image of his mother, and no one who had ever seen Edith failed to note, and refer
                  to this resemblance. People began to inquire why the haughty and aristocratic Sir
                  William Powys had adopted and received as his own child, the son of a servant in
                  his household hold. The gossips of the neighborhood duly seized upon the matter,
                  and began to shake their heads, and ask if that poor young Lord Fairfax had really
                  lost his child. It was a vague and undefined idea in all minds; but the question
                  was not permitted to rest.
               "This state of things became at last so troublesome, that Sir William cast about
                  him for some means of quieting the gossips, and at the same time securing the
                  infant from ever falling into my hands. The means all at once presented
                  themselves. A Mr. Falconbridge of the region was about emigrating to the Virginia
                  Colony—and his wife, who was childless, had taken a great fancy to the boy. Sir
                  William was not long in making up his mind. He sounded the parties, and discovered
                  that they would willingly adopt the child as their own, and take charge of his
                  future. The bargain was soon agreed upon, and when Mr. Falconbridge sailed for
                  Virginia, he took my son with him, as his own child, and bearing his name.
               "Thus had crime reached its punishment. This man who had inflicted upon me such a
                  cruel vengeance, was as cruelly wounded himself. He loved the boy dearly, and was
                  compelled to part with him. He continued in England, dependent upon the bounty of
                  his son—but after some years even this was denied him. Arthur died, and his wife
                  followed him. The family had subsisted upon the salary of a county office which
                  the young man held: and thus Sir William found himself without means of support,
                  with a further cause of disquiet and apprehension. Arthur had left a little
                  daughter. You know her, under the name of Cannie Powell. This daughter the poor
                  man came to love with a doting affection; and to rear her in a manner suitable to
                  her origin and rank now became the most cherished desire of her grandfather.
                  Without means of doing so in the Old World, Sir William came to the New. He
                  crossed the ocean, and settled upon a small tract of land on the shores of the
                  Chesapeake; and thence came here to the
                  mountains, for the health of his granddaughter. Soon after his arrival, he
                  discovered a mine of silver and gold, and in working this mine, impelled by the
                  desire of amassing money for his child, he secured that reputation for witchcraft,
                  which ended in his arrest and trial. He had frequently seen his grandson, young
                  Falconbridge, in the Lowland, but shame had prevented him from revealing their
                  connection, and even from making his acquaintance, as a stranger. Assured of the
                  fact that the elder Falconbridge loved the young man, and regarded him as his son,
                  he yielded to the hard fate which kept them asunder, and dedicated his life to
                  little Cannie. When I came to Greenway, a year or two since, Sir William was
                  residing in the mountain. Why I emigrated to America, you doubtless know. Stripped
                  of Denton, and longing for new scenes, I came hither, and took possession of my
                  property, like Leeds Castle, derived from Lord Culpeper through my mother. I never
                  met Sir William, though I often hunted in the Fort Mountain—and a strange
                  Providence threw us, for the first time, face to face, in the attitude of criminal
                  and judge. By the side of the old man I saw my son, and my son's cousin; his
                  grandchildren, both; and all strikingly alike. The strange resemblance which
                  Falconbridge, as I shall call him still, bore to Arthur and Edith, impressed me
                  powerfully on our first meeting, and one night, when he slept here, I stole at
                  midnight to his chamber, led thither by an impulse which I could not resist.
               "You know all, now, Captain Wagner. I have related my whole life. You are
                  acquainted with the events which have occurred since the young man's visit 
                     fo
                     to
                   this region; I scarce dare to refer to them. An inscrutable Providence
                  decreed that father and son should be rivals, in a mad infatuation for a woman;
                  that they should oppose each other sword in hand; that they should shed each
                  other's blood, though God be thanked, not to the death! The man whose act placed
                  us in this unnatural attitude, revealed all before it was too late. In our
                  interview on the mountain, he confessed his crime, and prayed me in a trembling
                  voice to forgive him. He had delivered, some time before, a package to the youth
                  for me, containing the whole explanation, which was strangely lost. But at least
                  it came in time. No power can now arm us again. I shall never look more upon the
                  woman whom my boy loves; I will warn him against her, for I feel that she is false
                  and dangerous.
               "That is all, Captain," said the Earl, raising his head, and sighing deeply, but
                  no longer with the old painful expression. "I have related a strange history—'tis
                  such, is it not?—and you have listened as friend listens to friend. The narrative
                  has been a singular relief to me; I feel light-hearted almost. I end by a serious
                  and earnest petition. I impose upon you a duty which I know you will gladly
                  perform. In the scenes of danger which my boy is about to enter, watch over his
                  life, and bring him back safe to me. On the day of his return I will tell him that
                  his name is not Falconbridge; that his blood is my blood; that I
                  thank the Supreme Lord of this world, and all worlds, that Edmund Lord Fairfax,
                  the seventh of the name, and Baron of Cameron in the kingdom of
                  Scotland, for such will be my boy,—is better than a mere noble, better than the
                  greatest lord—a noble and true hearted gentleman!"
               The face of the glad father glowed as he spoke, and his form rose erect, with a
                  pride and happiness which is indescribable.
               "Yes, Captain!" said the Earl, with flushed cheeks, and brilliant eyes, "yes,
                  Falconbridge is a gentleman every inch of him! a nobleman by God's patent, as by
                  the king's! In his presence, as I gazed at him, and listened to his voice, I have
                  said, "This is a chevalier of old days!" In his persuasive tones, in his clear,
                  frank eyes, in his lips, in his whole bearing, in his rage, as when he smiled, I
                  have seen the great soul of the boy, the pure gold of his nature! I have thrilled
                  with a nameless delight, when he spoke; I have gazed with longing into his deep, true eyes; I have said, 'What pride must
                  this youth's father feel!' and you may understand now the emotion which I
                  experience when I can add, 'This is my son.'"
               The Earl was silent, and Captain Wagner did not immediately reply. Leaning his
                  head upon his huge hand, he reflected with absorbing interest upon the remarkable
                  history which he had just heard. He remained thus absent and buried in thought,
                  for a long time after the Earl ceased speaking. Then he raised his head, and
                  uttered the characteristic words:
               "Yes, a trump, or the devil take it!"
               The Earl smiled at the sonorous voice of the worthy soldier, and said:
               "You mean my son?"
               "Yes, my lord. And I beg you to observe one fact—that when I say a man's a trump,
                  I mean the trump of hearts, that being the finest card, to my
                  thinking, in the pack. I have always regarded your lordship as a man of
                  discrimination; I think so now more than ever, or I'm a dandy! Yes, this
                  Falconbridge is truly a gentleman, and that's better, as you say, than being a
                  nobleman. I am not myself a gentleman—don't be waving your hand, my dear friend—I
                     would have been, with training, if that satisfies you. I think in
                  fact that a real marquis was spoiled when Captain Julius Wagner took to the
                  border. Nevertheless, in spite of this unfortunate state of things, I am
                  acquainted with the article, and recognize it. I say Falconbridge is made of real
                  gold! Let me hear anybody deny it! I'll slice 'em! Zounds! my lord! I loved him at
                  first sight! I couldn't keep my eyes off that proud-looking face of his—and when
                  he dangled after that woman, I nearly cried! From the first, this young fellow
                  bossed Wagner, or I'm a dandy! I am fond of your lordship, but I honestly declare
                  that yonder on the Fort Mountain, I hoped he'd make a hole in your coat—that is to
                  say—hum! rather than be drilled himself! Friendly, that, eh, my lord? But it's
                  true. It will show you how that boy has wrapped himself around my old heart: I
                  growl like a miserable old bear, when he groans—he's as much my son as your
                  lordship's!"
               The Captain accompanied the words by a blow upon the table with his fist.
               "There, there," he said more calmly, "I've made a fool of myself—if I haven't done
                  a disgraceful piece of courting. The fact is, my lord, I wan't a manor on the
                  Opequon, and it occurred to me that this was the way to get around you, I have no
                  sort of liking for this lofty headed youngster, but I praise him, you see, to
                  arrive at my own ends. Is the 'Redbud Manor' still unoccupied, my lord?"
               And the Captain gazed with a look of earnest inquiry into the countenance of Lord
                  Fairfax.
               The Earl smiled. It was a happy smile—no longer grim and melancholy, as on former
                  occasions.
               "You are a bungling courtier, Captain Wagner," he said, "and I predict will never
                  become a very distinguished diplomatist. But I'll make a contract with you. Bring
                  my boy back safely, and I'll make you a deed to twice as many acres as the
                  'Redbud' tract. Is it a bargain?"
               "No, my lord," returned the Captain, "it is nothing of the sort. The fact is, the
                  'Redbud' land is miserably barren—not half equal to my wife's property which joins
                  it. No, your lordship, and at present Captain Wagner is talking seriously—by the
                  book—I'll receive no pay, for looking after the youngster, any more than I would
                  for guarding Julius, Lord Wagner, the second of the name and Baron of Winchester
                  in the Kingdom of Virginia! I'll be by him, and keep the balls off him—if I don't
                  I'm a dandy! And so that's all. Let me now go and carry out my other promise—that
                  of bringing Lord Fairfax, the younger, to Greenway. The sun is getting low, and it
                  is time to be on the road. Your lordship wishes him to come sleep here?"
               "Yes, Captain. You will pardon the weakness of a father whose son is going on a perilous expedition
                  to-morrow; I would see him once more."
               "Right, right! I've had boys myself, and I know what that means; you want to have
                  the youngster here close to you."
               The Earl smiled and inclined.
               "It is one of my chief happinesses in this lonely region to have by my side a
                  friend like yourself, Captain, who understands me. Go then—'tis another obligation
                  still."
               "Stop that talking, my lord. Julius Wagner's a good fellow, but no such great
                  things after all. I'll go bring him—whether he wants to come or not—or I'm a
                  dandy!"
               With which words, the Borderer issued forth, and mounting Injunhater, hastened to
                  the Ordinary. Two hours afterwards, Falconbridge, as we shall continue to call
                  him, was seated in the great apartment at Greenway, conversing with George, the
                  Earl and the Captain.
            
            
               LVII.
               THE CONFLAGRATION.
               WE might pause here to note the strange and moving attitudes which some of the
                  personages of our narrative sustained toward each other. We might exhibit the good
                  Earl in the presence of his son, listening with smiles as the young man talks:—or
                  returning to the day when Falconbridge visited the Fort Mountain, we might dwell
                  on the secret attraction which he felt toward his little cousin, and the
                  sympathetic affection of child in return.
               We might dedicate some pages to this series of reflections, but it is not
                  necessary. It is well that such is the fact. Our narrative is not ended. It must
                  depict more than one additional scene of passion before it concludes. The hours
                  are even now descending upon the actors in the valley and the mountain, at the
                  Ordinary, and Greenway.
               For a long time the occupants of the old border mansion continued to converse upon
                  a variety of topics. Falconbridge was gloomy and the victim evidently of an
                  incurable sadness—but he no longer cherished any ill-will toward the Earl. It is
                  true, he still wondered at the scene in the Fort, and vainly racked his brain to
                  account for the action of Lord Fairfax: but a more absorbing thought filled his
                  agitated mind; the terrible secret which had been revealed to him by Mr.
                  Argal.
               He looked older. His countenance, which before had been the model of youthful
                  beauty, began to shrink away, and present the traits of age. His cheeks were
                  hollow, his eyes dim—his lips were filled with inexpressible sorrow; or wore a smile of such sadness that the Earl
                  was moved almost to tears as he gazed.
               As the hours drew on, however, something of this gloom disappeared. Captain Wagner
                  directed the conversation toward the events of the morrow—the march on the
                  Indians—the fated struggle. Then Falconbridge aroused himself. His eyes glowed,
                  his cheek flushed—when the soldier drew a picture of the murdered women and
                  children, the face of the young man became menacing and dark—the war fever began
                  to replace the sombre brooding.
               George never moved his eyes for a moment from Falconbridge. The youth seemed to be
                  drawn to him by an irresistible attraction. The manly eyes of the boy uttered
                  plainly the emotions of his heart—the deep affection which he felt toward the
                  other. Indeed, this feeling amounted to a passion almost; and if, amid the
                  advancing scenes of our narrative, we have not paused to dwell upon this beautiful
                  friendship, it was not because it did not possess all the elements of an exquisite
                  picture. From the first day of their meeting, these two natures had embraced each
                  other. Heart spoke to heart, with the frankness and sincerity which spring from
                  nobility of soul. With the elder it was a sentiment of affection, almost
                  tenderness—with George not only that: he looked up to his friend as to one who
                  should be taken as a model—as to his superior, and bright exemplar in all
                  things.
               Long afterwards, when a new world had risen from the ruins of the old—when a long
                  stormy life had thrown the youth into contact with all varieties of excellence and
                  nobility and moral grandeur—when, a gray-haired man, George returned to this
                  region—he gazed on the scenes amid which his friend had once moved; and said with
                  a sigh, which sounded strangely from him, "There never was another human being
                  like him!"
               So the long hours fled away into the darkness of the past—and at night the
                  occupants at Greenway retired. It was the last time they ever met, all together in
                  the old apartment.
               In an hour they were slumbering quietly—but they were destined to be awakened.
               Falconbridge was sleeping as tranquilly as an infant, when suddenly he felt a
                  violent grasp on his arm, and the voice of Captain Wagner thundered:
               "Wake, comrade! They're on us at last!"
               The young man sprang from his couch and rapidly dressed himself without speaking.
                  George, who slept in the same room, did the same.
               "They're on us, or the devil fly away with it!" cried the Captain; "come, hurry!
                  His lordship's waiting by this time. I sent the messenger to his room!"
               "The messenger?" asked Falconbridge, coolly.
               "Yes! Just look out and you'll see what news he brought!'
               As he spoke, the Captain raised the curtain of the window and pointed to the west.
                  Above the belt of forest soared a tongue of flame, and the country was illuminated
                  for miles by a great conflagration.
               "The Ordinary!" said George.
               "Yes, the Ordinary! By the horns of the devil! You are right! Come, friends!
                  There's not a moment to lose!"
               And the Captain hurried down to the large apartment where, while sleeping as his
                  wont was on one of the couches, the messenger from the tavern had aroused him.
               Lord Fairfax was already dressed, and speaking rapidly to the man who had brought
                  the intelligence. George and Falconbridge entered, as he was doing so.
               The news was quickly communicated to all. The band of Indians who had made a feint
                  of directing their march toward the Potomac, did so only to mask their real plan.
                  They had turned back suddenly and descended upon Winchester, and the Greenway
                  Court manor, burning and murdering as they went. They had come thus, duly to
                     the neighborhood of the Ordinary,
                  and at once proceeded to attack that mansion. The occupants could make little or
                  no resistance—the savages had taken the place and set it on fire an hour before.
                  The fat landlord, Van Doring, had been killed on his threshold—every servant but
                  the one who related these events had fallen victims to the assailants; and the
                  savages had finally hastened away, in a southern direction, carrying with them as
                  prisoners, Mrs. Butterton, Monsieur Jambot and Major Hastyluck, who had slept at
                  the tavern—as beasts of burden to bear the plunder on their shoulders.
               The Captain bounded again as he heard this, and growled rather than said:
               "To horse!"
               With which words he rushed from the apartment. In ten minutes every one was
                  mounted, and a hurried consultation was held as to the propriety of leaving
                  Greenway undefended.
               "They're gone southwest! I know 'em," growled Captain Wagner; "the attack on us
                  here would have been made before this if they had not been afraid that the house
                  was regularly garrisoned!"
               The servant who had brought the intelligence corroborated this view, and stated
                  that he had heard the Indians discuss, in broken English, the question of
                  attacking Greenway. They had given up the idea, upon the identical grounds
                  mentioned by the Captain—and had hastened toward the south, leaving him tied in
                  the burning house, from which he had managed, however, to escape.
               This settled all doubt: and in a moment the four men were spurring rapidly to the
                  scene of the catastrophe.
               A horrible spectacle awaited them. The mansion was wrapt in flames, and in front
                  were lying no less than six dead bodies, among whom was seen the portly form of
                  Mynheer Van Doring, scalped and bleeding from many mortal wounds. A sight if
                  anything more terrible was presented sented a few paces off. Several infant
                  children, belonging to the dead servants of the establishment, were hanging in
                  trees, transfixed with arrows. The Indians had evidently perpetrated this shocking
                  tragedy in sport; and while the Earl and his companions were gazing at the
                  contorted forms, another barbarity still was revealed. The stable of the Ordinary
                  was burning like the mansion, and the cries of some cattle and sheep which were
                  shut in, made the night hideous to the listeners.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *"The Indians dragged the dead body back to the house, threw it in, plundered
                     the house of what they chose, and then set fire to it. While the house was
                     in flames, consuming the body of Mr. Painter, they forced from the arms of
                     their mothers, four infant children, hung them up in trees, shot them in
                     savage sport, and left them hanging. They then set fire to a stable in which
                     were inclosed a parcel of sheep and calves, thus cruelly and wantonly
                     torturing to death the dumb animals. After these atrocities, they moved off
                     with forty-eight prisoners, among whom were Mrs. Painter, five of her
                     daughters and one of her sons: a Mrs. Smith and several of her children,
                     among them a lad of twelve or thirteen years old, a fine, well grown boy,
                     and remarkably fleshy. This little fellow, it will presently be seen, was
                     destined to be the victim of savage cruelty. . . . . One of the Painters,
                     with Myer, ran over that night to Powell's fort."—KERCHEVAL, Page 105.
               
               The first act of the party was to drag the dead bodies out of the flames, and
                  liberate the cattle which went bellowing with terror into the forest. Then the
                  Captain leaped into the saddle and cast a rapid glance around him. A number of
                  settlers, for the most part hunters, had assembled, attracted from their homes by
                  the flames of the burning mansion. To these the Borderer, who seemed on fire with
                  rage, addressed himself in quick, brief words. His directions were succinct and
                  simple. They were to disperse in all quarters and arouse the inhabitants—the men
                  would meet at the "Three Oaks," near the house of Mr. Argal—a point in the prairie
                  which every settler was acquainted with. He himself would spend the night in
                  scouring the country. The various parties would assemble at daybreak, or sunrise
                  at the latest.
               These directions were rapidly obeyed. The hunters dispersed and hurried away,
                  disappearing with long strides in the gathering darkness.
               
               "Now friends!" said Captain Wagner to the Earl and his companions, "let every man
                  imitate me. There's no time for ceremony! I could bite off my head for this
                  hoggish stupidity of mine! I trusted that fellow who brought me the news that the
                  band had gone back, and would slay him where he stood if he were here! To work! I
                  will go and bring the boys from Winchester, where they were to assemble to-day—for
                  days coming. Go arm, gentlemen! arm; this is only the beginning of the sight
                  you're going to see!"
               And saluting, the Borderer put spur to his huge animal, and took the road to
                  Winchester at a thundering gallop.
               "I will return to Greenway Court, gentlemen," said the Earl, with his old grim
                  expression, "I will send all my servants in every direction—and then join you at
                  the 'Three Oaks' at daybreak."
               With these words he left the room and soon disappeared like the Captain, at a
                  rapid gallop.
               George and Falconbridge looked at each other. The same thought had occurred to
                  them at the same instant. The Indians had gone southward—in the direction of Mr.
                  Argal's—in the direction of the Fort Mountain!
               No word was uttered: a simultaneous movement of the head—the spur in the sides of
                  the horses—and they separated and were lost in the darkness.
            
            
               LVIII.
               THE SEARCH.
               FALCONBRIDGE pushed his spirited animal until the courser rather bounded than
                  ran.
               The great trees flitted by like spectres; the prairie glimmered, and fled behind
                  him; darting onward like some phantom of the German poets, he resembled rather the
                  wild image of a feverish dream, than a real man of flesh and blood.
               A terrible dread had seized upon him. The Indians had gone directly toward Mr.
                  Argal's. She was slain perhaps—even now she might be weltering in her blood! That
                  tender and beautiful face might be gashed by the tomahawk—the scalping-knife might
                  have encircled the white temples,—and the mass of raven curls which he had often
                  twined around his fingers might be hanging at the belt of a savage!
               The thought maddened him almost, and he felt, with something like a dreadful
                  shudder, that he loved this woman still.
               All the nobility and pity of his high nature was aroused. She had trifled with him
                  perhaps—she had played with his deep love—but after all, she was a woman, a weak
                  woman! She was even more than that! She was a poor feeble girl, smitten by the
                  hand of the Almighty, and irresponsible! Could he think of her lying in her blood
                  on the threshold, and turn away coldly with the thought, "She has deceived me—I
                  care nothing?"
               No, that was not possible. She was sacred to him still—if all was ended between
                  them. His life was a bauble; of no
                  value; he cared naught for it: he would fulfill that promise which he had made to
                  her father. He would still guard her from harm, and if necessary, die for her.
               He fled on more rapidly. Sir John panted, and the foam flew from his jaws. Then
                  suddenly the house rose in the darkness.
               All was silent. The young man leaped to the ground and rushed in.
               As he entered he stumbled and almost fell over a dead body. An awful shudder
                  convulsed him. He scarcely dared to look down. Leaning for an instant against the
                  framework of the door, a sort of mist passed before him, and he shook from head to
                  foot. Then he summoned all his strength, and knelt down, passing his trembling
                  hand over the figure. It was a woman, but not the form of her he sought. A deep
                  breath filled the bosom of the young man as he rose erect. Stepping over the
                  corpse of the servant, he hastened in, and going to the fire-place, struck a
                  light. The apartment was all at once illuminated. An awful spectacle presented
                  itself.
               All around lay the corpses of the servants of the establishment, in attitudes of
                  indescribable agony, as they had died. The room was rifled, the furniture broken.
                  On more than one object was a bloody stain which indicated a desperate struggle.
                  This, however, was the least of the spectacle. There was another element—an
                  object, or rather five objects which sent the blood to his breast, and made him
                  turn sick with horror.
               To the four corners of the room were affixed, by knives driven through them into
                  the wall, the quartered body of Mr. Argal. On the summit of a stake which leaned
                  against the mantel-piece, the bleeding head of the unhappy man looked, with a
                  ghastly grin upon the features, at the intruder.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *"The remaining two" Indians, "resolved not to give up their prey, found it
                     necessary to proceed more cautiously; and going to the least exposed side of
                     the house, one was raised upon the shoulders of the other to an opening in
                     the logs, some distance above the level of Mr. Williams, who did not
                     consequently observe the manoeuvre, from which he fired and shot Mr.
                     Williams dead. The body was instantly quartered and hung to the four corners
                     of the building, and the head stuck upon a fence stake in front of the door.
                     This brave man was the father of the venerable Edward Williams, the clerk of
                     Hardy County Court."—KERCHEVAL.
               
               The young man recoiled before the terrible sight, step by step, until he touched
                  the opposite wall. He seemed endeavoring to fly from the grinning mouth, the
                  lack-lustre eyes.
               Then suddenly he remembered the object of his visit, which had disappeared from
                  his mind for an instant. Her figure was not among the corpses on the
                  floor—was it elsewhere?
               With the flaring light raised above his head, he rushed through the house from top
                  to bottom—with clenched teeth—breathing heavily—searching for what he dared not to
                  think of.
               It was not visible. Then she too had been carried away prisoner—every moment that
                  he tarried, increased the distance between them. Hurrying back to the main room,
                  he passed through it with averted head and shuddering limbs. Stepping over the
                  dead body of the woman at the threshold, he ground the light beneath his heel, and
                  leaving the accursed mansion with its horrors to darkness and silence, leaped into
                  the saddle and darted off in the direction of the "Three Oaks."
            
            
               
               LIX.
               AT THE HOUSE IN THE MOUNTAIN.
               GEORGE had meanwhile directed his course as rapidly as Falconbridge toward the
                  Fort Mountain.
               The same terrible fear made his heart turn cold, and his temples throb with fever.
                  His imagination also made a picture for itself—the form of a young girl stretched
                  dead upon the ground, all mangled, and bloody from the blows of the savages.
               They spared no age or sex—hence they could not have passed over Cannie, if they
                  had gone, as they probably had done, to the Fort Mountain. The child whom he loved
                  more than he loved his life, was dead—she would smile for him no more—all his
                  future was to be darkness and despair.
               With a quivering lip, and eyes moist yet fiery, George fled across the prairie at
                  a desperate pace, driving the spur, cruelly, into the sides of his animal.
               More than once the horse stumbled and nearly fell in the tall grass, but a
                  powerful lift of the bridle held him up:—again he fled onward, like the shadow of
                  a darting bird across the wide expanse, toward the river.
               The stream was reached, and soon crossed. Into the frowning gorge, up the winding
                  road, over rocks and fallen trees which the animal cleared bound after bound, the
                  boy rushed on.
               His horse reared and almost fell at the door of the mountain dwelling—the ascent
                  had been cruelly exhausting.
               George entered. An old servant was holding Mr. Powell in his arms, and staunching
                  a deep wound in his temple. The old man was insensible—the servant was groaning
                  and uttering exclamations.
               It was some time before George could extort anything from the servant, who only
                  cried, "such a country! such a country! Oh! for England again!"
               At last he was mastered by the stern tone and resolute command in George's
                  voice—he related what had happened.
               An hour before, the Indians, in large numbers, had surprised the dwelling, and
                  carried off Cannie. His master had fought desperately, but was soon overpowered—a
                  blow from a tomahawk had struck him down. Then the house had been rifled, and the
                  band hurried away, right over the summit of the mountain.
               "And where were you?" thundered the youth, in a tone which made the servant quake;
                  "cowardly wretch! Why are you alive, to speak to me—when your mistress is a
                  prisoner of the Indians?"
               The truth soon came out. The servant had fled into the woods, and returned only
                  when, from his hiding-place, he saw the band depart.
               As he finished his reluctant explanation, the old man opened his eyes, and looked
                  vaguely around.
               "George," he murmured, "where is Cannie?"
               And with a violent movement he strove to rise to his feet.
               "Sit still, Sir William! there, sit still!" said the servant, holding him.
               "What have you done with my child?" cried the old man, flushing to the temples,
                  and speaking in a tone of such terrible anguish that it made the hearers tremble;
                  "where is my child? Bring her hither!"
               He resembled a lion at bay as he thus spoke, with glaring eyes; but his strength
                  suddenly failed him. The blood gushed from the deep wound; and stretching his arms
                  out wildly he exclaimed, as he fell fainting:
               "My child! my child!"
               George's face had turned so pale that it frightened the servant and made him recoil. His teeth were
                  clenched, and his eyes burned with a steady and meaning flame, which indicated the
                  depth to which his nature was aroused. No one would have recognized in the man of
                  resolute coldness, who stood gazing at the inanimate form, the gay and smiling boy
                  which he had always appeared to be.
               George was passing through that ordeal which tempers the metal, and makes the soul
                  steel for the real struggles of life.
               "Take care of your master, and bind up his wound," he said hoarsely, "I leave him
                  in your charge. If he asks for his daughter, or for me, when he revives, say I
                  told you I had gone to bring her back or to die with her! Remember!"
               And leaving the room, he mounted his panting animal and pushed down the steep
                  declivity as he had ascended.
               The gorge was passed—the river crossed—through the prairie, which began to glimmer
                  in the first light of daybreak, he rapidly advanced toward the "Three Oaks."
               Many settlers had assembled, and others were approaching from every quarter. Above
                  the crowd, motionless as a statue, on his white horse, the form of Falconbridge
                  rose clearly against the sky.
               From the north, Captain Wagner, followed by a number of hunters, approached at a
                  tremendous gallop.
            
            
               CHAPTER LX.
               THE DEVIL'S GARDEN.
               IT is the evening succeeding the scenes which have just been related.
               The sun is near its setting.
               A stream of crimson light, as red as blood, bathes the valleys and mountains,
                  coloring tree trunks, and mossy rocks and flowing streams, with its ruddy
                  splendor.
               As the day declines, the deep flush ascends the trees, and creeps up the
                  precipices—with a stealthy crawl, like some variegated wild animal, disappearing
                  in the depths of the gorges.
               Finally it raises the golden crown from the top of the Blue Ridge—fades from the
                  pines of the wave-like Massinutton, and lingers for an instant on the Great North
                  Mountain, and those serried ranges which extend, like the huge ribs of some
                  prostrate giant, through the region which is watered by Lost River.
               One pinnacle only at last remains illuminated. It raises its mighty head abruptly
                  from the valley, at a point not many miles south of the spot where Lost River
                  sinks and disappears at the base of the mountain, which vainly seeks to bar its
                  advance.
               There is something no less curious than majestic about this vast pile, which is
                  appropriately styled, by one who has described it, a "truly wonderful work of
                  Nature."
               Between two ranges of the bristling mountain, a strip of ground, about half a mile
                  wide, commences ascending from the head
                  of "Trout Run," and continues to mount gradually for the distance of three miles.
                  Then it suddenly terminates in a dizzy precipice—a vast Titanic pile of dark
                  granite, such as the giants who warred against the gods might have heaped up as a
                  memorial of one of their slain brethren. The immense mass is entirely separate
                  from the surrounding mountains—yawning chasms upon each hand present an impassable
                  gulf—in front the precipice descends as straight as an arrow to the depth of five
                  hundred feet.
               The details of this singular natural wonder, are no less striking than the object
                  itself.
               A portion of the summit is covered with flat rocks, forming a natural
                  pavement—interrupted here and there by fissures,—and on the eastern edge stands a
                  gigantic bust in granite—the head, neck and shoulders, clearly defined:—the whole
                  presenting to the eye "a frowning and terrific appearance." Near this figure,
                  which gives its name to the peak, formerly stood a granite pillar, ten or twelve
                  feet high—two or more feet in diameter, and four-square. This pillar has been
                  broken from its base by some convulsion of the earth or the elements, and reclines
                  in the form of an arch across one of the fissures of which we have spoken.
               This is the summit. But the strange details of the peak are not exhausted. About a
                  hundred feet below the base of the statue a door leads into deep caverns in the
                  rock. After leaving the entrance, the explorer finds himself in an apartment with
                  level floor and ceiling—from which a flight of stone steps ascend to another still
                  larger. In like manner twelve flights of steps give access to twelve
                  apartments—the last of which is just beneath the pavement of the summit, and is
                  lighted by one of the fissures already described.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *The description of this singular place is taken, almost word for word, from
                     Kercheval's "History of the Valley."—APPENDIX, page 465;—heading "The Devil's Garden."
               
               Such is "The Devil's Garden." And to this wild scene we now beg the reader to
                  accompany us.
               For a time no living thing is seen, except some huge eagle, sailing by on broad
                  wings, above Lost River, a flying fallow deer, or a bear, slowly shaking his black
                  head, and vanishing in the tangled thickets of the mountain side.
               The sun slowly sinks, and his last beams linger on the weird-looking statue, and
                  the vast mass of piled up granite which soars above.
               The wild scene, with its billowy ranges, and glimmering torrents grows wilder—the
                  denizens of the night begin to wake in their lairs and prowl abroad to seek their
                  prey—over the immense horizon, all bristling with jagged peaks and precipices, the
                  solemn grandeur, and rude magnificence slowly yield to a brooding gloom,—the scene
                  is an overturned world, convulsed and shattered—the very genius of desolation
                  descends and reigns, on his blood-red throne of mountains.
               The blazing shield at last sinks beneath the horizon, and night stretches its
                  broad pall, prepared to throw it over the whole.
               At this moment a slight rustling might have been heard at the entrance to the
                  caverns, on the declivity of the peak, and a swarthy face appeared at the opening,
                  followed ere long by a strange and repulsive-looking figure, which remained for a
                  time motionless in the gathering gloom.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LXI.
               THE HALF-BREED.
               THE figure which thus obtruded itself upon the wild scene, belonged apparently to
                  no nation or class, if, indeed, to the race of human beings! It was nevertheless
                  possessed of a revolting interest, and a lover of the horrible and picturesque
                  united would have feasted his eyes upon the animal.
               He was a half-breed, about five feet high, with a deep yellow, or sallow
                  complexion, a gigantic breadth of chest, long monkey-like arms, and legs which
                  resembled the crooked and gnarled boughs of a distorted oak. His forehead was
                  scarcely an inch in height; his small eyes, as cunning and cruel as a serpent's,
                  rolled beneath bushy brows; his nose was crooked like a hawk's bill, and the
                  hideous mouth, stretching almost from ear to ear, was disfigured with protruding
                  tusks like those of a wild boar. The half-breed was clad as an Indian, with
                  doeskin leggins and breeches, but his rugged chest and shoulders were bare. His
                  enormous flat feet were cased in huge moccasins; and in his belt he carried a
                  knife, a horseman's pistol, and a tomahawk, to the unwiped edge of which still
                  clung a quantity of bloody human hair.
               Such was the figure which now cautiously emerged from the cavern, and cast a keen
                  and searching glance upon the panorama of forest, mountain and river. This look
                  seemed to plunge into the obscurest depths of the gorges, beneath the heaviest
                  foliage, and to descry every object within the range of human vision.
               "All's safe so far!" muttered the half-breed in a guttural and discordant voice,
                  with a slight French accent; "they have either not followed us, or the trick has
                  deceived them. We may lay low here a day or two safely, until the alarm has blown
                  over—then to work again!"
               As he spoke, with a sneering and horrible smile, a light hand was laid upon his
                  shoulder. He started and turned suddenly, half drawing his long knife. Then at
                  sight of the intruder on his reverie, he returned the weapon slowly, as if against
                  his will, to its place, and said sullenly, with an unconscious scowl, full of
                  hatred and menace:
               "What does the son of War Eagle want with me?"
               "I would speak to the Yellow Serpent," said a grave, collected voice in the Indian
                  tongue; "the day is done, and the hour has come for talking."
               With these words the young Indian, Lightfoot, who was the intruder, leaned back
                  against the rock, and fixed his eyes upon the threatening countenance of his
                  companion.
               Lightfoot was clad as we have seen him on a former occasion. His slender but
                  nervous limbs, with their rounded but clearly defined muscles, were cased in
                  pliant doeskin; his narrow feet, with the lofty, instep, based themselves firmly
                  on the crag; above his forehead waved the variegated plume which indicated his
                  chiefship. There was the same calm air of grave, almost melancholy dignity—the
                  same clear yet mild expression in the eyes; as before, his figure, and attitude,
                  and whole bearing were characterized by the simple and exquisite grace of a
                  nobleman of the great forests.
               "And what does Lightfoot come to say?—talk it out!" said the discordant voice,
                  which attempted to assume an accent of friendly interest; "the time is passing,
                  and much must be done."
               "Will the serpent return to the war-path again?" said Lightfoot as before in the
                  Indian tongue—then, with a sudden change in his expression, from gravity to scorn,
                  he added ded, "but there is no war
                  trail! The braves are on the path to the cabins of women and children. The white
                  warriors are away, and the Catawbas creep over the fences in the night—they are
                  rabbits, not panthers!"
               And the lip of the Indian curled. His words produced a strong effect on the
                  half-breed. The snake-like eye flashed fire, and with a guttural sound like the
                  growl of a wild animal, he laid his hand on his knife, and seemed about to throw
                  himself upon the speaker.
               The young Indian did not move a muscle, or remove his scornful eyes from the face
                  of his companion. With a movement wholly simple and unostentatious, he rested his
                  hand on the hilt of a long poniard in his belt, and continued to gaze at the
                  other.
               "Does Lightfoot know what he is saying?" said the half-breed, growling and letting
                  his hand fall.
               "Yes, the truth," was the reply.
               "I am one of these Catawbas."
               "I know that you are."
               "And you tell me to my face I am a rabbit: you dare?"
               "I dare!" said Lightfoot, with superb scorn, "it is little to dare!"
               Again the hand of the Yellow Serpent wandered to his weapon: but he seemed to want
                  courage to attack his adversary. A glance at the precipice near which they were
                  standing—a glance as rapid as lightning, and full of horrible menace—betrayed the
                  thought which passed through his mind. But it was not carried into act. The young
                  man seemed to exert a singular influence over him—he evidently hated him bitterly,
                  but he cowered almost before his eye, and yielded in the contest. The threatening
                  scowl disappeared: the hand fell again: with a grin which was even more repulsive
                  than the frown, he said, in a wheedling and insinuating voice:
               "Lightfoot is bold and outspoken as he has always been—as his great father was
                  before him, for whom twelve tribes mourned when the blood ran out of his brave
                  bosom. But let the Yellow Serpent give Lightfoot a piece of advice. These words
                  are dangerous, and the warriors would want to kill him. They are nothing to the
                  Serpent. He is a half-breed, and knows more than the redfaces. He is Lightfoot's
                  friend and would serve him."
               "Yellow Serpent," said the young Indian, returning to his calm expression, "do you
                  believe in the Great Spirit?"
               The half-breed grinned and replied:
               "I believe in the Great Evil Spirit—what the palefaces call the Devil—for he talks
                  to me, and tells me what to do."
               I believe that, Serpent. But there is a good Spirit, too, and he is the bad
                  Spirit's master."
               The half-breed shook his head.
               "Are you certain of that, Lightfoot?"
               "I am certain. It is Manitou—the great and good. The Dove of the Mountain told me
                  this long ago."
               "Ah! ah! the Dove of the Mountain!" was the grinning and sneering reply; "you are
                  a friend of the Dove!"
               "I am. She has made me better. I am evil, but not so much as I was."
               "It is a pity that the tribe took her prisoner. But what about the Great
                  Spirit?"
               "I would ask if you think you do right, Yellow Serpent, when you put to death
                  women and children?"
               "They are whites," said the half-breed with very great surprise; "you see we
                  strangle the brood when they are young, to get rid of them."
               "You are cowards! Yes, lâche! lâche!" said the
                  young Indian with sudden vehemence, and using a term which he had derived from the
                  French allies of the savages, "lâche! You are a
                  dog, Yellow Serpent! But, no, not even dogs would be so cowardly!"
               And the young Indian's eyes were terrible for their depth of indignation. The
                  half-breed cowered before him, and dared not speak. He seemed to want nerve. With
                  a dark scowl, which had in it something
                  tragic and dangerous from its subtlety, and veiled menace, he muttered:
               Lightfoot is a great sagamore. The Serpent is not as noble as he is. Let Lightfoot
                  speak."
               "Listen, then, Yellow Serpent," said the Indian, stretching out his hand, and
                  speaking in a voice of such nobility and solemn earnestness that the furious and
                  shuddering half-breed was subdued by its very tones: "listen, Serpent, and pay
                  attention to what I am about to say. In this world are two tribes of men—they are
                  the evil and the good. There is but one master over all, the Great Spirit. The
                  Evil One is his slave, but is not chained. It is his business to make the tribes
                  commit evil; and even now he is in your heart, though you do not see him. But the
                  Good Spirit is not idle, or indifferent to the happiness of his creatures. He is
                  yonder in the clouds looking down, and watching. He speaks in the thunder of the
                  mountains—the lightning is the flash of his eye; his finger marks the track of the
                  rivers; he is the Father of this world and its people. Not a tribe roams the
                  forest, from the sand hills of the mighty lakes, to the Big Water of the
                  South—from the Minnehaha to the land of Shawandasee—which is not beneath his eye.
                  He sends to all, the bright seasons, the moon of strawberries, and the moon of
                  cohonks;—mondamin grows for all, and plenty crowns the feasts of all the mighty
                  tribes of the beautiful world. But in these tribes there are some whom the Master
                  of Life looks on with smiles—there are others upon whom he frowns. He frowns on
                  the bad, on the cruel, on the oppressors of the weak, on the slayers of women and
                  children? Once these evil people made him angry, and the sea swept over them—but
                  the land was repeopled; then they grew as evil as before. The Master sent his son
                  to heal the sick ones, and to make men pure again. They nailed him on a cross, and
                  killed him! But before he died he told them many things, and among the rest he
                  said, 'Let the children come to me—the Master loves them, and his land is full of
                  them.' He loved them because they were weak and helpless—and he told the tribes,
                  not the redfaces only, but all, to love each other, and forgive even their
                  enemies. The Master said that! And now what are you doing, Yellow Serpent? You are
                  killing the women and the children who never wronged you; you are not even acting
                  like a warrior, and meeting the palefaced braves in battle,—you are lâche! lâche! You have said rightly! The Evil Spirit
                  whispers in your ear, and sets you to do his work! You are his slave, Yellow
                  Serpent."
               And the young Indian, with a cold and collected air, leaned back against the rock
                  from which he had half risen in the ardor of his address.
               His words seemed to affect the half-breed strangely. A sullen and gloomy
                  expression came to his hideous features, and he cowered, almost. The young chief
                  plainly exercised a singular dominion over the monster. Then this sullen air
                  disappeared—a flash of concealed hatred darted from his eyes—lastly, the former
                  crafty and insinuating grin succeeded.
               "Lightfoot is a great brave," he said; "the Serpent cannot talk with the son of
                  War Eagle. I think I will tell the tribe what he says, and in future they shall
                  spare the women and children of the pale-faces, whom Lightfoot loves better than
                  his own tribe. Oh, yes! we will not kill any more!"
               The Indian shook his head.
               "Yellow Serpent," he said, "I know you very well, and I do not trust you. The word
                  of a brave is his word—yours is the word of a half-breed. You hate me, and are
                  envious of me, because when we rise at the same moment to speak to the tribe, the
                  warriors say, 'Let us hear the son of War Eagle.' You would destroy me—but I fear
                  you not. Beware! You have said that I love the pale-faces. That is true. They are
                  the children of the Great Spirit, like the red-faces. They have been kind to me,
                  and I will speak for them as I have spoken in council. Enough. They are on the war-path even now, and the bullet
                  for your heart may be moulded. Yellow Serpent, you are evil; the Devil of the
                  whites, truly, is your friend. Beware of him—he will tear you limb from limb, and
                  devour you. I have spoken!"
               And turning away, the young Indian swept the landscape with a comprehensive
                  glance, and re-entered the cavern, in depths of which he disappeared.
               The half-breed, who seemed to be agitated strangely, as though under a magnetic
                  influence, remained motionless. This influence was slowly dissipated: his crafty
                  grin returned, and with a menacing flash of the glittering eyes, he followed
                  Lightfoot into the cave.
               For five minutes he had been covered by a dozen rifles, from the depths of the
                  opposite mountain, where Captain Wagner and his party lay concealed.
            
            
               LXII.
               THE TRAIL.
               THE party had set out from the "Three Oaks" in twenty minutes after the arrival of
                  Captain Wagner. That worthy, who, now that the contest was approaching, grew as
                  cold and deliberate as an automaton, would not wait for Lord Fairfax, and his
                  troop. In brief, quick words, he delivered his orders—explained that he was
                  officially commanding for the Earl, the Lieutenant of the county—and reviewed the
                  arms and equipments of the party. They were hunters for the most part, and carried
                  rifles and powder-horns. Nearly every one had his provision of jerked beef for the
                  expedition.
               The rapid examination having proved satisfactory, the Captain took the head of the
                  party, and directed his march straight toward the Cedar Creek Mountain to the
                  west, in which direction his knowledge of the country and of the habits of the
                  Indians told him that the band had gone.
               They marched rapidly and silently until noon without finding any traces; but all
                  at once they came upon a cabin, rifled of its contents and half-burned. The fire
                  had evidently gone out, and a miserable-looking woman who had escaped on the
                  appearance of the savages, and only returned when they went off, was crouching by
                  the chimney-corner. Captain Wagner learned from her that his views were correct in
                  relation to the direction taken by the band, and all set forward with new
                  ardor.
               They soon entered the wild range of the Cedar Creek Mountain, and here, in the
                  soft earth along the stream, struck on
                  an unmistakable trail. At points also distant only a few yards from each other,
                  the boughs were bent down and broken, and the prints of feet were easily traced in
                  the earth.
               Captain Wagner pointed these out to Falconbridge.
               "Miss Argal's," he said, briefly, indicating a deep, narrow footprint; "and
                  there's my friend's, broader and heavier."
               They pushed forward with new ardor, and followed the footprints for several miles.
                  Then the Captain suddenly drew rein, and exclaimed:
               "Stop! what's this? The marks are no longer to be seen."
               And the Borderer dismounted and examined the ground in every direction. The female
                  footprints had disappeared; but in place of them were unmistakable indications of
                  blood. An ominous frown passed over the face of the Captain, and he looked at
                  Falconbridge. He was trembling. As to George, he was as pale as death.
               "It's nothing," said the Borderer, assuming a stolid look; "see, here are the
                  broken boughs still."
               In fact, these indications of the route which the band had taken, as well as heavy
                  moccasin footprints, were still visible. As the prisoners had undoubtedly resorted
                  to this device to direct the search of their friends, those prisoners were yet
                  alive.
               "May the devil take me if I understand that!" said the Captain, frowning, "but
                  we'll push on."
               The path now lay toward the north. They had followed it for five miles, when it
                  suddenly entered a stream a hundred yards wide. Captain Wagner plunged in and
                  forded. On the opposite shore there was no sort of indication of the passage of
                  the band. The broken bushes had continued regularly to the stream—there they
                  suddenly stopped.
               Could they have taken to canoes? No, the band was evidently too numerous, and the
                  savages could have brought none with them. What was the explanation? Why had those
                  marks disappeared? The Borderer knit his brows and reflected; then suddenly he
                  pushed back through the water and went straight to one of the limbs which had been
                  bent down and broken. He examined it attentively for an instant, and then leaped
                  into the saddle again.
               "About face, friends," he said, "we are on the wrong trail. Follow!"
               And he set forward, quickly, returning over the ground which they had just
                  traversed.
               "What is the meaning of this retreat, Captain?" said Falconbridge, who seemed
                  possessed by a sort of reckless excitement, "we lose time."
               "We have lost much," was the brief reply.
               "Those broken boughs"—
               "Are devices. Look at 'em, Falconbridge! Don't you perceive that they are thicker
                  than any woman could break—and more than one higher than any but a man could
                  reach? Then observe how plain they are! As much as to say 'Come on! don't
                  mistake!' Prisoners never could have broken 'em without being noticed—it's a
                  blind, and soon you'll see!"
               Without further words the Borderer pushed forward, followed by the party, who knew
                  him well, and did not think it at all necessary to question him. They soon reached
                  the spot where the blood was visible, and the footprints of the females
                  disappeared.
               "Friends," said the Borderer, after nosing the ground for some moments, like a
                  dog, and examining the dry grass and twigs in every direction, "we are on the
                  trail again. At this spot the bloody rascals discovered the trick of the women to
                  direct us, and one of 'em was struck with a tomahawk! No blazing eyes
                  Falconbridge, or George!—maybe it was a friend of mine! If so, I'll hew down the
                  devils to the last man, or die! But come! The device is plain! The women were
                  taken up, or their shoes removed here; and the fellows sneaked off with 'em, leaving no tracks,
                  while a part of the band went off north breaking limbs and stamping into the
                  ground to mislead us. When they came to the river, they waded in the shallows for
                  a mile, and then doubled back to join the main body."
               "Why, there are no tracks here," said Falconbridge, eagerly.
               "That's so—to your eyes, it may be, comrade. But I can see 'em. Look at that sprig
                  of grass broken by a moccasin, and see this stick? Follow, friends! I'm on the
                  track—I can smell 'em!"
               And the Borderer set forward rapidly. His predictions were soon verified. At the
                  distance of a quarter of a mile from the bloody spot, the traces of feet again
                  became visible, and the narrow marks of high-heeled shoes. The pursuit was now
                  more rapid and sure. On the banks of Trout Run they all at once found other
                  footprints approaching from the north; and Captain Wagner called the attention of
                  Falconbridge to the circumstance, with a significant look.
               At the head of the stream, which the party reached, as the sun began to sink, all
                  the footprints disappeared again; but a curl of the lip betrayed the feelings of
                  the Borderer.
               "They are a bungling set of rascals after all," he said; "and don't know their
                  trade, or I'm a dandy! Come, friends, back!"
               "Back, Captain!" exclaimed Falconbridge, with surprise.
               "Yes, comrade—you are too curious for a hunter or a war party. Come by my side,
                  and I'll explain as I go."
               The hunters had exhibited none of Falconbridge's surprise. They obeyed 
                     implicity
                     implicitly
                   the directions of the Borderer, and followed silently in the footsteps
                  of his horse. Turning a huge shoulder of the mountain, he said to Falconbridge as
                  they proceeded:
               "This is the whole thing, companion. The red snakes have crawled into the caves on
                  the Devil's Garden, three miles from the place we stopped at. If we had gone on
                  they would have seen us, and perhaps laid an ambush for us. At any rate, we could
                  have done nothing."
               "Yes, I see, but may I ask your plan?"
               "Certainly. You are my second in command, and it is simple. I am going to skirt
                  this big shoulder, and mount the peak yonder. From the top of it you will see the
                  precipice of the Devil's Garden, in which the enemy are concealed, not two hundred
                  yards in front of you. A gulf separates it. But I know a way of passing over—there
                  is a path which is covered with pine bushes, winding down into the gorge. As soon
                  as night comes on, if we see good we'll make the onset. I think the cards are
                  pretty well shuffled, and the game is about to begin, comrade!"
               As he spoke, the Captain dismounted, and advised all who were mounted to imitate
                  him. He took the saddle from the back of his horse, and hobbling his legs, turned
                  him loose into a little glen, where there was grass and water. The rest did
                  likewise: and then headed by the Borderer, they cautiously wound up the
                  precipitous mountain, the summit of which they reached as the sun sank from
                  sight.
               "Look, Falconbridge!" said Wagner, putting stealthily aside the heavy pine boughs
                  beneath which they were concealed; "there are two of the red devils at the mouth
                  of the Devil's Cave!"
               As we have seen, these were Lightfoot and the Half-breed.
            
            
               
               LXIII.
               LIGHTFOOT AND CANNIE.
               THE interior of the cavern presented a singular appearance.
               A bright fire was burning, and on all sides were piled up articles which the
                  savages had carried off with them from the plundered dwellings. These objects were
                  indicative of the mingled barbarism and childish simplicity of the Indians. There
                  was much gaily-colored crockery; many bright linsey and other fabrics were seen
                  scattered about; and a few strings of beads, and brass rings, taken from the dead
                  bodies of the women whom they had slain, and brought, not without unwillingness,
                  to the general mass, were the objects of longing and covetous glances.
               The Indians were forty or fifty in number, and were scattered about the large
                  cavern in various attitudes, picturesque and graceful, or odd and grotesque. Here
                  a great warrior was broiling a piece of venison at the blazing fire in the centre,
                  the savory odor diffusing itself throughout the cave:—there an Indian boy was
                  striving to put together the broken pieces of a red crockery dish, which he had
                  guarded on the march with a jealous care which indicated the high value which he
                  placed upon it. In a corner a number of the braves were sleeping tranquilly in the
                  red light, the blood of the slain still staining their tomahawks, and more than
                  one gory scalp hanging from their girdles, but slumbering, nevertheless, like
                  infants, under the stupefying effects of a long march, a heavy meal, and some rum
                  which they had taken from the Ordinary.
               In an obscure corner to which the light of the fire scarcely penetrated, a number
                  of captives, male and female, with their hands securely tied, were huddled
                  together upon 
                     the the
                     the
                   floor of the cavern, under a guard, who watched them with grave
                  intentness. Neither Monsieur Jambot nor Major Hastyluck was visible, however:—and
                  we may as well say here that these worthies had been "pricked onward" under heavy
                  loads, by another portion of the band, who had hurried westward, and were never
                  more heard of in that region. Hastyluck, doubtless, drank punch among the Sioux
                  and Catawbas—when he could get it—for the remainder of his life: and Monsieur
                  Jambot taught the minuet and reel to youthful savage maidens.
               Lightfoot passed through the group, who made way for the young chief with evident
                  respect, and slowly ascended the rugged stairway into the next cave above.
               In this were confined, under guard of a single Indian, who stood outside, Mrs.
                  Butterton, Miss Argal, and Cannie.
               The two former were sleeping, wrapped in shawls, near a blazing fire, on piles of
                  dry grass which had been arranged for them—their feet swollen and frayed by the
                  long journey—their skirts cut off below the knees—a necessity to facilitate their
                     movements.*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *See Kercheval in many places. This was a systematic practice among the
                     Indians, with their female captives.
               
               Mrs. Butterton was slumbering fitfully; her dress was stained with blood, and a
                  wound was visible upon one of her large fat arms; from which wound, indeed, had
                  flowed the blood which the pursuing party discovered at the point of divergence of
                  the two routes. The dame had been discovered bending down and breaking the
                  branches, and one of the chiefs had struck her with his tomahawk. The wound was
                  not dangerous, however. She slept uneasily, but evidently without much physical
                  pain. But, from time to time, her features would become distorted by an
                     expression sion of fear, and she
                  would raise her hands wildly and murmur some broken and indistinct words, which
                  the young Indian sentinel would listen to with grave interest. Miss Argal slept as
                  quietly and sweetly as a child.
               Cannie was awake, and when the light tread of the young Indian attracted her
                  attention, the little face became brighter, and she held out her hand to Lightfoot
                  with the air of a child who sees a protector approach. The smile with which she
                  greeted him was inexpressibly sad; but his presence was evidently a comfort to
                  her.
               "Oh, I am so glad to see you, Lightfoot!" she said, wiping away two tears which
                  hung like dew-drops upon her eye-lashes; "this place frightens me, and it is like
                  home to see you."
               The word home seemed to direct the girl's thoughts to her
                  grandfather, and with a sudden rush of blood to her cheeks, she placed both hands
                  upon her face and sobbed.
               "Oh, me! they have killed him! they have killed him!"
               Lightfoot stood for a moment, silently regarding the girl as she half reclined
                  upon the couch of dry grass, her frame shaken by sobs, her breast heaving, her
                  long chestnut curls falling wildly about her shoulders. An expression of
                  unspeakable love and tenderness came to his eyes; and he seemed unable for the
                  moment to command his voice.
               He controlled his emotion, however, with the wonderful art of his race, and made a
                  movement of his hand toward the young Indian who stood on guard.
               "Go," he said, in the Catawba tongue, "I would speak with the captive."
               The sentinel obeyed with an alacrity which indicated perfect willingness to join
                  his companions below, and disappeared. The cavern was left thus untenanted except
                  by the two persons, and the sleepers, whose heavy breathing invaded the
                  silence.
               Lightfoot took the hand of the girl in his own, with an air of the deepest
                  respect, and said, mildly:
               "No, they have not killed your grandfather, Mountain Dove. You know that I came
                  from the forest as the Catawbas made their attack. Had I arrived sooner," added
                  the young Indian, raising his head proudly, "it would never have happened, for
                  they obey the son of War Eagle. I came in time to stop the knife which would have
                  scalped the old man:—he is scarcely injured, and will soon walk the mountain
                  again."
               "Oh, are you sure, Lightfoot?" cried Cannie, removing her hands quickly, and
                  raising her wet face, "are you sure? Dear Lightfoot! you love Cannie—do you not?
                  Do not deceive me! I am only a child," she added, weeping silently, "and very
                  weak, but I can bear it—I won't cry! Are you certain that grandpa was not
                  killed?"
               "He was only wounded, and not badly. I struck down the arm of the warrior who
                  would have scalped him; and you know the tribe directly commenced their
                  march."
               There was an air of such simplicity and sincerity about the young Indian as he
                  spoke, that his words carried conviction to his hearer. Her eyes sparkled with
                  sudden delight, her breast was filled with a long, deep breath, which seemed to
                  afford her inexpressible relief, and seizing the Indian's hand, she exclaimed with
                  touching earnestness and affection:
               "How can I ever love you enough, dear Lightfoot, for protecting grandpa? I will
                  love you until I die!"
               And carried away by glad emotion, before he was conscious of her intention, Cannie
                  raised the hand which she held to her lips, and imprinted upon it a long,
                  lingering kiss.
               A shudder of delight ran through the frame of the young Indian. His face flushed,
                  and the eyes which were generally so calm and clear, suddenly filled with
                  impetuous emotion. A thrill of happiness agitated his pulses, at the contact of
                  the soft, warm lips, and he drew away the hand, with a look of such unspeakable tenderness that
                  Cannie colored to the roots of her hair.
               That look had revealed to her in an instant, with the rapidity of lightning, as it
                  were, the secret of the young Indian. For years she had known that he had a deep
                  affection for her—from her childhood he had visited the mountain cottage
                  regularly, and always exhibited his fondness—but now she saw plainly that there
                  was a deeper feeling in his heart. The instinct of womanhood explained all this to
                  her—she saw for the first time, with agitated eyes, that the young Indian loved
                  her as a youth loves a maiden.
               And Lightfoot was not backward in discerning the new relations which must exist
                  from that moment between himself and Cannie. He saw that his glance had betrayed
                  him, that she had witnessed his tremor of delight—that she had understood at last
                  his real feelings. They had grown up together, as youth and child—they were no
                  longer such. It was a man who was sitting beside the woman whom he loved with a
                  devotion and tenderness which absorbed his very being,
               For some moments deep silence reigned in the cavern. Both were too much overcome
                  to speak. A vague pain and pity, not unmingled with tenderness, filled the bosom
                  of the young girl; and from time to time, she stole a furtive glance at the
                  Indian, her cheeks burning with blushes, her lips trembling. Never had she looked
                  so beautiful as at that instant. The curls of her chestnut hair fell in glossy
                  masses around the pure young face with its innocent and grave sweetness—the
                  slender figure inclined sidewise, in an attitude of exquisite grace—the head was
                  bent over the left shoulder, and nearly rested upon it:—in outline and carriage,
                  in the entire character and expression, of the girl, there was no longer anything
                  of the child: it was a woman, and a woman of surpassing loveliness, who had burst
                  into bloom—passed suddenly from the bud to the perfect flower. Had sorrow caused
                  this rapid development? It may have been so. But often a similar phenomenon takes
                  place without any visible reason.
               It was then that the young Indian proved the nobility of his nature. Instead of
                  taking her hand, he drew his own away. Instead of gazing into the blushing and
                  agitated face, to discern if his feelings were returned, he lowered his eyes. For
                  some moments his gaze remained fixed upon the floor of the cavern, and the heaving
                  muscles of his chest alone indicated the terrible war of emotion in his bosom.
               When he raised his head he had become calm again. There was no longer any light in
                  his eyes, any flush in his cheeks; and the lips were firm again. A grave sweetness
                  and serenity, just tinged with melancholy, had replaced the sudden rush of ardent
                  emotion. It was the face full of serious and noble dignity to which she was
                  accustomed: and Cannie blushed again, as she looked into the clear eyes, as the
                  woman's thought came to her—he is so noble, and he loves me!
               For some moments they sat gazing thus in silence at each other. Then the young
                  Indian gravely took her little hand in his own, and pressed it to his lips, with
                  the expression of a devotee at the shrine of his saint.
               "Lightfoot is a poor weak boy," he said, in a low voice, which had not recovered
                  its calmness wholly; "he has done wrong. But the little Mountain Dove will forgive
                  him—will she not?"
               "Forgive you, Lightfoot?" murmured Cannie, almost inaudibly, "why, what have you
                  done?"
               "What was wrong," said the young man, shaking his head, sadly. "I cannot conceal
                  anything—my father always made me act honestly—I have tried to be the son of War
                  Eagle in truth, and this puts the words in my mouth. I have done wrong, because I
                  have spoken with my eyes to the Dove, as a young pale-face may speak—and said, 'I
                  love you.' I am not a pale-face, I am a poor Indian, and inferior to the tribe
                  beyond the Big Water. It is not right
                  that my father's son should do this—that he should come to the little white Dove
                  when she has no friend near her—when she is a captive in the hands of Lightfoot's
                  tribe—and say, 'I love you, and would have you love me as your chosen warrior.'
                  No, no," said the young Indian, his cheeks filling in spite of every effort, and
                  his voice trembling, "that is wrong, and my father's spirit frowns upon me from
                  the sky!"
               And turning away his head, the speaker uttered a deep sigh, which, but for his
                  immense self-control, would have turned into a groan.
               The girl blushed and avoided his gaze as he spoke; but now recovering her voice,
                  said in low, broken accents:
               "You pain me, Lightfoot! You hurt Cannie. Do not talk thus. I am only a child, and
                  you must love me as before—for—for—I love you dearly—dear, dear, Lightfoot!"
               She had not intended it. She never would have uttered the words had she reflected
                  for a single instant upon the meaning which he must attach to them. It was an
                  impulse of irresistible pity and kindness which carried her away—of woman's
                  tenderness for one who loved her and suffered—of admiration and old affection, and
                  lonely weakness. She burst into a flood of tears as she spoke, and then suddenly
                  drew her hand away.
               The young Indian had seized it with passionate tenderness, and covered it with
                  kisses.
               "No—no!" she sobbed; "do not! do not, Lightfoot! I did not mean—how unhappy—how
                  miserable I am!"
               And the voice died away in an inarticulate murmur. The Indian drew back, and
                  folded his arms. He saw his terrible error in an instant, and in its whole extent.
                  His heart turned cold, and with close-set teeth he remained as silent and rigid as
                  a statue, his dark eyes burning with a fixed and immovable despair. The girl spoke
                  first: her voice was broken and agitated. Sobs interrupted it, at every
                  instant.
               "I was—wrong: it was cruel to—mislead you. I will not affect—any ignorance of your
                  meaning! Will you—pardon me? I am not strong and calm like you, Lightfoot," she
                  continued, wiping her eyes, and continuing more calmly, "I am only a child, and I
                  could not help saying how much I—loved you, as my dear, dear friend and playmate,
                  at our dear little home! I did not think—but I will not speak of that any more!
                  Indeed, you are very dear to me, for you have been kind and good to me always, and
                  to grandpapa, and I admire, and look up to you, Lightfoot. I am only a child yet,
                  and not a woman. You will love me, will you not, as a child—as you always loved
                  me—and I will love you. You'll be my brother and friend, will you not,
                  Lightfoot?"
               And Cannie, with all the simplicity and innocence of a child, looked into the
                  young Indian's agitated face, smiling through her tears, and appealing to him, as
                  it were, for care and protection.
               A last contraction of the Indian's features betrayed the depth of the despair
                  which he controlled with a will of iron. He had conquered himself. His face grew
                  calm and grave again—he returned the confiding look of the girl with one of
                  brotherly kindness and affection.
               "I thank the Great Spirit, who has blessed the poor son of War Eagle with these
                  moments," he said, raising his noble head and eyes toward heaven, "I thank the
                  Master of Life more than all for placing me where I may show the young Dove of the
                  mountain that I am her friend. Let her cease to remember the wild words which
                  Lightfoot has uttered—they came from his lips without asking him to let them. But
                  the blood shall flow out of his heart as readily for the Dove who has spoken to
                  him so kindly. Yes, yes, I will be your friend, Mountain Dove—the hour is near
                  when I will prove it. Forget now the words I have spoken, and sleep. But pray for
                  the poor son of War Eagle first."
               "Oh, yes!" said Cannie, wiping away her tears, "let us pray together as we have often done at home,
                  Lightfoot!"
               And taking the Indian's hand, the young girl knelt at his side, and murmured a
                  prayer for him, for her grandfather, and for all whom she loved.
               It was a touching spectacle, to see the young man and the girl thus kneeling
                  beside each other in the gloomy cavern, only half revealed by the stray gleams of
                  the dying fire. They were of different and hostile races—they were in deadly
                  peril—the hours that came rapidly would decide life or death for them—but they
                  prayed. They prayed as tranquilly and hopefully, their 
                     hunble
                     humble
                   prayer, as though they knelt at home in the little mountain dwelling.
                  And mortals may do as much everywhere.
               When Lightfoot slowly retired, his face was quite calm. His great soul was
                  untroubled. He had yielded his heart and future to the "Master of Life," and was
                  tranquil.
               Fifteen minutes after he had disappeared down the staircase, the Half-breed, who
                  had been concealed in a dark nook at the entrance, glided out, and entered the
                  cavern from which he had just emerged.
            
            
               LXIV.
               THE SLAVE AND HIS MISTRESS.
               EXHAUSTED by the painful conflict of emotion, in the scene with Lightfoot, Cannie
                  had quickly followed his injunctions, and fallen asleep.
               When the Half-breed stole, with the stealthy step of a creeping tiger, into the
                  apartment, the girl was lying upon her couch of dry grass, and breathing regularly
                  as she slumbered. The hideous being paused for a moment upon the threshold; and
                  then, with a cowed and humble air, approached the group, his eyes fixed on the
                  form of Miss Argal.
               This man, if he may be called such, was one of those strange and anomalous beings
                  who appear from time to time on the earth, to falsify, it would seem, every rule
                  and maxim in relation to human character. Deformed in body and mind—a revolting
                  monster to the eye, and no less a repulsive object to the mind—he yet possessed a
                  strange sensitiveness to beauty and nobility, and cowered before them as a slave
                  before the whip of the master whom he recognizes. We have seen that in the
                  interview with Lightfoot, the Half-breed, in spite of his hatred and jealousy, was
                  unable to meet the eye of the young chief. The presence of the son of War Eagle
                  defeated all his calculations—his influence in the tribe was seriously
                  lessened—the youth had called him a slave, and what was more terrible still, had
                  used the word which made his blood boil within him—the word "lâche!" Yet in spite of all this, in spite of his most
                  powerful efforts, he had been compelled, by some irresistible power, to crouch
                  before the youth, and bend his back to the lash, and submit his own will to the nobler nature
                  of his insulter.
               This singular submission of the lower nature to the higher, now influenced him in
                  his feelings for Miss Argal. His training and previous life had all tended to
                  degrade the female sex in his mind. Among the Indians they were scarcely more than
                  beasts of burden, and to say that he resembled a woman was the most terrible
                  insult that could be inflicted on a brave. Nevertheless, the young lady ruled him
                  despotically from the first moment of their meeting. Her strange and extraordinary
                  beauty, the brilliant fascination of her eyes, her exquisite grace of attitude,
                  and undulating movements, all impressed him deeply, and made his pulses throb. He
                  had killed her father with his own hand, and quartered the body. It was the
                  Half-breed who stuck, the bleeding head upon the stake, and inflicted a last gash,
                  as he danced gaily around it, like a goblin of darkness. It was his iron clutch
                  which had dragged Miss Argal from her chamber, into the light, and his tomahawk
                  had been lifted above her head, to dash her brains out.
               The tomahawk had not fallen. The torches had no sooner poured their bloody light
                  upon the beauty of the young lady, than true to his strange instinct, the
                  Half-breed recognized his superior. His arm fell—he recoiled, as it were, before
                  her; and then, thrilling with a vague and secret pleasure at the thought that she
                  was in his power, he had protected her from insult and injury, with the fury of a
                  father who guards the person of his beloved daughter.
               
                  At the thought that she was in his power! Such was really the first
                  reflection of the Half-breed—the flattering unction which he laid to his fierce
                  and degraded soul. He soon discovered that their relative positions were reversed.
                  He was the slave of her beauty and exquisite grace, and like a slave he applied
                  himself to the task of waiting on his mistress. The burdens which the tribe had
                  placed upon Miss Argal's pretty round shoulders, and beneath which she had bent
                  down, crying, were indignantly removed. He took them on his own enormous back, to
                  appease the Indians, and walked by her side, grinning hideously, and conversing
                  with the captive.
               She had soon discovered the influence which she possessed over her conqueror, and
                  had applied herself to the task, throughout the march, of deriving benefit from
                  it. Fortunately, a falsehood of the Half-breed prevented the poor girl from being
                  bowed down to the ground by the horrible recollection of her father's dissevered
                  body. She had been removed from the building before the Half-breed slew him; and
                  the monster coolly informed her that he had escaped in the darkness, and was
                  unhurt. Thus, Miss Argal, unoppressed by this terrible tragedy, and convinced that
                  her father, whom she loved dearly, was safe, gave her attention to the conquest of
                  her captor, without effort. She had dazzled him with the magnetic lustre of her
                  eyes; sent a shiver through his deformed and rugged frame, by touching his huge,
                  knotty hand with her own little white one, as soft as satin; she had smiled upon
                  the Half-breed, as she alone knew how to smile; and very soon perfected her
                  conquest. Before they reached their place of concealment, she had not only secured
                  for herself every comfort and convenience, she had also induced her slave to treat
                  Cannie and Mrs. Butterton without cruelty, even respectfully. She would pass her
                  arm around Cannie when the child grew faint, and send the Half-breed to the stream
                  to procure water for her. He was her captive, and she used her power to ameliorate
                  the condition of her companions, with whom she shared every comfort.
               And on all this, the strange being had looked with approbation and a species of
                  pleasure. It evidently delighted him to humble himself before the beautiful woman.
                  He seemed thus to approach nearer to her. He was less her abhorrence when she
                  smiled on him, than when she trembled before him, and recoiled as his captive. And
                  here we notice another trait in this
                  bloody animal. His physical deformity had been, throughout his life, as sore a
                  point with him as a clubfoot or a cast in the eye is to a beau or a fashionable
                  young lady. He had found himself the terror and horror of the Indian maidens. They
                  retreated hastily when he approached them and avoided any chance of meeting him.
                  One and all of them had striven vainly to conceal the mingled fear and disgust
                  which they felt for his person, with its crooked, gnarled limbs, its gigantic
                  torse, its low, flat forehead, wide mouth, and protruding tusks. He had loved one
                  of these maidens—as he could love—as her slave. Her beauty had attracted him and
                  he had sued for her hand; but the maiden had almost fainted when his sallow face
                  approached her own—when his huge mouth expanded into a hideous grin of servile
                  admiration. When he took her hand in his great rugged paw, on which the black
                  veins stood out like whip-cords, she had shuddered, and drawn it hastily away.
                  When he pressed her to tell him what her feeling toward him was, she had replied,
                  with a trembling voice, that she was afraid of him; but he read in her pale, sick
                  face that she regarded him with irresistible disgust.
               Such had been the weakness, such the fortune of the Half-breed throughout his
                  life. He had early left the peaceful home of his tribe, and joined the predatory
                  band of the Catawbas. On the war-path, in the midst of blood and peril, his
                  deformity would not be observed. His great strength and ferocity had soon gained
                  for him a conspicuous position in the tribe. He became a chief, and was what in
                  other walks of life we would call a rapidly rising man. But the recollection of
                  his deformity never left him. He yearned for some object upon which to expend his
                  pent-up feelings. What those feelings were he never stopped to inquire, nor do we
                  feel able to describe them. The Half-breed was a monster of ferocity and blood,
                  but he was still human, and not wholly destitute of human emotion. At times his
                  craving for something—if only an animal—to love him, was enormous, irresistible
                  almost. He would remain for days in his wigwam, scarcely tasting food, brooding
                  over his condition, and struggling in his benighted and sullen mind to understand
                  why he had been created, and what his life would be. When he came forth, and the
                  tribe whispered and nodded at him, and followed him with their eyes as his squat
                  figure went by—muttering fearfully that the Yellow Serpent had been communing with
                  spirits—he would gnash his teeth with scorn, and despise the shallow fools, and
                  feel that he was alone in the world. Then he would return to the war-path with a
                  bloody ardor, which struck terror into all hearts; he would slay women and
                  children without mercy; he would reap undying honor from his associates—to go back
                  and writhe and growl in his den like a wounded wild animal, whose body is
                  festering with poisonous blood and corruption.
               This was the thorn in the ferocious soul of the Half-breed—the secret wound which
                  made him mad with pain almost. He knew his own mental and physical deformity, the
                  disgustingly hideous body and mind which he possessed; and he cowered before those
                  who were superior to him. He crouched in the presence of a pure and noble soul
                  like Lightfoot's. He obeyed with the alacrity of a slave the commands of the
                  beautiful woman who was in his power. He waited upon her, and followed her
                  directions like a servant. It is true that at times, as he had attempted in the
                  presence of Lightfoot, he would struggle to assert the supremacy which he really
                  possessed—the power which he could exert over the band—his authority; but the
                  endeavor was vain. True to his instinct, as we have said before, he would yield in
                  the struggle, bow his head before what he recognized as above him, and take the
                  position of the slave again, awaiting the order of his superior.
               Thus the Half-Breed was almost delighted when Miss Argal commanded him to do
                  anything. Her subtle instinct soon taught her that this was the best manner of
                     treating him. The penetrating eyes
                  of the young lady discerned the secret of her power, and she was not backward in
                  availing herself of it. His respect and submission seemed to increase with her 
                     arbitary
                     arbitrary
                   demeanor. There was a strange charm, too, in thus humbling the master of
                  her fate. As we have already said, she used her power like a kind, tender woman,
                  to soften the lot of her companions, especially Cannie. She had taken a strong
                  fancy to the child indeed, and supplied her with every comfort she had. She took
                  off her own wrapping and threw it around the little shoulders, and seemed really
                  distressed when Cannie would not receive it. At least the girl should have
                  everything which she could procure for her, however; and the slave-master, the
                  Half-breed, was calmly directed to bring this or that object for Cannie, and
                  attend to all her wants and even wishes. The savage would grin and hasten to obey.
                  His reward was the approving smile of his empress—that smile which said to him, as
                  he basked in it with fierce pleasure, "Others may think you are hideous and
                  repulsive, but I am fond of you, because you comply with my wishes." It was the
                  long sought balm for his degraded soul—the salve which softened his festering
                  wound. He could thus forget for a time his debasement, and submit his fierce head,
                  like a conquered wild animal, with grumbling delight, to the soft white hand which
                  caressed it without fear or disgust.
               Once arrived at their place of concealment, the Half-breed had applied himself
                  assiduously to the task of making the young lady's retreat, and that of her
                  companions, as comfortable as possible. He had gone to some distance and procured
                  a large quantity of dry grass for their couches. This he had arranged in the most
                  convenient manner; and then he had brought a quantity of the linsey shawls which
                  had been stolen, to protect them from the cold air of the cavern. A fire had then
                  been kindled, some supper brought, and the savage had retired as a servant retires
                  after fulfilling the commands of his mistress.
               Every arrangement connected with the concealment of the tribe had been hurried
                  through by the Half-breed—every trace of their presence obliterated. He had
                  finally gone to make a last survey of the horizon, before returning to the magnet
                  which attracted him in the cavern above. We have seen how he was detained by
                  Lightfoot, how they conversed for a time, and how the young Indian re-entered
                  first. When the Half-breed followed him, he found that he had mounted to the upper
                  cavern where the three females were; and he stealthily glided up the staircase
                  behind him. Concealed in a dark nook of the cave he had heard the entire
                  conversation between Lightfoot and Cannie, had thrilled with a strange awe as they
                  prayed, and remained in his place of concealment until the young Indian had
                  retired, and Cannie, as he knew by her regular breathing, was asleep.
               He then entered and approached Miss Argal.
            
            
               
               LXV.
               CALIBAN AND MIRANDA.
               THE young lady stirred in her sleep, and a tremor ran through her frame. The
                  vicinity of the crouching and hideous figure seemed to exert a magnetic influence
                  upon her.
               The Half-breed remained for some time silent and motionless at her side, gazing
                  with a species of ferocious and yet servile admiration upon the beautiful
                  countenance, around which fell the profuse ebon curls—afraid apparently to awaken
                  the sleeper. Finally he grew bolder; he crawled like a stealthy panther toward the
                  pillow of the girl, and took in his huge knotty fingers, one of the dark curls and
                  gazed at it with the air of a child who holds a toy which fills it with
                  delight.
               The movement awoke the sleeper, and for an instant she gazed with a dreamy air
                  into the revolting mask, rather than human countenance, upon which the red gleam
                  of the firelight fell, lighting up every repulsive detail—the snake-like eyes, the
                  grinning mouth, the hooked nose, and narrow forehead, like a dog's or an ape's.
                  Another tremor ran through Miss Argal's form, and she quickly rose, leaning upon
                  one hand, and looking silently at the Half-breed. In this gaze, however, there was
                  no trace of fear. Despite the wild and frightful scene, the horrible appearance of
                  the intruder, and the half-darkness of the cavern, she did not tremble or exhibit
                  any sign of terror. On the contrary, she recovered almost instantly the air of
                  mistress, which we have referred to, and said in a tone of anger:
               "Why did you come and wake me?"
               The savage cowered, and retreating two paces, said humbly, but cunningly:
               "I came to see if the White Raven," such was the name he had given her, "was well
                  wrapped up and warm. The cave is cold and damp—and she is weary with the
                  journey."
               "Well," said Miss Argal calmly, "you see that I am provided for—and now leave
                  me."
               The Half-breed made an unconscious motion to obey, following his instinct—but some
                  other impulse counteracted the first.
               "Let us talk a little, first," he said, grinning with a polite air. "Let the White
                  Raven talk to the Yellow Serpent."
               "I am weary."
               "Nevertheless you must talk," returned the Half-Breed obdurately, "you are my
                  captive, and I am not sleepy."
               Miss Argal saw from the tone of these words that she had lost a portion of her
                  former power over him, and her marvelous tact made her instantly change her manner
                  and expression.
               "Well," she said, "if you treat me as your captive, I must submit, and obey you.
                  Of what shall we talk, Yellow Serpent?"
               The old fascinating glance which had charmed Falconbridge came back; and the
                  dangerous smile of the dazzling beauty played upon the ugly dwarf, as it had
                  played upon the young cavalier. The Half-breed thrilled with a vague delight as
                  she looked thus at him, and said:
               "We will talk of the future, when you will be the Yellow Serpent's wife."
               "Your wife!"
               "Yes," was the resolute, almost savage reply, "you shall be my wife! I have sworn
                  it, and it shall be so. I am unmarried, I am a great brave, and you shall be my
                  wife, or I will keep you from being any other warrior's wife—you must die, or be
                  mine!"
               
               The ferocious eyes glared as he spoke, and the lips curled fiercely. Instead of
                  becoming angry, Miss Argal smiled more sweetly than before. The will of the
                  strange animal pleased her, whilst it put her upon her guard and aroused all her
                     finesse to meet the occasion. She assumed the
                  pouting air of a child, and with a glance filled with blandishment, said:
               "Why do you wish to have me for your wife, Yellow Serpent? You say that you are a
                  great brave, if so, why have you not selected some maiden of your tribe?"
               The hideous face was darkened: the eyes scowled bitterly:
               "Because the maidens despise me, and get sick when I go near them," he growled;
                  "they are frightened by my ugliness! You only are not frightened, and I have sworn
                  by the Evil Spirit that you shall be mine, White Raven—mine only! You need not try
                  to escape me! I will kill myself rather, but I will kill you first. I will be your
                  slave if necessary—but rather than see you leave me, or spurn me, I will plunge my
                  knife into your heart, and we will die together!"
               He was ferocious, imperial, as he thus spoke. There was something almost
                  attractive in the fierce animal's air. He resembled an aroused tiger. It was the
                  beauty of strength and bloody determination.
               And instead of frightening Miss Argal, it drew her. Her feminine nature, in spite
                  of the disgusting figure of the speaker, recognized his power and passion. She
                  looked at him almost with pleasure, and said smiling:
               "Well, but suppose you were my husband, how could I live away from home, in your
                  land?"
               "You need not," returned the savage, returning to his submissive air, "I will
                  follow you back and become a white. Still there is much to make you go with me. I
                  am no common Indian. I am a great chief, and my squaw will be a great woman in the
                  tribe. She shall live daintily, every one shall wait on her. I will be king in the
                  band, but she will be the king's king—his beautiful queen. The tenderest game
                  shall be brought to the table of the White Raven—the finest plunder shall be her
                  own—the maidens shall dance before her, and she shall wear the handsomest clothes
                  to be got in the settlements."
               "That is well; I like that, but I cannot go."
               "Why? You must!"
               "I cannot."
               "You shall!"
               Miss Argal became submissive and tranquil. She put her hands to her eyes and
                  murmured:
               "Why do you speak to me so cruelly?"
               Some sobs succeeded, and she looked through her tears at the Half-breed, with such
                  a lovely air of uncomplaining sorrow, that he felt all his anger leave him. He
                  cowered before her, and said:
               "The Yellow Serpent did not mean to make the White Raven cry. He is her
                  slave."
               The young lady dried her tears, and shaking her head, replied:
               "You act like a master, and I no longer have any regard for you. When you were
                  kind to me, I liked you; but now I hate you."
               And she turned away her head with an air of offended dignity. The Half-breed was
                  conquered by his captive. As she yielded to his will, so now he submitted like a
                  slave to her displeasure. The resolute expression disappeared—his eyes sank before
                  her, and he said humbly:
               "The Yellow Serpent did not mean to speak roughly. He is no savage—he is almost a
                  white, and knows how tender-hearted the white maidens are. Let the White Raven
                  become the wife of the Serpent, and he will be her servant for life. He is a
                  Half-breed, he cares nothing for the Catawbas. He will go and live like an
                  Englishman in a house, and hunt game, and till the ground, and wait on the White
                  Raven. He is her friend."
               "You do not prove it," said Miss Argal, coldly.
               
               "How must I?"
               "Rescue me and my companions."
               "When?"
               "To-night."
               The savage hesitated and reflected. He evidently doubted.
               "If I do so," he said at length, "will you go away with me!"
               It was Miss Argal's turn to hesitate—it was only for an instant however. With her
                  former fascinating smile she said:
               "I will go away with you."
               "And be my wife?"
               "Yes,"
               The hideous mask flushed with joy, and a broad grin revealed the long hog-like
                  teeth. The young lady almost recoiled before the horrible countenance—she grew
                  faint as she saw the Half-Breed gaze upon her as a hawk does upon a dove which he
                  has nearly caught in his clutches. He seized her hand, and would have pressed it
                  to his ugly mouth, but she suddenly drew it away, and said with a quick return to
                  her air of offended dignity.
               "Let my hand go, and now let us talk of the means of escape. How will you devise
                  it?"
               The Half-breed drew back humbly, and said:
               "I must think of that. But it will be impossible to take the others."
               And he pointed to Mrs. Butterton and Cannie. Miss Argal assumed an air of resolute
                  determination, and replied:
               "Then I will not go with you."
               "Not go!"
               "No—unless you rescue them, too!"
               "Why, what do you care for them?"
               "They are my friends—I love the little one dearly."
               And bending over the young girl, she smoothed with a soft hand Cannie's disordered
                  tresses. Her smile, as she thus caressed the little head, was one of exquisite
                  sweetness, and showed how much warmth of heart was concealed beneath the warped
                  and strangely disturbed nature of the poor girl. Her savage companion was not
                  unaffected by the manner of the young lady. He was evidently pleased, and said at
                  length:
               "I will try. But you at least shall be rescued. I am tired of my life in the band,
                  and have been thinking that you are right in wanting to return to the white
                  settlements. Yes, I will give up the war-path! I will go back with you—White
                  Raven, you shall make me a pale-face, like my father."
               The snake-like eyes grew thoughtful, and even soft, as the man spoke, and he
                  plainly returned in memory to some scene of the past. Miss Argal caught the
                  changed manner, with her quick and acute instinct, and said:
               "Was your father a white?"
               "Yes," returned the Half-breed, "he was a hunter who married an Indian girl, of
                  the Catawbas. My mother died when I was a baby, and my father soon afterward. The
                  tribe took me, and one day my old granny, who nursed me, showed me where my father
                  and mother were buried in the woods by Belle Rivière—which the English call the
                  Ohio. I never cried but once—I cried that day. Yes, I did cry afterwards when
                  granny was killed by a white—I split his head with my tomahawk though! I wanted
                  him to come to, afterwards, to stick burning splinters in his body, and roast him
                  till he yelled and died in the flames!"
               The scowl had come back,—the bloody instinct was revived:—but it disappeared
                  again, very soon before the smiles of his companion. She had evidently marshalled
                  all of her attractions for the task of subduing to her will, and making a slave
                  of, the singular being in whose power she found herself. No one could have
                  discovered in her air or expression the least indication of disgust, as she looked
                  at and spoke to him. Her smile was as dazzling, her eyes dwelt upon his
                  countenance with as pleased and gratified a look, as if it was the face of a
                  gallant young gentleman, and not a sallow, deformed formed ape. In half an hour her dominion over him
                  was complete. He was gazing at her with a species of submissive ecstasy: the soft
                  hand, figuratively speaking, had smoothed with its caresses the bristling head of
                  the animal, and with delighted growls, he crouched and cowered at the feet of his
                  mistress and keeper.
               The details of the project of escape were quickly arranged. At daylight the
                  Half-breed would return to the cavern where she slept—and pass through the fissure
                  in the roof of the highest cave to the area above, with the three women—he would
                  leave Mrs. Butterton and Cannie at a place of safety, near a neighboring fort,—and
                  then he and Miss Argal would proceed to a spot in the Alleghanies, where a New
                  Light missionary lived, and be married. Afterwards they would seek the northern
                  settlements.
               This was the Half-breed's plan. It is unnecessary to say that it was not Miss
                  Argal's. Her design was to escape without the assistance of the Half-breed;—her
                  colloquy on the subject had a very simple object. That object was the discovery of
                  the means which her captor would make use of to effect the escape. She had
                  attained a knowledge of all now:—the fissure in the upper cave would permit them
                  to pass:—and long before daybreak, they would all be far away.
               As this thought passed through her mind, Miss Argal bestowed upon the Half-breed,
                  her most winning and confiding smile. She graciously gave him her hand to
                  kiss—submitted to the ceremony without moving a muscle—and then, declaring that
                  she needed rest, smiled him out of the cavern.
               The animal went away, shuddering with ill-concealed delight, and gazing on the
                  young woman until an abutment of the rock hid her from his view.
               With a sneering smile, Miss Argal then turned, and hastily, but with a wary hand,
                  awoke her companions.
            
            
               LXVI.
               LIGHT SHINING IN DARKNESS.
               THE three women consulted for some time in animated whispers, and their plan was
                  rapidly formed.
               They would remain quiet until the Indians went to sleep; and then, when the cavern
                  was all silent, and occupied only by slumbering forms, would steal up the
                  staircase into the cave above, ascend to the next, then to the next—and finally
                  make their exit through the fissure in the roof of the last. Thereafter, escape
                  would not be difficult. As soon as day-light came they would be able to make their
                  way back by the path which they had followed in coming—the broken twigs would
                  direct them.
               "And then, Cannie," said Miss Argal, placing her arm around the girl, drawing the
                  little head down to her bosom, and kissing the white brow; "then, Cannie, dear,
                  you will get back to your grandfather, and we will all be happy again."
               "Oh, yes! I long to see grandpapa!" returned the girl, clasping her hands; "he is
                  miserable about me, I know, and would be following me, if he had not been
                  wounded—Oh! so cruelly wounded!"
               A sob accompanied the words.
               "There, don't cry," said the young lady, smoothing the girl's curls, "hope for the
                  best—and one thing which I rely upon more than all, is just what you have spoken
                  of—a party must be coming to rescue us. I know they are coming."
               "Yes," said Mrs. Butterton, "Captain Wagner will not stay long—but oh! my poor,
                  poor father!'
               
               And a sob, deeper than Cannie's, came from the warmhearted woman's lips.
               "Captain Wagner will surely come," said Miss Argal, a shadow of anguish passing
                  over her countenance, "and—Mr. Falconbridge!"
               She paused a moment, overcome apparently by some cruel memory: then controlling
                  her emotion, added:
               "We must go, however, and meet them. That is part of my plan. The Indians will
                  follow us, unless they are afraid, but the pursuers will not suffer them to
                  re-capture us."
               "We will trust in God, at least," said Cannie, with touching simplicity; "you know
                  if we trust in Him He will not desert us; and all He does is for the best."
               Miss Argal did not reply. She seemed suddenly absorbed in painful reflection,
                  continuing to caress the girl's hair. Then she turned her dark eyes upon the
                  little face, and gazed at Cannie with an expression of such hopeless anguish that
                  it made the girl's countenance flush with pity and sympathy. No one could have
                  recognized in the changed features of Miss Argal, the proud and imperial woman of
                  the past. The penetrating eyes no longer glittered with their dazzling and
                  seductive magnetism; the lips no longer curled with disdain or provoking coquetry.
                  The eyes were bathed in moisture—the lips quivered. The drooping lashes nearly
                  rested upon the pale cheek; and as Cannie gazed, tear after tear flowed silently
                  down, and fell upon her upturned face.
               "You are crying!" said the girl. "Oh! what are you crying for?"
               The arm of the young lady tightened its fold around the slender form, and bending
                  down her head, she pressed a kiss upon the girl's lips, and burst into tears.
               "I am crying because I am so bad, and you make me so ashamed," she said in a
                  broken voice; "I am so untruthful and bad, and miserable! Oh! Cannie! what you
                  have said breaks my heart!—for I do not trust in God! I have tried but I cannot! I
                  cannot! I am evil and miserable! and He hates me!"
               "Oh, no!" returned the girl, mingling her tears with those of her companion, "He
                  does not hate you! He cannot, if you feel that you have done wrong and ask His
                  forgiveness!"
               "I cannot ask it! I am unfit to pray! Once I prayed at mamma's knees—but I have
                  not prayed for years—I have done so much evil! But—but—Cannie—do you know!"—
               And the poor girl sobbed convulsively.
               "Do you know—I am—my mind is not sound—I am out of my head—sometimes!—always, I
                  think:—and I have thought that He will pardon a poor—miserable—insane girl—for her
                  wickedness! Oh! teach me to pray, Cannie—you pity me and do not turn away—I almost
                  think God will forgive me if you kneel and ask Him to. May I kneel down with
                  you?"
               Cannie scarcely knew how, but in a moment she was kneeling upon the floor of the
                  cavern—between the two women in the same posture—and praying in a low, broken, but
                  earnest voice. She could not tell how the words came—she did not hesitate an
                  instant, nevertheless; her prayer was tearful, impulsive, and filled with deep
                  feeling.
               When she rose, Miss Argal leaned her head upon the tender bosom, encircled
                  Cannie's neck with her arm, and sobbing, exhausted, trembling with emotion,
                  whispered faintly in her ear:
               "I think God has heard me, and forgiven me."
               The dying firelight no longer fell upon a countenance full of anguish and shame:—a
                  sad smile played over the lips and half-closed eyes:—the heart pressed to the
                  heart of the child, beat tranquilly.
               At the same moment Lightfoot entered the cavern.
            
            
               
               LXVII.
               THE RIVAL OF THE HALF-BREED.
               THE young Indian approached the group with the silent tread of his race, and
                  pausing before them, folded his arms and said:
               "I have come to show the Mountain Dove and her companions that they have a
                  friend."
               Cannie raised her head eagerly, and fixing an earnest, blushing look upon the
                  Indian, murmured:
               "Will you go away with us, Lightfoot?"
               The Indian inclined his head.
               "The tribe are going to sleep. Soon they will be slumbering. Then I will carry you
                  off, and place you on the homeward path."
               Cannie clasped her hands and gazed so gratefully into Lightfoot's face, that the
                  blood rushed to his cheeks, and it required all his self-control to suppress the
                  tremor which ran through his frame. He did suppress it, however: in a moment he
                  had recovered his presence of mind: and obeying a gesture from the girl, he came
                  silently, and sat down near the group.
               Their plans were quickly communicated to him, and the expression of eye which
                  greeted the announcement, was one of unmistakable satisfaction. His reply was,
                  that their plan was his own. He had thought at once of the fissure in the upper
                  cave, and he came to prepare them for the moment, when he would silently conduct
                  them to the place.
               They conversed thus for a quarter of an hour in whispers pers, and arranged all
                  the details of the scheme. As soon as the savages, in the lower cave were sunk in
                  deep sleep, they would be able to put their project in execution: and as there
                  were many indications of the fact that the braves were, one by one, yielding to
                  their long day's journey, the realization of the hopes of the party did not seem
                  very far distant.
               Lightfoot remained then, silent and motionless in his place, listening with the
                  keen ear of the Indian, to all noises which ascended in muffled murmurs from
                  below. One by one these noises died away :—the muttered "Oughs" of the warriors,
                  as they wrapped their blankets around them, and addressed themselves to sleep,
                  became less and less frequent :—finally all sounds lapsed into silence, with the
                  exception of the heavy breathing which indicated the slumber of the tribe.
               It was no part of the young Indian's plan, however, to carry out his enterprise at
                  once. He was well acquainted with the echoing peculiarities of the cavern—and his
                  design was to wait patiently until the troubled sleep of the warriors became a
                  very heavy, log-like insensibility : and this would not take place for an hour or
                  two. By that time, the sentinel also would be nodding over the fire, and they
                  might proceed without difficulty to their undertaking.
               This had been communicated to the three women, and by the advice of Lightfoot,
                  they had lain down to snatch the hasty slumber requisite to support them in their
                  flight. All obeyed, and worn out with excitement, were soon asleep.
               Lightfoot remained thus silent and motionless for two or three hours, wearily
                  listening, when, all at once, a cautious step descended the winding staircase from
                  the upper cavern. He rose, for this could scarcely be one of the Indians. With his
                  hand on his knife he waited. Then at sight of the figure which appeared at the
                  mouth of the cavern, he uttered a low exclamation of astonishment.
               It was the figure of Falconbridge.
            
            
               
               LXVIII.
               THE MARCH OF THE HUNTERS.
               THE appearance of Falconbridge is easily explained.
               Captain Wagner and his companions had no sooner crept to their hidden position on
                  the brow of the opposite precipice, and concealed themselves beneath the heavy
                  foliage of the dense pines, than a council of war was called.
               The question to be determined was a simple one. Should they make an attack before
                  nightfall upon the occupants of the cavern, trusting to their superior arms, or
                  wait until midnight, when the band was asleep, and then surprise them, and put
                  them to the knife? Some members of the party advocated the former plan, and urged
                  the fact that the Indians were, no doubt now, according to their invariable habit,
                  overcome with liquor. They had certainly carried off from the Ordinary as much rum
                  as sufficed, by the account of the servant who had escaped—and nothing would be
                  easier than to pile up brush at the mouth of cavern, set fire to it, and force the
                  Indians to an open combat, as the alternative of being suffocated by the dense
                  smoke.
               This proposition found favor with numerous members of the party, but they waited
                  to hear the opinion of Captain Wagner. The Borderer, who had listened attentively,
                  and when the speaker ceased, closed his eyes, and with knit brows reflected
                  rapidly, now shook his head, and growled:
               "It won't do! Friend Huger, your scheme is a good one, I don't deny, and shows
                  that you have been after this sort of game before—but there's a flaw in it, that
                  kills. I don't object to smoking the copper-faced devils, and suffocating 'em; if
                  I could do it, I would put every Injun in America in the big cave I've heard of,
                  in the Blue Ridge up the valley yonder, heap up whole pine trees at the mouth, set
                  'em afire, and smoke my pipe with pleasure as I heard 'em yelling and howling in
                  the death agony. That would be good sport, or the devil take me! But it won't do
                  here! These varmints are not the only people in the cave.
               "To our certain knowledge there are three ladies in the hands of these miscreants.
                  Mrs. Butterton, Miss Argal, and little Miss Cannie from the mountain yonder,
                  George says. Now the smoke would suffocate the women, too, and that's not a part
                  of our plan. I accordingly reject it, as commandant of the troop, and will give my
                  own views, which I shall carry out, unless they are met by others better. I know
                  the 'Devil's Garden' by heart. There is a path from this ridge along the
                  precipice, which will take us from one side of the gulf to the other. I propose
                  that we wait until past midnight, when the scoundrels will be dead asleep—and then
                  we can make the attack. We can approach in either of two ways. The cave can be
                  entered from the opening yonder where the two savages were talking, or through a
                  cleft in the rock above, near the strange rock like a man. We may then rescue the
                  women, and make an end of the whole party."
               This proposition was unanimously approved of, and the hunters concealed themselves
                  more carefully, awaiting the hour when they were to commence their march along the
                  winding path toward their enemies.
               The moon had risen some time before, slowly ascending like a shield of fire above
                  the wild eastern ranges, and now poured a flood of splendor upon the gigantic
                  pinnacle which towered above; on the yawning chasms and glimmering masses of piled
                  up rock: on the gorges bristling with drooping evergreens; and on the river which
                  glittered in its rays like a writhing serpent. The great orb shone tranquilly, and the yellow light slept on the weird
                  scene as peacefully as though it were untenanted by mortal—not the lurking-place
                  of deadly foes who would soon grapple in a mortal struggle.
               At ten paces from the rest of the hidden party, George and Falconbridge conversed
                  in low tones of their fears and hopes, and all the emotions of their hearts. Long
                  before, indeed from the first moment of their meeting almost, they had become
                  bosom friends: heart spoke to heart: each recognized a brother: and now, on the
                  perilous border, in the wild night, with those whom they loved more than life in
                  mortal danger, the bond of 
                     brotherood
                     brotherhood
                   was drawn closer still, until the two natures almost were combined into
                  one. Each trembled with vague dread of the result of the intended attack. Would
                  they arrive in time? Had not the Indians, even now, put their captives to death?
                  Were Bertha Argal and Cannie Powell still breathing, or had they fallen victims,
                  hours before, to the savage cruelty which had slain young children at the
                  Ordinary, and dismembered the dead body of the unhappy Mr. Argal?
               So the two young men passed the long hours in shuddering dread—impatient, longing,
                  panting for the contest—eager for the signal which would solve their doubts and
                  end their fears.
               At last it came. Captain Wagner passed the word cautiously along the line, and
                  taking the head of the party, set forward on the precipitous and almost
                  imperceptible path which wound down the steep declivity. It was only to be
                  followed by careful observation, leading, as it did, beneath the dense foliage of
                  the evergreens, along the edge of the precipice, where the moon's rays scarcely
                  penetrated—and more than one of the party, winding, single file, down into the
                  gorge, had to grasp the drooping boughs to prevent themselves from being hurled
                  into the chasm beneath.
               At last the bed of the small stream was reached, and the body of hunters commenced
                  the ascent of the towering pinnacle nacle. This would have been entirely out of
                  the question near the outer edge, which was, as we have said, a sheer precipice of
                  five hundred feet, but at the point which they had reached, about a quarter of a
                  mile from the precipice, it was possible to ascend, though this even was an
                  undertaking of great difficulty. The masses of rock in the path of the party were
                  huge and almost impassable—the tangled underwood very nearly a complete
                  barrier—but the 
                     trianed
                     trained
                   and active hunters overcame all obstacles, and slowly made their way,
                  preceded by Captain Wagner, toward the summit.
               It was nearly daybreak. Already faint streaks began to appear in the eastern sky,
                  the harbingers of dawn; and all was more profoundly quiet in the wild scene than
                  even upon the night before.
               At last the party reached the top, and a hurried consultation was held. The result
                  was that an examination of the fissure, and the entrance to the cavern beneath the
                  man's bust, should be made, and to the latter Captain Wagner addressed himself.
                  Falconbridge, his second in command, repaired with a portion of the hunters to the
                  fissure.
               He soon reached it, and bidding the men await his return, let his body down
                  through the yawning aperture, into which the moon's rays plunged, and felt his
                  feet base themselves upon a jutting crag near the entrance. From this abutment, he
                  found no difficulty in picking his way, though it required great caution, into the
                  cavern nearest the summit.
               From this he descended, directed by chance gleams of fire-light, playing upon the
                  roof, to the next, then to the next, and so to the cave in which Lightfoot was
                  watching over the slumbers of Mrs. Butterton, Cannie, and Miss Argal.
            
            
               
               LXIX.
               THE SON OF WAR EAGLE.
               AT sight of the young man, as we have said, Lightfoot, who had risen to his feet,
                  with his hand on his knife, uttered a low guttural exclamation of
                  astonishment.
               The two persons, who represented so nobly the great races from which they drew
                  their blood, remained for some moments motionless, surveying each other without
                  speaking. They were strongly contrasted, and yet singularly alike in those subtler
                  and less perceptible traits which underlie the mere outward appearance. There was
                  the same frank gaze, clear, penetrating, unshrinking—the look of the eagle upon
                  the sun: the same proud simplicity of attitude; the same erect carriage of person.
                  They stood thus, no inapt representatives and types of the Caucasian and the
                  Indian—the civilized European and the untutored North American—the court and the
                  trackless wilderness.
               Their glance was not one of hostility or suspicion. Each had recognized in the
                  other a pure and noble soul—but still the inevitable circumstances of their
                  position made them use due caution. It was not two boys filled with chimerical
                  ideas of human goodness and unwavering confidence, who stood thus, confronting
                  each other. They were strong men—with their feelings deeply aroused—opposed at a
                  critical moment, on a critical occasion.
               Lightfoot, without removing his hand from his knife, said in a low tone;
               "Why is the young pale-face in the heart of his enemies?"
               Falconbridge pointed to Miss Argal, and replied:
               "I came to seek her."
               "She is your friend?"
               "More than my friend."
               "The young man uttered the words with such dangerous animation and distinctness,
                  that Lightfoot raised his hand quickly, and said in a whisper:
               "Hist! Beware how you speak so loudly. The members of the tribe will wake at the
                  noise, and your blood will-flow."
               "I care not," returned Falconbridge, who gazed with flushed cheeks at Miss Argal
                  as she slumbered serenely, a happy smile playing fitfully upon her lips; "so she
                  is saved from the diabolical cruelty of these savage beasts, I count my own life
                  as nothing."
               The words affected Lightfoot like a blow. His head rose haughtily, and he fixed
                  upon Falconbridge one of those burning glances which seem to measure the foe—as a
                  tiger measures the enemy upon whom he is about to spring. But the emotion of rage
                  was plainly instinctive. It did not last. The expression of menace disappeared
                  almost as quickly as it came, and a deep sadness fell like the shadow of a cloud
                  on the flashing eyes and proud lip. With drooping head, the Indian murmured:
               "Be silent! I am the son of War Eagle, and in other days the blood of him who
                  uttered such words would have run out of his heart! But my heart is changed.
                  Lightfoot no longer strikes in this quarrel. His heart says, 'Yes, my tribe is
                  cruel, is bloody'—but he is still a Catawba, a chief. Let the young pale-face
                  respect the feelings of a chief."
               The noble voice went to the heart of Falconbridge. His cheeks reddened with
                  impulsive shame, at thus wounding, unnecessarily, the feelings of his companion.
                  He stretched out his hand, and said, frankly:
               "I would beg forgiveness—I meant not to hurt you, son of War Eagle. Let us speak
                  not as foes, but as brothers, for I
                  know, I feel, that you are here as the protector of women and children. I would
                  know that even if one of those children were not this one before me."
               And he pointed to Cannie.
               The Indian gravely took the proffered hand, and then said:
               "Does the young pale-face come to rescue the young woman?"
               "Yes."
               "Does he come alone?"
               And the penetrating eyes of the Indian chief looked full into the eyes of his
                  companion. Falconbridge replied, with ready presence of mind, that he alone had
                  made his way to the cavern. He felt instinctively that in this critical moment,
                  when the aid of Lightfoot was of inestimable value, it would be wholly unnecessary
                  and equally cruel to present to him the tragic alternative of acting with his own
                  tribe against the whites, or with his adopted people against the Indians. He
                  evaded thus the question, and added quickly:
               "What plan of escape have you devised?"
               Lightfoot, in low, rapid tones, explained everything, and added:
               "The hour has nearly arrived. The band are sleeping—I will go and reconnoitre. But
                  before the son of War Eagle goes, let him say to the young pale-face that his
                  tribe are not wholly fierce and cruel—they are very noble often, though their eyes
                  are different from the eyes of the whites. The Good Spirit made the world of land
                  and water, and valley and mountain—he traced out the rivers, and rolled round the
                  seasons, through the hours of unremembered years, for all the tribes of all the
                  mighty nations. He gave to one of these great tribes, the whites, another land—to
                  us he gave the prairies blooming with a hundred flowers—the great wide forests—the
                  pathless lakes—and lofty mountains. We lived in the prairies, and upon the
                  mountains—we paddled on the lakes. The Evil Spirit often made us fight with each
                  other; but not always. Then came the pale-faces, and they dyed the soil with the
                  blood of braves. Wherever an Indian met a white, he met an enemy—it was life or
                  death. This has made all the tribes so bloody—this makes the Evil Spirit laugh,
                  and triumph. The son of War Eagle felt his heart turn cold within him—he wandered
                  from his tribe—one day a prophet of the whites spoke to him of the Son of the
                  Great Spirit, and he listened. Then he left his people, and became a believer.
                  To-day he would not bear his knife against either—he would turn away, and bury his
                  sufferings in silence. If the knife strikes him, let it strike—he will die a
                  Christian chief of the Catawbas!"
               With these words, the young Indian left the cavern, and noiselessly descending the
                  winding stair to the cave beneath, disappeared from the eyes of his companion.
                  Falconbridge looked after him for a moment, then hastily going to Miss Argal's
                  side, laid his hand upon her arm.
               The young lady opened her eyes, and gave a quick start, as she saw Falconbridge.
                  Then covering her face with her hands, she murmured with burning blushes:
               "Do not speak to me—I am not worthy!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LXX.
               THE CONFESSION.
               FALCONBRIDGE displayed an emotion even greater than that of his companion. His
                  face flushed with passionate emotion, and his breast heaved, as he gazed upon the
                  woman whom he loved, even more than ever it seemed to him, now that she was
                  helpless and surrounded by bloody enemies.
               The nature of this man was one of those which remembers the good and forgets the
                  bad. He no longer recalled the terrible wrong which the young lady had inflicted
                  upon him—he no longer thought of her as the woman who had trifled with him, broken
                  his heart, and laughed in his face when he suffered. She was only the poor
                  stricken girl whose will and heart were diseased by an 
                     awfnl
                     awful
                   visitation of the Supreme Ruler of the universe—he thought of her, as
                  she struggled in her father's arms that day, and cried, "I loved him only"—as she
                  looked when she came with streaming eyes, and broken accents, and prayers for
                  pardon, to return his mother's ring. As he looked at her now, and heard her
                  murmur, "Do not speak to me—I am not worthy," his heart was filled with an
                  inexpressible love and pity."
               Of the feelings of the young lady herself, it is scarcely necessary to speak. The
                  change which had taken place in her whole being has been described—we have rapidly
                  touched upon, with a sort of fear, at undertaking such a picture, the scene when
                  another light than that of earth illuminated the gloomy depths of her soul:—and we
                  know thus what she felt in looking upon the victim of her untruth and cruelty.
               She scarcely dared to meet his eyes, and turned away, covering her blushes of
                  shame, as we have said, with her hands. For more than a minute Falconbridge did
                  not speak—emotion had overcome him. Then he regained his self-possession, and
                  said:
               "Do you think that I remember the past, with bitterness? No, I do not. Look up, it
                  is a faithful, devoted friend who speaks to you."
               "How can I?" murmured the young lady, removing her hands from her face, but
                  averting her head; "I am filled with such shame, sir, that it almost kills
                  me!"
               "Do not speak thus! Do not even refer to the past!"
               "I must," she said in a low tone, glancing with unutterable sadness at him, and
                  then looking away again, "I must, Mr. Falconbridge, for I have acted toward you in
                  so base a manner, that it almost breaks my heart to think of it. But do not think
                  too cruelly of me! One of my bitterest pangs, even here in this gloomy place,
                  where I have so much else to make me miserable, is the recollection of my
                  dishonorable conduct toward yourself. Do not interrupt sir," she said, as he was
                  about to speak, and gazing now with sorrowful and shrinking modesty into his face;
                  "do not stop me, Mr. Falconbridge. You know I am a poor insane creature, and I
                  know not whether I shall have the mind or memory to speak as I wish to speak to
                  you, if I do not go on now. I say, that I have been guilty of dishonor to you, and
                  I must confess it all, before I can feel that you have forgiven it—I
                  do not know if you can. You came to the Valley, and from our first meeting I
                  determined to engage your affection, that I and my father might be compelled to
                  live no longer in this solitude. I practiced upon you those wiles which it is the
                  sad misfortune of woman to possess—I succeeded in my aim—and then I deceived you,
                  basely, dishonorably, shamefully!"
               Her face was crimson as she spoke. The effort which she made in thus speaking, was
                  plainly immense, passionate, cruel.
               
               "I met Lord Fairfax," she went on, "and I broke my faith with you—I treated you as
                  no lady can treat a gentleman without degrading herself; I sneered at you when you
                  complained; turned my back when you remonstrated; when you begged me with that
                  deep love which should have been my pride, and honor, to be true to my plighted
                  word, I laughed in your face. Mr. Falconbridge!" said the young lady with
                  quivering lips and hands which trembled so much that they were almost unable to
                  put back the mass of raven curls which fell over her face, "Mr. Falconbridge, it
                  almost kills me to utter these words!—it makes me sick at heart!—I am so
                  humiliated and degraded in my own eyes, that I could sink through the earth for
                  shame! But I must speak! Yes, sir, I behaved toward the most honorable and noble
                  gentleman I've ever known in a manner which I can scarcely believe as I think of
                  it—I repeat it, with base, base dishonor!—and on my knees I beg, I pray your
                  forgiveness! Stop, Mr. Falconbridge!—do not speak—let me add what I know you are
                  thinking at this moment—let me tell you my only excuse for this terrible conduct.
                  But I need not—I see in your eyes that you have recalled it. Oh, yes, sir! that is
                  my sole excuse—it is something, is it not, sir? I was only a poor miserable
                  creature—with my head whirling, my mind unsound—my heart depraved and awfully
                  wicked! I was not always so, sir! Once I was true and pure—mamma taught me to be
                  good and tender—but I could not remain so! Against my better nature I acted with
                  awful deception—I wounded you, and made you suffer without pity!—but—but, through
                  it all—I can scarcely find strength to confess it, for you may misunderstand me—it
                  escaped me, papa says, in that mad attack which you witnessed—I—loved
                  you,—Edmund!—as you loved me—with my whole, entire heart!—you only! Do not think
                  me unmaidenly!" she sobbed, turning away, and blushing to the roots of her hair;
                  "do not think that I wish you to return to me! That can never be, if you even
                  desired it! We must part forever, after this terrible night! We can never meet
                  more, but I am changed, and I can pray for you—I can pray to God to forgive me my
                  great sin—as I pray you humbly to do so—you, whom I have wronged so terribly and
                  basely!"
               She stopped, sobbing convulsively,—overcome by the woful confession, so repugnant
                  to a woman: shaken by a depth and poignancy of shame and anguish which no words
                  can describe.
               And Falconbridge was as passionately moved as herself. Her words had struck him
                  like sharp arrows, recalling as they did all his suffering, his long agony, his
                  despair. This was not the dominant feeling in the breast of the young man,
                  however. An unutterable compassion and tenderness made his heart throb. His frame
                  trembled, and he vainly essayed to speak. In a few moments, however, he had
                  mastered his agitation, and had opened his lips, when suddenly Lightfoot stood
                  beside them.
               "Come!—there is no moment to lose!" said the Indian in a low, quick voice, "the
                  sentinel is asleep, and the day is breaking!"
               The Indian cautiously awoke Mrs. Butterton and Cannie as he spoke—and they
                  silently rose from their couches. Falconbridge had only time to bend over Miss
                  Argal, to press her hand to his lips and say in a deep broken voice:
               "I forgive you from my heart! May God forgive all my sins as completely!"
            
            
               
               LXXI.
               THE FLIGHT.
               THE three women quickly made their preparations, and signified their readiness to
                  follow their guides.
               Lightfoot went in front, cautioning the members of the party, in a low tone, to
                  make no noise; and thus gliding like shadows, they ascended the first flight of
                  steps, leading to the next cavern above.
               There, Lightfoot paused a moment to listen. His quick ear seemed to have caught
                  some slight sound of hostile import. Bending his head, like a crouching wild
                  animal, his keen eyes plunged into the half-darkness, his acute ears strove to
                  discern the repetition of the noise. It seemed to have existed only in his
                  imagination; and with a silent movement of the hand, he motioned to the party to
                  follow.
               The ascent became steeper and more difficult. In more than one place the steps of
                  the huge staircase were wanting, and the women had to be lifted in the arms of
                  their companions. Falconbridge and Lightfoot, it may easily be believed,
                  experienced singular emotion as the forms of those whom they loved were thus
                  clasped in their arms, resting upon their hearts. The young Indian was still
                  agitated by the cruel scene of his disappointment in the cavern: his face glowed
                  as he lifted the girl, and with all the respect and tenderness of a brother,
                  placed her safely upon the ledge above. And if such an emotion invaded the breast
                  of Lightfoot, what a rush of painful delight must Falconbridge have felt, as Miss
                  Argal's cheek nearly touched his own, as her dark curls brushed against his
                  bosom!
               But it was no time for reflection—no time to indulge these inevitable emotions of
                  the youthful heart. The moments rushed onward, winged with terrible peril—all was
                  at stake; the issues of life and death must soon be decided.
               The party hurried onward as rapidly as the broken and jagged pathway would permit.
                  They had ascended thus very nearly to the entrance, and were mounting the last
                  precipitous staircase leading to the fissure in the pavement above, beyond which
                  lay hope, freedom, life. Lightfoot again raised Cannie, and then assisted Mrs.
                  Butterton to ascend. Falconbridge held out his arms for Miss Argal, and she obeyed
                  his gesture.
               The young man and the girl were thus clasped, as it were in each other's embrace,
                  when a roar like that of a furious wild beast was heard, and followed by twenty
                  Indians, the Half-breed rushed up the staircase. He had gone to seek Miss Argal,
                  had discovered the escape of the three women, and hastily calling to his
                  companions, followed them.
               He had arrived just in time to see Miss Argal clasped to the bosom of
                  Falconbridge, and the sight aroused in him the furious devil of blood and death.
                  By a superhuman bound he reached the plateau beneath the fissure, just as the
                  three women were thrust upward by their companions—but in spite of his reckless
                  daring he recoiled.
               Falconbridge had seized a huge mass of rock, and lifting it above his head, hurled
                  it downward. The Half-breed avoided it by a movement to one side as rapid as
                  lightning, and it rebounded from the jagged floor, burst into fragments, and sent
                  throughout the gloomy caverns a sombre roar, echoing and rebellowing from side to
                  side.
               Lightfoot and Falconbridge took instant advantage of the diversion, and passing
                  through the opening, found themselves in the air above, in the midst of the party
                  of hunters who were rushing to their assistance.
               
               The Indians appeared at the fissure, their red faces distorted with rage and
                  ferocity—above all, the hideous countenance of the Half-Breed, which resembled
                  that of some horrible demon, wild with rage and disappointment. But at sight of
                  the hunters armed to the teeth, with levelled rifles, the heads disappeared, amid
                  cries of fury and fear. A volley from the whites followed, and a howl from the
                  cavern replied to it. More than one of the savages had been killed by the unerring
                  balls.
               Then a new phenomenon appeared. At the moment when the hunters were hastily
                  reloading their pieces, a dense cloud of lurid smoke rose slowly through the
                  fissure, and ascended in the first rays of morning. Captain Wagner's quick eye had
                  discerned, from his position at the mouth of the cavern, the escape of the
                  captives—he had quickly heaped together vast quantities of dry boughs—these had
                  been set on fire, and in the midst of the thick smoke his men advanced to the
                  attack.
               The smoke swept upward toward the more elevated cavern in which the entire tribe,
                  by this time, were assembled. Thus the captives huddled together upon the lower
                  floor were unharmed. Their bonds were quickly cut, and the women escaped—the men
                  seized arms from the floor and joined the whites.
               At the head of his party, thus swollen in numbers, Captain Longknife rushed up the
                  staircase of the cavern, firing his pistols. Volleys from the hunters behind him
                  were added—and very soon they had arrived within sight of the fissure.
               The huge borderer presented an appearance almost frightful. His shaggy black hair
                  and beard were singed by the flames—his bulky form looked gigantic amid the clouds
                  of smoke—with his immense sabre whirled above his head, he struck right and left
                  with a fury which made him resemble some mad giant of the old mythology.
               More than once the cry of "Longknife! Longknife!" issued sued from the terrified
                  savages, who seemed to regard him with superstitious awe and horror. They recoiled
                  before him, and crowded tumultuously toward the fissure. At every moment the
                  advancing hunters stumbled over dead bodies—they breathed heavily in the lurid
                  smoke: but with wild shouts and discharges of fire-arms rushed upward.
               The black fissure then disgorged before the eyes of the party above, a furious
                  crowd of savages. Their enemies followed, and in an instant the final struggle
                  commenced upon the plateau of the gigantic pinnacle, which now shone brightly in
                  the light of day.
            
            
               
               LXXII.
               THE BORDERER AND THE HALF-BREED.
               THE struggle was furious, horrible, mortal.
               All the most intense and acrid passions, which agitate the human soul, were
                  spurred to wild and incredible activity, and the combatants seemed to have made up
                  their minds to conquer or die, without thought of retreat or flight.
               The enemies were nearly a perfect match. It is true, that the Indians exceeded the
                  hunters in numerical strength, but the superiority of the arms used by the latter
                  gave them a decided advantage, and more than made up for the inequality of
                  numbers. The area upon which they contended—the summit of the dizzy precipice—was
                  limited, and thus the whites fought under favorable circumstances, for they could
                  not easily be surrounded.
               Captain Wagner led the party of hunters: and beside him Falconbridge advanced into
                  the press, dealing such blows with his sword that every opponent went down before
                  him. The two men seemed possessed with the battle ardor in its fullest extent—that
                  fury of the soul which animates the blood of men, as animal ferocity does the
                  blood of beasts, turning the mildest human beings into wolves and tigers. Captain
                  Wagner did not lose his presence of mind, however. He led his men with the
                  reckless courage of one who commands a forlorn hope; but with the cool
                  generalship, also, of a veteran campaigner. He advanced, step by step, beating
                  down every opponent—delivering his orders in a loud, strident tone, which rose
                  above the uproar—and embracing, even at the instant when he gave his blows, the
                  entire field of action at a glance.
               Falconbridge was beside him—and beside Falconbridge was George. The youth was
                  thoroughly aroused. His habitual calmness and amiability had completely
                  disappeared. His head was tossed back with fearless pride, and in his heaving
                  bosom, his burning eyes, his lips set close together, might have been seen the
                  evidences of a nature of immense depth and strength—of dauntless will—of
                  inflexible hardihood and determination. There was no longer anything of the boy
                  about him—he was the full-armed warrior, rejoicing in the deadly contest. His
                  sword descended with unerring precision upon the writhing phalanx of Indian
                  warriors, and he was beside Falconbridge wherever he advanced.
               It was in the midst of this mad struggle, that all at once, George heard a woman
                  scream—and this scream he recognized as issuing from the lips of Cannie. It was so
                  wild and piercing, so filled with distress and anguish, that the young man's heart
                  turned cold with apprehension. With a hurried assurance to Falconbridge that he
                  would return in an instant, George threw himself backward, and clearing at a
                  single bound, two or three dead bodies, rushed in the direction of the spot from
                  which he had heard the cry of distress.
               A few words will explain it.
               Cannie, Mrs. Butterton, and Miss Argal, had been hastily conducted to the rear of
                  a large mass of rock, on the eastern edge of the plateau, not far from the curious
                  granite bust, in order to screen them from the balls of the savages, a large
                  portion of whom carried rifles and pistols, procured from the dwellings which they
                  had plundered on their march. A cleft in the rock afforded a favorable
                  hiding-place, and in this cleft, accordingly, the three women crouched, listening
                  with terror, to the noises of the desperate conflict. Beside them Lightfoot
                  leaned, with folded arms, depressed
                  head, and heaving bosom, against the rock. A terrible struggle was going on in his
                  breast. All the old instincts of the savage chieftain were aroused within him, by
                  the din of the combat—by the clashing weapons, the discharge of fire-arms, the
                  yells and shouts, as the enemies closed in the mortal contest. His limbs
                  trembled—a shudder passed through his frame—and his glowing eyes resembled balls
                  of fire. But those eyes were not directed toward the place of combat—his nervous
                  fingers did not clutch the weapon at his girdle. He could take no part against
                  either of the bands, for neither was his foe. He was a Catawba, it is true, but he
                  was also a friend of the whites—a Christian; and to terminate any indecision which
                  he felt, came the thought that his presence was necessary to the safety of
                  Cannie.
               Thus he curbed the wild battle instinct raging in his breast—suppressed the tremor
                  which agitated his frame; his feet rooted themselves in their place, and with
                  folded arms he awaited the end of the contest.
               The three women were less capable of controlling their feelings. They listened
                  with terror to the shouts and discharges. Every rifle shot, to their excited
                  imaginations, rung the death-knell of the person for whom they felt the deepest
                  solicitude. Above all, Cannie thought of George, and the peril in which he must
                  be, with blanched cheeks, and eyes full of wild anguish. She saw him pale and
                  bleeding, beneath the trampling feet—her imagination conjured up, for itself, a
                  horrible spectacle—and unable longer to bear the terrible suspense, she rose to
                  her feet, passed hastily by Lightfoot, and going to the edge of the rock, looked
                  toward the combatants.
               As she reached the point, she suddenly recoiled with that cry of terror which
                  George had heard and obeyed.
               An Indian, with a hideous scowl upon his features, met her face to face, and
                  raised above her head a long, glittering knife, which descended like a flash of
                  lightning toward her bosom.
               But the weapon did not bury itself in her heart. It found another sheath.
                  Lightfoot had seen her peril—his face flushed crimson—and arriving at the spot,
                  with a single bound, he had thrown himself between the girl and the descending
                  knife.
               It entered his bosom, and buried itself to the very hilt.
               The savage recognized his brother warrior, and chief, too late, and uttering a
                  howl of terror at his action, disappeared in the direction of the main contest, at
                  the moment when George reached the side of the girl.
               Cannie had thrown her arms wildly around the young Indian, vainly endeavoring to
                  sustain him from falling. Her strength was unequal to the task, however; Lightfoot
                  tottered faintly, raised his eyes to heaven, and extending his arms, fell
                  backward, dragging the girl with him, to the earth.
               George hastened to their assistance, but he had come too late. The weapon had
                  evidently inflicted a mortal wound. Almost fainting at the awful sight, at the
                  pale, calm face, and half-closed eyes of the dying man, Cannie supported his form
                  in her arms, and looked up at George with an expression in her eyes which haunted
                  him to the day of his death. There was in it such a depth of anguish, a tenderness
                  so profound and passionate, that the young man felt his cheeks flush in unison
                  with the girl's emotion, and his pulses throb.
               Cannie spoke to the dying man in quick, hurried tones, which were scarcely
                  recognizable. She bedewed his forehead with her tears—besought him to speak to
                  her—and used every means to arouse him, and recall him to consciousness. Miss
                  Argal and Mrs. Butterton hastened to her assistance—and all three of them chafed
                  his brow and hands. It was of no avail—the young Indian exhibited no signs of life
                  beyond a faint movement of the chest—and George saw, with inexpressible anguish,
                  that his friend was dying. As he gazed at the serene face, drooping languidly toward the bare shoulder, at the eyes
                  veiled by their long black lashes, at the slowly heaving bosom, which, at every
                  pulsation, forced a few drops of the Indian's life-blood through the wound, the
                  young man's throat seemed to choke with tears, and a groan issued from his
                  lips.
               But it was no time to indulge in regrets. The combat in which his friends were
                  engaged, began to roar more furiously than before. The cries of his companions
                  recalled him to the contest; and at the moment when he roused himself to a
                  consciousness of his duty, these shouts were redoubled, and replied to from the
                  slope, by which the peak was reached.
               A quick glance in the direction of these latter cries, revealed their origin. At
                  the distance of a quarter of a mile Lord Fairfax, who had found the trail of the
                  hunters, was seen sweeping onward toward the pinnacle, followed by twenty mounted
                  men, who plunged their spurs into their foaming animals, and rushed upward, to the
                  relief of their friends. The sight banished completely the softer emotion which
                  George had experienced. His face flushed again with the animal instinct of war—and
                  hastily stooping, he raised the languid body of Lightfoot in his arms, and bore it
                  to the cleft in the rock, where the women could minister to him, if he revived,
                  without danger from the bullets of the enemy.
               He then bade them, in hurried accents, keep close within their place of
                  concealment; and in the midst of a hundred frantic shouts, hastened back to the
                  scene of contest.
               The Indians, in his absence, had been slowly driven back, step by step, and were
                  beginning to revolve the propriety of flight, when they heard the cries of the
                  party coming up the mountain. At the same moment another incident took place,
                  which completed their despair, depriving them of all "heart of hope."
               Captain Wagner, as we have said, plunged, at the head of his men into the very
                  centre of the savages, and with his sabre, of immense weight and length of blade,
                  hewed down every opponent who stood in his path. Breathing hoarsely, dealing
                  gigantic blows with a ferocity now thoroughly aroused, and shaking from him, so to
                  speak, as a bear shakes off the dogs, the most powerful warriors who assailed him,
                  he had left behind him a long train of dead or dying, who had bit the dust beneath
                  his arm. He was destined, however, to find a foeman worthy of his steel. This was
                  the powerful Half-breed, who had hitherto fought in another part of the press, but
                  who now advanced toward the soldier, uplifting, with both hands, a huge axe, which
                  he had seized from a pile of stolen utensils in the cavern.
               The countenance of the Half-breed resembled, at this moment, the mask of a fiend,
                  or rather the veritable physiognomy of a demon incarnate, let loose upon the
                  material earth. His eyes were blood-shot, and burned with a lurid lustre,
                  suggestive of blood and death. His hideous mouth was distorted into a sneer, which
                  rendered it a thousand times more repulsive; on his broad chest, and enormous
                  arms, the muscles stood out like knots, or excrescences.
               He advanced straight upon Captain Wagner, and aimed a terrible blow at his head—a
                  blow which would have felled the most powerful ox. The soldier parried it with his
                  sword, but the result was unhappy for him. The sabre yielded to the immense
                  stroke, and snapped within six inches of the hilt.
               The Half-breed uttered a howl of triumph, and throwing his chest backward, whirled
                  the axe with both hands, and all his strength, above his head, delivering the blow
                  with the full swing of the deadly weapon.
               But he had met an enemy as wary and self-possessed as himself. The axe did not
                  descend. With a bound of astonishing rapidity, Wagner leaped upon the Half-breed,
                  and seized him by the wrist and throat. The axe was no longer of any use to
                  him—the grasp upon his throat required the use of his hands—with another howl,
                  more furious than the former, the savage dropped the weapon and clutched his enemy
                  in a terrible and deadly embrace.
               
               Then commenced a struggle awful for its ferocity and the mortal determination of
                  the combatants. It was a contest for life or death, and each felt that the result
                  must be doubtful. Both were men of immense physical strength—both aroused to the
                  last fury of passionate hatred; neither gained, at first, any advantage. The
                  superior stature of Captain Wagner counted in his favor; but the deformed
                  Half-breed had trained his huge muscles, by constant exercise, until they were as
                  hard and elastic as steel; and this more than balanced his want of height. He
                  wrapped himself around the frame of the Borderer like a deadly boa-constrictor,
                  tightening the grasp of his crooked arms and legs, and striving, it seemed, to
                  crush the breastbone of his adversary.
               Thus locked in a deadly embrace, the enemies made gigantic efforts to terminate
                  the struggle. The Half-breed had no arms—having discharged his pistols, and
                  dropped his knife and tomahawk in the melee. The Borderer had a knife, but it was
                  tangled in his belt, and he could not draw it, until his foe was prostrate beneath
                  him, and his own arms free from the paralyzing pressure. They staggered from side
                  to side, stumbling and nearly falling over the dead bodies; writhing like wild
                  animals, and uttering hoarse growls; exerting their great strength to an extent
                  almost supernatural in the breast to breast contest for life.
               Then a new and more terrible feature was added to the struggle. Step by step they
                  had detached themselves from the rest of the combatants, and now they found
                  themselves rapidly approaching the ledge of rock which ran around the brink of the
                  precipice. The Borderer's back was turned to it, and he was not aware of his peril
                  until it was almost too late to guard against it. He heard, at the instant, a sort
                  of hissing growl, and a sudden and diabolical grin distorted the face of the
                  Half-breed. Breathing heavily, and gnashing his boar-like tusks, he forced his
                  enemy toward the dizzy precipice, and suddenly, as they reached the very verge,
                  buried his sharp teeth in the Borderer's throat.
               Wagner uttered a hoarse cry, and staggered back. The dog-like bite, deep into his
                  throat, had taken him unawares, and nearly paralyzed him. His head grew dizzy, his
                  right hand released its hold upon the Half-breed: clinging like a tiger, to the
                  Borderer's throat, the malignant savage pushed him, inch by inch, to the
                  verge.
               A glance behind him showed the soldier his awful peril. He saw the sheer descent
                  of five hundred feet beneath him, the plate au at its foot, a bed of shattered
                  rocks: and upon that plateau, his mangled corpse would be lying in three seconds,
                  unless he could disengage the hideous monster's teeth from his throat.
               His brain reeled. A shudder passed through his frame—and a sort of chill invaded
                  his breast. The heart of this man, who had braved a thousand perils, who had led
                  his men into the bloodiest gulfs of battle, who had set his life, a hundred times,
                  upon the hazard of the die, without giving so much as a thought to the event—the
                  heart of this stalwart soldier, who had never felt fear in the midst of any
                  danger, now recoiled and died within him at this horrible thought—at the idea of
                  death in a shape so hideous and revolting.
               He summoned all his remaining strength, and made a final effort to hurl from him
                  the monster, whose fangs were buried in his bleeding throat. The effort was vain.
                  The jagged teeth clung closer still—their grip was firmer, and they gnawed at the
                  quivering flesh with hound-like ferocity. The Borderer uttered a stifled cry, and
                  let fall his other arm, with which he had endeavored to repel his enemy. The act
                  preserved him. The Half-breed had forced his opponent to the very brink, and was
                  about to hurl him over, when he felt a blade, keen and mortal in its stroke, enter
                  his breast. The Borderer's hand had fallen upon the knife in his belt—he had drawn
                  it and struck. The monster's hold relaxed, the teeth clutched at his enemy's
                  throat with a last despairing effort—and uttering a hoarse growl, he endeavored to
                  drag the Borderer with him in his fall.
               
               Captain Wagner had just strength enough to recover himself. His body oscillated,
                  as it were, upon the brink; and he staggered back, as the hideous form of the
                  Half-breed disappeared like a mass hurled from some war-like engine in the yawning
                  chasm, where it was dashed to pieces upon the rocks.
               As the Borderer turned from the terrible contest, wiping his streaming brows, and
                  breathing heavily, he saw the Indians give way. Then, all at once, with loud
                  shouts and the discharge of pistols and carbines, the party, headed by Lord
                  Fairfax, bore down upon them, and completed the rout:—the remnant of the band
                  disappeared in the forest, with howls of hatred and despair.
               At the same moment the sun rose above the eastern mountain, and poured his
                  tranquil light upon the spectacle of blood and death.
            
            
               LXXIII.
               THE YOUNG INDIAN.
               AT the mouth of the cleft in the rock, where the women had concealed themselves,
                  Cannie holds upon her breast the head of Lightfoot, who is dying.
               The young chief exhibits no evidences of suffering—no fear of his impending fate.
                  His countenance is calm and untroubled; his eyes are filled with a serene, happy
                  light; the courage of his race and his new-found faith, have come to nerve him for
                  the journey through the vale of shadows.
               As he looks up into the face of the young girl, who gazes at him with
                  inexpressible anguish and compassion, a faint smile wanders over his countenance,
                  and a sigh escaping from the parted lips, seems to indicate deep happiness.
               "The Dove of the Mountain is unhurt," he murmurs; "the head of the son of War
                  Eagle rests upon her heart! Has the day dawned, Mountain Dove, and is the combat
                  over? Have the children of the Catawbas gone away?"
               "Yes," murmured Cannie with a sob.
               The Indian caught the almost imperceptible sound, and said:
               "Why do you cry? Is your heart sad for me? Do not cry for me—I am not unhappy—oh,
                  no, not unhappy!"
               "You are dying, Lightfoot," returned the girl, suppressing, by a violent effort, a
                  rush of tears.
               "Dying? Yes, that is true, little Dove," he said; "but is that anything to grieve
                  at? The world is very dark and sad, and I go from it to another land where there
                  is never any darkness. You gave me this hope and happiness, for you
                  taught me what to believe, and what my duty was. Without you, I should never have
                  been anything but an Indian warrior—I am dying, but I am happy."
               
               "And for me! oh, you are dying for me!" exclaimed the girl, nearly beside herself
                  with anguish; "you gave your life to protect me from that blow. Would I had died
                  before you—in your place, Lightfoot—dear, dear Lightfoot; my heart is breaking as
                  I think"—
               She stopped, nearly suffocated by emotion, and crying bitterly.
               "Do not weep!" said the Indian, earnestly, with glowing cheeks; "you wound me! I
                  thank the Master that he permitted the poor Indian to save the little friend who
                  gave him the great hope of another land! See the sun! there he rises! Before he
                  rests in the mountains the son of War Eagle will be smiling as he stands in the
                  presence of the Master of Life!"
               As he spoke, a slight convulsion passed over his frame, and his eyes began to grow
                  dreamy and absent. The girl saw, through her tears, with a sudden chill at the
                  heart, that his mind had commenced to wander, as the spirit does when it
                  approaches death.
               "Oh, yes!" she exclaimed, "you will stand in the presence of God, and he will
                  smile upon you, for you are pure and good—oh, so good and kind, dear, dear
                  Lightfoot! You are dying because you protected a poor child, and the Saviour will
                  receive and bless you!"
               "Ah!" murmured the Indian, his head slightly drooping, "was that my father's
                  whisper? Does War Eagle talk from the happy hunting-grounds to his child? I will
                  go to meet him!"
               And the young chief attempted to rise, but fell back faintly.
               "No, no!" cried the girl in a low, frightened tone, and trembling, "do not try to
                  rise—lean on me—you are dying, Lightfoot!"
               The words arrested his failing attention, and he looked up into her eyes with a
                  sad smile.
               "Dying?" he said faintly; "do you say that the son of War Eagle is dying? Yes—now
                  I see, I remember! The knife! You are the Mountain Dove, are you not, little one?
                  I loved you—did I not try to save you? I thought—but that shadow! Why does it
                  creep so slowly, slowly? And the wind! Is it the wind or the voices of other years
                  in the forest where I roamed as a chief of the Catawbas? It is a brave, great
                  tribe—the son of War Eagle is a chief! There, the wind again—and it blows from the
                  mountain where the old man lives with the maiden. Is that a rose in your hair,
                  little Dove, and who is wandering with you? A youth of the palefaces! He is a
                  noble-looking boy, but he can never love you as the poor Indian loved you. You are
                  more to him than the skies and rivers, than the prairie and the forest—you are his
                  life; without you he would die!"
               A glow came to the face, upon which the pallor of death was slowly settling. By a
                  last effort, he raised his drooping head, with a parting gleam in the joyful eyes,
                  and it fell back upon her shoulders with the face turned upward to the sky.
               "It was not the wind!" he murmured, close to her ear; "it is my father, who is
                  whispering to his child, and blesses me as I go. Do you hear—'My son dies well!'
                  Yes, the son of War Eagle, the child of the Catawbas dies well, since he dies for
                  the little Dove. Farewell, I am going to the Master!—the sun, how it shines!—how
                  the Master smiles!"
               And the voice died away. With a bright light on his face, the young chief fell
                  back into the arms of Cannie, and expired upon her bosom.
               At the distance of ten paces, and not far from the strange granite bust, Lord
                  Fairfax held, in the same manner, upon his breast, the head of Falconbridge, who
                  was dying in his arms.
               Within five yards of the young man lay the body of Bertha Argal—beautiful in death
                  as in life.
            
            
               
               LXXIV.
               THE YOUNG CAVALIER.
               THE young girl who has played so woeful a part in our drama—who, under the
                  influence of some Fatality, it would seem, had wrecked in their freshest bloom the
                  hopes and happiness of a noble heart—this child of error and unhappy weakness, had
                  blotted out the record of her fault, by one supreme and all-embracing act of
                  courage and devotion.
               She had sacrificed her life in the vain attempt to preserve that of her lover.
               It was at the moment when Lord Fairfax was ascending the slope, when Captain
                  Wagner was struggling with the Half-breed, that Falconbridge, finding himself
                  nearly surrounded by a number of the savages, retreated, fighting desperately,
                  toward a rock, against which he designed to place his back.
               The tide of conflict had rolled in another direction, and borne George and his
                  companions from his side; he was thus left alone to oppose his enemies.
               Thus contending with all the desperation of a knight of the Middle Ages surrounded
                  by a cloud of Saracens, Falconbridge retreated, step by step, toward the rock
                  which we have mentioned—on the opposite side of which was the cleft in which Miss
                  Argal and the two others were concealed.
               Cannie and Mrs. Butterton were bending over Lightfoot, and did not hear the clash
                  of Falconbridge's weapon, as he parried the blows aimed at him. But Miss Argal
                  heard it —and something in her heart told her that the man whom she loved was in
                  danger.
               With the impulsive and daring girl, to determine was to act. She hastily left the
                  hiding-place, and passing round the rock, found herself in the midst of the
                  Indians.
               She did not look at them. Her burning eyes were fixed upon the youth, who
                  contended single-handed against his adversaries. At the same instant she saw the
                  Indians draw back, as by a concerted movement—one of them, who was behind,
                  levelled his rifle at the breast of Falconbridge—and fire leaped from the
                  muzzle.
               The ball which was intended for the young man, entered the bosom of Miss Argal.
                  With the activity of a tigress whose young is threatened, the girl had bounded
                  forward, and thrown one arm round his neck, protecting his body with her own.
               He heard the discharge—the young girl's wild cry of anguish; he felt her form
                  weigh heavily upon his breast. An awful horror for a moment made his heart ice—but
                  then the blood rushed back like a torrent of raging fire. With the hoarse cry of a
                  lion lashed to fury, he deposited the form of the girl upon the ground, and
                  throwing himself with insane rage upon the crowd of savages, plunged his sword
                  right and left into every breast which opposed him. His mad passion was so
                  frightful and deadly, his face so terrible in its menace, that the bravest of the
                  savages recoiled before him with superstitious dread.
               But the unseen Ruler of the world had decreed that all the courage, all the
                  strength, all the immense passion of Falconbridge should avail him nothing; his
                  last hour approached. In his headlong advance, his foot slipped in blood; he fell
                  upon one knee, and his sword striking against the rocks, was broken close to the
                  hilt. As he essayed to rise, one of the savages levelled his pistol, and the ball
                  entered his breast.
               With a last look toward the sky, Falconbridge, like Lightfoot, fell backward, the blood welling from
                  the wound, and staining his white ruffles with crimson.
               The Indians had begun to waver already, as they saw the advance of Lord Fairfax;
                  the form of the Half-breed had disappeared in the gulf beneath; as Falconbridge
                  fell, they hastily retreated, and finally disappeared down the slope beneath the
                  boughs of the evergreens.
               When Lord Fairfax leaped from his horse, the first object which greeted his gaze,
                  was the body of Falconbridge. He seized it in his arms with a hoarse cry, and at
                  the pressure of the father's heart to the son's, the young man opened his eyes and
                  gazed about him faintly.
               "My son! my child!" cried the Earl, with inexpressible anguish; "my boy, speak to
                  me! Where are you wounded? Oh! in the bosom here!"
               And with trembling, but rapid hands, the Earl tore open the young man's waistcoat
                  and shirt. Pushing hastily aside a small gold locket which hung from
                  Falconbridge's neck by a fine steel chain, he searched for the wound. He did not
                  search long; turning suddenly pale, the Earl seemed about to faint.
               Immediately over the heart, a circular spot of blood indicated the place where the
                  ball had entered.
               He saw that all was over. His knowledge of gunshot wounds told him this one was
                  mortal—and turning away his head, the stern old nobleman uttered a sob which tore
                  its way from his inmost heart, like a cry of agony and despair.
               "Yes, yes!" said a panting and broken voice at his elbow, "yes, friend, you are
                  right; you are not deceived; he's as good as gone from this earth! Falconbridge!
                  Falconbridge! look at me once more, comrade! It is Wagner that speaks to you!"
               And the rude Borderer, who had hastened with giant strides to the spot, threw
                  himself upon his knees at the side of the young man, and inclosed his pale hand in
                  a grasp of iron.
               "Look at me, comrade!" growled the Captain, in hoarse and tragic accents, "you see
                  me, don't you? Come, open your eyes! I'm Wagner, the old bear that loved you, and
                  here's George, who's got hold of your other hand. Don't be talking, for your wound
                  is sure to bleed, only look up, companion! Black day! miserable hour!" groaned the
                  speaker despairingly; "a bullet has done for him—all's over with the boy!"
               As he spoke, the young man slowly opened his eyes, and looked round with a dreamy
                  glance, at the faces beside him.
               "Companion!" he muttered, as his glance fell on Wagner, "is she saved?"
               "There, stop talking!" cried the soldier, with a glow in his cheeks, "stop that
                  talking, I say."
               "Ah! comrade, you are there," he murmured, "and she—she is—gone! I remember!"
               As he uttered these words, which were almost inaudible, the cheeks of Falconbridge
                  flushed, and then turned white again: a convulsion passed over his frame, and made
                  the hot blood gush from his bosom. With a faint attempt to rise, he fell back with
                  a low cry into the arms of Lord Fairfax, whose strength seemed about to desert
                  him.
               "Rouse! rouse! my child!" he exclaimed in an agony of despair; "do not die without
                  looking at your father—it will kill me!"
               And the grim Earl strained the fainting and languid form to his breast so wildly,
                  that it seemed to infuse a portion of his own life into Falconbridge.
               He slowly opened his eyes. His glance fell upon the face of George, which was
                  bathed in tears. The boy held his white cold hand, and kneeling, pressed it to his
                  throbbing heart. The wandering eye of Falconbridge arrested itself as it fell upon
                  the agitated countenance—his lips moved, and he endeavored, vainly, to speak.
               "Bend your ear to his lips, George," groaned Wagner, "he's going, and has got
                  something to say."
               
               George quickly obeyed, and placed his ear to the mouth of Falconbridge.
               "I am dying," was the low murmur; "I am going—to leave you, George! I always loved
                  you—dear companion—as I know that you loved me! You will do me a last favor," he
                  said, raising his hand feebly to the locket on his breast; "see that I am buried
                  on the mountain yonder—by the pine which—we looked at on that autumn day—and bury
                     her beside me!—this locket—it contains a woman's hair—her
                  hair—don't let them remove it from my bosom, George!"
               "Oh, no! I swear it! I will protect it with my life!" exclaimed the weeping
                  youth.
               "And now, farewell!" murmured Falconbridge, a sorrowful smile passing over his
                  pale face; "I am dying—am I not?"
               "It won't be long!" muttered Captain Wagner, his fiery eyes moistened with tears;
                  "five minutes I give him!—miserable day! Oh, why did he ever come on the trail!
                  Falconbridge! Falconbridge! look here, comrade! Look at Wagner, who's crying like
                  a baby at your knees!"
               The young man heard the appeal of the Borderer, and turned his eyes upon his
                  face.
               "Friend!—true and tried!" he murmured, faintly, "we must part! Remember me—when I
                  am gone!"
               "Remember you! Until my grave is dug, I'll love and think of you, my boy, and
                  cherish you! My heart is bleeding, look you!—my poor old heart!"
               He stopped, overcome by emotion.
               The face of Falconbridge grew soft and serene: then a slight color came to the
                  pale cheeks; and by a great effort he turned his eyes in the direction of Miss
                  Argal's body, and faintly stretched out his hands.
               "He wants to have her by him when he goes!" groaned the Borderer; "he's faithful
                  to the death!"
               And the soldier rose quickly, and going to the spot where the pale, cold form of
                  the young lady lay, took it in his arms, and brought it to the side of
                  Falconbridge. The face of the Borderer was white, and his frame shuddered, as he
                  thus held close to his breast the body of the woman whom he had seen so often,
                  smiling and beautiful in life. But he did not falter—he deposited the inanimate
                  figure at the side of the youth.
               As the eyes of the dying man fell upon the pale features, the exquisite face, as
                  of one who was sleeping tranquilly and happily, his lip quivered, and a tremor
                  agitated him, making the blood well, in a crimson stream, from the wound in his
                  bosom.
               "She is gone before me!" he murmured in a whisper; "is the day about to wane,
                  companion?—this darkness! 'Tis a grand, beautiful world—with its flowers and
                  sunshine!—but—another land!—see how it shines above me as I go!"
               These words were his last. With a final movement, which exhausted all his
                  strength, he bent toward the dead body of the young lady, and encircling it with
                  his arms, died with his head upon her bosom.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER LXXV.
               THE DAUGHTER OF THE STARS.
               WITH the death of him who has illustrated our poor pages more than all his
                  co-mates, the chronicle might fitly terminate.
               Falconbridge once dead, his figure removed, his eyes no longer dwelling upon the
                  prairie, the mountain, and the river,—both the scene and the actors appear dreary
                  and sad: the life of the drama has departed.
               But we linger for a brief-space before bidding the reader farewell. The vortex
                  which drew into its bloody depths so many forms, did not spare, in its final
                  effect, another being.
               The bodies of the whites and savages, who had been slain, were buried; and the
                  hunters, at the head of whom rode the Earl and. Captain Wagner, returned toward
                  Greenway Court.
               Scarcely a word was uttered by the two leaders upon the march. They scarcely
                  turned their heads, for, in a litter of boughs behind them, were borne the dead
                  bodies of Bertha Argal, and Falconbridge.
               Then a procession of hunters, bearing a litter upon their shoulders, ascended the
                  mountain, and the young man and the girl were laid at the foot of the great pine
                  which he had looked at that day,—beneath whose shadow he had wished to be buried.
                  The cavalcade returned to the lowland again—silent and sorrowful; all were
                  thinking of the youth and maiden who were sleeping their last sleep.
               One murmur, alone, was mingled with the hoof-strokes of the horses. The leader of
                  the troop, with white, cold lips, whispered strangely:
               "It is well!"
               Then, many days afterward, the silence of the mountain fastness was broken by the
                  noise of a horseman ascending the winding road to the dwelling, which we have
                  visited more than once.
               This horseman is George. He is going to see Cannie, and his face is very pale:—for
                  the child is lying dangerously ill.
               The exposure upon the march with the Indians had aggravated, terribly, her
                  tendency to disease of the lungs; and soon after her return, she had been seized
                  with an acute attack. A physician had been hastily sent for from the settlement
                  east of the Blue Ridge; but after an examination of the condition of the sufferer,
                  he had shaken his head, and turned away hopelessly.
               The disease had invaded the vital organs, and the death of the child was only a
                  question of time.
               She lingered until the cold, sad winter had passed away, till the violets of
                  spring were blooming in the grass, till the birds were carolling in the mild blue
                  sky, which drooped like a canopy above the headlands and rivers, and the prairie
                  glittering with a million flowers.
               Then the life of the little sufferer waned rapidly.
               George was ever beside her—controlling the sobs which tried to force their way
                  from his lips—and smiling upon her hopefully and sweetly.
               She knew how much he had loved her now—she knew that this love had increased until
                  it came to be a portion of his life. She would often take his hand, and with
                  smiles of deep tenderness, and swimming eyes, thank the boy for his kindness and
                  goodness, through all the days since he had met her, and saved her life.
               And George would laugh and chide her for her sorrowful air—for her talk about
                  dying, and seeing her "last violets"—then his feelings would overcome him, and
                  throwing himself down on his knees at her bedside, he would bury his face in the counterpane and sob: or
                  press his quivering lip to the little white hand, and cry like a child, until he
                  was exhausted.
               Beside her, day and night, the old gray-haired man watched her every movement—the
                  color in her cheeks—the quick, short breaths—the brows knit at times with sudden
                  and acute pain. His life seemed absorbed in his child; and as her strength became
                  weaker and weaker, his very heart's blood seemed to ebb away with her own.
               Thus the winter waned away, and the spring came gladly—but it brought no life to
                  Cannie.
               She had clearly drawn near to that mysterious world which lies beyond the stars,
                  and yet only a step from every human being. Lying serenely on the little white
                  couch beside the window, she resembled rather a pure white flower than a mortal
                  maiden—a snow drop, delicate and fragile, and transient—which the first breath of
                  wind would blow away.
               She would lie thus for hours with the old man's hand in her own, gazing out on the
                  wild landscape of mountain and gorge, with a dreamy smile—very happy it seemed, in
                  some thought, which came to her; wholly willing to submit to the fate which now
                  awaited her at any instant.
               At last the invisible hand was stretched out. It was a beautiful evening of May.
                  The sinking sun threw a flush of crimson light on the opposite mountain—on the
                  lofty pines—and far down on the gliding waters of the Shenandoah, the "Daughter of
                  the Stars," which murmured and died away, as the soft breeze of evening came and
                  went, bearing up from the prairie the delicate odor of flowers.
               "The time has come, dear, for me to leave you," she said faintly; "don't grieve
                  for me, grandpapa—I shall be happy, and I will meet you in heaven."
               He pressed his lips with sudden agony to her thin white hand—but the low soft
                  voice again begged him not to grieve for her.
               As she spoke, she saw George come at a swift gallop up the mountain, and her cheek
                  flushed gladly. He was soon beside her.
               "I thought I never should see you any more," she murmured, smiling; "I am going
                  away from you, George."
               The young man sobbed and fell almost powerless upon his knees at the bedside.
               "Oh do not! do not speak thus!" he said; "you will live! you will live to be my
                  own! oh, you must not die!"
               "God has called me," she answered; "I cannot stay. Remember me, grandpapa, and
                  George, when I am gone—remember little Cannie, who loved you so!—who—will meet you
                  where—suffering never comes!"
               She never spoke again. Bending over her couch, they caught her last sigh.
               The old man clasped his hands, and slowly raising his eyes to heaven, murmured
                  with a low, terrible groan:
               "God take the spirit of my child, and may I follow her!"
               George buried his face in the counterpane, and pressing his lips wildly to the
                  pale cold hand, only moaned.
               When he rose and looked at her with streaming eyes, she was smiling upon him, even
                  in death.
               Thus she passed away, like a flower, a leaf, a dream of the spring,—and they laid
                  her as she had desired them—by the side of Falconbridge. The story of her life
                  became known to the inhabitants of the region, and it was said that a young
                  gentleman from the low country had nearly died of grief. Then a song began to
                  float about, set to plaintive music—the production it may be of some native bard.
                  of some youth, who was touched by the pathetic story, and who, personating George,
                  sang his grief and despair. He sang it in these simple and unpolished lines,
                  which, handed down traditionally, tell of the sweetness and tenderness of the
                  maiden—the sorrow of her lover: 
                     
                        "Down on the Shenandoah roving,
                        Long time I lingered by the shore,
                        
                        Cannie by my side, dear and loving—
                        Now she is laughing there no more!
                     
                     
                        "Bright as a sunbeam on the mountain;
                        Fair as the lily by her side,
                        Fresh as the water in the fountain,
                        Was Cannie, my young Virginia bride
                     
                     
                        "Oh! all the world is sad and dreary
                        Nothing brings me solace all the day—
                        Daytime and night-time I am weary—
                        Cannie's forever gone away!
                     
                     
                        "Long time I loved her; now a-roaming
                        Wide o'er the world cold and poor,
                        Ofttimes I think I see her coming,
                        Ofttimes I hear her by the shore!"
                     
                  
               
               Such were the homely lines, to which were attached this chorus, full of pathos; 
                     
                        "Oh she was an angel,
                        Last year she died,
                        Toll the bell, a funeral knell
                        For my young Virginia bride!"
                     
                  
               
               The melody was sad and plaintive—like the whisper of the wind in the mountain
                  pines—the sigh of the autumn breeze in the broomstraw at twilight;—like the gentle
                  and murmurous lapse of the waves, as they glide away beneath drooping boughs, or
                  under the bending flowers of the meadows.
               By the side of her cousin, whom she had loved so dearly, near the grave of
                  Falconbridge, the pure and noble, the child thus serenely slumbered. In the vast
                  wild solitude, on the brow of the great precipice, beneath the outstretched arms
                  of the mighty pine, which bent in the wind, or swayed under the feet of the eagle,
                  these children of nature slept in peace.
               A few words will terminate our chronicle.
            
            
               LXXVI.
               THE HEART OF LORD FAIRFAX.
               SINCE the events which we have related, more than thirty years have passed.
               The month of October, 1781, is drawing to its close.
               In a house in Winchester, a man of about eighty, with long gray hair, thickly
                  powdered; a thin, worn countenance, bearing the marks of illness; and an
                  attenuated figure clad in a richly embroidered dressing-gown, sits in a large
                  armchair, supported by pillows, extending his hands from time to time toward a
                  cheerful blaze in the wide fireplace.
               At three paces from him, erect, silent, and watchful, stands an old servant, with
                  hair as gray as his master's, but a face still hale and ruddy in spite of his
                  great age.
               "John," says the invalid, in a thin, weak voice.
               "My lord."
               And the old servant approaches his master.
               "What noise was that, which I heard? They were shouting in the street, I thought.
                  Has any intelligence arrived from the army? You came in a moment ago, and must be
                  informed. What intelligence?"
               Old John hesitates. Upon his countenance it is easy to read an expression of acute
                  pain.
               "Speak!" Lord Fairfax says, in his weak and faltering voice. "Lord Cornwallis has
                  not evacuated Yorktown? It is not possible!"
               "No my lord," is the low reply.
               "What then?"
               
               John hesitates again. His master turns toward him with querulous energy.
               "Am I to have a reply, or are you dumb?" he says.
               Old John sighs, and looks at Lord Fairfax with deep affection and sympathy.
               "The news is bad, my lord," he says, "and I would rather not tell it."
               "Bad? speak! I am not a baby! Cornwallis has not 
                     evacutated
                     evacuated
                   Yorktown, you say—what then?"
               "Worse than that, my lord."
               Lord Fairfax rose suddenly erect in his chair.
               "Worse? what do you mean?"
               Old John groans this time.
               "I thought to keep the news from you, my lord. But you order me to speak, and I
                  obey your order. My lord, Cornwallis has surrendered his army."
               "Surrendered!"
               "Yes, my lord!" groans old John.
               "To—George Washington?"
               "Yes, my lord."
               Lord Fairfax sinks back, and a groan of inexpressible anguish tears its way from
                  the trembling breast.
               "That boy! that boy!" he murmurs, "the child whom I brought up! The English
                  dominion in North America overturned by that curly pate!"
               A spasm passes over the features of the old earl, as he utters these words. He
                  totters in his chair. Suddenly he extends his arms toward the old servant, closes
                  his eyes, and murmurs.
               "Take me to bed, John, it is time for me to die!"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *His words.
               
               Six months afterwards he was dead.
            
            
               LXXVII.
               THE HEART OF GEORGE.
               A MONTH after this scene—that is to say, in November, 1781—a cavalier coming from
                  the east by way of Ashby's gap, forded the Shenandoah, and entered the Valley.
               He was a man of about fifty, tall, powerful, as straight as an arrow, and with
                  something proud and imposing in his appearance and carriage. His eyes were clear
                  and penetrating, his lips firm, the poise of the head indicative of command. He
                  wore the full dress uniform of a general of the American army, and rode an
                  excellent horse, which went along gaily beneath his powerful rider, through the
                  November sunshine.
               Passing to the left of the little village of Millwood, the stranger threw a glance
                  toward "Saratoga," the residence of General Morgan, which was seen on a hill
                  across the woods, on his right; then he continued his way, reached the town of
                  White Post, turned to the left at the post, which still stood in the main street,
                  and pushing on, reached Greenway Court, in its great lawn, backed by woods.
               Dismounting in front of the deserted mansion, the stranger tethered his horse to a
                  bough, pushed open the decayed door, and entered the house.
               All was silent and dreary. The rooms were bare and desolate. The panes of the
                  windows were broken; the spiders had woven their webs everywhere; and the dust lay
                  half an inch deep on the discolored floor.
               The stranger gazed around him for a moment. Threw a glance toward the staircase, as if he thought of
                  ascending it; but apparently gave up the design, and a moment afterwards left the
                  house, going back to his horse.
               He had not uttered a word. With a parting glance at the mansion, he mounted, and
                  rode in the direction of the Massinutton.
               He crossed the river, and entered the gorge, along the bank of Passage Creek, as
                  the sun was declining.
               Pushing on, as though he were afraid of being benighted, he followed the narrow
                  and winding road up the slope of the mountain, and in half an hour came in front
                  of a small house, with a great rock at its back.
               A moment afterward, he had dismounted, approached the house, and forced an
                  entrance through the creaking door.
               The house was deserted. Some broken furniture alone indicated that it had once
                  been occupied. The stranger looked around him with painful earnestness, and then
                  went toward a small apartment, upon one side of the main room, his heavy heels
                  armed with huge spurs clashing upon the decayed floor, and arousing a hundred
                  echoes.
               The smaller apartment was bare like the larger, but the stranger suddenly stooped
                  and picked up an object from the floor. It was a small portion of a woman's or a
                  child's ruffle, apparently—such as at that period decorated the upper edge of the
                  bodice. An imperceptible tremor passed over the stalwart frame of the personage as
                  he gazed at the object in his hand; then having satisfied his curiosity
                  apparently, he placed it in his bosom.
               Returning to the front door of the mansion, he cast a final look around him,
                  taking in at a glance every feature, every detail. All was ruinous, deserted; the
                  spot had a melancholy air about it—and the stranger slowly remounted his horse,
                  and left it, muttering:
               "I can scarcely realize that it is the same!"
               Instead of returning by the same road, he directed his way along a devious
                  bridle-path toward a mighty pine which raised its trunk against the sky, on the
                  very summit of the mountain, at the point where it sank suddenly into the valley.
                  After great exertion, his horse stumbling frequently, he reached a spot beyond
                  which it seemed impossible to proceed. He solved the difficulty by dismounting and
                  advancing on foot. Even then the ascent was arduous. The huge masses of granite
                  were piled up like a Titanic pyramid, but he finally surmounted all obstacles and
                  reached the foot of the great pine.
               It grew in a narrow patch of soil, encircled by rocks; at its foot were three
                  graves, marked by moss-covered slabs of marble.
               The stranger stopped to breathe for an instant, and his glance swept the immense
                  horizon of mountain, valley and river. From his great elevation he looked down
                  upon a vast extent of country stretched beneath him like a map, and the view was
                  sublime in its wild magnificence.
               But the wanderer had evidently come with no intention to gaze at the landscape. He
                  dwelt upon it for a moment only—then his glance was directed toward the
                  grave-stones.
               He stooped down, and pushing aside the moss, read the inscription upon the largest
                  of the three.
               The inscription was as follows: 
                     "Beneath this stone lies EDMUND VISCOUNT FAIRFAX, only son of
                        THOMAS LORD FAIRFAX, of Denton, England.
                        God rest him."
                  
               
               The stranger gazed long and sorrowfully upon the words, recalling plainly some
                  scenes of the past which the name on the stone suggested. His head drooped, and a
                  deep sigh issued from his lips as he murmured:
               
               "There lies the noblest heart I have ever known—a great, true soul, full of
                  kindness and honor—a gentleman of the antique days of knighthood. Yes, yes, God
                  rest him! The Supreme, the All-seeing, the Rewarder of charity and love, and
                  faith—has He not received to his eternal rest this noble suffering soul? Who was
                  ever like him? I have met with no other human being so great! Falconbridge!
                  Falconbridge! your death was a glorious one! You died as you had lived—a true
                  gentleman!"
               The head drooped lower as these almost inaudible words escaped from the lips of
                  the stranger. He remained for some time, gazing at the stone, his shoulders
                  drooping, his breast heaving—then drawing a long breath, he fixed his eyes upon
                  the one beside it, which bore this inscription only 
                     "To the memory of BERTHA ARGAL, Beautiful and unhappy."
                   "Yes, yes," the stranger murmured, "very beautiful—very unhappy—poor child of
                  misfortune!"
               And his sad glance wandered toward the third tombstone. He seemed almost to dread
                  deciphering it—but setting his lips close, knelt down and read what was cut upon
                  the marble.
               These were the words: 
                     "Here lies the body of CANNIE, the daughter of an English
                        gentleman: Born in England, May the 10th, 1733, Died in Virginia,
                        May the 9th, 1749.
                     'And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and
                        blessed them.'"
                  
               
               The stranger riveted his eyes upon this inscription with an expression of such
                  anguish that it was plain the stone covered a great sorrow. His broad breast was
                  shaken, his clear, penetrating eyes slowly filled with tears, and his cheeks
                  flushed with passionate emotion.
               Mastered by a sudden impulse, he took from his pocket a pencil, and after the
                  words: 
                     "Here lies the body of CANNIE . . ."
                   wrote, in addition: 
                     . . . "And the heart of GEORGE, Born in Westmoreland, Virginia,
                        February 22d, 1732: Died the same day and hour, May 9th, 1749.
                  
               
               As the stranger finished the addition to the inscription, two tears rolled down
                  his cheeks, and fell upon the stone. Burying his face in the long grass growing
                  upon the grave, he sobbed, rather than said, in a hoarse and broken voice:
               "Farewell youth! farewell happiness! farewell dream of my boyhood! The earth is
                  dreary since you went away. Farewell until we meet again!"
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
         
            
            NEW BOOKS
            And New Editions Recently Published by
            G. W. CARLETON & CO., NEW YORK.
            GEORGE W. CARLETON.
            HENRY S. ALLEN.
            N.B.—THE PUBLISHERS, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the
               following Books by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This
               convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Book sellers are
               not supplied with the desired work. State name and address in full.
            
               Victor Hugo.
               LES MISÉRABLES.—The celebrated novel. One large 8vo volume, paper covers,
                  $2.00; . . . c-loth bound, $2.50
               LES MISÉRABLES.—In the Spanish language two vols., paper covers, $4.00; . .
                  Fine 8vo. edition, cloth bound, $5.00
               JARGAL.—A new novel. Illustrated. . 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.—By himself. . 8vo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Miss Muloch.
               JOHN HALIFAX.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               A LIFE FOR A LIFE.—. do. do. $1.75
            
            
               Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell).
               JANE EYRE.—A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE PROFESSOR.— do. . do. . do. $1.75
               SHIRLEY.— . do. . do. . do. $1.75
               VILLETTE.— . do. . do. . do. $1.75
            
            
               Hand-Books of Society.
               THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with thoughts, hints, and anecdotes, concerning
                  nice points of taste, good manners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. The
                  most entertaining work of the kind. . . . 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE ART OF CONVERSATION.—With directions for self-culture. A sensible and
                  instructive work, that ought to be in the hands of every one who wishes to be
                  either an agreeable talker or listener. . . . . 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               THE ART OF AMUSING.—Graceful arts, games, tricks, and charades, intended to
                  amuse everybody. With suggestions for private theatricals, tableaux, parlor and
                  family amusements. Nearly 150 illustrative pictures. . 12mo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Robinson Crusoe.
               A handsome illustrated edition, complete. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
            
               Mrs. Mary J. Holmes' Works.
               'LENA RIVERS.— . . . A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT. . — do. do. $1.50
               TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.— . do. do. $1.50
               MARIAN GREY.— . . . do. do. $1.50
               MEADOW BROOK.— . . . do. do. $1.50
               ENGLISH ORPHANS.— . . do. do. $1.50
               DORA DEANE.— . . . do. do. $1.50
               COUSIN MAUDE.— . . . do. do. $1.50
               HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.— do. do. $1.50
               HUGH WORTHINGTON.— . . do. do. $1.50
               THE CAMERON PRIDE.—Just Published. do. $1.50
            
            
               Artemus Ward.
               HIS BOOK.—The first collection of humorous writings by A. Ward. Full of comic
                  illustrations. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               HIS TRAVELS.—A comic volume of Indian and Mormon adventures. With laughable
                  illustrations. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               IN LONDON.—A new book containing Ward's comic Punch letters, and
                  other papers. Illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
            
            
               Miss Augusta J. Evans.
               BEULAH.—A novel of great power. . 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               MACARIA.— do. do. . . do. $1.75
               ST. ELMO.— do. do. Just published. do. $2.00
            
            
               By the Author of "Rutledge."
               RUTLEDGE.—A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
               THE SUTHERLANDS.— do. . . do. $1.75
               FRANK WARRINGTON.— do. . . do. $1.75
               ST. PHILIP'S.— do. . . do. $1.75
               LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.— . . do. $1.75
               ROUNDHEARTS AND OTHER STORIES.—For children. do. $1.75
               A ROSARY FOR LENT.—Devotional readings. do. $1.75
            
            
               J. Cordy Jeaffreson.
               A BOOK ABOUT LAWYERS.—Reprinted from the late English Edition. Intensely
                  interesting. . 12mo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Allan Grant.
               LOVE IN LETTERS. — A fascinating book of love-letters from celebrated and
                  notorious persons. . 12mo. cloth, $2.00
            
            
               Algernon Charles Swinburne.
               LAUS VENERIS—and other Poems and Ballads. 12mo. cloth, $1.75
            
            
               Geo. W. Carleton.
               OUR ARTIST IN CUBA.—A humorous volume of travel; with fifty comic illustrations
                  by the author. 12mo. cloth, $1.50
               OUR ARTIST IN PERU.— . do. do. $1.50
            
         
      
   
