
    ----CITATION----
        Buntline, Ned, (1822 or 3-1886). Luona Prescott, or, The Curse Fulfilled .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC6969
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
      
         
            Luona Prescott, or, The curse fulfilled 
            
               LUONA     PRESCOTT:
on,
i 4nut 4guiUed.

A TALE OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION.

x

BY NED BUNTLINE.

NEW YORK:
I R EDERIo        A. BRADYa
NO. 24 ANN STREET.

I
t


ti.

/"                                                                         r

LUONA PRESCOTT:

ENTERED according to Act of Congress, in the year 1858.
BY M. B. DEAN.
in the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern District of New York.

OR,
he (!1urtie uiflkeiL

t
,;

"It is the truth, girl, the truth Death's
chill is at my heart, and the fierce, wild fire
upon which my life has lived so long, is nearly
out. The embers glow hotly, it is true, but
they will soon expire !"
"Mother! mother !" and great tears rained
from Luona's eyes as she spoke.
"Grieve not, child-grieve not! Thou'lt
have no time to grieve when I am gone ; for I
shall leave thee too mich work to do for that!
The world will not be cold to thee, for--humble
though we seem to others-I have gold which
will be thine, and thou shalt be a very queen F
But mark me, girl ! let not that world or aught
within it, know that thou hast a heart! Love
not, nor listen thou to words of love from the
lips of men ; for they are but treachery, and
death is in them.
With a wild vehemence, which almost belied
the thought of approaching death, these words
were uttered. But the speaker's voice fell, ana
her tone was more low and very mournful, a
she continued
"Eighteen years ago, Luona, I was two years
younger than thou art now, and my mirror told
inc that I was beautiful. And I was pure, all
unknowing of the evils of this dark. bad world.
Sin had not entered the portals of my heart;
for I had a dear mother to watch without, even
as I have striven to watch over thee ; but she
knew not, as I have learned by many a bitter
teaching, howc ruel and how vile that outer
world was ; for her world was in her home, her
guide the Bible: her trust in God ! And when
from that world a gallant-looking man cane,
with manhood sittin. on him like a grace, and
honeyed words upon his lips, nor sIe nor I
believed him other than he seemed, one mold-
ed after creation's Creator! I never had seen
his like before, and it was but an easy task for
him to win my heart ; for I loved to gaze upon
his noble form, to dwell upon the music of his
lips. Time moved on with rapid steps ; and I
all dreamily went forward-for he was ever with
me. Wildly, passionately I loved him-loved,,

R~
- C

CHAPTER I.
TUE CURSE OF THE DYING AND THE MISSION OF
TIHE LIvIN--A HISToRY OF WRONo AND DES-
OLATION, AND A CRY FOR VENGEANCE.
"Girl, come hither! I am dying; but, be-
fore my wrecked spirit breaks its strained
shackles aid departs into the dark unknown
which lies before it, I hive acurse to utter, and
a charge for thee, to both of which thou must
listen and give heed when I am gone, lest the
curse of thy lost mother should cling to thee-
to thee, child, instead of him for whom it is
intended ?"?
Extended upon a plain-but cleanly couch, in
a humble cottage, tree-shaded arnd vine-em-
bowered, iii the village of New London, lay the
woman who uttered these words, but a short
time prior to the war of the American Revolu-
tion. She was not old-for not a thread of
silver had Time or sorrow laid among the
masses of black, glossy hair which overhung
her white brow, and thin, pallid face. Her thin
fora, wasted features, and the fierce, unnatural
brightness of her large, black eyes, al-ne sec-
onded the thought which her bloodless lips had
spoken-that she was dying.
In health she must have been very beautiful ;
every feature chiseled as by some rare sculptor's
hand, each limb-a marvel of loveliness andj
grace, even now-told this. And proud and
haughty-flashing eye, firm lip, thin and swell-
ing nostrils, spoke thy that.
Yet not more beautiful than the girl to whom
she spoke, who was just bursting into woman-
hood. Till, stately, with an eye more soft, t et
all as dark as that which gazed upon her ; fea-
tures which told of a will imperious, and a
heart full of fire, yet under stern control of self;
in figure exquisitely shaped ; she was one alike
fitted as a study for a painter, a model for a
sculptor, or a vision for a poet's eye to dwell
upon.
"Do not say that you are dying, mother-
dying, to leave your poor Luona all alone in
tis cold, cold world !"

i
is
r    ;:               F,
. ~ 4'     , f'.r  ,.s
_ -s  _   ,i4-     Lt's.  ~ U~


4

until, knowing not my crime, I fell-fell from
that spotless plain where  " had found me.
And when my fall was knosuo, as all too soon it
was, my mother fell-fell into the arms of
death, to rise no monre. And when he tired of
me, as soon lie did, and fled fruom  my side, I
followed, oily to learn that another had a wifely
right upon him-that he was not only a hus-
band, but a father. And then I cursed him, as
now I curse, with all of hell's hot bitterness,
his memory ! My love curdled into hate, and I
swore to be revenged! I still had beauty. I
sold all that my poor mother   sad left, and
moved to a town where no one knew me. There
I met your father. He wooed moe and won my
hand. I married him, not that I loved him ;
but he hal wealth, and with it, l knew that I
could buy vengeance upon him who wronged
me. You were born ; but yot r father died be-
fore you were of ani age to lisp his name. I
then remove I to this place, to ie near him
whose ruin I had sworn to accomp1lisi!"
Whoa as lie, nmotlier ?" asked Luona, who,
with breathless interest, had listened to the sad
narration.
"Lemuel Arnold !" was the mother's reply.
He died a miserable bankru it. as you know";
and his lat hours were emlbittereid with my
curses, and with the k noiw h ue  hat I had
wrought hisI pecunimar ruin, and lput blots upon
his name wluicli no net of his couil ever efface.
Arid I told him  then-aud 1 now renew the
vow-that not with his death should my hatred
cease. lie has a son ! To you, Leona, I leave
the ruin of t iat son. I know, I feel that the
spirits of haln omen, shut out front heaven, are
domed to wanidehr unseen iiun ihe earth where
they has e sinned  that they can know no other,
fo lbott r li lI, and his ejirit shall writhe in
agony over the ruin of his only child ! Swear
to rie, girl, sear by may wrungs, by my just
hat red, by that which has consumed mye ery
existence, arid thus early laid me on the bed of
death, that thou wilt do as I bid thee ! Exalt
hii:, only to erash him ; lead him  on and up
uni life is bright, and ftre is in li grasp,
unt: ie over-tips Ii s helhiw-imen, then dash him
don ai so low that the meanest worm  which
craig Is may be above him! Swear it, Luona !
swer it!"
Mother, I swear to do thy liddi ng!"
" Io it, girl-do it ! I cuir-se hin n's I cursed
his fatier-for in his form, his every look, his
voice, its mien, his treacherous father lives
again !"
"lie shall envy yet his father's fate !" said
Luona, bitterly.
" It is well,~ehild-it is well ! When I am
passed away, you till tind my vill. All that I
have is tlhine. I appoint no guardian for thee ;
for I have so educated thee that none is re-
quired. My hank-account i5 larger than the
world supposes; with ordinary prudence, you
will through life be indepenaent. And now,
child, go you to your room, and let me rest

awhile, for I am weak and weary. Let me not
be distprbed, for my last hour is near !"
There were tears in the eyes of Luona, and
her face looked very sad ; but she obeyed her
mother, and went out.
About an hour later, the doctor came, and he
hurried into the house ; for a storm, which had
been for some time gathering, was about to
break. Although the sun hand not yet gone
down, the black clouds, which hung pall-like
between the earth and sky, cast a somibre shade,
more dark than tsiilight, over all things.
Open the window, child," said the mother,
as Luona entered with the physician.
"It is about to storm, miy mother," replied
the girl.
"Ay. It is well that my spirit should de-
part when the elements are at war, and ill earth
in turmoil. Open the window, and let me look
upon the drivi..g clouds, upon the red light-
ning ; let the full tones of thunder coie rattling
on my ear. I do not fear. I die, as dies the
soldier on the battle-field !"
"Mother, the doctor is here !"
"It is well ; lie is used to looking upon death
--to him it is not terrible."
"Madam, madam, do not excite yourself,"
said the physician, kindly, as he and Luona
stood by the bedside ; while the fitful flashes of
lightning, rolling out from the black clouds,
threw a flickering and ghastly light upon the
scene.
Excite myself ?" she cried, with  fierce
energy, as she hall-rose from her couch. " Know
you not that I am dying ?"
The exertion was too much forher. Pale and
quivering, she sunk back upon the couch.
Bring a light quickly," said the doctor, as
he hastened to offer the invalid a strengthening
cordial.
"No! no !" moaned the dying woman; "my
lamp is going out-the oih-is spent!1"
Luona, who had hurried out for a light, now
returned, and scarcely could she  repress a
scream as she saw the sudden and the fearful
change which had come over her mother's
face. The eyes were fixed-already the fea-
tures seemed rigid.  She clasped the hand
which, nerveless, hung over the bedside. It
was cold as ice.
"0, doctor, is this death " she moaned.
A  deafening burst of thunder, shook the
house to its foundation, while  a blinding
flash of light suffused the room, drowning his
reply. The blue lips gasped once, once only,
while the reverberative thunder rolled away;
there was a shuddering motion of that slender
form, then all was still, within and without.
The doctor was the first to break Lime silence,
as he looked upon her who lay so cold upon the
couch, and then on the orphan who knelt be-
side it.
4 Poor child 1" said he, with deep emotion,
"your mother will suffer no more ; she is
dead !"

U

LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,

TBE CURSE
Then, in great drops, rolled out the rain of
grief from Luona's cloud-like eyes, and as if
Heaven felt a sympathy, its thunders ceased,
and down from its gloomy concave came the
unchecked torrents of the storm, drenching the.
dry earth, stripping the proud flower-stems,
bowing the green branches low toward the
ground.
The doctor did not try to check her tears.
lie knew that her heart would be the lighter that
they were shed. It is only tearless grief-the
sorrow that knows no utterance-which kills!
He called the only servant which they kept,
and saying that lie would send others to assist
in watching and preparing the body for burial,
and himself give such orders for the funeral as
were necessary, he bade Luoni-who, amid her
sobs, thanked him-a tender good-night and
departed.
CIIAPTER II.
inK MILITARY DRILL UPON THE VILLAGE GREF.N,
AND TiHE FUNERAL.
The sun rose brightly on he next morning,
and smiling upon the crushed and weeping
flowers, bade them raise their heads again.
And a gentle breeze came softly among them,
and swept away their tears, and shook the bend-
ing branches until they laughed and shone
brightly in the cheerful sunlight. And as it
rolled up its azure pathway, the grass rose
greenly from the steaming earth, and all things
looked more lovely even for the storm that had
come and gone.
There was a pretty scene upon the village
green, shortly before that sun reached its me-
ridian altitude. It was a comely band of stal-
wart young men, ranging from the ages of
eighteen to twenty-five years, all clad in a neat
and tasty uniform, drawn up in line with a
steadiness and precision which would have won
praise from veterans, and which spoke well of
the skill and discipline of their young com-
mander, whose erect form, voice, clear as a
bugle, flashing eye, and martial tread, betoken-
ed him a soldier, every inch.
Their banner was a pine tree, upon a white
ground ; at its root a coiled rattlesnake; and
over it these words: "Touch me and I shrike !"
Their music consisted of a fife, small and bass
drums, and though not quite so noisy as our
brazen bands of the present day, still was suf-
ficiently inspiring for those whose hearts were
already alight with martial fire.
A crowd of the village people, and all of the
boys of the little town and its neighborhood
were assembled to witness the drill, evolutions,
and marchings of the company, which were
sufficiently creditable to call forth open and
hearty encomiums from several old veterans.
who had served in the times of Braddock and
of Wolfe, against the French ; and who, old
though they were, undisguisedly were looking
to an almost surely impending rupture with the
mother country, which would again bring them

7

FULFILLED.                               6
under arms-for that lovely village was a home
of patriots, even though it was its fate to nurse
and nestle one traitor to his native land within
its bosom.
"Your men drill well, Benedict. How do you
think they'd stand fire ?" asked one of those
old veterans, as he approached the young com-
mander, who had brought his men to "a rest"
for a few moments.
"Like salamanders, major-like salamanders,"
replied young Arnold, with enthusiasm.
"They're a likely-looking set o' lads," con-
tinued the old man. "It puts me in mind of
Louisburg to look at 'em."
"Who is dead ?" asked Arnold, pointing to a
funeral cortege, which was slowly approaching
-for the way to the village burying-ground lay
in a direction which led it past the green.
"I heard that the Widow Prescott had died
last night; but they seem in a hurry to put
her under round," said the old man.
" Attention, company I shoulder arms! right
dress ! front ! order arms I"
These rapid orders broiliht the company
from the negligence of a position at "rest" to
order, and as the solemn procession approached,
the coffin, borne on a bier, supported on the
shoulders of men, the young officer, in a low
tone, gave the order, "Uncover !"
In a moment, every plulmed hat was doffed,
and the surrounding crowd, struck with the act
of respect, also remembered their hats.
There were not many who followed the wid-
ow's corpse to the grave : for in life she had
been cold and distant, and had made but few
friends. And to those who knew how bitterly
she had hated and persecuted Lemuel Ar-
nold, the res pect which Benedict now showed
to her funeral train seemed singular.
By the side of the minister, leaning on his
arm, and walking by the side of the coffin, was
Luona, looking more tall and stately than ever,
in her long and trailing robes of mourning.
And her face, pale from sorrow, looked very
beautiful in its snowy contrast, with eyes and
tresses dark as night.
The minister, who noted the respectful posi-
tion of the company, and of the crowd which
had gathered about it, said something to the fair
mourner, whose tearful eyes had been bent to-
ward the ground. She looked up, and as her
glance met that of Arnold, her cheeks, before
so deathly pale, suddenly reddened with a
crimson blush, and for an instant she seemed
fearfully agitated: But quick as a transient
sun-gleam, glancing through the opening
clouds, it passed away, and she was as pale
and as calm as before ; yet not so quickly but
that Arnold's eagle eyeh ad noticed the change,
and thought it strange. lIe had seen her more
than once before, and marked her wonderful
beauty, and not even sought to make her no-
quaintance ; but her mother, stern and cold to
all the world but her, had kept too close a watch
for that.


8

LUONA PRESCOTT'; OR,

Yet his society was sought by more than one
of the fair maidens of that town-for he was
handsome and gallant in his bearing, though
rumor often told a tale of his fondness for the
wine-cup. and the midnight card-party, and of
gallartries which were not linked with honor.
How strange it is that these latter errors find
excuse with the tL'ntler sex, if committed by a
man, yet are so unforgivingly considered if
they emanate from a female!
The 1 ruc'sion passed on, and soon disa.-
peared aiil dthe thick growth of elms, which,
with drooping  branches, overshadowed the
graveyard ; and the young offileer resumed his
drill a~ai.Ilhut his heart dlid not seem so in-
tent upon the business as it had been before,
and soon, with a few words of thanks to his
companiei, and naming the day when they
were to reassemble for exercise, he dismissed
them.
"Mother "said lie, as a few minutes after-
ward lie  atecri«d hip own humble home ; " the
Widow l'recoutt died Ist night, and was buried
to-day !"t
I know  it, Benedict," replied the gray-
haired and srrowfu-looking  matron; "she
has tak ii ti-  tli over which we must all pass !
She was a hitter wuman, but all should be for-
gotten iio'V
"'  iiat will become of her daughter now?-
who protect e rY ?One so beautiful will need
a protectr:
SGod li  pritt ct her, my son. In a quiet
village like t is, I should hope her beauty
would nit ei lanr her safety !"
Ali, motlir, the re are sharks in quiet wa-
ters, evnn as m thwse that are turbulent-bad
men are tter' where
" Triyiv son ; but you seem to take a sin-
gular interest in this girl. Do you know her?"
"No, nther. I but saw her as she followed
her met hr's coin to-day, and therefore my
thouglihtm ran that way. She looked very beau-
tiful, and 14 emheily sad
" Thue pr cinll ins reason for sadness. 'Tis
a col d wrl I t he left alone in !"
"   shi ti l ii  h to marry !" said young
Arnold, iii an butiate manner.     -
Marri i'-- undh death are not to be thought
of togetiar. I'll warrant 'twill be long before
she so fr -ts iE rwho was laid in the earth to-
day, that sl- n ill listen to the voice of love 1"
There-« a- mare harsh news from Boston,
to-day,mt   , her ! said the young man, sudden-
ly chanmtheint suiject.
" Iies! Wt4hat was it, my son?"
" More o prcesion and more wrong.   The
king, thurougzhi his despotic servants here, seems
determined to drive his colonies into open re-
bellion; and if lie does, then he may bid fare-
well to his rule here forever!"
"Nonense, my son. What could our peo-
ple, thinly scattered over a vast territory, with-
out discipline. and but feebly armed, do in re-
bellion against a king, whose veteran armies,

numbering thousands where we count tens,
could be thrown like an avalanche upon our
shores !"
"Mother, right makes might!    That our
people are thinly scattered over a vast terri-
tory, is true; but his troops will have to scat-
ter to find them. And what will discipline-
avail, when death lurks in every bush, behind
every rock, and wall, and tree. So surely as
war is forced upon us, then will these colonies
he free-free from the rule of a bad man and a
tyrant !"
" Ihush, my son; even walls have ears, 'tis
said ; such words might bring persecution
upon you!''
"Let it come! Were the king upon this spot,
I would not eat my words !"
"Ah, Benedict, Benedict, you were ever a
willful boy!"
"But not disrespectful to my mother. I now
only echo the feelings of discontent with the
government which, each day, grows stronger
through the land. ' New rules, heavier taxes,
moure tyrants to enforce them,' is the cry
everywhere. It is to prepare for a struggle,
which seems inevitable, that I drill my com-
pany so constantly-for that, that I pore daily
and nightly over the military books that I have
purchased.  Mother, if a war should break
out, I will he a general or I will perish
The mother smiled at the earnestness of her
son; but tiers was a smile of pride--for she had
a patriot heart in her bosom, and lie was all in
all t her. God had left her no other comfort.
"Every upward step you take will bring joy
to ie, Benedict!" said ste. "But let there be
no rust upon the rounds of your ladder. Let
honorthe your guide ;for that fame is infamy,
upon which dishonor casts a single shadow !"
"Do you suppose that Luona Prescott will
still live in her mother's cottage, with only
that old housekeper to guard her ?" asked Ar-
nld, changing back to his former subject as
sui denly as he had left it.
How should I know, who have had no inti-
macy with her, or, during life, with her mother?"
naked Mrs. Arnold. "It is strange," she added,
earnestly, " that this girl should so much ucen-
py your mind to-day !"
"Not strange, when I have but just come
from looking at her in her grief, while she fol-
lowed her mother's corpse to the tomb!' said
Arnold, quietly ; and then he went to a table by
the window and took up a book,
But the book did not much seem to occupy
his attention, for his eyes were frequently raised
from it, and he would look out through the
sweet-briar vines and honeysuckles which
were trained up over a lattice, outside-of his
own manufactare-look out upon the broad and
well-shaded street, and down toward the river,
where he could see, traced in thread-like lines
against the distant sky, the rigging and taper-
iug spars of the vessels which lay at their
moorings there-

f
l
Y
3,
i
S

THE CURSE F
Perhaps he was wondering why Luona blush-
ed and paled so suddenly when her eyes met
his that day. He had met her before, more
than once, and boldly gazed upon her lovely
face and form ; but she had coldly passed, as
if she  neither knew  nor cared to know
who or what lie was ; and though he often turn-
ed to look at her when she had gone by, her
head was never turned to get a second glance
at him.
CHAPTER III.
THE LEADING OP TIS WILI-THE PULPIT VrCrus
PILLS.
The last sad offices had been rendered to the
dead, and Luona Prescott had returned to her
gloomy home-for to her auch it was ; the light
which had shone for her since her infancy, had
departed forever.
"Don't give up to sadness, young mistress,"
said the old servant, or housekeeper-who had
been in the family ever since Luona could re-
member. "Whatever is, is God's doing, and
we can't help it: and they say, that is, good
folks say, that we've no right to grumble at it,
though I haven't learning enough to see the
reason or sense of that."
"You have a brother, I believe, Barbara. I
think I saw him here once 1" said Luona, not
seeming to heed the words of the old woman.
"A half-brother, Miss Lona !" replied Bar-
bara, who had a Yankee faculty of shortening
names. "lie lives over in Sharon ; his name
is Elnathan Goodrich. He's two years older
than I be!"
"Do you think he'd like to come here and
live with us? I feel now that we need the pro-
tection of a man in the house, and he could at-
tend to the garden!"
"Yes, and do a heap of other chores !" cried
Barbara. "Yes, indeed, Miss Lone, he'd like
to come, I'm sure I He's most too old to be
working out at day's work here and there, as he
is doing now. It you'll let me send for him,
I'll warrant he'll come in a jiffy, and thankyou
for the char. , and ask nothing but his victuals
and clothes !"
"You can send for him as soon as you like."
replied the orphan. "And, Barbara, put our
little parlor in order ; I have requested Dr.
Griswold, and Mr. Everett, the minister, to
come here this evening. They were friends of
my mother, and her will must be opened ; and
it is also proper that I should look to them for
advice ; though Heaven knows, if they advise
aught that does not suit my will, I shall not
heed it, I am my own mistress now, and mean
ever to remain so."
"So say all young girls ; but when a roper
mate comes along, they change their minds, and
right gladly take a master to their hearts,"
said the garrulous old woman.
"I shall be an exception," said Luona.
"But do as I bade you, Barbara; they will
soon be here."

L

ULFILLED.                              7
The grief of that lovely girl, so violent at
first, had subsided into a calm, submissive sor-
row; yet it was not the less deep for its quiet.
She was firm ; for she knew her loss was irre-
trievable, and that thenceforth she must act for
herself. And she felt that she had a mission
before her which would require more than the
common strength of woman to execute; but
she had sworn to her dying mother that she
would fulfill it, and she did not mean to break
her oath.
The minister and his friend, the doctor, we'e
both pleased to find her so resigned, when they
came in the evening, for both attributed it to
their own influence and counsels-not even giv-
ing her credit for the strong will and stern self-
control which she really possessed.
After they were seated, Barbara was called
in, and the will produced, opened, and read-by
the minister. Luona, who never had asked
her mother a question about her property, was
surprised to find herself the possessor not only
of the house and lot where she lived, and a
small farm near by-which her mother had
leased to a worthy farmer-but also of sixty
thousand dollars in cash, well-secured -in
those days, a fortune indeed. An annuity of
two hundred dollars per year was left to Bar-
bara so long-as she should remain with Lugna.
"Dear soul," said the good housekeeper,
"she needn't have done that. I never should
have left Lona at any rate."
"Although a witness to her signature tothis
will, I little dreamed of the amount your dear
mother had left," said the doctor.
"What an opportunity to distinguish your-
self in deeds of charity I'said the minister.
"Yes, with the twentieth part of it you
could build a marine hospital, and every sailor
who came sick into port would bless you,"
cried the doctor.
"It were better expended in building a
church, and then God would bless her," cried
the minister. "Our old meeting-house is be-
coming really shabby."
" Pahaw ! a hospital is more needed. Your
church members are rich enough to build a
new  meeting-house whenever they want it,"
cried the doctor.
"You needn't pshaw me, Dr. Griswold,"
cried the minister, reddening with anger. "I
know that,in your ungodliness, you are opposed
to the advancement of the Gospel; but you
can't induce Miss Prescott to give you money
to build up a rotten hospital for a lot of swear
ing, drinking, graceless, sailors, who are no bet,
ter than you are."
"They're a thundering sightbetter than you,
at any rate, you whining old milk-sop," cried
the doctor, fairly blue with wrath. "Miss
Prescott knows well enough what an old beg.
gar you tre."
"-Dr. Griswold, if I were not a preacher, I'd-
-I'd smite you."
"Do it if you dare, Jim Everett, I licked


LUONA PRESCOT; OR,

you when you were a school-boy, and I can do
it again. if it wasn't for your black coat, I'd
give you a dose now."
"I can lay aside my coat, Dr. Griswold."
"Do it, Mr. Everett."
Seeing that a combat was almost inevitable,
Luona, who, in spite of the grief which lay so
heavily at her heart, could scarcely keep from
laughing at this ludicrous scene, now inter-
ferred.
" Gentlemen," said she, with calm dignity,
"I hope that, if you do forget the respectabili-
ty of your professions, you will yet remember
that you are in the presence of a lady."
Her words fell like oil upon troubled water.
Both of the disputants cooled down and apolo-
gized for their rudeness,
"If I should make up my mind to use a
portion of this large sum-
To build a hospital," suggested the doctor.
"A church," cried the minister.
"If I should make up my mind to use any
of my money in either of the projects which
you have named," continued Luona, smiling at
their interruption, "I will let you knows. At
present, I have no such intention."
" Umph !" growled the doctor, looking as if
he had been forced to swallow one of his own
pills.
" Ah !" said the reverend, looking upward, as
if to in7oke a change of mind on her part.
"Barbara will bring you a glass of wine,
gentlemen, and I beg that you will excuse me,
for I am very weary. Let me hope that you
will reconcile your differences, however, before
you part," said the orphan ; and then, with a
graceful inclination, she retired.
Barbara quickly brought the wine, for she
had been sadly terrified during the foreoging
scene.
"James," said the doctor, as he reached out
his right hand, the left holding a full wine-
glass.
"Samuel':" said the minister, as he grasped
the ext ended hand, while his eyes were almost
as full as his glass-and that was running over.
" here's to yo', James ; and let all be for.
given and fajgotten," continued the doctor.
Amen, Samuel!" said the minister, and
then they emptied their glasses, and afterward
they embraced.
Then they refilled their glasses, and sat down
and talked of their school-boy days, of their
'l1 plsys, sweethearts, bird-nestings, etc., etc.,
washing away the mist of memory with the
choice old wine, until they had finished the
bottle. Then they rose to go.
Behold how good it is for brethren to dwell
in unity together I" said the pastor to Bar-
bara, as arns-in-arm with the doctor he crossed
tie threshold.
" Yes, 'specially after they've been within a
nick of blacking each other's eyes !" muttered
the housekeeper, as she closed and double-bolt-
ed the door

CHAPTER IV.
ARNOLD IN THE COTTAGE-ELNATIIAN OODRICI--
A PICTURE--A MYSTERY.
Several days elapsed after the death of Mrs.
Prescott, and yet Luona did not stir abroad,
though formerly she was seen daily strolling
along the lovely walks, which even yet charac-
terize that beautiful place. But there were
unny calls made at the cottage, by neighbors
suddenly grown. sympathetic, since they had
heard, through the Reverend Mr. Everett and
l)octor Griswold, how much wealth had been
left to lie. But Barbara received all of these
calls, for Luona, seeing through the motives
which induced them, sent word that she was
too unwell to see company. Yet she made an
exception, and one which more surprised Bar-
bara than any other act which she had ever
known her young mistress to com'nit.
One morning, nearly a week after the funeral,
the housekeeper hurried into the sitting-room,
and said
"0 Miss Lona, who do you think is coming
up the lane toward the house ?"
" how can I know until you tell me, Bar-
bara ?"
"Why, Miss Lona, it's that good-for-noth-
ing scapegrace, Benedict Arnold !"
Ah !" and the color went and came, as it
had before, upon the face of the beautiful girl.
"Oh, don't be scared, Miss Lona," said the
housekeeper; "I won't let him in. I'd as soon
open the door to a tiger-I'll tell him you don't
want to see him, or any of his kind."
"You will do no such thing, Barbara !" said
her mistress. "If lie asks for me, you will in.
vite him politely into the parlor, and say to
him that I will join him directly."
"Miss Lona, la sakes! Be you in right-
down earnest ?" cried Barbara, opening both
eyes and mouth to an unusual extent.
"Yes, do as I bid you ; and when I go into
the parlor, come you also in, and busy yourself
about something during my interview with
him."
Did you ever !" exclaimed the housekeeper,
raising both hands.
"Go to the door ; do you not hear the
knocker ?" said Luona, sharply, although she
was half-inclined to laugh at the oddity Bar-
bara displayed.
"The creetur is in the parlor, Miss Lona,"
said the housekeeper, as she soon after re-enter-
ed the room.
"Very well ; as soon as I have arranged my
toilet, I will see him," replied Luona.
"Goodness me I she didn't fix herself up a bit
for the minister nor the doctor. What is agoin'
to happen ?" said Barbara to herself.
In a few moments, Luona, accompanied by
the housekeeper, entered the parlor, where she
found Arnold standing before a portrait of her-
self, which her mother had caused to be paint-
ed a couple of years before. Hearing the
rustle of her dress he turned and bowel low,

8


A
s
.g
a

A

while a blush mantled his cheek, and she felt was not to be recorded, for a neavy rap was
her face also burning,                      again heard at the door.
" I call at my mother's request, Miss Pres-  " Remember that I wish to see no visitors at
cott," said he, " to inquire matter your h alth, present, without it is Mrs. Arnold or her son,
and to ask if there is anything in which she  Barbara," said Luona, as the housekeeper went
can be of service to you. She has heard with  out.
sorrow that you were ill, and deeply sympa-   " It is Elnathan," said the latter, when she
thizes with you in your great loss !"       returned, a moment later.
" Be seated, sir," said Luona, pointing to a " Admit him at once ; I wish to see him," re-
chair. " I sincerely thank your mother for her  plied Luona.
message, and you for bearing it. I am not un-  The housekeeper went out and brought in
well, but have refused to see the crowd of visit- her half-brother, who looked sufficiently queer
ors who called upon ue, for I distrusted their to merit a description at our hands.
motives."                                     lie was tall, or would have been, had he
"Be assured, Miss Prescott, that the only  etrai:;htened himself up; but he bent forward
motive which prompted my mother's Ii art like a syphon. And like that character, he was
was that of sorrow for one left an orphim at so  lean, and about the same size all the way up
early an age, and a wish to serve her, if it lay  from his foundation, where two feet that were
in liir power."                             feet, and full measure, too, were encased in a
"I do not doubt it, Mr. Arnold ; and again I  pair of cowhide boots, with soles as thick i ast
thank hler. You can say to her, that whenever  Eithiope's skull. -is liataloons--comi posed c
it pleases her to call at my humble home, I linsey-woolsey, home-made, ind dyed with but
shill be glad to welcome her, and include your- ternmu. bark--descended a little below the tops of
self in the same invitationn"              his we ll-greased boots, but scorned a nearerap-
I shall be but too happy to be so highly  ioacl to earth. His waistcoat, of similar ma-
hotored," said the young man, and for very joyu trials, descended below his hips-if hie tad any,
he blushed up to his temples.               which was doubtful, according to his build.
Noticing the glance of admiration which lie  Its coat--which was also home-made, but had
east upon some lovely roses, intertwining with  been dyed sky-blue--was 'remarkable for the
woodhine and elegantines, before her open win- shortness of its waist, and the length of its
dow, she arose and selected a beautifulbouquet, skirts--or tails, as they are generally called.
and presented it to him.                    The buttons were of brass, bright, an ainearly
lie bosed low as lie took it in his hand, and  as large as the bottom  of an ordinary coffee-
at the samte time gave a sudden start, fora thorn  cup. his shirt, of unblenehed cotton, had a
from a rose-stem pierced his finger so deeply  very wide .collar, and it had been so stiffly
that it drew blood.                         starched, and it stood so firmly under his ears,
"'The bouquet is very beautiful," said he, tht-his head seemed to rest on it, instead of
making no allusion to his hurt,             his shoulders ; nor could he turn his face in any
" Ytu must bewareofthings of beauty-they  direction without he turned his holy also.
are dangerous," said Luona, archly, as she  " Eyes front" was a dire necessity with him.
glanced at his wounded finger.              Upon his head he wore a strnwi hat, with a
"'True," ie answered," they sometin'ies pr- broad green ribbon around it ; and in one hand
due wounds which never heal."                 arrivedd a bundle, tied tip in -u cotton hand-
lIe sighed, and looked as if he vishied to sayt kerebtief of many colors ; while the other held a
more ; hut if he really did so, the presence of stick more crooiked than lie was.  his features
Barbara was a bar.                          were sharp and cadaverous ; his complexion a.
After a few more commonplace remarks, lie  dried pumpkin color ; his eyes small and
arose and took his leave ; not, however, until gray ; his hair a kind of a dirty white, ntneh like
Luonta tad modestly reiterated her invitation  that of a cream-colored horse, that hadn't been
to himselfaand his mother to visit her.     curried for a month. But his hair had been
"'Well, Barbara, the young man did not seem  combed and greased, too, so that its long locks
to lie quite en ogre, after all; at any rate, he  hung down as stiff on either side of his face as if
didn't eat me up," said Luona, in a bantering  it had been plastered there.
tone.                                         " Mornin', iarm," said ht, as lie came in,
"Ie behaved proper good while he was here ; taking off his hat, and ducking his heid forward
but they do say awful things about him, for ahl  a very little, to the itrmmediate peril of his ears.
that, They say he gets a girl dead in love w.th  "'This is Einathian Go drehi, Miss Long,"
him, and then laughs at her," said the house- sail Barbara; "and lie's come to stay, cordial '
keeper.                                     to the letter which I sent bins by your con-
"He'll never have a chance to laugh at me,"  mand."
said Luona; and then she added, in a tone so   "Jest so," said Elnathan, putting down his
ebhanged and stern, that it fairly startled the old bundle, and seating himself, without any invi-
woman: "He may weep tears of blood yet, tation ; "you're fixed all-fired nicely here," he
and curse the hour when first.he met me!"   continued ; "shouldn't wonderif youlived righi-
What the housekeeper would have replied   onifortable."
a c

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

9

4


I

10                             LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,
You can take Elnathan to his room, and   They are generally down at the heels, and out
then show him whatever work you may require at the elbows ; for the home of which they will
of him, Barbara," said Luona, who, though she  take no care, is not likely to take care of them.
could hardly help laughing at his odd appear- Though they are nuisances, the landlord en-
ance, did not like his cool familiarity.    dues them ; and generally manages, in one way
"Jest so," said Elnathan ; and he took up his or another, to make it pay, without one of their
bundle and followed the housekeeper readily. number becomes a downright sot, and can nei-
And now Luona was left alone, to wonder there pay nor influence a "treat "-then he is
what could have caused the visit of Benedict kicked out, as unworthy of belonging to decent
Arnold to her. And we, reader, may wonder society! heaven save the mark, or remark!
with her, what arguments he had used to cause  Such a tavern there was, in the village of
his mother to send a message like that which he which we write. And near noon, one daysome
brought, especially as that mother had known  three weeks or more after the burial of Mrs.
how bitterly Mrs. Prescott had hated and perse- Prescott, while a knot of loungers were smoking
cuted her husband, though she did not know  away the fag ends of their long niues,their ears,
the cause. There was a mystery in it which  eyes, and mouths, opened rider than usual, as
time and our fraure pages may unveil. And it "a solitary horseman" came elattering down
was a mystery which much troubled the curi- the street at full speed, from the eastward, his
ous and inquisitive in the neighborhood, es pe- horse all in a foam, and himself looking as if he
cially when Mrs. Arnold herself was received at had ridden far and hard.
the cottage, and her visit returned by Luona, "Where does Captain Arnold live ?" asked
and the visits of lBened.ct were more frequent the stranger, by he threw liiniself from  his
there, he often sending to Luona the fruits of trembling horse, which was instantly taken in
his hunting and fishing-trips-for lie wasan en- hand by the hostler.
thusiastic and a very successful s ortsmen.   " At the lower end of the village, sir !" re-
in truth, this mystery annoyed the Reverend  plied the landlord.  'If you wish to see him, I
Mr. Everett so much that he called upon the  will send for him."
fair orphan, and rather imprudently remon-   ")o so," replied the stranger. "And have
strated with her upon receiving visits from such  my horse well attended to ; for as soon as he is
an "ungodly young man" as Arnold was re- rested, I must speed forward on my way to
ported to be.                               New York. In the meantime, you may order
If he expected to find penitence for impru-  sone refreliinent for myself."
dence, or submission tob is advice, he was wo-  "Yes, sir; walk in, sir, and your wants shall
fully mistaken that time. With flashing eyes, be promptly supplied," said the landlord.
and a tone full of indignant bitterness, luona  " Any news from the cast, sir ?" asked one of
said :                                      the loungers.
"Sir, I am old enough to choose my own      "Plenty of it !" sail. the stranger; entering
company y, and will elevate whom 1 l)leae to the  the house without waiting for any further ques-
honor of my society. When I require your ad- tiois.
vice, I will send for you!"                  "By thunderr! I'd like to know what it is.
" Farewell to all hopes of her building a  lie's as crabbed as a cross-cut saw !" said the
church," said the abashed minister, as he left questioner, as he returned to the group of cro-
the cottage.                                nies on the tavern stoop, as they called the
porch in those days.
The messenger who was dispatched after Ar-
ClIAPTEl V.                  nold soon returned with him, having met the
rAvYaN PECULIAaTIESL-WAR   ANDi RUMORS or  young captain, with his gun and well-filled
WARs.                    genie-bag, coming from his morning sport.
There was a tavern, in those days, in New   " Who ia that feller from the east that sent
London. What would a certain class do with- for you, Benedict ?" asked the loungerwho had
out a tavern, indeed?  For the class which I questioned the stranger, when Arnold made his
will designate was, in those days, a large one in appearance.
our small villages ; and tottering relics of their " I can tell better after I've seen him, Mr.
race can still be seen occasionally. They are  Blossom," was Arnold's reply, as he entered
men who think they can't do without their the hotel, and was shown up to the room where
morning "bitters ;" their "eleven o'clock," to the stranger was washing away the dust of
give them  an appetite for dinner, and a "snif- travel from his person-for so the latter had
ter" afterwards to settle it-to say nothing directed.
about the by-chanoe " treats " of the ay. They  The interview between these persons was se-
know all the news of the day, discuss politics, cret and lengthy; and only brought to a con-
smoke long nines, whittle benches, chairs, and elusion after the landlord had for a third time
sign-posts; in fact, they are "model artists" rapped atthe door and announced that the din-
of laziness, tippling, and general uselessness. ner was ready.
Yon ean, in an instant, recognize them by their  "You will not leave, colonel, until I muster
mulet heads, carbuncle noses, and tan color, my men, will you ?" said Arnold, in hearing of

THE CURSE FULFILLED.                                   11
the Ian lord, ts they came out of the room. "Done slick as grease ; but I say, capting,
"I wish you not only to see what stuff they are just hold on a bit., 've something to ax you
made of, but also to know their minds !" about."
"I shall be glad to do so, that I may at once  "Recover arms !" ordered the officer. Then
send back a dispatch to the council," replied  he turned sharply upon the intruder, and said :
the stranger, as he entered the dining-room.  " Mind your own msiness, you old fool, and
" Well, Benedict, who is he ?" asked Blos- don't annoy me!"
som, as Arnold came out of the tavern.        "If I was mindin' my own business, I would
" A man !" said the latter, hurrying away out not be a coming' here of a fool's arrant to you,
of ear-shot of the lounger.                from  Miss Lona Prescott !" replied the man,
"Darnation! was there ever anything so tartly.
devilishly provoking !" cried Blossom. " I know "From Miss Prescott, did you say ?" asked
that there is something new, and big news, too, Arnoldlowering his voice.
or they wouldn't be s9 close with it."        " Jest so,' replied the man, coolly.
" That's a fact!" said the landlord, who had  " Well, deliver your message, my good
just come out. " The man inside is a colonel-  friend."
I heard young Arnold call him so. And Bene-   " Good friend, eli? I thought you'd haul in
diet has gone to muster his military company  your horns when I told you who sent me !"
for something. There is some strange matter   " But her message, my fine fellow ; you say
afloat ; but what it is, can't be got out of them  she sent you to me."
just now."                                    "Jest so. You see, my name is Elnathan
"I'll bet the rum that it's war ! The Brit- Goodrich, from  away up to Sharon, and I'm
ishers are going' to fight the colonies, and may. help-that is, man-help--to Miss Lona and
be they're coming right here now !" said Blos- sister'Barbara is the she-help there."
som. " i've heard tell that they've a powerful  "Yes, yes, I understand all that---but do
heap of redcoats down to Boston !"         come to your message !" cried Arnold, impa-
"Maybe so-maybe so ; but- I hope they     tiently.
won't come here. 'I'hey'd drink all my liquor,  "Jest so! I was comin' to that ; but I reck-
and neverpay me a stiver for it," said the land- oied 'twas best to let you know who I was, first
lord,                                       and foremost. Well, Miss Lona heard the bell
The tolling of the bell on the village church  a tollin', and the fife squeakin, and the drums a
-not slow,-as for a funeral, but rapi and con- goin' rub-idy-dub, and she axed me would I go
tinuous-was now heard and understood by     over and ask Capting Arnold what the matter
all; for it was a signal which Arnold had con- was. 'Jest so, marm,' said I; 'I'll do it.' And
certed to use to draw his company together here I ani."
upon any emergency.                           "You can say to the lady, Mr. Goodrich, that
Soon, the martial music, with its stirring  I will call over and inform her, this evening, of
peals, was heard upon the village green ; and  important news which I have received ; and
the members of Arnold's company, hurriedly  which causes me to call my company together
donning their uniforms, and grasping their most unexpectedly."
muskets, were seen gathering from every direc-  "Jest so! But, capting, will you do me a
tion to their usual centre,            -   favor ?"
The group of loungers were now about to go  "Certainly, if it is in my power, Mr. Good-
over to the green ; but were very easily stayed rich. What can I do for you ?"
by the landlord, who said :                   "Jest tell me what changed me from beli'
"Arnold is going to bring his men here, an old fool, a little while ago, to being' Mister
boys, for the colonel to look at. No need of Goodrich now !" said the old man, with such a
your going away. Come in and turn a glass comical look, that Arnold couldn't help laugh-
up; it's my treat this time."               mug.
IIe wel knew that the bigger the crowd     "Because l've since learned that ou are in
around his house, on such an occasion, the  the service of an angel !" said Arnold in a tone
greater would be his profit ; for when men see  so low that only Elnathan could hear hima; and
rosy and round-bellied temptation sparkling he handed the old man a Spanish dollar at the
before them at a "tavern heat,". they are, or in same time.
those days were, not apt to resist it.  '     "Jest so !" said Elnathan, as he turned the
In the course of half an hour or 'so, Arnold's rare coin over and over in his hand. "I'll tell
company, in nearly its full strength, was drawn her what you said, capting ; and thankee, too,
up on the green. Just as he hd formed his for this here."
line, and brought his men to a shoulder, a figure  As soon as Luona's messenger had departed,
strangely homely, even for that land of strange- Arnold made his men count off for platoons;
nesses, hphroached the young officer.       and as soon as ie had arranged them in march-
" Captilg," said this individual, "your sojers ing order, bade the music strike up a quick
do looleelmighty nice !"                    step, and then ie moved off for the'-hotel.
"Present arms !" cried Arnold to his men,   "Now, I reckon, we'll hear the news !" cried
aying no attention to his admiring neighbor. old Blossom, as the company came up in fine
-v  -' -   -.

k ~

a


12                            LUONA PRESCOTT; 01,
order, and halted before the door, formed in leave to the capable and gallant captain of this
line, in two ranks; while the stranger came out well-drilled company the tsk of recruitingI"
upon the porch, and eyed them with the keen The colonel closed; and three hearty cheers
glance of roe used toeilitary matters.    announced the effect of his appeal.  e re-
Gentleen," said Arnold, addressing his turned within the house, saying to Arnold, as
company of vountecrs as such are usually ad- he did so:
dressed, "  have the honor to introduce you to  "Captain, let me see you afteryour company
Colonel Wainwood, of Massachusetts. Present has bon diocalled upon such as wished to
'rse order was obeyed admirably; and, after join him to step forward and give their names ;
giigThe order s   reemr,' yrold' co- tating that he intended, inside of twenty-four
giving Ithe order to recovere,  rno  con-  ours, to be on the march for the Continental
t'i'e colonel, gentlemen, will give you im- camp. His own company, without an exeep-
poThet cone,-n gentm nhic hs nued me to tion, declared themselves ready to move with
call you  ut, tt lie migt see what stuff you  him ; and many others stepped forward and
were yuIe oft  l e lie delivered  it.  And, I will  gave  their names'
ade, tdit if the -news which lie is aimut to give  "Blossom, you are very patriotic in your
slithlal idue any others present to wish tiuon  talk-shall I take your name dow?" asked
my cod sney-wic hill, probably, soon be in Arnold of that individual-who, if color and
mcotiv e nervic-  wvill gladly receive their looks were indicative of a proper amie, should
naie ."                                    have been called Rum-blossom, in full .
"Didn't I tell you there was war news ?" said  " Why, 1 hardly know yet, cap'n !" replied
Blossom, in a tone of importance to his cro- Blossonm. "There's so much saltpetre in gun-
Isos     powder, that the smell of it gives sme the sick
e is therien,"  sid t s  colonel, "  I  bring  you  ieadnche.  I can't  even  eat  beef  d  ht's  been
news wtlemehsuld set eve y heart in a fianse ' put down with saltpetre. Now, if 'twastit for
nesw s    hloiuld natve  c se   with pa- that. I'd jine jest as quick as takin' a glass o'
T he F+"i of nm y native provi mco is red  ithp-  . ,
triot IIoI!l!Tie lurch ii .n iiiions of thme Brit- grog!'
ish t lun!t. hive  hillei murder to the dark cats-  " But you can go into the cavalry, where
logim of their auanv crimes. Up fros the soil, cold steel does the work," said the captain. who,
like the ie-tile sicli eld fro Antel-s veins, knowing Blossom-like all braggarts aml busy
a c   ie ueto t wf                  -acr    bodies-to be an arrant coward, was ierely
acry ari +s to thme Lord Goud of lie ele    tring h !mim.
fur vtmgc :mer At Le'xingtiin. at Conmcord, it Isantering 1m
last firii v une.r's  ill, the dying groaiis of  " But I cant ride-never could-my head
undrels have gone up to the ears 'f th Al- swis if I only get astraddle of a rail eume o
ni   etys Warvis gUon us, with all its dreadful sad Blossom, moving off.
horrors. !  ais been forced upon usI What  Arnold soon took'all the names that were of.
shall we do?  Kiss the 'rod which sites us?  ferel, and, appointing a muster at the tavern,
Yielsha our o.is to the spoiler--our iv es'and  to the delight of the landlord, at ten on the
daughters to the pled ensraces fra hireling  succeeding day, he dismissed his company in
band of ruffians?  God and patriotism for- due form, and rejoined Colonel Wainwood.
bid !                                                          'tL    I
"Amtnt!"burst from the lips of nearly every             CIAPTER VI.
t   Arilledmlistener.                       TE INTERvIEW--THE BAG OF GOLD-TIlE NATAL
"Maisy of your countrymen are ahea ly in     STARS-THE P~tOPtECY-A NEW RECRUIT.
arni! Messengers like m self are speeding   Luona sat by her open window, that evening,
through the landg arousingiepeople on every  The gentle breeze of the young suiiner came
hand. Leaving the plowing thefurrow-the   sweetly in from its wanderings over the clover
wagon by the roadside--the crop half plnte, fields, and amiid those clusterig wild roses-bear.
yeomen and gentlemen are hurrying to thme ing, too.the breath of the jessamsine atml honey-
field I Thougt    t Gage, and owe, ad Burgoryve  suckle fromu the valley, the lily from tise lake,
are in Bts'+ tuni, with! tein or twelve thsousand v'- tind thse hare-bell from the Iilsile. Auth it
era sisldiers, they dare not stir from their bsreatlhed soft sighs as it swept through the pen-
strn ts!d to  ,meet y r undisciplined  bsut indig-  d at branches of the  elms, which  hung  above
nant forcs. I casmee oere by request of tise the graves of the departed ; and the moonbeams
Council of Safety, to ask Captisiy Asol, to joits tatsklel amid the quivering leaves lhte flashes
ou in tis eiee of tito  and to say to all of of ir.  It was a lovely night-suc'i a onme as a
you ths t will jninti si, you will fiil a warm  dreamy soul best can enjoy ; when, almost dis-
ansd a brave welcome on our lines if you go emsbodyiig itself, it borrows Faiscy's wings,
tlh, re. As soon as may horse is rested ani  and sweeps away into the mystic 'ealmns of
fed, I is:st speed onward to arouse New York  thought.
to our aid, andi to send messengers still farther,  'hie orphan was wrapped in a reverie, which
for abug and a turrile struggle hus surely bet- was not disturbed imy the earnest cionvversation
gun! To yusi two love ysrlonI s, aundrhate  carried on between Elnathan andi Barara-
tyranes and usurpers, I need say no more; bu i who, enjoying the balmy night air, were seated

4!

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

18

on a bench, beneath a large shade-tree in the  He paused ; while, with her head bowed fobr
yard.                                       ward upon her hands, and resting against the
But the sound of rapid and heavy footsteps flower-shaded window-casing, she seemed to be
coming up the avenue which led from the main endeavoring to subdue her evident agitation.
street did arouse her ; and the color rushed into  " Forgive me if I have offended you  Miss
her pale cheek, as she recognized young Arnold  Prescott. I have spoken all that I have to sa
in the approaching visitor.                 now. No one else knows m     feelingss, noh
"lam on the road to fulfill my mother's bid- they; but when I amn  tebattle-ld 1all
ding," she murmured. "I believe the fool loves think of you, and try to win a name of which
me; and if he does, I will so fan the flame that no man need be ashamed."
he will do my bidding, even if hell yawns in his  "Yam not angry with you, Mr. Arnold," re-
way. But he must rise first-rise till he over- plied Luona, in a tone which fell like ravishing
topples all his fellows-else a fall will not hurt music on Arnold's ears. Your preference is
him. Mother, if thy spirit lingers yet where it flattering, indeed; but my recent bereavement
can look upon thy child, aid thou her to do thy forbids me, at present, to think of anything
dying will."                                else."
Scarce had those low-spoken words left her  And, as she said this, she extended her hand,
lips, when Arnold reached the threshold of the small and white, to him.
open door, and she appeared there to welcome  He took it; and, as he pressed it to his burn-
him, in her gentlest tones. After he had en- ing lips, lie said :
tered, taken a seat, and the customary saluta-  "Oh ! lady, you are an angel I"
tions of the evening had been interchanged,   "So you told Elnathan, this afternoon," she
Arnold said :                               replied, archly ; "but you must beware, lest
"You sent a most singular messenger to me, you find me more Satanic than heavenly."
this afternoon, Miss Prescott, requesting to  "I fear it not, fairest and best of your sex,"
know what was the cause of my mustering my said he, again kissing the jeweled hand, which
company by the alarm signal."               was not withdrawn.
"Yes. Elnathan is indeed an oddity; yet     "A  truce to compliments, Mr. 4nold, or
he seems a very faithful, honest fellow," she re- captain, I should say."
plied.                                        "Plain Benedict, Miss Luona; only to that do
TIe-reason of my calling out my company, I aspire."
was news which will soon force me from your   "It is almost too early in a courtship to talk
most agreeable society," continued Arnold.  of being a Benedict yet !" said the witty girl,
"Indeed, sir! Pray what is the news ?"    with a low and musical laughs; "but, as I was
"The colonies are at open war with the    saying, drop compliments for the time and let
troops of the mother country. Blood has been us talk of business."
shed freely on three several occasions ; and the  "Of business, Miss Prescott ?" cried Arnold,
people have arisen and besieged the British  in surprise.
troops.it Boston. I have between one and two  "Yes, sir; for, as you will find, I have the
hundred men recruited, and shall soon start for practical, as well as the ideal, in my composi-
the fiehl."                               tion. With nearly or quite men enough to
"Where you will win fame and glory, and form a battalion, you are about to enter the
perhaps forget those whom you leave behind  service of your country. You are a captain,
you," said the lady, in a well-assumed tone o  now-soon, undoubtedly, will be a major, per-
sadness.                                    haps a colonel. Uniforms, horses, trappings,
"There are those, Luona--forgive me Miss and arms cost money. You are poor."
Prescott-I used that cherished name inadvert-  "My misfortune, not my crime, lady t" said
enthy--there are those in this village whom no  the young officer, blushing.
fame or glory could cause me for an instant to  "Now you do me an injustice," said the lady.
forget."                                    "My motive was not to wound your feelings,
"I have heard,.sir, that you had formed but to insist uponyour accepting a loan from
some attachments in the place," said the lady, me sufficient to fit you out genteelly, so that.
coldly.                                     you may go into service as proudly al more
"'me attachments, Miss Prescott?   Why    wealthy competitors. -When you are a eneral
must I be so misapprehended by the only one you can repay me."
on earth whose good opinion I care for and    "But, lady, I may fall in battle."
court, beyond my mother and yourself, dear   "Then the debt, ike all other debts, will be
lady, there is no oe in the world for whom  I canceled! But you will not fall. I am a pro-
feel th least affection. Forgive me, if, in this phetess. Honor and fame are before you ! Do
haour, when I m  about to part with you-per- you see yon bright star ?--that which almost
faps forevertI speak too plainly the feehings  centres in the heavens?  Look, just to the east
of a full heart. Itis in vain, under such cir- of the moon."
eunastanees, that I try to conceal a lo s which,  "I observe it"
otherwise, I should have endeavore  to hide  " Well, keep it ever in view. It is my natal
until I hid at least a hove of its return."  star, else I ama no astrologist. Close upon its

M~                             °     M                I

I V

9

i


14                             LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,
right, observe another, which seems to waver in daddy fit in the French and Injun war; and
its light-now bright, now dim. It betokens a there never was a Goodrich yet that hadn't grit
life of danger and vicissitudes. That star is in him."
yours. It seems to borrow light from mine."   "Well, if you wish it, you shall go with                                                '
"It does--it does !" said Arnold, enthusias- Captain Arnold, and be attached to his own
tically, as he looked up from the open window. person."
" So long as that star remains in sight, all  " As to that, Miss Lona, I'm kinder attached
will be well with you," continued Luona. "But to him now-been so ever since he gin me that%
I warn you to beware of the hour when it is bright dollar."
no longer to be seen ! And now excuse me a   "You don't understand me, Elnathan. I
moment."                                   mean that instead of going into the ranks, you
She retired into her private room ; but soon  can act as a kind of valet to him."
returned, bearing in her hand a bag of guineas.  "A what, marm?"
"'Take these," she said,"and use them freely.  "A valet-that is, see to his tent, uniforms,
and when you need more, a line from you will and all that."
comman-1 all that you require."               "Jest so ! A kind o' help ?"                             '
"Oh! ;elv, you will crush me with the     "Exactly."
weight of vur generous kindess."           "I'm dreadful feard if I go for that I won't
Speak-not c~ it ; you will only pain me by  have no chance fora pop at the British, marm."
so doing. I am rich, and have no use for money  "0 yes, the best in the world ; for he will be
except to Irocure pleasure ; and this is a pleas- at the head of his men, and you will be with
ore to me."                                 him."
"Ah ! lad, I know not how to thank you I"  'Jest so! I see it now; and I'll go, Miss
"I ask nothing. but that you will strive to  Lona, and thankee, too. And-if you'll letdaddy                 !hI
rise in the tield of glory."               stay here in my place, he'll do almost as well as                           j
"JLadv, I shall need no incentive but thoughts  me about the house and garden. He's awful
of you. ~1 will rise or perish in the trial !"  spry for a man of nigh seventy ; and hadn't gotiII
lie not so rash ! Prudence goes hand in  no fault but being' hard o' hearing. "
hand with true valor, always. When will you  " That is an excellent fault-it is well to be
start?"                                     deaf and dumb too, sometimes."1'
" Either to-morrow evening or next day     "Jest so, marm. If you say so, I'll send for
morning."                                   him."H                                                                  c
"For my sake, defer your march until after  "Do so, Elnathan."
sunrise on the next day morning. I hawe some-  The old man now turned away, but quicklyt-
thing to prepare for you."                  wheeled around and said:iIic!
"Your w-hces are laws to me, and I obey   " I haven't got a gun, marm-what shall I do                I/
them."                                      about that/?"
"'lTen I will witness your departure in per-  "Captain Arnold will supply that want."                                                                     -
son. If not otherwise engaged, call over with  "Jest so ! thanked marm."
our mother, and spend to-morrow evening     And Elnathan departed, to tell Barbara of
ere."                                    the prospect of " blood and glory " which lay                                                                       a
"I will do so most gladly, kind lad'. Dur- before him.
Pug tt dav, Iex pect to be much occupied; for  "Elnathan is shrewd and cautious. Through
I have taken mans to spread the news far and  him I can be made constantly acquainted with
near, and shall recruit as large a force as possi- Arnold's every movement," murmured Luona
ble," said A rnold ; and then, depositing the to herself, when she was again alone.
gold in his pocket, he rc se and took his leave.
Scarcely al lihe left the front-yard, when the
scmi-hoop'form-no offence intended, ladies of            CHAPTER VII.
the preseat day-of Elnathan appeared before  nuu AND RECRUIlTraG-'riiK  DANNER AND Tilt
Luon', an 1, in an abashed manner-for her cool              Maanctn.
hauteur heal rather taken him down-he said :  The next day was a busy one with the youn
"lPleac, marm, if 'tien t a secret too good  captain-also witti the much-pleased landlo
I          for common creeturs to know, will you tell me of the village tavern ; for Arnold treated freely
what oai !c the casting train his men to-day ?" as did also other patriots, who, though too old
"Yes." said Luna. "'The colony of Massa- to go themselves, wished to encourage others to
chi,,'tL is mt war with the British."    take the field. Rum is a very efficient aid in
"Then, Icy jingo it's time sister Connecticut recruiting. It fires up the veins, and aids the
'ined in'"~-xelcimied Elnathan, bringing his music in inspiring martial ardor. It drives
horny hiam i down upon his thigh, with a report away fear, and, for the time, makes a herofrom
hike a muskt.      g    ta very coward. But such courage is not to be                 -
Wculc1 ou like to go to the ware with Cap- relied on; for, as with liquor, evaporation takes
tamn Arnold" ccntmiued Luona.               away all its spirit. Rum, moreover, is an able
" Woul in't I ? Only jest you say the word, aid to the recruiter; for it takes awayall mem-      1--
MikLana, a  i,  eee! 3oth my daddy and gran'- ory of home, of other duties, of sweet and cher-

,
'
!i .
i .i
1
ktr
,a
i
i
t
i
e
,
t
I
by                                      y
x
;;
4
"
'
ij
y
#i
a
,
.,                                       ,j
,r i
: ,
.,
,
.
;
, ,
"
'                            i
!!
r                     F
I' !     1
i
S
1
'
I
+
i
i
1
't
"                           i


TILE CURSE FULFILLED.
ished scenes from the mind of the recruit, and  "Cass you, did you do that?" yelled
keeps him insensible to them until it is useless  som, fairly dancing a miserere from pain.
for him to awake-lie is bound to the service.  " Jest so!" said Elnathan, Coolly.
Rum, at this very time, enlists two-thirIs of the  must lar to keep out of the way when sh
privates in our army, ain- necessity picks up irons re handled."
the other third. Ask any officer, and lie will  "You shall go with me, Mr. Gooric
-      tell you so.               ,Ennathan, as I shall henceforth call you,
Recruits came pouring in from every side. Arnold, after he had read Luona's note
Sturdy fathers came with their sons--ranging will see yon again this evening, and give
from  sixteen years of age upward-b. iiiig  fial direction."
their rusted guns, old and ha-ked swords, which  "Jest so" sad Enthan. " I knowed
had seen service in the hands of generations  bit o' paper would pass me."
passed away, and ninny an odd accoutrement.    " Will you nut ink a glass of toddy?
The topirs hung around, as usual, with ium  tined the  eeer.
Blossom at their head ; for the chances of an   " No, thuikee, captain, no, thanked. I
occasional treat were suffcient to cause them to  touch sperrits-dont think they're good f
brave (?) the sarcastic remarks fr. ely indulged in  stomach nor head either, 'elpt'in case o'
by those who had rponded to the call for re- tal sickness. My mother seen a drunken
 crits.                                     about six weeks afore I was horn, nod I e
By night. Arnold had enlisted nearly three  that set me so agin it that the smell out
humired men, and lie closed his miuster-roll-=  make me heave all hut my toe-nails up !
giving directions for all of his mna to be assen-  " You are quite excusable then,' sail A
bled by sunrise in the morning, on the village  laughing  " and I shall he weil pleased to
green ; for, having got his recruits, he wished  a sober ai steady man about my person.
to keep theta clear of the tavern afterward. you must try to told yourself upright
They were also toli to have at least four days' position of a soldier.
provision in their haversacks ; and to carry no  " ll try, capting. But, you see, I got
baggage but a change of shirts ani a pair of over withlhard work when I was a boy
blankets.                               '    you know the ol saving: ' As the twig us
One scene which occurred, however, was too  the tree indines.
good to have our readers miss ; therefore we   " Yes, if you do your best T shall not
give it.                                     plai," said Arnold   and then walked
Einathan Goodrich was seen advancing to- dismiss his men    while the last accept
ward the tavern, hearing a very long, rusty, cruit hurried home, to let Miss Prescott
big-barreled, hell-nmuzzled tucking-gun, which  of his success.
looked as if it would chamber at I ast. half a     *       *          *      * 
pound of sht; antd girded to his side, with Not a cloud could be seen in heaven's
the point of its iroti seaboard trailing tg2elitd  concave  en the next mtrning's sit
himi on the ground, was a sabre, uwmh was The dew      liuneg ing gemmaeiny durtops upon b-
heavy entough to have heen used dhoti le-hiandetd  and lowver ;antd the zephytrs breaithet1
by the kuiihts of the days of " Cnur de Lion."  lest they should displace them. Troug
As lie caine upl, stridinig along with hus p pleasant air rolieh the pealing of thev
lengthy legs, bent forward a usual, a general hells; and the shrill file, with the ra
" snicker "' wais seen in the crowd ; hut lie was dirtum, almost tdrowntetd the imutsic of the
not one to heed such demonstrations.         which sung from among the lofty tree-to
"Capting," said he, " I want you to put my   Arntld, at an early hour, was on the g
name down for your train-band,h ere I be, and hs men came pouring in, fall ng in
armed and equipped as the law directs."      as fast as they arrived. Iis own company
"Don't you  think  you  are  rather old  for  hard  the  right; for  they  were  in  uinifulrlon, andl  l
sers ice, Mr. Gooduich, ?" replied Arnol. kindly remarkably w~ell. The others were fine-lo
-for lie dlid not wish thn ill-wvill of one who men ; but, not yet bteinig in uniform, di
-dwelt with, Mis- Prescott. make co good a'dhisplay as the fist-namie
"Darned the bit, capting! I'm    seasoned,   Three strong wagons, with four horses
d'ye see-worth a dozen of them 'ere sreen uns- of each, stood near b, into which the
that's sappy and weak vet. Read this 'erc; I were directed 10 place their huaversac
reckon that'l pass me."                     blankets, and extra auuiition, si as to
And he handed him a note.                  en themselves fr the march ;. and Arnol
" From Miss Prescott ?" asked Arnold, as he also collected some tents, and old sail fro
glanced at the superseription.               sels in the harbor to make more ; for h
".Jest so!" replied Elnathan, bringing his deterinedabl  to take   the fiel" in a
gun ftrim a hiotiltder to ian urder', andh uninzten- sense, f-omu the very start, so as to use hi
tionally settlitnt its butt heavily on Mr. Blos- to service.
son's toes-that individual having put himself  By ten o'clock all was reat for a star
rather to far forward, in his anxiety to get a  the commander still fingered, for he ha
glance at the note which Arnold hehl.       requested so to do, by Luona-who, with

1
15
Blos-
'You
ootia'
li-or
' said
you
1tha t
'con-
never
or the
mor-
man
xpect
would
'nold,
haveI
But
a the
bent
;and
bent,
com-
out to
d re-
know
ublue
arose.
ranch
softly,
hi the
illage
ttling
birds,
PS.
reen ;
o line
y took
ooked
okiig
d not
d.
ahead
men
s, and
light-
d had
in yes-
e was
literal
is men
t; but
d been
IsOVO-

*   .                               "


LUONA PR)
ral other ladies, had been mysteriously busy all
the day before, and also from the dawn of that
da\'.
IlIs men were becoming impatient, when a
dputttrn of young ladies was seen approach-
in, head lvnirona, who looked magnificently
beautiful, like a peers queen, surrounded by
her maids of honor.
As they applroaiched, Arnold "dressed" his
hnes, ant when they halted, a few feet before
him, the order came from his lips :
Present arms!
At a tng  from Luona, Elnathan stepped for-
ward, be .ring a banner, which was furled around
a neat and serviceable statf of oak.
This sh- unfurled ; and as she did so, deafen-
ing cheers arose from every lip.
It wtas t snow-white sitk ; and upon one side
these WIr  wr-e inset ibel, in crimson letters:
"riis: I trips OY NEW LOrNIoN tAIL THEIR
On the otherr silt, sets a full-lhngt i likeness
of their b ras e otting etain, sn ho otinted with
hiA swerd at at bllo re I star aove his head.
Upon it nas this motto .
" 1;a  i 5w11in  or i0ME ."''
When the celt-rs were mitewlat subsided,
Luonau  in a ct ar and nI t!tlitous  ti ce, which
lon s  rung in tih ears of th-to  who heard it,
sail
"('aptain A inol, anad gnt lmtin, all: The
ladies of this atilage, irlt."1s wii hi a grateful
sense of vtmr valor,ant I th-tcritites which you
make in le av ini y our cimt fr tale humies to
aveit.:e wr tog, secure ri.iit, a  it l ito   unis  the
m.i reenary ft-  Onth itlnalt- ti1r tsthres, have
trared tfr yon this iatnr. Though it may
b    bllet-tint tan 1 battle stained, tnsamguined
nar is-wiith rte li-tideI of tou1r iavt--t atIn your
. 1 1  ''I-t- th ii  iesr, wit1rr, tt Io t  it~ fali
int'oI i  t he bantf t a em nu tti  of f reed'toml!"
S te  p ,"ti .
"Never, mtt r.m  n-     h-m  1us, the God of
ii  s '" r--e itn one unis cral -1it0ut frttmi the
pt Iirt-
\Ve lhieve yx\ou! '" ctitru -L- uonira -' anti
wel Iid ti farewell, nit sititr, but with
smi;   f r you go frot us in a just and holy
cat- - '
A:itold feIt as if ht ciulI, thn ind there,
ha.- k m-it atntI wotr-ltiped-  i r, while lie gazed
upt a her. Never heftire hal shit, seemed to h imi
so beauntiftl-lter dark eves full anI flashing-
her tall fortm drawn to iis ut most heiit, her
bosom heaving with etotioi, her color height-
ened.
In a few words, eloquent andi patriotic, he re-
ceived t hi larnner, titail-d a  color ntrard " for
its tpec. l lpro-eeiont, bett low and kissed her
hanl, then iavet' tlhe order to march.
light all:tant ly his imei moved on, amid the
ceers of theyounbsg h1tv  ant he old men who
Were itt bt- li behttind, ~and tthe waving of many
a kerchief--which did the double duty of wip-

ESCOTT ; OR,
ing away tears, as well as bannering their de-
parture.
-When the force was passing the inn, a depu-
tation of several, healed by Mr. Blossom, ac-
costed the young leader, bearing the invitation
of the inn-keeper to them to stop and take a
parting drink all round,
This was promptly declined, and the men
marched on; while Blossom, blushing-not
from the rebuke which Arnold gave him for his
want of patriotism, but from repeated doses of
rum-returned to the inn to console the land-
lord for his disappointment, by offering to drink
for each and every one of the company.
Soon the sount of the fifes and drums died
away, the boys ceased cheering, and the village
seemed almost deserted.
CIiA'I'ml VIII.
THE ARRIVAL AT CAaMnIJD(iE, AND TILE WELCOME--
A COLONEL S COMMISSION AND WORK AHEAD-
ELNATIiAN AN) HIS HORSE.
'the arrival of young Arnold and his small
force was hailed with delight at Cambridge.
Not that men were scarce-for patriots were
hurryimg im, in immense numbers, from every
side-but because lie looked and seemed to be
an ofitcer of skill, and his men were well drilled
and disciplined. Not a corps in the young
armia could vie with them upon this point ; and
the Matssachiusetts council at once ctonferred the
raik of colonel upon Iiti, ant increased his
ranks front their own volunteers-for the conti-
nental army was not yet organized, nor had
Vashington taken the comniand.
Olicers, at that era, who understood military
tactics and the art of war, were very mue
needed. Raw recruits were to be drilled into
preparation to meet veterans, who had been led
to victory on many a Europeann attle-field -
and who were ith byoflicers that had been
reared, frot childhood u, in the camp.
Attoldlanti ever   otfheer there found that
they thinlemough todo to endeavor to produce
aiythiig like orer atongst the heterogeneous
mass assembled--armed with every conceiv-
able weapon, wviitioutunifoirrmity of dress, and
as iidelendent as if each individual ws a gene-
ral, at the lowest calculation.
Ye-t ranonttr hemttrthere wssone uniformity
it was their' biiiei-hatred to British oppression
-their united deteruminattion to resist it to the
death
Otto thing was much wanted in the American
camp-artillery and its necessary ammunition.
They were besieging a regular army in Boston,
which was well provided with stores and arms
of every'kind; an  which, providentially for
tiert, did rtt scon  to knowtheir weakness, or
at least refrtained from mairking a general sally
-atohich, at such a time, would have been very
apt to e successful. Tie English govern men
very heavily condemned that inactivity in their
generals and veterans, which allowed an army
of men, not half armed or provided with warlike

THE CURSE F
munitions, to organize, form lines of defences,
and eventually, under Washington, to force
their evacuation from Boston, when they could"
have been so easily crushed at first. Yet when
we consider what a terrible lesson they had so
recently received at Bunker Hill, it can hardly
be a matter of wonder that they should be cau-
tious.
Arnold --whose ambition, even then, was
boundless, saw this great need of having artil-
lery; and having noticed, in several trading
trips which he had made to Canada, before tie
war, the careless state of defence of some of the
frontier forts, his active mind suggested the
capture of these, with their artillery and muni,
tions. lie laid his plans before the Massachu
setts Council, or Committee of Safety-for thoe
Continental Congress was not yet organia
and they were received with immense favor.
To rmake the expedition successful, it'd
deemed inexpedient to send any troops away
froni Cambridge ; lest the enemy, suspecting
their destination, would "express" the news to
Canada,haud give the forces there time for prep-
aration and defence. The secret was carefully
kept; and Arnold, with orders from them to
raise four hundred men in the western part of
the colony on his route, started with a small
retinue of eight or ten officers and servants on
his emission. IIe left the camp in the night, and
none but those who were chief in power knew
of his absence, or at least of its cause.
But others there were who had ambition and
patriotism also, and whose eyes had also sighted
the prizes to be had at Ticonderoga and Crown
Point. The colony of Connecticut had sent a
commission thitherward ; and  Ethan Allen,
with a band of brave Green Mountain boys, was
hastening forward, even before Arnold left
Cambridge.
The latter heard of this only after he had
started, and ie pushed forward with all pos-
sible speed, not waiting to enlist men ; for he
heard that Allen and Warner had got men
enough together, and lie supposed that ,his
commission fromt the Massachusetts council
would give him the command, and that Allen
and lus men would at once acknowledge his
rank and obey his orders.
The speed with which the young officer
traveled was rather annoying to his attendants,
who had not then got used to such " break-neck
work ;" but his spirit then, as afterwards, leap-
ed over all obstacles ; and he spurred forward,
night and day, despite their. groans and com-
plaints.
One there was who would appear to be, more
than all the rest, liable to suffering-he was so
sharp-boned, angular, and thin-fleshed, and so
encumbered with his long gun and sabre-yet
no complaint came from the lips of our whilom
friend, Elnathan Goodrich, chief valet and
body-guard to Colonel Arnold. Mounted on a
very hiugh, raw-boned, and solemn-looking horse
--which, from its length of legs alone, looked as

ULFILLED.                               17
if speed must be in them-he rode on as seri-
ously as if the weight of the nation's weal, or
woe was settled upon his shoulders. He never
smiled, and seldom spoke ; but when he did, he
always said something so dry and peculiar, that
it brought many a laugh from those who heard
him.
""mAre you no tIred, Elnathan 2" asked Ar-
nold, one even' , after they had gone some
forty miles witout  halti
"Be yo   w     lie -'reply, Yankee-tiely
given, by5 -      question.
"N           e colonel.
"    f        said Elnathan ; and he prod-
ded: hi: s      the sides of his horse with
; .:CHAPTER IX.
AND THE GREEN MOUNTAIN BOYS.
right May morning-the 9th day of
that onth, 1775, when Arnold and his jaded
servants and friends, only ten in number, after
riding all night, arrived at Castleton, and drew
up before a little tavern in that place. Their
horses were worn down, and the riders, covered
with dust, did not seem to be in much better
condition.
The young officer, who, as was usually his
case, was very particular in his personal appear-
ance, passed in at once, followed by Elnathan,
with his portmanteau, and inquired fora private
room, in which to change his apparel. This was
a difficult thing to get, for the house was full of
company, and the small village seeded crowded
with people. But room was finally got for
the purpose ; and in a short time, Col. Arnold
reappeared in all the glory of clean linen and
a new Continental uniform, looking as Elnathan
said, "as nice as a new pin."
He then condescended to inquire what was
the cause of such a large concourse of people
in the village, lie was informed by the land-
lord that'Colonels Allen and Warner were there
with a body of militia, which they had collect-
ed, and were going somewhere or other to fight
the British, or so he "reckoned."
"I should like to see Colonel Allen!" said
Arnold.
"There he stands, talking to them men
there!I" said the landlord, pointing to a tall,
rough-looking, red-faced man, dressed very
plainly, and looking as though he had just come
from a plaw-field. "I'll call him. Hey,
Colonel Allen ---here's a feller wants to see
you!"
Arnold. rather choked at being considered a
"feller," nor did he much like the little respect
exhibited in Allen's reply, who said:
"Tell him to hold on till I get through with
the boys here, and then I'l see him!"
The young colonel did "hold on," but rather
impatiently, for, deeming himself the superior
of the other in every way, and naturally of an
imperious disposition, he felt himself almost
insulted by such treatment.

- Y


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

After gstting through with the "boys," as
he.tcrmi it tithharl imountaineers, with whom
he had hii iocouversing, Allen approached Ar-
noldn.! t ifer Ikint at hm from head to foot,
as if Ii was iipictitig 1i3 fitness for service,
he said. mi a c"li, ler i w ty :
Yiu tbl the t tvern- keeper just now that
you w  niicid to see mte, yi4  fan !"
"  e--  n lie twncity o     mutes ago, I
did !' r hi  ArnoIld, wi     asperity in
both I-k mil tone.
" Well, I was b1uy then          on want
with ie t  iske lAlk n.t dra        short
pipe, nill inning to aran              it
with fliit aid steel  for in t
matches ire ukoiwn.
My i:inie is A rnol Benedi
I holdi aiicotusion as colonel fro
chosents conoiittee of Saf«-ty."
Uii h !wliat i that to me ?" e
oontin    thie occlla ition of lighting his pipe,
very conlv.
I h.ie otrde  to proceed to capture Ticon-
dero i t;iii 4ow inPout !"
"         i b t:-   ireour ien ?" asked Allen, put-
i n p Ilu' il ste.-I, and sending out a
ohun-  i  -t  rii  ii is  pipe.
" i   i".r-to 13in Ii i reruited a siifiieent
force t  . rsi ii h , edition, whicl I have
nam I
.  i  t P 1 to you ?
I sli I ti t chief command and proceed
with t  ia }l oiir wn !'said Arnold, coolly.
'1I b n !              t m w l !Young man, do you
know w   y ii sir t ilkitg to ?"
"lo  un eii  i E  han Allen
" V-, ('uon l tlitn Allen, commissioned by
the Sut-t of i'.tinecticut, ani if you utter an-
other wiI aloti takiitg command of my men,
they'll drum  vii out of sight with the 'rogues'
march.'" thitred the oil colonel, his face
reddenito. sie tie so excited, that he crushed
his pip 'til pin bis Ihtnd, as if it had been paper,j
and bini--i h s ti-gteirs in the act.
lit. cr, myvcoiuliiissiosin
"UD-n \3uil anI Iyiour commission! Here you
come willh a  liav-ac'tor's gauds on your back,
and no men, tol offer to take command of me
and my tin, ndttl to go and try to do the work
which I trill do before I'm three days older!"
Arnol ias very angry, but he saw that the
conversation was~ drawing listeners, and not
wishing i ' his patriotisni to injure the cause of
his coitit r yby ill-timed personal quarrels, he
said. ciatily :
I do nit wish to interfere with any arrange-
ments yo have nie. sir, and if you will per-
mit it, will nccoimpany you as a mere volunteer,
and will fight by your side 1"
Niuw you talk sense 1" said Alien, who was
quick to angor, and quickly over it. "I've no
objection to that, come in and take a rum sling
with me, nmd we'll talk matters over like men
and friends, for you must have some soldier in
you, in spite of your dressy clothes, or them

old chaps down at Boston wouldn't have made
you a colonel at your age I"
Arnold was now introduced to Warner and
other officers; and though his proud and ambi-
tions spirit wus bitterly chafed by his peculiar
position, he restrainedtin exhibition of his feel-
ings, and endeavored by his sociability to erad-
icate any symptoms of antipathy which his
first appearance and conduct might have creat-
ed toward lin on their parts. In this he tol-
erally well succeeded-for they were plain,
warmi-hearted people, unused to the mts of dis'
simulation, and as such, not calculated to hold
malice or feel undue prejudice. Thus the day
wor.on ph-asantly, and with perfect unanimnity
the arrangements for the expedition were made,
for 'T'iconderoga was near, only across a narrow
portion of the lake, within a few hours' imnareh ;
4 the gathering of Allen's men had been so
aMden, and yet so secret, that his destination
was not suspected : in truth, it was openly
supposed that the Cuntinental camp, in tint of
Bostii, was the place to which they meant to
march.
CIIAPIIEl X.
TuiE CAPirE OF' TiCONDFROOA, IN TH E NAME Or
Tu   a:tiAT JEIOVAiH AND THE CONTINENTAL
A s soun ms night had drawn her friendly cir-
tain over the movements of the Aimericans,
tiiy hgao to leave town in small parties, hay-
ing directions to meet at a precincerted ren-
d-zvou, from whence they were to advance by
a rapid, :urced march to the )lace where hioats
had len oilered to lie collected, ready for their
eiiibarkaion. The night w-as dull ai'd drizzly,
and nut the best for travel, but served the double
purpose of conceding their movements and
keeping stragtgling people, who iad no business
abroad, at home. It was but little after mid-
iight, when A len with the advance, accompani-
ed iy Arnotd and his scanty suite, reached the
position opposite the fort, from which they in-
tended to embark. But the difficulty was to
get boats for the crossing . Not enough to cross
more than seventy or eighty could he got. But
Allen was the last main the world to tarn
back when lie started, the last to lit any ob-
stacle thwart him; he was as obstinate and
persevering as ever Arnold was, and no one
could lie more so
So, with a young man for a guide who knew
the position -ani entrances of the fort well,
Allen anti a picked body of men embarked in
the few boats which were ready, inteniding to at
once send hack for the men left with Colonel
Warner, after the first detachment had been
landed.
But the dawn was already streaking the east,
when they, numbering altogether only about
eighty men, stood upon the shore. Thny could
dimly see the dark-grey battlements of the
fortress rising sternly in their front. in short
grape shot range, and knew well that if its gar-

rison was alarmed in a few moments iron death  the gallant officer, and the man was disabled in
would be hailed upon them   in destructive  another instant.
showers. Theirs as a position of fearful peril.  They were now in the open parade-ground ;
The boats were lrea    on their way to the  and forming in two lines, so as to face the Mbai- .
other shore ; but1lo  fore they could return  rack , they gave three hearty cheers, and stood
with more men, the swift increasing light would  prepared to shoot down every one who offered
reveal their position and scanty numbers, draw  to resist. Led by his faithful guide, Allen
-the fire of the enemy, and undoubtedly assure  rushed to the doorof the room  in which the
their utter annihilation.                   British commander of the fort, Captain Dela-
"What do you think we'd better do, colon- place, was ;leepie, and thundered against it
el?" asked Allen of Arnold.                 with the hilt  ofih heavy sabre.
"Advance and storm the fort if we can get   The arese4oflcer hurried to the door, in
it. In ten minutes we'll be under their fire if very s-aty  ents, and asked what was the
we stay here, for-it will be light enough then .ter.
for them to see us'!"                    ,#S        .   -this instant, or you're a dead sol-
"You speak my sentiments, to a notch!" 4len, raising his sword.
said Allen. "I only asked to see what stuff             and by what authority ?" cried
you were made of !"                     t-aed officer.
Then he turned to his men, Who had arog . :    me, in the name of the Great Jehovah
i  to previous orders formed in column oidida  &amp; the  Continental Congress 1" thundered
th beach, and said, pointing to the fort:   Allen. "Look. at my men there, hungry for
"Boys, in ten minutes we must be inside of blood! Speak quick, or I'll lot them at it!"
that stone pile. I've been sent to take it, and "I surrender.!" said the mortified officer;
I mean to de it ! No noise now, but follow me. and, dressing himself, he mustered his dis.
The man who fires a gun, or speaks loud before armed men, and gave them up as prisoners of
me, eats cold iron! Come on1"               war.
There was no reply ; that was forbidden, but  This had scarcely been done, when over a
every man grasped his gun more firmly, as they  hundred more men arrived from the other side
strode on after that grim and fearless man, for of the lake ; but there was nothing for them to
all they knew, into the very jaws of death, to do-the surprise had been complete and blood-
attack one of the strongest forts in North less.
America.                                      And its importance may be judged from the
There was true heroism. Not amid shouts fact, that they captured one hundred and twenty
and cheers-not to the peal of the trumpet, or pieces of cannon, fifty swivels, two large mor-
the sound of the brazen drum-not with a tars, a howitzer, ten tons of musket-balls, seve-
thousand to see, or lips to applaud their courage, pal cart-loads of flints, a large number of ms-
moved that firm phalanx, that true "forlorn  kets, ate., etc., all of which were much needed
hope"-but in silence and in gloom, they hur- by the Continental army.
ned on, prepared to die or achieve a victory.  Aftel sectring the prisoners and posting sen-
On, uptie hill they strode-Allen and his tinels--so that he should not be surprised-
patriot-guide in advance, Arnold following Allen permitted his men to refresh themselves
close behind ; on, until they stood in the shad- and rest ; but, as soon as possible, he sent a
ow of the frowning walls-stood near a covered strong detachment of men. with Colonel 'War-
entrance, or sally-port, guarded only by a sea- ner, to take the fortress at Crown Point, which,
siel.                                      though delayed by a severe storm, was event-
Here the gallant Arnold paused, that his men  ally taken on the 12th of the same month, or
might close up-paused for an instant, ere he two or three days after the taking of Ticonde-
made the dash upon which success or defeat roga.
would depend. Allwas still within. No sound
fell upon their ears save the quick breathing of          CHAPTER XI.
the excited men. Did the sentinel sleep upon  TIn STAROLIMtSIS OUT AGAIN, AND YET AGAIN
his post? Was he dreaming of the loved ones -               IS CLOUDED.
left behind him in "merry England ?"          A couple of days only hail elapsed since the
It grev lighter. "Advance "" was whispered  capture of Ticonderoga, when a company of
along the dense column, now closed up. The some thirty or forty recruits came on to Join
leader was in the covered way, when-" Who   Arnold, which had been collected by an omeer
comes there 1" came startling upon every ear ; whom he had left behind, for that purpose,
and a musket was leveled at his breast and when he made his rapid movement to overtake
snapped ; but Allen's hour had not arrived--it Allen.
missed fire. In he rushed, to alarm the fort ;  The prisoners taken at Ticonderoga, as well
but close upon his heels sped Allen and his as many of the stores, had been at once sent on
men, well guided by his voice ; and, in another to Connecticut by Allen, as well as a protest
minute, they were inside of the walls. Here an- from Arnold, claiming the chief command, and
other sentinel made a -deadly thrust at Allen a remonstrance on Allen's part-the last of
with his bayonet; but the blow was parried by  which, coupled with his sooss, caused him

1A

18

r'I9

TIIE CURSE FULFILLED.


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

eventually to be sustained in his position, not
only by the Council but by Congress.
When Arnold found himself at the head of a
company which really acknowledged him as
leader, the tire of ambition and the embers of
disappointment which had rankled so fiercely
in his bosom, began to burn anew; and again
praduing his commission, he demanded to be
considered as the commander-in-chief of the
fortresses and forces on the frontiers.
"Young man, you had better' o back to
Boston ! You're too tall for ti s tude, and
may break your back by stooping  aid Allen,
liugliing at this demand.      .-
I )o you refuse to acknowledgany autho
ity ?" asked Ara id, reddening.          1
- Seeing that you have no authority,  _
tliik I do!" said Allen, adding an o     ,
eincher to his remark.
"The day will soon come, sir, when you will
have to know ue as your superior !" said Ar-
nll. In the meiantimre, I'll-"'
" Well, what will you do " asked Allen, see-
ing that Arnold hesitated.
" (o and win laurels while you are sleeping !"
raid Arnold, bitterly.
" don't ! you are green enough now !" said
Allen, tauntmngly.
Colonel, jest you let rue take that old chap
down a leetle '" said Elnathan, at this juncture;
for he was indignant at seeing his master snub-
bed in that way.
"Silence, sii'! vou have other business to at-
tend to !" said Arnold, sternly. Then, turning
to one of his own officers, he bade him muster
his own men, and make ready for an expedition.
This done, he turned abruptly away from
Allen, and went to his own quarters.
That night he encamped some distance down
the lake from the fort ; and sent out to pur-
chase boats, wherever they could be found. He
told no one of his plans or destination; but
seemed bent on some desperate enterprise which
should throw Allen's successful but bloodless
capture in the shade. And he wanted some-
thing to occupy him, and keep him apart from
Allen until he had received an answer from the
authorities to his protest ; for he felt assured
that the Marsachusetts Council would insist up-
on his commission being respected.
Though his men, wearied from a rap'd.march,
slept, excepting only his sentinels, Arnold was
awake ; and for hours paced to and fro along
the beach, waiting for his boats, attended only
by Elnathan, who could not be induced to leave
him. He had "promised Miss Lony to stick
by him," he said ; "and darn him into pewter
buttons if he wouldn't !"
Shortly after midnight, a schooner, or yacht,
which had belonged to Major Skene, of Skenes-
boro'-a story, whose "good advice" contributed
afterward more to the defeat of Burgoyne than
anything else-was brought down ; and, as the
wind was fair, Arnold at once embarked his
men on board, and made sail for St. John's-a

fortified town on the Sorel river, near the lake,
with which he was well acquainted.
This act was full as desperate, if not more so,
than Allen's attack upon Ticonderoga; for Ar-
nold had onlyabout fifty men, and the chances
were that news had reached St. John's of the
irruption of the Americans, and that the garri-
son would give imu a warm reception. But the
young leader, ever rash, did not pause to count
the cost, or reflect upon the danger. Well ac-
quainted with the place, he stood boldly to-
ward it ; and, with his men concealed below,
entered the harbor in the broad light of day.
There lay at anchor a war sloop, and several
smaller vessels, which he boarded and took as
he passed ; and then landing, before .it was
known that he was an enemy, he secured the
rison, which consisted of a sergeant and
ye men, without losing a man upon his side.
Loading his vessel and the sloop with store
from the fort--which he knew he could not
hold with so small a force, when a heavy force
of British was near-he hoisted sail again and
run up the lake, before a wind which had
chopped around in his favor.
On the ensuing day, ie had returned to with-
in a short distance of Ticonderuga, and the wind
had died away into a calm, when Allen made'
his appearance with nearly two hundred men,
in boats, bound upon the very expedition in
which Arnold had forestalled him.
"Where are you from, sir ?" asked Allen,
when he came within hail of Arnold.
"From St. John's," was the curt reply.
"Eli? did they drive you off?" asked the
astonished old veteran.
"No, sir; I took the fortoand these vessels,
and have the garrison prisoners !" replied Ar-
nold, delighted at the chagrin of Allen.
"Why didn't you keep it?" asked Allen
gruffly.
"Because I had other fish to fry. You are
good at garrison duty; you had better go and
retain it, while I capture few more !"
" Umph! it is an important post, and must
be garrisoned !" muttered Allen, and he pro-
ceeded on his way ; but he never reached St.
John's. The British had gathered in force, and
he was obliged to return to Ticonderoga with
the loss of several men-to the great delight of
Arnold, who hated him bitterly.
General Carleton, who had command, in Can-
ada, of the British forces, was utterly astound-
ed when he heard of the surprise and capture
of these important posts; and, instantly send-
ing a large garrison to St. John's, ie made ac-
tive preparations to attack and try to retake
Ticonderoga and Crown Point, with a large
force.
When this news reached Arnold, he com-
menced forming a flotilla to oppose them. He
fully armed his schooner and slopp, also several
boats from Crown Point, and determined to
make a brilliant effort upon the water, and to
attack the British before they could land. But

20

I

a

L


THE CURSE FULFILLED.

his star was not in the ascendant. The repre-
sentations made to the Massachusetts Council
of his arrogance and assume ptions,were scli.that
they appointed a committee of inquiry on his
conduct. Thia so mortified and angered him,
that he at once wrote a formal letter of resigna-
tion, and returned to Cambridge, where lie
found General Washington, to whom lie male
a full report of his conduct. Such was his de-
fence, that the gallant chief placed him imnumedi-
ately in an honorable position ; and he never
lost confidence in him, or wavered in his friend-
ship, until the star of tie misguided man was
clouded by his treason at West Point.
CHAPTER XII.
ELNATIIAN ONCE MORE IN NEW LONDON.
Weeks, even months, had elapsed since Ar-
nokd and his gallant company had ma.ched
from New London, to the stirring music of i he
fife and drum. And excepting that, when the
mails arrived, the old mien and women, and the
cliildrei, eagerly crowded to time office, to re:-
ceive news from sons, hiusbitands, or fathers; or
the excitement attendant upon the sailing or
arrival of a privateer, everything went oiu as
usual in the quiet place. Blossom and his as-
'sistant loafers still lingered around the tavern
stoop, discussing the topis of the war-the
landlord enduring them, because lie had few
other customers, and probably considered bad
con iyii better than none.
Bnt, once in a while, when some military
courier rode up to rest his horse, or get a mor-
sel of food, all was ex itement until the news
was pumped out of him ; and from Blossom's
skill mi such matters, lie was fully entitled to
the cognomen of Punip-laster General-albeit
he w'as no patron of pump-water, when he could
get and thing stronger.
But, one evening, a few wicks after the stir-
ring events narrated in the two preceding chap-
ters, a tall, very military-l'ookiing man, galloped
into town 111)011 a large tinl raw-btoned chnrger,
built nuci upon a model with himself. There
were holsters to his saddle, and brass-mounted
pistols showed their butts therefromi. Ige
spurs garnished his heels; and the sabre which
he wore nearly touched the ground with its
rusty iron scabbard. lisyell ow-grav hair was
dressed neatly, and confined in a cue, which
emerged stiffly from beneath his tri-colored hat,
and his every look was that of a veteran ; and
his voice, too, was gruff, as he reined up in front
of the tavern, dismounted, took his holsters and
portmateau from the saddl -, and said :
"Feed this horse well, rub him down, and
have hinm ready for me in two hours, precisely."
Time hostler seized the braille, and the obse-
quious landlord reached out his hands for the
portmnanteau and holsters ; but the soldier said,
ml his rough tone :

II
ii

"I reckon I can take care of my own.things."
" What's the newsfroii the army, colonel?"
said the e eer-lpresent Blossoii.
I ain't no colonel !" sail the stranguer, with
a look of contempt, as lie turned away Ioma the
loafer.
"Major; then-do tell us the news !" cried
the unaiashed loafer.
"" Nor I ain't a major, you mean skunk ! i
know yon. Your nue is Blossom ; aii you
was afeard to go to the wars with the rest of us,
along with Colonel Arnold-who is going' to be
a gin'ral, pirty Soon !"
Bless moy soul alive ! 'tis Eiunthan Cool-
rihtie"cried the landlord. " W bty, how you've
entered ! Come, captain, come and take a
drink."
"I ain't no captain ; nor I ain't trot so bad
as ti tech sperruts vet !"said Eluathan---for it
was himself, indeed.
"Well. you'll smoke a friendly pipe, ani tell
us how the colonel is," said the latidlori, anx-
ions to detain and lilease one who tvould ie
sure ti bring in plenty of custom as soon as it
was known that he was there.
"I don't use tolaecynrno sicl iuniy etnff;
haven't got so lad as Lhat, yet, fit ill l've sarv-
ed and fit in the war!" said Einatanum; and lie
strode iffl' away from the tavern.
"-Blast the -fellow ! I wish his hiirse could
talk ; 'le shtouuin't have a bite till I got the
ne Ws !" said Ilie lanidlord.
" Maybue A=nuld is coning himself, atin sent
him oiunhead to tell them of it at hoime," sug-
gested lis-om.
"S it m uy lie ;it would do no hurt to let
the people think so, at any rate," said ihe land-
lurd. whose eye was on uisitnss, and that only.
'fake a drink, bloss, and t hen gi round and
stir the folks up with that idea."
B ossom, being pail in an advance inistall-
ment, hurried off to fulfill the desires of Mr.
Boniface.
*      *       *      *       *
Luona Prescott was reclining iti her pleasant
sittmg-riomit, looki g out upon the Iirds and
bees, which fluttered to and fro  miid the "low-
ers of her gardse. - She looked, as usual, mag-
mnficentlt in her disliabille; and, to one who
knew her not, her look of dreamy tei o ' and
quiet would have Ibeen mst deceitie ; fit' it
Iblied her fiery, impulsive nature-it bueled the
hot blood in her veins, the wild thoughts of her
heart the sttn nature il lier own, the tfierce
hate which she felt as she thought of thie oaith
which he had taken whet he'r ttutlh'r d:ed, atmd
which she never lad regretted. She seemed
quite lost in thought ; but., if' so, was sitddenly
recalled from  lier reverie, by thie entrance of
larhatra-n ho came in on a run, in ai terrible
flutter, crying:
"  nmy gracious 1 O  my gracious    Ie's
come-lie's conic I"

21

y
r
.
,
t .z
t
;}
r
t.

(

I

r
i


*

f

22                            LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,
And she tumbled on a sofa, and commenced  him to a point where I can use him, and then--
fanning herself with her apron.            then-well, 1 shall net forget my oath
f Who has come, Barbarae"lasked the lady,  She now went to ,her writing-desk, and an-
without, however, exhibiting any excitement.  swered his letter.
" He-he-he's come ! gasped Barbara, fan-
ning herself violently.
" Who, in the devil's name, who " asked MissIIAPTER XI
Luona, getting angry at the hysterical folly of         ChAPTR     XWKA        D
the woman.                                      OUR HERO IN FAVOR, AND woRst AHEAD.
"Me, Miss Lona !" said a solemn voice at the
door-only me! What that creetur is skeered   Arnold was received with every kindness by
for, is more than I can tell; for they say I'm  Washington, at Cambridge ; and when ihe un-
uncommon good-looki' since I've seen sarv- folded to that chief his plans in regard to the
iceo     o conquest of Canada, he found a ready and at-
'Why, it is Elnathan, surely !" said Luona, tentive listener. lie was given a commission as
smiling at the stiff, gaunt figure which stoodia -colonel in the Continental Army ; and eleven
the   g doorway.                           hundred men were placed under his command,
Yes; don't lie look awful fierce :" gasped with which force he pledged himself to find his
Barbara.                                   way into Canada, by the way of the Kennebec
"rCome in,   lnathan; i'm glad to see you, River and the Chaudiere. The season for start'
and wish to talk with you. Barbara, you may ing was late ; but he was hopeful and vigorous-
go to your work again," said Luona.         enterprising nd active. Within a few days
"gAn't you afraid to stay in the room with after the lan was formed and sanctioned by
him alone, uss Lona  " asked the old servant. General \ashington and a committee from
"lie looks so savagiferical !"              Congress, his troops were ready for the march-
There's so danger in him-do as bid you!" the order being to proceed by land to Newbury-
said Miss Luona ;  nd the old woman obeyed, port, and thence to the Kennvbee mi vOls-
backing out of the room, and keeping an eye   Only a few days were occupied by Elnathan,
upon Elnathan all the while,                in his journey to and from New London. Rath-
pThen, when the coast was clear, she motioned  cc jaded and'tired, but with a ush of satisfac-
the old man to take a seat.                tion brightening up his dry and rust-looking,
teWhere did you leave Mr. Arnold?" she   face, he presented himself in the tent of his
aske e d        e      chief, and drew forth the letters which Luona
"I left the colonel with Gin'ral Washington," and Mr,. Arnold, his mother. had intrusted to
said Eleathan, who had no idea that a man of his care ; which, enveloped in a bright-colored
his masters rank should be mistered in his cotton "noserchif"-  s lie called his handker-
resece, e cared not by whom,             chief--were as unsoiled as wlenl he received
6 presene smilaed nt this an onasked, in a care- them.
Luona smiled at this ; an'        c        " Were all well at New London ?" asked the
sWas he well "                          ofieer, as he hastened to open the letter of the
Yes Miss Lona ; but I reckon you'll find  younger lady first.
out most from his dispatches ;" and lie handed  ' "Yes, sir; uncommon well, and glad to see
the lad  a letter, which he had been specially  me and hear froni you,"said Elnath in. " Your
deputed ta deliver.                         mother was ever so hearty; and Miss Lona as
The lady opened it and read the contents ; hmarudsome as a hollyhock in July. She's get-
but, though E nathan closelyawatched the cx- ting awful purtey,'I tell you. And I saw old
prion of her countenance, he could see no  Blossom and the rest of his tribe. They tried
change there to indicate what her feelings to get the news out o' mei; but 'twas like milk-
we        eo                              ing a dry cow! They didn't make no two times
W     hen do you return to your duty s" she out of me! And Barbara was sheered-I look-
asked, after she ba l reclosed the letter.  ed so military !"
"This evening, Miss Lone. I only came to   Elnathan now paused in his communications
T        bring you that, and see how things went at home for he saw that Arnold, instead of listening to
here" he replied,                          him, was with eager pleasure perusing Miss
I will have a package ready for ryou in l'rescott's letter.  hIs face, flushcd with a
time," she said. Then she added r'ou can  pleasant light, indicated tlhe dht whichdher
retire, and let Barbara get used to your pres- communication gave him, and  he sead to
#sence.                                    forget that he was not alone, for as le read, he
would exclaim-" Angel---noble thoughts- Yes
The lady again looked at the letter, and made I will rise; no one shall o'ertop me oi the lad-
comments upon it, after the old man had left der of fame! Angelic girl! she must love me,
the room.                                  or she wouldn't write so!"
I believe the young fool is getting in love  " Irayther think she does, she asked so per-
-that is, if one so selfish as he can love !" she tikler 'bout youI" said Elnathan, coolly, as
murmured. "I must encourage him till I get Arnold made he last remark.

28

"What are you here listening for ?" thunder upon ioar-frost, and the evening winds were
ed the latter, hip face darkening with anger.  keen and cold, when Arnold gathered his men
" Why you didn't tell me to go, and I ain't at their final rendezvous at Fort Western, on
deaf!" said Elnathan. "There isn't no use in the eastern bank of the Kennebec, opposite to
your gettin' mad at an old man like me !"  the present city of Augusta, capital of the State.
" True," said Arnold, a little ashamed of his They we' e on the verge of the then bounds of
hasty ebullition. "But you can go and see civilization of our territory in that direction.
that my clothes are in order for a march. We  Behind them were the farms where the had
shall leave here in the morning."          left the plow in the furrow, the scythe by the
" Where be we agoin', colonel?" asked the swath, and the sickle in ,the grain, at their
old man.                                   country's call. Behind them were their homes,
"You'll know when we get there-go on and  their loving wives, their aged sires, their tender
do as I bid you !"                   ,     children. Before, the eternal forests of gloomy
"I aspectt I shall; but 'twouldn't have been  pine reared their tall heads-before them were
much waste o' breath or manners to tell a fel- rugged mountains, deep miorasses, rapid rivers
her !" muttered Elnathan, as he went out.  and, these dangers passed, a land of foemen, to
Arnold did not heed the reply, but pressing meet amid the ice and snow.
Luona's letter to his lips, he placed it in his  Bold, indeed, was the leader who could plan
vest. next his heart, and proceeded to read that and dare such perils and such hardships, and
which had been written by his mother. This fortunate that lie could inspire a confidence in
did not elicit such warm comments from his his men to make them follow where lie led. No
ips as the other-showing, alas ! how quickly  one but those who have traversed those forests,
filial lore is usurped by the passion which is stemmed the rapid current of the upper Ken-
born of rosy cheeks and flashing eyes. They  nebee-looked upon the rushing eataract of
say that is love ! How can it be, when it dies Norridgewock - passed the high ridges and
with the beauty which called it into existence? rocky mountains beyond, and then tempted the
That blase of passion which springs up from fearful perils of the swift Ciaudiere. can im-
beauty only, is like the fire lighted in a bunch  agine the hardships which lay before that patriot
of withered grass -- fierce for an instant, yet band. Tents had to be discarded, provisions
in a moment gone;, not even leaving embers or "packed," or backed, and the highest officer,
ashes to mark that it was ! When we think of like the humblest private, forced to "foot" o'er
that, and study the philosophy of Mrs. Norton's the pathless route.
song of " Love Not "-for philosophy there is  It is rather the duty of the historian than the
in it--the cooler we keep in such matters, the novelist to detail such matters-; yet, iii those
better we feel.                            days of historic forgetfulness, it is not amiss to
Newburyport was nearly as large and quite  enbellish even a work of fiction with the graver
as important in the time of the Revolution as touches of historic romance.
now, or, at least, history tells us so ; for it was  As soon as the men reached the upper waters
a great fitting-out place for those dashing pri- of the Kennebee, they were obligeI to wade
vateers which aided so much in annoying our along the rapids, and push their boats ; and as
enemy, and in capturing much-needed stores ice now formed at night, and only melted away
for our infant army. When the troops of Col. when the sun was well up, this was no pleasant
Arnold arrived there, they created a great ex- procedure-the more especially to such as came
citement-far the more that no one but the from the South, of whom there were many ; for
leader 'knew whether they were destined. Not in our holy struggle for freedom, the fanatical
even the captains of his transports knew what feeling was not alive which defined any lines
course to steer, until they opened their sealed  like Mason and Dixon's in our common coun-
orders at sea, outside of the harbor. Builders try. The leaders, or most of them, on this oc-
had been sent, some weeks before, to construct casion, were men to inspire their followers by
boats on the Kennebec, opposite the now lively their own example. Morgan was there to head
town of Gardiner, but even they were ignorant 'his rifles; Colonel Kit Green, the hero of Red
of the purpose for which the boats were wanted. Bank, on the Delaware, was another ; Meigs
and Bigelow were others. Enos, the coward,
"---who eventually turned back, and was banished
fm'om tieae'heey, and shiruntk away inishmamne,
CIIAPTER XIV.                  commanded tie rear-guard; but of that, per-
TnE KENNEBEC AND ITS SoURCES -- THE CITAU- l'aps more anin.
nIEitE AND ITS DANoS ASSAULT ON QUEBEC     Morgan, with three companies of gallant
-~MONTOIERY KILLED--ARNOLD WOUNDED.      rifles, from Virginia and Pennsylvania, was a
man after Arnold's own heart, as his heart was
The birch and the maple, the tamarack and  then.
elm, had already changed their hues of green  When Arnold reached his last "carrying-
for the gaudier colors of scarlet and of gold ; place," or portage on the Kennebec side, hies
which betokened tie approach of the frosts of frce was reduced to nine hundred and fifty ef-
deatn to them. The morning sun glittered    fective men ; but he was within ten days' march,

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

r
#
i
.
F
( #
iF
6
F
i
E
{
g
d        °
'L
4
F

4

1t'zzG.
' Y
-.'s
1r
d
'  .
n
1
+              "i                  ,i
'-

t   a


V

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

he .1sppoaed~ of the Chaudiere, nd cheerfully I the clit f command; sickness in the worst shape,
they sPosied, on. thet Chaudiere and mr a set g small-pox, was in his camp, and he had to11
they pushed on.lBut nowt storm anti ninst back nd wait fur saiW.
in, tlhe rlemient seemed all to work .ait  On the wd f d
him   and though oft he looked up ino the Ofthe    of Dewhosebon l est nolret in ill-
frowing  y tteldc ldi bheee t  e  ehisstar Empire Cit' of the Union, arrived, and is soon
light of that which he ihy.eveuatobeona possible nioved forward. Ills force united,
T h  s ty w hen they  w ere  still  vet  th irty  u miere l  only  nine  h udred  a iomen ; n  w i t h
m il' s  i ta  ht fro n  th e  h ead  o f  th e  i ll t li re ,  th is  h   d ete r nu n d  to  a tta c k  t h e  s ro u p  t  a nd
th at  i n g iii f urioth   h e a o , th e   C h e  b est  fertitie l  c ity  in  N o rth  A m e ric a,  m i  w h ich
banks, mt a lutr day, manny a moose has fall.i vietwerslirs,c mmdli e t od tir exIrtciiesand
to the mu-ic of try rile-for I write of gri1  vtirs, nd  i d by  ebera"Yed
on winch l've trod. lie'1e, wth more th iitwo  volute'r ricitie dhy a coiarleatleor, i ny of
tirds of his pirov ionrsi lost, or iiiiit for tie, coltit , ereii i the manot fCarlesin ithien in
Arno tfor the tirst time called a concimCerilof hIScoin ant b fe1iid mtinthe French in the city,
ohicers. 1lii i itiit was hrcilel to seii))lrthe sic): oi'ii  i  ato  h  riel ntn  iy
a iicfer  lt t.  and t uidd hinatlswith thrle loirCutlesi would have male a sorle, 1itt at a
str fleg   b aci. ki   a d  ti   p us1S 1   ai    - ,'li   rcar- d iia l,  blow   is  e  criish e  I  tie   o u t  fo rev er  h  u t  he
on  ts  r 'i ul1 i . was o, ibhered tole . h  rcoo a i   ed  mot  risk  it.
unr o w lit' ii tt, as rdvesedts,o e:m ign il B it liil ifter peril gathered ithiarould thie
thi  o tn  th  to reti rii d ut s he o i i e "t o ,tr~e  r  rve pv atriot  Ieader.  Sick ess  was  m  lihe  e   imP
lu.iti in , , rt  iirtui  i l all, for wt ieh, is al-  wei -r nil hi its  horrors  rapped  lit e  -hiea
h id + th  m n   p r i in s a t -i'his C   a  d  t o s   ir o n dii .  p t s m  s  w e r e  s c a r e ,  i
l1itoii ibve had arty.e 1n:n ilmiust murtinouIs fromti loin'g sil ritge. To
r   p i it    itm ,  it  then ad ow   iig f this  aerial  re i rn  w without  tt Ip rting t o  naccom  h h  his
f tu ih  ill  1i rrj e 'l  iii , eithr co t t  iii tgi  i'  g g o   1w s  a  tLou ght  which  M o ntg ot ei  w ould
or stilloni  iii pl it to reth nlh  irs. it iarbior. 11 is ollicers were twmm in spirit
n sluitir to  oals t' treaiiic tir silte-o-f with himself. At)a council of wai, it wi  so.-
the hhee ole l       gn  ,wit iiiii oly  i ti aiemnt to stormi the town, and t rate it
tbith Cho   h e ih t h   i r iv   rit e  sl  on1  or  1eri- i iii  the  trial.  To  retreat  t t at season
aul      me -ii  butcrc trio. -re trgelit i  tie  wi more danrgero s than the assa .
old  tall  tii he  t1  tri  ni at wire is irg   helt t il.  A ccirhingly, at  hire e o'clock  on   the c r ing
ere t ein iiirtoa proper ot  aleii in, of tie inst diy of te yer, I7, e litte
with a rer tugarl to rritcthe drcli t le-:rI i arm  msteredl iii three clmins or iisi aos,
ith  I o. r g1, toii ract 1-r on, fi       mrched ill silence to the a:ts ih lthe.
te'   ,a lc iow fuandfisndbcprii  fr   1   y    s trif inw fIalling, froimii bove tn u that
r   we   iiitre ino i ifarfttl f'llyfitrduce   f i irtliI  onliti  alir:vlyN  hrv  drip  eiM w, obcur d  their
were -i 'itr   .e a a i ii .raniunvciuieit s. 'nd ida each coliutm heen aile to
itc  i  "pi i   iiaslii au't l u rilu h lis.  iii I nany iiiv  fiil i  1=tio n iuii and  reachedil a poist  in ii e the
nt rc nilsherd  s farihiis  cau- a , I ice msit tave fiileni beliriii sliher
Laens mi i ri nk  iic u io u   e tro n i i  t   l   lt h e ir  Id e ratioi n  io f  o u r  i liceis   niid  m ur.  b t  it
rati temli nwnric1 tric eradliit  ait t.ee wi-i it , t, lie.  lontgomiery fel. A:riold
b ti  nlh  t r ,k  a h d  ctli  s an dt Ir ein t Ii  (  ' l i 'i n ' le d  th ehwy  ieirtl  ic r  qirirt ier,  h u t  If eI  die p e-
h i i    a k-  li ans ahc the1nd rirehas ei  for  their  ratil iy  nnded  t  the  hi ad  of  Irs  m in,  and
sutlh riinIsa ichi thic eyir. ihr       s lbre to the reat'.  Argn noylv proved
irm   coraoies in the rear. theved in  n. enteredthe town, ainI ldI hi ip  iiti for
TIre  .ii iaborut two onth .ithey arr iedtouenirist frfui odds ; but at length
outi  h i f v   e i  o tigi r i rit iu   ee   reie   h  w as  fo rce d  to  suirre n d ir,  to  s:v e  th e  few  m en
n lii eh. ft he  cactiwoir trigmdl nu ;    howere- lift aronrd inii.
wOn   nnere Imhr left ieecBorth a ha ozeo  Aruihl tuogh hadly wounded still hecld comt-
t . ut  u1 hI ur  nit iii  pe fect oltr  they  n n:tttl if the retin:itt  f the  iat riot army, and
a ; e   f ndfrth   tink ,  br:t u tmh s h e t  e  f iet i  t t  r r o    ei nC i  i    o n ly  a  leta g u e  f r otm   t h e  e it   ,  w a ite d
wiler  i. ik   atru terroriitii trho etm s i f t fr irifrriirr the Leteral gopvermeitnel t, feeling
tIeir m.' 'ii atricktuero  IICi, iti ie irl i tr  si conhl  tihiehulnt thit ie ciolhd ca1tire  It-- city.
t   i   hrri d a t   s e ,  c ir   a l it ts  c ind iuct  w as  a lu'jre t   t  i h e a d-qtia rters,
a           uhi red  e  r ,  i \hc u tll.dl    st ith t e  c i in itniossi nu i of  a  l riga lier-g,  ral w a
forth  iu 1 erushed titen'. " weak nhi, uu  t: et  L-bi
:ti V  W. re.  II 'it ttn-;tlitl  tilt ilire ate iitIhrr fi  ih' ti iti.
Ah e  r oi l l e - i ' i o. t ot e   l i  cit d a Sr  att e   -hr i i   F i i t h is  h o u r,  i n io tin g  o f  n o te  w a s  d o n e  b y
Aoh, cld rahe aitoncivei crhints        thue tnericats In C.madarii'at least i that
tur i the City.lhuintnrstari h"r iiti I im't-r  1rtnr of it. Ceitr.d I\Vooster was chief-in-
turt 1thi e  . ut  a rsti           u      ulrmofwinan  nniI, sindi Inr  chit I  rill mi Itacivity
:cli ti ht ati ice, as also the drit "ithe glt ofn. uion. le heter, being hl; ijured
ten ieid.i iihintCu'l, ann all of Ihis a  i      flir s(t hninnt lioIris alir A fillna g on lhs outind' d h-g. retired
at div e re ireih, an al. fielf Mnitt to Mlnral. Andl tire lhI ins eli e this chap-
gti ery  i er  on  i  i n w ay  to  join  h rt  aid  tal e  ter  of  brave  die ts  aind  sa il d sasters.
g6  eynso       i  a  ojmuia

CHAPTER XV.
ARNOLD AS A SEAMAN--BATTLE ON TUE LAKE.
Over all of our beloved laud the gloom-cloud
hung dark and thick, when the campaign open-
ed in the spring of 1776. Forced from post to
post, poor, sick, and worn out, our forces had
been driven from Canada. General Schuyler
-than whom a braver man, noble patriot, or
generous foeman never existed - had been
superseded by General Gates, who had centred
his forces at Ticonderoga, with the intention of
there resisting the approach of the British
under General Carleton, who now threatenedi to
invade our soil. The command of the lake
was very necessary to resist this invasion, but
our naval resources were few, and their in-
crease almost impossible.
Again, at thisjuncture, Arnold displayed his
ambition and his energy. Receiving permis-
sion from Gates, he fitted out a squadron, con-
sisting of one sloop, three schooners, and five
gondolas -- altogether mounting about. fifty
guns--and with these he prepared, in the
vicinity of Crown Point, to meet a naval force
of the British of more than treble his weight
and force. But the preparations of both par-
ties delayed them until the summer was over,
and again had the leafy trees begun to wear-
their hues of red ani gold before our hero had
another chance to distinguish himself. But it
came at last.
lIe had mcreased his fleet to two sloops,
three schooners, three galleys, eight gondolas,
and twenty-one gun-boats. Yet the enemy's
force outnunbered his, and seven hundred
chosen seamen under Commodore Pringle, and
Edward P elew, afterwards Admiral Viscount
Exmouth, one of England's greatest naval lead-
ers, were opposed to his heterogeneous forces.
Arnold fell thaek from his first position to a
better one, between Isle La Mott and the main
land, and there awaited the approach of the
enemy. Few naval commanders could have
chosen their position better, or maintained it
with more skill anti spirit. The fire commenced
at an early hour, and was continued'steadily all
the day. One of the American vessels was
soon in flames and destroyed, but the crew es-
caped. The British landed a large body of'
their Indian allies on the island, and the Ameri-
cans were-expose I to their fire also. The ves-
sels on both sides suffered very severely. N- arly
one-fifth of Arniil's men were killed or wound -
ed; but urged on by him, wio. pointed nearly
every gun from iis own vessel, they fought
all tne nore desperately for their loss. Nor had
the enemy anvthig to brag over in regard to
loss. With vessels hulled, shattered, and dis-
malted, tiny anchored when darkness came on,
within a few hitind ed yards of each other,
forced by the nightto rest from earnare.
But Arnold's eye sought not for sleep. He
knew that the English had the advanL'ag  in
force, weight of seital, and men, and that to
renew the fight where he then was, would in-

sure his defeat in the morning. Taking ad-
vantage of a cloudy, gusty night, he slipped his
cables quietly, and ran through the enemy's
lines to the southward, and sought a-harbor or
cove some ten miles southward, near Schuyler's
Island, where all hands were put to work to
repair damages, and prepare for another en-
counter.
Not once during the dark and stormy night
did the American leader leave his deck, but he
paced to and fro, issuing his orders, and ever
and anon looking up through the driving clouds
to gaze at that star which Luona had pointed
out to him as his star of destiny, an which
seemed to pierce the gloom with cheering ray,
and to look out upon him.
At last, morning came, and the British were
astonished to find that the Americans, whom
they supposed to be hemmed in and crippled
beyond the power of escape, were not, in sight.
But judging from the direction of the wind
wheretthey hadgone, they soon made all sail in
pursuit. The breeze was light, and it was
nearly noon before they came in sight of Ar-
nold, who, with his vessels repaired as much as
possible, stood down the lake, determined, byr
the chances of a running fight, to weaken and
separate the enemy as much as possible, and
then use every exertion to retrieve the for-
tunes of the contest.
But the British, whose numerous vessels
were splendidly handled by the veteran seamen
on board, gradually closed with him, and finally
brought him to close action, with greater odds
against him than ever.
The "Washington" sloop was attacked so
heavily that she was obliged to strike her col-
ors ; and several gondolas, and Arnold's own
galley-the-" Congress"-were the only vessels
left to struggle for a victory hopelessly impos-
sible. For four hours Arnold kept up the ter-
rible contest, and only when his vessel, literally
riddled, was sinking under him, did te run her
ashore and set her and the gondolas on fire,
each with her flag tattered and torn still flying
to the breeze. Nor did he let the enemy board
them to lower those proud ensigns, but kept up
such a fire from the shore that the vessels were
all destroyed, and the enemy obliged to haul off.
Then, with those who were left of his noble hand,
he retreated through the woods to Crown Point,
and from thence to Ticonderoga, after display-
ing as much skill in retreat as he did gallantry
in action.
And now, when this news spread, his name
rung throughout the land, coupled with praises.
No man in the army was more popular, when
his age and rank were considered; for, young
as he was, his commission as Brigadier-General
had been made out. But we will hurry on with
our tale, instead of pausing to relate matters
with which every historical student should be
acquainted.

$

I
t

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

1

'

I

t

I

t
1
r
s
i
k


t
t

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

CHAPTER XVI.
ONCE MORE AT HOME-NEW LONDON AWAKE, AND
OUR HEROINE IN SIGIIT.
"THe is coming home! Coming home, cov-
ered with honors, doubtless elated with pride
and exultant from his rapid promotion! how
shall I treat him? how shall I bind lim to
me--without actually compromising myself-
so as to fully control his future career, ana fulfill
my mother's dying wish? lie will rise yet
higher; he must reach the topmost round of
the ladder of fame, else his fall will not forever
crush him. It is only those who stand very
higlh whose fall will be fatal!"
Thus soliloquized Luona Prescott a few weeks
after the occurrence noted in the prec ding
chapter. She hell a letter in her hand which
she had just received from Arnold, informing
her of his intended return to rest for a short
time prior to preparations soon to be made for
the stormy and eventful campaign of 1777.
And while she spoke, she gazed upon the leaf-
less trees in her garden, upon the snowy sheet
which overspread the ground, and all as cold
did she seem as she planned her campaign in
regard to him.
Ier soliloquy was interrupted by the en-
trance of Barbara.
I've got a letter from  Elnathan, Miss
Lona !" said the old woman.
" Aht' he is well, I suppO ?"
" lor the life of' me I can't make out but
what he's crazy, every word is so full of sojer!
I do wish this war was over, for I'm afeard he'll
ie so epiled when it is, that he'll never be no
good at anything else. Why, he wouldn't split
kinllinig-wood for oe when he was here last-
sail it wasn't dignity to do it. But what I
come to tell you was, that he was a Commn'
home right away. They are a goin' to rest off
awhile from tightin', while the weather is cold.
I should think they'd have to, for it must be
awful hard work a sleepin' in the field, and a
haudlin' of cold iron:'
unI wish tou would put on your hood and
mantle,b irhara, and go over to Mrs. Arnold's,
to siy that I have a letter from her son, who is
coming home soon ; perhaps she has not heard
from hin!
"I gue's sic has," sail the old housekeeper.
" Laeta is, I see the postman a stoppin' at her
house wlin I itent out to the store to get some
sugar, a leetle while ago."
' It wil it hurt you to go over and deliver
my message," sail the young lady.
" Not nm'uh, nly is hard travelin' for old
legs," rephed the pl~ain-spoken old creature,
n mor 'slpecialv in cold weather, and so slip-
per, to. Eliathan's father can only jest git
round with lis rhesiuatiz and all-liut look,
Miss Louna, sakes alive, look ! There's two of-
tieers getti' off their horses at the gate. Law
me, if they should ie Britishers, what could we
poor women do ! Memev me-if they should ."
And the old woman trembled with terror.

"Can you not see that it is General Arnold
and Elnathan ?" said Luona, with a smile.
I a sakes-no! Is it, though? You see I
hadn't my specks on-and Benedict Arnold is
a real gin'ral now. I shan't hardly dare to
look atlhim. I s'pose Elnathan '1l feel too big
to speak to me now, too."
"You had better go and let them in," said
Luona.
"You'll want to dress up afore you see him
now? Jest think, he's a gin'ral,' said Bar-
bara.
"And yet nothing more than a man-admit
him at once to this room-I shall dress no
more."
"It won't take but jest a minute for me to
make up a fire in the best company-room,"
said the old servant.
"You will do as I bid you-nothing more,"
said Miss Prescott, sternly.
The old servant hurried away, muttering
something about a gin'ral being better treated ;
but Luona arose and glanced at the mirror,
then, throwing a light shawl over her shoul-
ders, she reseated herself in a graceful position
-for she, like most ladies, wished undoubtedly
to look well before him-not that she loved him
in the least, but that no fault of hers should
lessen the impression she wished to make upon
his nature.
A moment only elapsed before his footsteps
fell upon her ear, and he entered hastily, his
face flushed with pleasure and pride, and hurry-
ing up to take her extended hand, pressed it
warmly but respectfully to his lips.
"I am very, very happy to see you well, Miss
Preseott," lie cried.
" And I, that General Arnold has escaped so
many perils, and returned in safety to visit his
gio and anxius mother," said the lady, calmly,
but kindly.
" Ah, fair lady, it may be unfilial in me to
say so, but if I had thought tlhat only my
miothiur would feel rejoiced at my return, it is
doubtful whether I should have revisited New
London while the war lasted."
"You surely have called upon her," said the
lady, earnestly.
"I have not; in feelings which absence have
only strengthened, I caine first here to offer myi
respee'ful duty."
" l)uty, sir, should have been rendered first
to the shrine of her who surely must feel most
anxious for her only son. A mother's heart,
tender in all its yearnings, so unselfish in its
love, should not be wounded by the one who
should be most earnest to cherish it," said
Luota. "Excuse isle, General, if I speak re-
provingly, but I had a mother once, and were
I, even now that she is gone, to forget her, I
should deem myself most ungrateful."
"Lady, forgive me; I have erred, and will
hasten to refrain my error. That duty done,
may I hope again to be permitted to ask your
forgiveness ?"

r I

26

t
4
i
}
{
t
E
F

i

V              k Y
i
S               i
t
v
V
i
t
.d


THE CURSE FULFILLED.

"I shall never refuse to see General Arnold
at proper hours, while he remembers his duty
to nis ,motherand his country," said Luona, ad
she extended her hand to him, which he again
pressed to his lips. Then he hastened away.
"There is a lesson forihim which will please
his mother, and make her a thousand times
warmer in my favor, while it will add to his
respect for me, for no man will love a woman
whom lie is not made to respect," she said,
when she was alone again. "He is proud, they
say, inmperious to others, but I can control him.
It is well for me that my heart is steeled to hate
instead of love, and that I can remember my
mother's wrongs, else would it, perchance, be
hard to keep my oath."
Arnold did not seem very well satisfied at
being hurried away from her presence, and told
to do what his sense, rather than his heirt's
impulses, should have dictated to him at first.
"She is a strange compound," ie said.
"She has written to inc the kindest letters, fur-
nished me money without a request, knowing
the almost impossibility of our getting pay
from the cramped government ; given me every
proof of attachment and interest in that way--
yet now she is cold, haughty as a queen, and
reproves ue its if I were a school-boy! But
she was right. I should have called upon my
mother first. Yet most women would have
been flattered by the haste which carried me
first into their presence.  She is a strange
woman, but I love her all the more for that. I
would iot have one who is like the common
class--sentiniental, nervous, full of terrors and
palpitations, and whimsies. There is but one
Luona in all the world, and she must be mine !"
ieL reutnonted his horse and rode away, fol-
lowed by Elnatlhan, who appeared to have been
in Barbara's kitchen, for ie cane out of the
house with a large chunk of gingerbread in his
hand.  llow could a Yankee live without gin-
gerbread?  Better deprive a Spaniard of tis
garlic, an Italiitn of his maccaroni, a French-
man of his frogs, or a German of his sourkrout,
than to stint a Yankee in his gingerbread.
CIIAPTZ R XVII.
BLOSSoM OuT-BLoSsoMED-ELNATIAN GIVES THEM
TIE NEWS.
Not having stable accommodations at his
mother's house, Arnold ordered Elinathan to
take the horses to the tavern, while he hurried
in to ernibrace her who had brought hin into
the world.
And deeply affecting was the meeting of mo-
ther and son. Tears of joy rolled down her pale
cheeks, hilessings were sobbed from her quiver-
iag lips, mingled with thanks to that Deity
which haid preserved him-her heart's prile and
idol-froms the battle's carnage, from the perils
of the terrible winter, front the mountain march,
from the cataract's boiling yeast of dearth. Nor
was ie emotionless. His heaving breast, his.
flushed cheek, his low, husky tone, as he tried to

choke back excitement-as he strained her to
his manly bosom--all of this showed that nei-
ther the stern trials of war, nor absence, nor
power, nor gratified ambition, had lessened the
son's feelings for his mother. But such scenes
are sacred, and though it is a pleasure for us to
dwell upon them, we must rush on with the
tide, or our story and its events will never be
told.
*      *      **      *      *'     *
"There comes that crabbed old stick, Elna-
thani Goodrich, again !" said Blossom to the
landlord of th6 tavern, as he saw the old man
riding up.
"Yes, and with two horses 1" said the other.
"General Arnold must have conic. If I could
only get the geiral to come here to stop, I'd
give something nice ! Re'd draw a heap of
custom I"
"If you'll stand treat, I'll put an idea in your
head that'll draw a heap if lie loni't coimie, and
please him besides !" said Blossom, whose main
study in life was how to get "a treat."
" Done !"said the landlord. " What is it ?"
"I'll tell you after the old crab is gone, for I
don't want him to hear it !" said Blossom. "But
you can set out the liquor now !"
"I reckon I'll wait till I hear your plan !"
said the landlord, who was used to tinny a case
of "false pretence" on hBlossom's part, and
meant to have "a show" for his liquor this time,
at any rate.
"An how d'ye do, Cap'n Goodrich ?" said
lie, as Einatlan rode up and dismounted.
"If you'd been with the army stead of selling
p'ison rum, you'd know a cap'n when you see
him, and not make a fool of yourself!" said El-
nathan, with a tone of dry contempt.
 Oh, I meant no offence !" replied Boniface.
But yo m'll give us the news, won't you ?"
"The latest-yes, let's have it, Mister Good-
rich !" added Blossom.
"The very latest 'I1 suit you, won't it ?" asked
Elnathan, quietly.
" Yes, yes, the very latest, in course I" said
the landlord, as several mote of the denizens of
the village crowded up to hear it. "But hadn't
you better come in by the fire, out o' the cold,
and tell it!"
" No ; I reckon it won't take so long as you
think !" said Elnathan, who felt ill of a vet-
eran's contempt for the non-combatant topers
around him. " The very latest news is-"
Here he paused, while every mouth, ear, and
eye of his auditors opened wider and wider.
What?   Is Gin'ral Washin'ton dead, or
Bosting taken, or-or what ?" asked Blossom,
eagerly.
"Yes, tell us quickly, if you can't conic in to
do it, for it's awful cold out here !" said the land-
lord.
"Awful cold? You talk of cold, with woolen
stocking's and boots on your feet; with thick
trowsers on your legs, and warm coats to your
back; a big fire in the house ; thick walls about

F

27

1'

l:
i  E
{
iti}
i
Z       c
!

y         ,     f       ,4  "  '  '


28

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

you, and a roof overhead ! You talk of cold,
when the  enthat are fightin' for your freedom
haven't half ont 'em shoes, nor stockin's, nor
blanket- ind  .r ra''ed and hungry !You
talk of ct!d, whn you're burnin' up with spiced
rum'-talk of it to a man that's wintered in
Canada. aith snow for a hed, and ice for a pil-
low, (atnnt frozen dog and moccasin soup and
darned hln 1tivo' that. It's enough to make a
preached r lanh to hear you."
[   it the nEws-the news!" said his shiver-
ing an Ittrs.
"The very latest news," said Elnathan, ad-
dressin it aif to  the' landlord, '' is, that Gen.
Arnold o    t these horses pot ip and fed, and.
well attenlel to, aol if it isn't well done he'll
kick un a tarsal ftrs"
Havtrtc thus delivered himself, and tossed the
bridles to t he wai'in 'hostler, Elnathan turned
on his heel with military precision, and strode
coolly oil.
liv I bc ky, I thogtlt he was agoin' to tell
us sot in," e'ied thi disappointed Blossom.
"11 's a iii-'tle stuck-up old cuss," said
the latltrI, lot enough for Elnathanto hear
it.
le wh11.. h  around is itifily as he had done
in gui  aww,'iV.iv al l ailing hack to the group,
said. i'' ic is nt lu   uc l Boniface quake
'    -  re.t bi" another sich word about
menc -hat loas fit antd suffered while you
loaifed it   i, ani bI'll cut off both of your
long , t t' ".au.I1 gtVt' 'em lto the dogs. liii a
miath    en,   at I-the friehid of Gin'rat Ar-
nobl a m    abl  bi l 'etuss! Take back your
wotrd-, tont'i it'd  k  xiiturupagainst your own
rtuittiU e'a't t.t,''aniiht'pitt his hand upon
its l      i -, as if he meant to put his threat
" l     '  Mi-ti (rGotdrich, don't, for the
Lord. a t't I lit'h l nodlord, drawing back.
-- I I t ' mi  n    I it  I  id!"
" I r eki voillI kmtt' better in futur'," said
Elnatiati, andt i'  tini turned away, while the
shiverti ' irt't p  iwt ititri the tavern to warm
up, anl i-c'  thtn' ttatter.
W"h'iat was it viii was agoin' to tell me that
would biing tie nore custom, Blossom ?" said
the landlord, as lie proceeded to mix a hotslittig
for himself.
" Why, I was thinkin' if you'd have a new
sign paintetl, with a petur' of Gin'ral Arnold
on it, antl call 'tour house  * The Soldiers'
Home,' tin'l let' hini and draw a heap of
travelers--'setrmly oticers-and I'll warrant
you they tave tttney."
"Th'idea is goid!  I'll do it-mix yourself
a sline, ls-t ire i3 sense in it, and the iin'-
ral may coetin over mice in a while. He likes
a slind once in a while, anti always was free of
his monte'v. 'ltre's San Glazier, *he painter,
that ditiot gt to the wars 'cause he was lame,
he can It it. and lie owes meabill now for rum
that he was to pint house for in the spring.
I'll has e the sign. tome up, boys-1'll treat

this time, if you drink to the success of the
'Soldiers' Home.'"
'te invitation was not to be declined with
that crowd-they didn't know how.
When Elnathan returned to the cheerful
kitchen where Barbara, his half-sister, had al-
ready prepared a warm and most luxurious
meal for one so long used to the hardships of a
camp, she at once noticed the sour look on his
face, and said:
"aYou look as if you were mad, Elnathan."
"Jest so," said he, as he sat down before the
fire.
"Then do take off your sword, you might do
somethin' dreadful with it," said sie.
"No fear o' me when I'i amongst wit-
men," he replied, but he got up and took his
sword, and hung it up carefully on a hook in
a corner.
"What made you mad?     But I reckon you'll
better eat supper first. That'll put you in
better hupor."
"Jest so,' replied Elnathan, "eatin' always
does. You cook awful nice, Barbara, I've often
wished you were 'long with us, we've hard
eatin', sometimne,1"
" dare say," said Barbara, as she poured
out a cup of tea for Elintlatn-for she had tea,
scare and high as it was ; ihe could no more
do without tiat, than Blossom could without
grog.
gDogs, horse-meat, any sil like,- some.
times," said Elnathan, as he cut a huge piece
of pork front aid its surroundings of baked
getts.
Sakes alive! and you eat it ?"
"est so. Ihad to, or starve, when we was
gouit' through the woods to Uanala."
Mercy me. It was well yoi had no women
alone."
" But we did. There was Sergeant Grier's
wife, Polly, kept as fat as butter, tnl she lived.
jest its poorly as any of us. She was  more of a
matt in her ways than a good rtany that wore
trowsers. Site never grunhled, and when we
were a wading' and slipping' along over the racks
and through the frozen swamps, and the men
was a cussin' and swearin', atd some of 'em
must a crying' for home, she'd go ahead, and
sing as cheerful as a lirk."
"Dear me, she must have loved her man
mightily, to go along wit h him."
" I reckon she did. W heni ie got wumnrded
at Quebec she carried hi nof' on her back,
and wouldn't let rine of us touch him, but
told us to keep a tightin'.she would nurse him."
"My-my I I should have died, sartain,"
anti Ilrbarta tpoturedt rut two more cups of tea;
for Elnathan's father, her step-father, came in
from doing ; p his evening chores.
What do you think Ehnathian has had to
eat, father, since lie's been gtne' ?" se asked,
as the old man threw down a shoulder-load of
wood in tIe corner.

I

29

"Beef and pork, and sich like. We had it stars were out ia all the brilliancy of a moon-
when we were in the old war," said the old less and cloudless night.
man.                                         The smile was brighter on Luona's face now,
No, dogs an horses, and sieh," said she.,  her look more winning, aid her voice very gen-
VWhat --Einathan wasn't given to lyin' tie, when she welcomed him, for she had thou  t
when he was a boy ; but folks larn bad habits that perhaps she was rather too haughty rid
when they go a sojerin,'" said the old man, cold at their last interview.
shaking Iis bead. "Your star yet shines, I perceivee" said she,
"It's the hivi' truth, daddy. You ask Gin'- pointing to that which she had named his star
ral Arnold 'bout it," said Elnathan, indignant when last he was seated by her side, at that
at having his veracity questioned.         very window.
"He's a sojer. too, and has got into their  "Yes, lady," he replied ; "and if you knew
ways, maybe," said the old man, still uncon- how often in storm and in calm, and even in
minced.                                    the excitement of battle, I have looked for it,
"Look out, that tea is jest off the fire," cried  and thought of your words-looked, too, for the
Barbara, as Eluathan raised the hot cup of tea  twin star beside it, you would deem me at least
to Iris lips, and took a large swallow, perhaps faithful to memory."
to drown the rising anger.                   "You have bgen very fortunate, and risen
The warmng came too late from Barbara, for rapidly in rank, and I sineerely congratulate
nearly a half cupful went down his throat at you," said Luona.
scalding heat.                               "Alt, lady, I have you to thank for all. You
"arnation," he sputtered, as soon as he  first encouraged me---you aided me to bring my
coul datch his breath.                     company equipped into the field, and the hope
Sweamin', like lyin', is ketchin' amongg  of winning your approbation has caused me to
sojers," said the old tuau, quietly.       venture more, far more, than anything else
"'ou'd do worse than swear, if you'd got which could influence me."
burnt so," growled Elnathan, writhing with  "You must not lead me to believe that per-
pain,                                      sonal feeling with you is greater than patri t-
"'Why didn't you blow it?" said the old ism ?"said the lady, with a snuile. "BEut I for-
man,                                        got to inquire after your mother. Is she well
"Blow the devil ! If you wasn't my father, this evening ?"
I'd blowyou.!" said Einathan, really angry.  "She is, and wis very gratefulhalien I'told
"You'u better take some fresh butter, and  her that you had hastened me to her side. She
let it melt in your mouth, and perhaps you'll wihl come to-morrow to thank out, in penrso.
speak smoother to an old gray-haired man like  She said that if she had such a dauglttr her
tie."                                       happiness would be cotmpliete I
"Well. father, I didn't mean nothin'. I know  "lioneshas Elnathian hhavd ?" asked Lu-
I was wrong, but Iwas mad when I came in. ona, wishing to change the turn which Arnold
Them lazy, cowardly cusses up at the tavern  sought to give to the conversation.
were a pesterin' me with questions. Barbara,  " Ever bravely-he is the most singularly
do give me some cold milk or cream ; my mouth  cool and dry man in action that I ever saw. No
is all a blister."                         excitement affects him-no danger seenms to
The old woman hastened to do this, and in a  take from him his humor. In hardship and
little while Elnathan felt easier, but his appe- suffering he is uncomplaining in hue duties, as
tite was gone. Even gingerbread could not attendant upon my person so ftithful, that I can
hempt him.                                 readily pardon many an awkwardness that in
"Hasn't Miss Lona asked after me " he, in-  another would annoy me exceedigl'."
qunired, as he rose from the table.          "I am glad to hear th it he ha' done so well.
"Yes, and she wanted to see you after sup- I feared that he was getting too old to be as ser-
per, she said," replied Barbara,           viceable a person as yowwould require, and
"Then I reckon I'11 go in now, though my  had thought of commendimg to yon a young
month is too sore to talk much," said El- cousin of mine, who resides svhere my mother
nathan, suiting his actions to the remark.  formerly did, and who has written to me to ask
"May be 'twill keep you from  tellin' about me to place him, through my influence, some-
eatin' dog, and makr' old folks sick to the  where where lie can be of service."
stomach, muttered the old man, after his son  "Any relative of yours, Miss Prescott, will
had got out of hearing. "I've been a sojerin', ever be welcomed to my side in the best position
and I never eat dog nor horse either."     which I can give him-but never can I penut
one linked to you in blood to be a servant of
CHAPTER XVIII.                  mine. If our cousin wishes to serve with me,
HOT AND COLD--WOMAN'S WAYS, AND WHAT SHE   I will be g adto aid him onward and upward to
CAN DO WITH Us POOR HE-THENS.       the best of my power.
It was night when Arnold again returned to  "Thank you, general ; I will write to him,
the house of Miss Prescott, after having taken and if his mind is not changed, lie will join you
tea with his mother -early evening, yet the in time for the coming campaign."

['   T

1E

f
F
1.
S
P
f 4

f=
f, lA

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

'


843

LUONA PRi

"I wish, fair and most kind lady, that I had
no such high-sounding title as general, whn a I
am in your presence. It sounds so coldly from
your lips. Could I address you as a queen, I
would be glad then to be considered as your
general-none more true or faithful should be
found among your subjects !"
"I fear that you would prefer to be my mon-
arch; and possess rue for a subject !" sail the
lady, with a sitile, now leading him toward the
very track from which she had driven him so
often
"Ah, lady, if such happiness could be mine,
I would change thrones with no monarch on
earth !" said Arnold, in an impassioned tone.
As it is, I aiii only too happy to kneel as a
subject."
And he bent one knee before her and grasped
her lind. What next he would have said or
done, we cannot t II, for a heavy rap at the
door caused him to start to his feet and blush
with c+infueiuun. In fact, he was so confused
that he du nut note her calmness and perfect
self-possession, nor the gleam of triumph in her
eye-a luk so unlike the timid mreekness of
tone that a riiere tyro in the "art divine" would
have Cecii it, had lie been observant.
The intruder was none other than Elnathan,
who, with his grave and stolid face and upright
form, now stood in the door-way with his hand
raised to a riilitary s lute, not knowing wheth-
er to lance or retreat, but waited orders.
"Ikarbairn said that you wanted to see me
after smug1r, Miss lona'!" said lie.
"Yes," she replied, delighted at the in
terruhptmwn, because it so annoyed Arnold
-     "I wishd to hear your adventures in the
war.
Oh, I haven't had any, ma'am-the in'ra
did all that, pnid he can tell you ! lie know
how to talk to ladies-h don't !" replied Elina
than, who, seeing that Arnold was displeased
wanted to hack out now.
"'erlaps hte has hind more experience o
late," s ut l.uona, amni hug.
" Jeet so," replied Eluathian, not knowin1
what he sai, so flurried was he.
You imiipudent rascal !-you never saw m
speak to a wuvomuan while we have been absent!I
cried Arnold, in a rage.'
"tWho sail I did, gin'ral !" said Elnathan
in a reproachful tone. " And what's mor
I never heard you call me an impudent ra
cal, either-neither afore folks nor no othe
time
"1W  l, well, I was angry at your expre
sion, nthieh night have led this young lady
believe that I had thought of other matters tha
those pertaiiiing to my duty as a soldier whi
away."
"I'll take my Bihle oath you ain't, ginral-
I was up early and late with you, drilling th
men and tigitin' the enemy every chance-
don't believe you ever thought of a woman-
'sept Miss Lona and your mother-while

1I

ESCOTT ; OR,
were gone ; leastwise you never spoke of any
other."
It was Luona's turn to feel a little confused
now, and the old mantprobably thinking that
he had said enough, took theback track, and
closed the door as he made his exit.
"lie spoke the truth, lady !" said Arnold,
without taking his former position at her feet,
however. " No thought of mine, apart from
duty, has been wasted upon another-the senti-
mernts which I expressed before I went away
have grown only stronger as time advanced.'
"General, let us speak of something nobler
than my poor, perishable self. Until this war
is over, no true soldier should think of love
"Ah, lady, if I could but hope that, when it
was over, that dear hand might be the reward
for every peril and hardship Ihad endured,
that hope would seal my lips while it fortified
my heart !"
"You may hate me by that time .        ,
"hate you ?-oh, never, never can such love'
as mine be changed to hate!'
"There is no hate so fierce as that born of
love, disappointed or unrequited-or, at least,
so I have heard."
"Lady, at least tell me that you do not love
another ?"
" Yes-dearly, very dearly !" replied Luona,
warmly.
"Then I must bid you farewell forever! My
only hope is for a noble death, even as for your
sake I have sought to live a noble life ."~;
And lie rose to go.
- "Stay !" said she, earnestly. "You have
not asked me to whom my present affections
e are engaged."
"Surely, I do not seek to know. If I di,
l my passion might prompt an act which would
e make you unhappy! I do not seek to know his
- name."
, "His name? who spoke of a him'?" she cried,
laughing. "I can appeal toBarbara and prove
f by her, as you did by Elnathan, that I have
lived like a very hermit ever since my poor
g  mother's death.  I have only visited  our
mother; and my only male visitors have been
e the village parson and the doctor--one of whom
wants me to pave my road to Heaven by build-
ing him a new church, and the other desires me
, to immortalize myself by erecting a hos-
e, pital. Not knowing but I might need the serv-
e- ices of one to kill me, secundum artem, and of
r the other to preach my funeral-sermon, accord-
ing to orthodox custom, I thought it not beat
a- to shut my doors against them I"
o    "But, lady, you jest strangely.  You said
n you loved some one very, very dearly. Oh may
le I hope that it is-"
"My own very, very dear self!" she cried,
-   with a merrier laugh than ever he had heard
ie from her lips. "Why, 1 spend almost an hour
I a day at my mirror admiring myself."
-- "  ah ad, you trifle with me while you ci.'
ye jest I"

81

" But I do not jest-I speak the truth.  If,
after the war is over, by any possibility I should
love you better than myself, you shall not be
left ignorant of the fact."
"Then, dear lady, I will wait for that hour,
and as little as possible intrude upon you my
presence, or the feelings which I cannot all
conceal."
"Remember that I do not banish you from
my preseece-your visits, like those of your
mother, will ever be agreeable to me," she said,
with a smile and a tone which set his impulsive
heart on fire.
"Angel!" he cried, and again he knelt and
pressed her hand upon his lips.
"Be you going' to have any tea, Miss Lena ?"
cried Barbara, opening the door at that instant
and discovering the position of Arnold.
"Yes, I suppose even angels must eat. Tea
in haste for two, Barbara, in the front room.
You must excuse late suppers, general, for I am
so unfashionable as to eat only when I am
hungry."
Arnold stammered out something, he was so
confused he hardly knew what. It did look
rather beneath the dignity of a Brigadier-Gen-
eral in the American army to becaught by a
servant in the act of kneeling at a lady's feet-.
but I believe, even to this day, more generals
and their subordinates, except colonels, will be
found kneeling and offering prayers and vows
there than any where else. Isn't it so,ladies?
After taking one good long look'as if to sat-
isfy herself that it was safe to believe her eyes,
Barbara turned away to obey the directions
which she had received. .
"You are unfortunate, general, in being dis-
covered when you forget your dignity. Let me
advise you never to kneel to any but your
God 1" said Luona, kindly. "I am the last one
to be worshiped, I am sure; for it seems to me
that the spirit of mischief is in me to-night.
But if I have in any light word wounded your
feelings to night, I aieerely regret it, and ask
your forgiveness."
" Ah,lady, you make me feel that I am but a
poor soldiei- if I cannot bear a jest from your
lips. But I believe I am too sincere in my own
feelings toe eale to understand the jests of
another. Yet one word of kindness from your
lips, one look when your good and noble heart
seems to speak through your eyes, heals every
wound I"
"Tea is ready-'twas all fixed, but steepin', r
said Barbara, taking the precaution this time,.
-by coughing, to announce her approach.
How bread and butter sinks the starry light
of romance down into the tallow-candle-ss of
reality ! Talk of love and bohea-tea-cakes
and affection-ginger-bread and matrimony!--
It is not to be thought of ! Therefore, while
our heroine and hero are over the table,
we'll close the chapter and look elsewhere.

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

If
i

I

CHAPTER XIX.
THE PERPLEXITY OF THE INEXPERIENCED, AND
THE EXPLANATION OF THE ARTFUL.
"La, sakes ! what can it mean I" said Bar-
bara. "What can Gin'ral Arnold have done
to Miss Lona ? When I went into her sittin'-
room, jest now, to ask her if she wanted tea, he
was a kneelin' down afore her as if he'd been a
doin' somethin' awful, and was beggin' her to
forgive him !"
"Did she look mad ?" asked Elnathan, glanc-
ing at his father, who had got to sleep in his
chair, in the chimney-corner.
"No ; she was a-laughin' fit to burst the
hooks and eyes off her dress !" replied Barbara.
"I never knew the like before. What can it
mean ?"
"Wasn't he lookin' for something' on the floor
that she'd dropped ?" asked Elnathan, thought-
fully.
" No ; for his eyes was lookin' up tow'rds
hers, and he had hold of her hand."
"If she was a laughing' he wasn't a prayin' ;
and I never knew him to pray, though he swears
awful when lie's a fighting . it's nip and tie with
him and old Ethan Allen."
"Do tell! I'm afeard you'll get to swearin'
hearing' so much as you do !"
"So be I,sometimes," said Elnathan, thought-
fully. "There's one man in the army that
never swears."
"And that's-"
" Gin'ral Washington! and they do say he
prays, but lie don't do out afore folks like
Pharisee, thoughli e has worship every Sunday
when there isn't no marchin'."
"He's a good man; but I'd like to know
what the gm'ral--our gin'ral I mean-was a
doin' on his knees afore Miss Lona !"
"Maybe lie was making' love--for I know he
loves her," said Einathan.
"That wasn't the way folks made love When
I was a gal !" said Barbara. "If a feller loved
a gal then, as soon as the old folbs was out of
the way, courtin' night, he slid right close up
to his gal, and hugged and kissed lher; and if
she liked him, she didn't stick to tell him of it,
but kissed him, ever so many times !"
"Yes, that was the way, I remember it," said
Elnathan, with a sigh. ''Pumpkin-pies wasn't
scarce, neither."
"No, nor ginger-bread; and the fellers used
to bring sugar-sticks and raisins in their pock-
ets, just to let the gale pick 'em out 1"
A ring from Luona's bell put an end to this
sonfab, for Barbara had to- hasten to answer it;
therefore undoubtedly some of the reminiscent
secrets of ancient courtship were irrecoverably
lost to our readers.
*     *    *    *     *    *    *
The quiet village of New London had some-
thing new again to talk of, within three or four
days after Arnold's arrival at home. The" idea"
of the immortal Blossom had been carried out
bythe skillful hand of Tim Glazier, the painter,


4

r~

i

I

82                             LUONA PRL
and Mr. Boniface, the landlord, wa in his zlorv, '
for the new sign of the "So!Jier's Hlomne," in
all the " beauty" of rel, green, and yeleow
paint, swung fri the sin-post. And all thei
boys in the iillage w, r there to hurra, andI
all the toper3 to ts  or iaugi right out,"
when reiue-ted l the p  d  atoll'n-. And
Blossom was there to ho.t of h.,ing origirat -I
the idea.
But, best of all, Gehn-ral Arnold had, before
he left the army, ordered a recruiting sergeant
th follow loin, il hopes of raising some men in
that direction, and that very important mdi-
vidual, at once the delight of the little bove, the
grown-up girls, aiid the terror of old women
and nervous imidividuals, hadl arrived, with a
color-bearer, a fifer, and a druinnier, and what
with his gaudy uniform aind music, created an
immense furore at the tavern. Several of those
whom nothing elSe could have affected enli-ted
after they hadl become valorous over the rum
of Mr. ioniface , and e',en Blossom went so
far as to net as an aid, an advocate for the ser-
geant, taking i Is 1ay in hot slings. But noth-
ing cooli fin hice himi to put his own name
down, for he sail that lie was weakly in the legs,
and couldn't stand it to iareb, and lie couldn't
sde, for that madels lhiim dizzy.
Wh ei we last left Itarlhara, she was in great
:ribulttii it Ii  what ticral Arnold had
miant b kl it In  t the f ,t sf cr msetrees
.\ isa t onei wIo knows how perses ering wi-
man always is, when her curiosity becomes --
cited, ught feel certain that she never would
resi' untutit was gratitled.
The refore, Ui moment Arnold tok his leave,
Itart ara ente redl the ro"nm, her vers face telling
her errand before she opened her hips.
" bes Ina, dlo tell mic sometlun', for I'm
almost lvin' to know."
What is it, larbara ?" asked the lady.
" What nsas Gin'ral Arnold a doing' of, kneel-
in' down afore you-ie wasn't a worshipin' of
you agm the cotmandnients, was lie ?'
"Oh, no-only tieing my shoe !" said Luona,
so gravely, thattfs almost excusable " white
fib" was'really believed by the guileless old
woman,
"Oh, I see! and yon was a helpin' him up
when lie had hold o your hand," said Barbara.
le must be dreadful modest-he blushed as
red as a beet."
And Barbara hurried away, feeling much
easier in her mind, to tell Einathan what Miss
Luona had said,
And the latter lady har Ily waited for Barbara
to get out of the room before her hearty laugh
rung out while she thought of Arnold a confu-
sion ant how she had turned Barbara's thoughts
fronm the real fact,, of the case.

SCOTT; OR,
CIIPTER XX.
l!YON'tiIN t A---A:NOtIU IN TilE FIELD. AND
MO   LAURELS ON 1115ItuoW--ELNATHAN GETS
fRaOVFo AND PIOuIrtI).
le spring had come icagain-not the soft andI
balyro  spring of the southern elime, but the
cold an ln-kward season between snow and
bh. esomin-, known as spring in New England.
Althouhls April had nearly run its length, and
May-day" was near, no flowers yet carpeted"
the earth--the frozen-looking buds upon the
trees yet shivered on their branches, and refused
to cast their green banners to the cold north-
tastein blasts.  Yet the campaign had already
commenced, or was commencing, whenever the
season would allow-though Burgoyne, stillim-
peded by the ice and snow of Canada, had no'
commenced the marches which ended in his
capture, and the destruction of one of the best
appointed armies which our patriot fathers had
to meet in all the ilevolution. But of that,
when the proper time and place artives.
General Arnold had bidden adieu to those
whom he loved at New London, and as usual,
followed by Elnathan, had arrived at New Ha-
yen to ma-e arrangements and wait orders for
the active service so rapidly to ensue. With
him was General Wooster and several other
othicers. They were at dinner on the 26th of
April, when a messenger arrived it full speed
from  General Silliman, of the Connectient
militia, who announced that a large British force
had been landed under Governor Tryon, near
Con"lo, whose destination was Danbury, and
their object the capture or destruction of a
large depot of military store's there.
The meal was left untasted-th re was boot-
ing and spurring in hot haste, and soon the
brave officers were mounted and oil to meet th-
invaders, spreading the news, and gathering
the brave militia-men as they hurried on.
But rapidly as they moved, and hastily as
they gathered their men, they were too late to
save the town of Danbury, or to preserve the
stores. They reached a village called ltethel
shortly before midnight, and at that very hour
the dense gloom of a stormy night was ma'e
lurid by the flames which roared andl whirledl
above the burning houses of Danhury ; where
death and mad havoc was already going on-
where the British, maddened by rumn and di-
rected by a second Nero, or a fiend Incarnate
in the shape of Tryon, were eousnsitting the
most horrible excesses.
The British papers teemed but lately with
accounts of atrocities consisttel by the h oor
East Indians, whom they have robhed and in-
slaved for years-deeds done, as thry say, by
heathens nd by savages-hut let them look
back to the darkened pages of their own histo-
ry, and remember how the   and their hired!
1lessians and Indians burned our towns and vil-
lages, slew old men, women, and children, who
were defenceless-how the wail of the violated,
the shriek of the dying, rose all over our land,

Vi

(


THE ~CUTRSE~ FULFILLE~D.               88

especially in the track of Tryon, Tarleton, and
such ' gallant British leadera" and forever
after hold their peace. Never was an unjust
war more cruelly waged than that in which the
Americans struggled for their freedom. Espe-
cially in its earlier portion was every rule of
civilized warfare violated by the English, and it
was only when our prowess enabled us to make
reprisals, that their barbarity was lessened.
But this is not our sary, though the episode is
very natural in one who cones from old Revo-
lutionary stock.        -
In the morning after his arrival at Danbury,
altlhough it was the Sabbath, 'ryon burned all
of the houses which had escaped the night be-
fore, except a few belonging to Tory friends of"
tne British cause ; and then, perceiving that
the country was alarmed, began to retreat to-
ward the shipping from which lie had landed.
Meantime, the Americans forming in two di-
visions, one to harass his rear, and the other to
head him off, or in military parlance, to "in-
tercept his retreat," pushed forward with the
utmost speed.
General Wooster, who proved his devotion
with his best heart's blood, commanded the first
named, consisting of only about two hundred
raw and undisciplined militiamen, without ar-
tillerv, and following them up by the smoke
and tihe track of their accursed desolation, soon
opened a deadly fire upon their rear-guard,
which, tired from havoc and unrest, and weak
from dissipation, at first fell into such disorder,
that lie killed many, and took over forty pris-
oners. So fiercely did lie attack the enemy,
that their march was checked, and they were
obliged to.turn upon him and bring their artil-
lery into play. This enabled Arnold and Silli-
man with the other division of four hundred
men to gain a point in advance of the British,
and to prepare to give them a serious check.
But, ala-! for him and his country's cause, of
which few more useful or brighter ornaments
existed, lie fell while leading on his men, and
Tryon again moved forward.
But now Arnold was before him, and at Ridge-
field village had formed a barricade across the
main street, flanked by houses on one side,
and a ledge of rocks on the other.  Here, with
only two hundred men, he stood and faced over
two thousand of the advancing enemy. For
fifteen minutes, with terrific effect, a Are was
kept up by the gallant Americans, but sudden-
ly they found that they were -flanked both on
the right and left.
Arnold-who sat upon his horse encouraging
his men-was fired at by an entire British pla-
toon from the crest of the rocks, at not thirty
yards distance ; his horse shot dead ; so that his
feet were entangled beneath the dead animal;
yet not a bullet touched him. But the Ameri-
cans began to fly, for they supposed him to he
killed.  Never was he in greater peril of death
or capture.
"Darn you, don't run off and leave the

II
I t
$1
Ii9
tIj
a

gin'ral here to be stuck like a fall pig !" shout.
ed. Elnathan, to the flying Americans, while ,
threw down the long musket which he had been
using with great effect, and drew him out from
beneath the horse,
A dozen of the enemy sprang ever the now
deserted barricade, but Elnathan seized his long
gun, and swinging it around his head with fear.
ful force, kept back, for a moment, all who did
not fall before his terrible blows,
"Run, gin'ral-my horse is tied to a post out
there a leetle ways-runnin' ain't no disgrace
when there's only us agin' a multitude !' he
shouted, slowly retreating, but striking right
and left all the time.
Arnold reached the horse, and mounting,
rode off to endeavor to rally his flying men for
another stand;1t Elinathan was not quite so
lucky-; he tripped over t he corpse of a man
behind him, and fell; and in another instant
was pinned to the earth, with one bayonet
through his shoulder, and another through the
fleshy part of his thigh.
"You're a dead Yankee !" shouted a burly
ruffian, as lie raised his sword to crush the ex-
istence out of him.
"Jest so !" said Elnathan, "do it quickand
don't hurt no more'n possible l"
But Elnathan's time had not come. A Bri-
tish officer, who had noticed his bravery and
his devotion to his master, interfered, and he
was kindly carried to one side, and there left to
bleed to death ; for the British could not take
care of their own wounded now--the enraged
Americans gathering from every quarter were
so pressing them, that a hasty retreat to their
ships alone could save them from titter de-
struction. But this was not to be effected so
easily. The Americans increased every hour ;
the men became tired and disheartened ; and
when night came on, they were obliged to en-
camp in a strong position and rest.
Meantime the Americans still gathered, and
when the British moved on at daylight, Arnold
was again upon them, aided by other brave offi-
cers. At last, assisted by the marines from the
ships, the British re-embarked, with the loss of
over three hundred men, and Tryon himself
was wounded. But for a hesitation on the part
of the Connecticut militia-who fell back when
Arnold had a second horse shot under him, all
of the marauders would have been captured.
Never before had Arnold acted more brit-
liantly titan here. Leading on raw men, liter.
ally forcing them to fight, lie exposed himself
with more than his usual temerity. Congress
passed a resolution of praise upon hearing of
his conduct, and directed the quartermaster-
general to purchase a horse, and present the
same to him as a token of approval.
After the British were gone, his first thought
was to find if Elnathan was yet alive, for the
British had carried off no prisoners. Upon in-
quiring at Ridgefield, he at last foundwhere a
man lay at a farm-house answering his de.


S4LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,
E4 ription' and uponOseeking therefound to his no man except the commander-in chief was
lkaus tebravetherellou,         dearer to the people than he was  for the
del et that it was thu brmv brave old friend ?" fame of his daring and despfetilt exploitnd hi
i  you're badly hurt, my                  skill as a genera , and his i ndital rsend in
saids o" rlied the old man, quietly. manumlvers, aswell as his ipdlto eatble prse-
B Jeit si. a vrep ee horse! Are the British  verance, had passd from lip to ear throughout
"&amp; But it mighthe et IossworepiArnold.    elad.ws Sept er when he took his position
'lien h i t rt m!"-re  solid bAre ll in cw eteiand of one of the wings of the army of
agin Ys-i the rt mno     soobewellcGates.Aleady lad the hoar-frost begun to
I ame  s r  to hlt e  y  b         be  glisten  on  ths. grass blades in  the  morning al-
again! i the ldr ian  mout fr yus be rena        ntgrs green begun to yield to
SI amsorry to leave you , eyufor yurex- eady hd summnersuumanissireng
pgain n the fiud-h re i me   know you will  thl coming glories of autumn and its stiffening
enseo unt young pldi  e said Arnol, han.i- clhangs.
o thi at Uon  ars     a -              .l   he American army with skillfully chosen
g himapra,         d so! I needn't ask  position, was eca   e awaiting the advance
"  enfidgill rah, tewhr  hbgetoffllurgoyne,    oreaorespecttheyforce
where to fid you--itl   ,                  whticaution   o ce    hisloua   nd
chance of fight 'un iailpens mas  hanin  efrewithcimutio; wforhee began to resp  The fe
Arnold pressed the brave old ran'swasd in  b    efr" hdail hich, already his netal in nuen
ln c e   n   h nh                           rs   e s d i y b e in g  re i  fo rc  id  t T h e  i d e fe a t
ilence, and ten departed.                 ofiBau 1oand lreyoal at Ben g
CI  APTlR XXI.              another lesson toetie sun went down upon the night of
Cit N lI'              .   _Ell i A TIO .  S' W bhen  17th. 1777, the  pickets of the opos-
A it m uARTia ta ie BriMotiN nACTimroN    igIarmies were placed almost in hail of each
had      D  Au an thro ugN tishe enralr  iuig th tIther, for the caps were only two miles apart-
nrhiuntie rch    the woderness fr   e oAnd when on the morrow that sun rose clear
eyad adanedthrohgtdII i e d b e the lovl v"P e Acloudless sky, the curling smoke of the
n o r t h ,  u n d e e a h eieaad bi     r esro fod no thta r miee snr o s e  i n  s p i r a l  c o l u m n s  o f
leyrr rs thrwll  hi - a hi thle  tt all  re of blue tilthrough the breezleSs air, and
barer thc~0r   her bing                hithe roimgrti, the shrill fife, and defiant
patriotiC Schuylr, than she llt i,            entheirnotesromcamptocamp, to
existed at tit era. wYear'sAdbtheuglesthotth'e           theear.
dinner witht Sir hetr ou iton, in New York, untigle with eac t n  eisaddledhorse,
sdeie Ith    if l tlen ten t -nfor his arily,  Arnold was standing by  his  a  horse,
spee hcrtiiaiuef  'lt   eredl, was flushed  which was held by an orderly, when a young
spithi hyr apfte anctor' and had overcome  man, dressed something like a nriua, i-tg
the  itostr aftrrotclt art of tie road. lint Wash- dently anblArica nging 1ong and curhg
the mosthitghu tr   ali  gaiist Clinton's his thick,        black          ee and
forgto the southrwad, turned his eagles this down his neck, and his coalblack eye and
fory ces to thrgsut ith his rifles, Poor, Ciiley, dark skin, looked foreign, rode , ond a horse
ay, a M    hales, were froiii New Ilanp- evidently jaded by long travel,
earm, a  d heayles werom  Massachusett, General Arnold-  an   What is wanted?"
shire, and heavyevi sork were hurried for-  "I cia he, young ma-.
Connectsaid theNelitter.
Cwndecy him to check the enemy before ajunc- said the  ridden far and hard to find you,sir,"
eSatesb cut of womthe Midd by the line said the youth, for he was not over eighteen, to
ofBionBtishscouldbeeformederthe ido  bn othe  e dge fouh  looks. "1ere is a letter for
ern States cut off fromwho had been unfortu- judge from 1     -
nate at Fort Edwardbuit who was ever a better you!"
had   a nble patriot than    Arnold looked at the supersface,rpashemu and a
Gate, arr soldier, adnb th e latter and all at flush of pleasurecame over i aice asthe ma.
oice, wasyunerfo  d that iehad no child's mured-  It is from her  raised broke the seal.
oncerefore  that ere t was something be-  After reading the letter, lie  an attentive
pday befo     h    iiii to do. No sooner the youth, and regarded him with
sids dl bostn  , ha G     nerl into "o.  ouare Master James Prescott, and
had beepassed Fort Edward, than Geiieral Lin- look.
chn, by pasmemenatthe time unknown to      "So you ar    Mater mes Prsotn
ol, by a movement atof the British general, would see service with me
Gates, amed the rertant positions, ut off his "Yes, sir-I could find no one so famous ao
Apols of tpleid him literally between two  serve with i" replied thie youth feeling o b
"upies, and placeddowny moustache,which i                             young as en
foreno  pausing only for one gallant dash up  coaxed out upon his upper lip, yn s
Arnolle pof the nohawk to relieve Fort was.
hoer, and drive back St. Leger with his     '-The family likeness is verhatong I sa
Torsand Indias hurried to this field to win Arnold, as he shame pto thae hsOinea face
new lanrls; for now, though yet in the prime  "Twoul  easaet      aes     ieafc
new laurs of yoh  hh aajorGenrl e and  and figure scarred by battle I"
sad flush of youth, he wasa  aorGna,

I

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

Then, raising his voice, he added: "What do
you think you could do, my young friend ?"
"My cousin has told me what to do, sir?'
said the youth, returning Arnold's look steadi-
ly, as if he felt deeply interested in gazing upon
so great a man.
"If not a secret, what were her directions ?"
"To fight like a man by your side, sir, and
die there, to aid you, if necessary !" replied
the youth, placing his hand upon a fine French
rapier by his side, and then touching the hilts
of two gold-mounted pistols in his holsters.
Arnold smiled-but gratified pride was in
his look also, that sie should think so much of
him as to give such directions to her cousin.
It is well-I will make you my aid, Mr.
Prescott, and as soon as possible will see about
getting a commission for you!"
" I wish no commission, sir-will accept
none. M y only desire is accomplished in the
positi'tn you give milel'
"Well-wie will see ! But I expect every mo-
ment to hi' called into action, and you are too
tired to participate iii it.  You had better re-
tire into my eluarters and rest
"No, sir; please excuse iie in that, and give
me a fresh horse. Mine is timed, but I am
not -"
Arnold smiled, and ordered one of his own
horses to be brought out, and to have young
Prescott's saddle and mountimgs changed to
that--at the same time observing, th it a few
months of hard service would cool down that
fiery enthusiasm.
"It don't seem to have altered you much,
sir! or else you mrust have been very enthu-
siastic at first !" said the young man, as he
noticed how , restlessly Arnold watched for
the first sound of movement from the enemy's
camn).
Agaim Arnold smiled, for he was pleased with
the easy honesty apparent in the youth's comn-
pliments, and the absence of that fear and stiff-
ness which pervaded those around him, who ad-
dressed him not as Sir, but as General.
"You at uiast will take refreshments before
we mount!" said lie.
Not without you order it, sir, for I break-
fasted with some jolly good fellows about five
miles from  here, where they were on guard !
They belonged to Morgan's rifles, and wanted
me to enlist, iut I told them I was engaged ! One
of them said it was to a pretty girl, but to that
I answered nay ! IIallo-what's that ?"
It was the heavy boom of an advanced bat-
tery of light artillery in the direction of the
enemy's camp.
"The play has begun !" eriel Arnold, as he
mounted, to place himself at the head of his
division.
"But not ended'!" said young Prescott, as he
sprung imto his saddle-
"Keep close by me, and do not expose your-
self unnecessarily !" cried Arnold, to the for-
mer, as he drove his spurs into his horse and gal-

85

loped off, followed by his young aid, orderly,
and several subordinates.
It was a grand sight-that of those two ar-
mies extended over the plains and rolling hills
of the beautiful Hudson-their pennons wav-
ing, their arms glittering like silver and gold,
their plumes fluttering in the air. A grand
sight, as they moved into position, and paused
to breathe before they rushed together-
paused to tighten girths and reins, to firmer
grasp their weapons ere they rushed forward
into the strife from which so many never would
retire.
. When Arnold rode to the head of his divi-
sion, consisting of Morgan's invincible rifle-
men, and Dearborn's infantry, the deafening
cheers which rose attested his popularity.
Slowly the British advanced-so slowly, indeed,
that Arnold repeatedly sent to General Gates
for permission to commence the attack, by ad-
vancing with his division. The permission was
at last granted, and like a flight of arrows from
pliant bows,-the light horse of Morgan flew for-
ward, followed on the run by Dearborn's men.
And in the very van, Arnold was seen on his
favorite charger, a huge brown stallion, as fierce
and fiery as his master.
"Forward I" was the word, and nobly was it
obeyed, and soon the crash of the battle of Still-
water made the air resound with its awful noise.
At first time British recoiled before the shock -
but, rallied by the gallant Fraser, they in turn
were forced forward, and the Americans checked,
then driven back. And now back and forth,
like strong men clenched, neither yielding, but
alternately swaying to and fro, they struggled
through all the long, long day.  Night alone
brought a cessation to time conflict, and neither
party were victors. Upon their arms many of
term slept ; but, aimh! how many slept in death.
Near one thousand gallant spirits went up that
day to the King of kings, to appeal against that
king who, with his vile ministers, had caused
this bloodshed.
Again Arnold, though he had been every-
where in peril, retired to Isis quarters to rest,
without hav.nig been touched.  With him was
young Prescott, who had behaved as calmly
during all that terrible conflict as if he hid been
a veteran in service instead-of being engaged
in his first battle.
"This has been a hard day, James !" said Ar-
nold, to his young aid, for the latter had been
so near him ill day thatlie had become quite
familiarized to him.
"iRather a busy one, sir!  But you seemed
to like it."
No better than yourself. You take matters
very coolly !"
* Who could help it, sir, with such an exam-
ple before him !"
"Why, James, you are quite a woman in flat.
tery !"
." But a man in action, I hope, sirl" said the
youth, hastily.

'6

t

a


" Yes, I will testify to that!  In that large
on the Hessian dragoons I saw you un'iorsel
one of their finest officers
"lie was try ing to do me the same favor, sir,'
but fortune was on my side !"
"Not fort une, but skill, my brave boy. You
hinlie a sword beautifully, and your horse as
well!'
"'I'me credit is due to my cousin, sir !" said
the -outh. "She would not let me enter the
field until 1 had taken lessons and prepared my.
self with practice
" Bltes your cousin, she is to me a guardian
angel, ' sad Arnold, warmly; and ihe glanced
up to tho starry sky to look upon the star of
destiny again. "By-the way, I ought to write
to her' but 1 am very tired! Can you not pen
her a faN lili"s
" Wlhat shall I say, sir?  That you love her
very much
Al , you young rogue, what makes you
thinkso"
causee your face flushed up, and your
hand trembled, when you opened and read her
letter
"To are ob'ervant, Master James ! Do you
think that she loves mc?"
"Yea-at least I have an idea she does !"
said the youth.
"W h   '
"Because I heard her say once that she hated
you !"
Arnold laughed.
"h ow on earth, then, could you think she
loved me ?" he asked.
" Be-ause women always go by contraries !"
repli-l ti he young 1l1u.
" You seem to in lersaind women very well,
for one so young?" said Arnold, looking him iiin
the ee.c'p
"'lst is easily accounted for," replied the
aid, conifidently. ~1 have been much in their
company ; anti being young, they dil not think
it worth while to mask themselves from me, as
they walh from older men!
tool reasoning !" said Arnold.
"Jest so !' replied James, so perfectly imi-
tating Eluathan's voice, in his favorite expres-
sion, that Arnold looked around, believing that
his obl favorite was there.
Was that you who spoke r he asked.
" Yes, sir," replied the youth ; "at my cous-
in's I met your old valet, who has almost re-
covered from his wounds, and is on his way to
join you; and I got into the habit of imitating
him 'sometutii'."
'Youi ire a ca ital mimic. I would have
swri that it ias Eluathan himself!" said Ar-
null.
~"I am better than you think for-if you het
the liue', I'll laigh y  out of them in a voice
so litc+uin Lu's, that you'll swear i'm her
instead of En than ! But excuse moe, sir ; l'll
go anl write that letter to her before I get too
sleepy."

"By Jove ! the likeness would be strong, if
his skin was not so dark. Besides, he is not
near so tall as she. Ile is a brave lat, and a
likely one, too!" muttered Arnold, gazing after
him.
Several officers entered now, and a discussion
ensued about the action of the day, and the
p)lanis of the future.
"Where is General Gates, and how is he
pleased with the battle ?" asked Arnold, who
a  sent his adjutant to report, lit had not
gone himself; for there was no f. iendship be-
tween them. Gates was jealous of his fame
and reputation, and Arnold despised Gates, be-
cause he was lazy and inactive, id given to in-
temperance-which, with a military command-
er, is a most grievous fault indeed ; benumbing
the senses as it does, and exposing him to
commit the grossest errors of naismanagement.
At his quarters, with a bottle of wiie in his
hands, and a dozenmore before him, trying to
convince some of the prisoner officers of the
folly which King George shows in waging war
with the colonies !" replied the officer to Ar-
nold's question.
"Are io orders given to renew the battle,
now more than half won, in the morning?."
asked Arnold.
"None," was the reply. "And I believe he
means that we shall wait until we are attacked
before lie renews the action
Imbecile !" muttered Arnold, impetuously.
"Why, we know not how soon Clinton may be
on our rear, with reinforcements for him. I'll
se the general and remonstrate with hnim
And get nothing for your pains. bchuyler
tried it, mind was fairly insulted !" said another
ofhlicer.
" Then, by Ileaven! Congress shall know of
it. Burgoyne is fairly in our power now. If I
had conimmand of his army, for to-morrow only,
the sun should set upon a field of American
victory
"If the general should hear of your remarks,
he would not be overpleased with them !" said
one a ho was friendly to.Arnold, and did not
wish to see him commit himself, fur everywhere
there can be found newsbearers to stir up dis-
sension, especially among rivals for fame.
"I care not how soon he hears them," re-
plied Arnold. "I stand ready to justify myself
before the country."
The conversation continued in this strain for
sonic time : and the officers, one by one, broke
off, aid Arnold, much to his satisfaction, was
left to his repose.
CHAPTER XXII.
OT BLOOD AND COOL BLOOD-A SPICE OF TRUTn
IN TIE EAR OF OATES.
Another Tmorning-the 20th-dawned upon
the opposing armies, not clear and brilliant
like that of the day before, but doll and cloudy
-dark and cheerless, even as the prospet of
the beleaguered British army.

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

868

r

.

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

At an early hour, Arnold was afoot and with
his horses, ready saddled for actionwaited the
orders of the day, his impetuous enemy chaf-
ing at the unaccountable delay. Hours passed,
and no movement was made by the troops upon
either side.
At last, Arnold's patience gave way entirely,
and bidding his aids follow him, he mounted,
and galloped to the quarters of General Gates,
H. found that officer seated on the little piazza
in front of the house.*in which he had taken
quarters, smoking a pipe, and leisurely playing
a game of draughts with his Adjutant-General.
Several officers were grouped near, among
whom was General Schuyler, their faces wear'
ing the look of mortification and disappoint-
ment. Arnold merely bowed a hasty recogni-
tion as he rode by them ; and reigning up be-
fore the piazza, addressed General Gates with-
out either saluting or dismounting, ad in no
very respectful tone:
"I have been waiting orders, sir, until I was
tired, at my quarters, a d now am come to re-
ceive them !'t
"You can return to your quarters and still
wait until I send them !" said Gates, coolly,
without even removing the pipe from his
mouth, or ceasing his moves upon the draught-
board.
"Are you not going to attack the enemy to-
day, sir?" cried Arnold, exasperated beyond
control at the indifference manifested by the
American commander-in-chief.
"Are you commander of this army, sir!"
cried Gates, and a flush of anger came over his
face.
"No, sir--I wish to God that I was, and I
would be playing draughts with the enemy upon
the battle-field!" replied Arnold.
He would have said more, but a prudent
thought for once restrained him.
"I need no one to teach ime my duty, sir !"
said Gates. "I heard that you had before
spoken of me disrespectfully, behind my back,
but I did not believe that you had the effront-
ery to do so to my face !"
"I mean no disrespect to you, as mysuper
ior, sir-but I am tired of inactivity ' p
"Then, sir, you can go where you can find
moreactivity if you desire it. I expect General
Lincoln every hour, and he can take charge of
your division, and will probably have the pa-f
tience to await the judgment of his superior
general."-
"Very well, sir-give me a pass for myself
and suite to the head-quarters of General1
Washington !" cried Arnold, purple with rage.
"Make out the pays forGeneral Arnold, Wil-
kinson," said Gates, coolly, to his aid, "and
then return and finish the game."
Arnold received the paper, and rode with
fiery speed to his quarters to prepare for his I
journey.'
"May I see you alone a moment, sir 9" said '
young Prescott, when they arrived there.  l

"Yes-what do you want?" ,said Arnold, less
gently than usual ; for every passion of his na-
ture was excited.
"You will forgive me, sir, and not vent the
anger upon a poor boy which that lazy gener-
al has excited, if I venture a little advice at
this moment !" said he, respectfully, but firmly.
d My cousin bade me serve you to the very
death,and I, who would place myself in death's
peril to save your life, ought surely to do as
much for your honor and fame; for both I know
to you are dear as life 1"
"What does the boy mean ?"
"This, sir! We are on the eve of a great
and .decisive battle! It must come. Neither
the enemy nor we can avoid it. They cannot
retreat. We have cut off their supplies. They
will soon have to fight, from sheer hunger !"
"That is true I"e
"Well, sir, what would the country say, if
your envious enemies told that, on the eve of a
great battle, in a fit of momentary anger, yon
had left tme army. They would tike advan-
tage of that very step to work yesurruin ; for I
care not how high a man may have reached on
Fame's ladder, one misstep will send him head-
long to the bottom b"
"By Heaven, boy, you speak the truth!
My anger made me blind to this danger ! You
are tIe best friend I have on earth. Yourcous-
in did intend to act an angel's part when she
sent you to me ! I will not leave the army
until the fate of this field is decided, and
here--"
"You will win more fame than ever yet has
graced your name!  General Gates will let tre
best opportunities pass, and you will strike
whenever a chance offers I"
"But he Commands--he will get the credit"
said Arnold, gloomily.
"He commands from his quarters-you will
lead in the fieldI, And do not fear but you will
get the credit for your actions there !"
Why, James, you talk more like a genera!
yourself, than like a beardless boy. You should
be in our councils of war !"
"No, sir; I antbest where I am and can f'
no other position-would not if I could !"
"Well, you arc a good adviser, and my be
friend. Ride back to General Gates wits miy
respectful compliments, and say to him slat,
after a moment's reflection, I have ore! ded
sot to avail myself of his permissinr t; join
General Washington; but will rem&amp;  with the
army at present, and will await audi o r4ers as
he may send at his leisure."
he young aid bowed, and, rmtcunting his
horse, rode off.
Tme boy has saved my haorI" mused
Arvold. "It would have Irilad my reputation
to have left the army at crib a tme. how
ike the boy, in sense and waom, is to his
beauitiful dgsin-.she wh'm I lore each hour
more and more. At fin ,, paiun only fird
sty veins ; now I know ishct it imeitv's w/fi',h I

I


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

fe' lie must have a commission ; he will
ris- -ri-c rapilly. I must write to Washington
about him.
CIIAI'TER  XXIII.
LKMUS HIFiviTS-TILE YIELD OF ARNOLD'S GREAT-
EST GLoiRY. ANO TiHE FALSE YASiR O5 IATES.
Day af ec day wore on, and. beyond slight
skiriihes between picket-guards, or matters
of that art, iio action took place between the
Brit:sl and American armies. The coriander
of the former having fortified his position,
waited anxiously for help from below, lpromised
by General Clinton. But he waited all in vain.
Cli.ton had enough to keep him busy in the
sicioity if New York, and in Jersey.
Meantimiie, the Aiericau army daily became
stronger. General Lincoln arrived with a large
force , and, true to his word, Gates gave the
latter g, o rul the coiiniand of the wing which
ha l bel d to Arnold. And with a mean-
neir utterly,  ninth a man in his position, lie
ha l-in his iaatchts repo: ting the brilliant
Settle of Sllbutr r-entirely refrained from
-      .  'k: of Arold n any manner whatever.
T lr. c  1 the indignation of every ('ne in the
aryf, ,\Cpt the e, rnues of Arnold, and of
that cia-sa hu aishied to advance their own in-
tt sts by law hon every act of the commander
-a ho never a a'fit for his station, whose fame
was won Iv cities, amid who suiik to his proper
level ni hnii inhas  southern canlaign, he had
rio Sclii I1 r to advise hm, and no Arnold to
right fir lhim.
Up to tilwr the 7th, IBurgvne thus
a a' I, nal Ie was oiliged to lut his troops
=n -h rt ailowieinance , and then, fuihng that he
1rld r cr e nio ri hef from iCliniton-hie deter-
1     l to -. do o Idi+"-either to break through
the lines alhich egviraned him, or fro lperisli at
the hi ai of his firer s. Early on that morning,
it put evi rv is aillle man of his army in ac-
t. i, an 1. h m ii  g them linself, attacked the
A: rw.r ii    their own intrenichied ground,
Sidh iie rc an cdespr rat e valor. Go to history,
. cer, fir a Inl ace-tnt of that conflict-it is
nl with   aeh  ,or1tins of it as part icularly
,'tibraece tin ciocnuet f the hero of this story
tlst a I  i   ti  ih  al n itIh.
Wih vilaryi. fortui s the battle had waver-
I oi :1 n  r r f=or o'c ork in the afternoon ; anil
A inol,, p1rived of a command, had lingered
near Gat , in hopes that the latter, with some
little gencr-ntV, might afford him an opportu-
rity to serve lis country, anl prove, as he had
often on ltfore, Iis devotion to her cause.
But as well might lie have expected to draw
1laod froi a tonic, as a generous thought from
the heart if Gates. The latter, all apart from
the lanig r of tet battle, issued his orders ac-
cording to thie r ports whih were brought him.
lut Ariold's tune camie. The British centre,
uhich aIi  stool firimaainct every assault,
could not be shaken, sod upon its destruction
zr repulsc de pss.ilcd the fortune of the day.,

Arnold, with eagle eye, saw it, sprung to the
back of his brown war-horse, and in a moment
was at the head of a column of his old division
They rent the air with cheers ; and lte pointed
his sword whither lie would lead them-had no
need to order them to follow.
On-on, like the black spirit of the whirl-
wind, he sped-on, crushing everything in his
way-on, and down went Briton and Hessian--
on, with his invincibles in his rear, wheeling,
ferrying here, like a band of desolating angels
sent by the band of the Almighty, they clove
their way !
Burgoyne turned pale. "Where is Frazer?"
was his cry.
"Down with Ackland, and our bravest!"
was the hoarse reply.
Gates half mad with envy, sent aids to recall
Arnold; but they dared not follow him into the
shower of iron death through which he madly
rode. The English began to retreat; but on,
on, now the ruling spirit of the whole army,
Arnold rode, following them up like theory
king of carnage! He was now the commander-
in-chief! In vain could the English throw for-
ward their best men to check him. Beaten
back into their very entrenchments, one last
stand was made by the Ilessians in a strong
redoubt. On, over ditch and embankment,
leaped Arnold, followed by all who could keep
near him. H re, alnnst alone, his horse was
killed ; the same ieg which was wounded in
Canada was again shattered ; but even thus he
was victorious, for the enemy fled and left the
redoubt when lie was alniost the only one within
it.
Gasping, he lay beneath his dead horse --
smoke in clouds above him-dead men all
around-his bloody sword grasped in his hand,
and his eye flashing like that of the wounded
eagle, which would strike its talons home to
the heart of his captors-but for an instant was
he alone. A tall horseman thundered on, and
sprung down by his side.
";in'ral, lim here-there's life in ye, isn't
there ?" cried an old, finiliar voice.
" Plenty of it; is that you, Elnathan ?" cried
the wound hero.
"Jest so ! It's me, gin'ral ; jest in time to be
too late! But here comes mere of your friends
-the enemy is licked
Oh, for another hour of daylight!" cried
Arnold, as they dragged him froii beneath his
horse ; "one hour more, and they were crushed
forever !"
But darkness was over the field, even though
it was won; and they bore the hero back to his
quarters, when his services were no longer
needed.
Burgoyne, in that battle, lost the flower of
his army, and all of his best officers. IIe never
again shiewed a battlefront, but retreated to
Saratoga, and there eventually capitulated. But
again I refer the reader to history for a narra-
tion of matters not directly connected with my

Y                -,

i  F
F
,
'
t i
, .
i
. i
P
1 ,
4
(1   '
1
'  :
'    :
,  k         ,
1
,,#
('  ,T     5'.
i ('
S
,
f
(
fi
.        t
i       i
. ,      ;
I
EEf
1
y
7

s
; S
r
{{
i       '.
s'   v
, f

4 '
.'I.

t


THE CURSE FULFILLED.

hero ; and speed away on the wings of our ro-
mance, over river and lake, and mountain, and
dale, to other scenes.
CIIAPTER XXIV.
TIlE PLOT DEEPENS--A LADY SEEKS AN INTER-
VIEW WITH SIR HENRY CLINTON.
Young Prescott had spoken truly, when, in
advising Arnold not to leave the army of Gates
until a ha tie was fought, he said that there his
brightest laurels would be won. Though Gates
gave him no credit, the army and the country
did ! Gates wrote his dispatcnes--Arnold wrote
none, nr di lhe need any. Burgoynle and his
morttiel otlieers attributed their double defeat
to Arnold, and not to Gates.
In u''r own land and abroad, as a soldier 1nl
a brave mian, lie then stood second to none blt
Washinston. IIe had reached the pinnacle of
fame ! Encvy ould lot crni-li, or mahice ruin
himt then ! What could ?  Let ou story tell.
It was Il-.nths later.
Sir lllelrv Clinton strode to and fro in his
room at thle British head-quarters in New York,
in a state of mind! not to be envied..  The
rebel(," as he considered the American pa-
triots, elated with their recent success, were
gaining ground everywhere.  Anl his govern-
ment 1was continually bilanung him1 ad the
Briti-hl ilers her 1for not crushing the aiind
ending th war-whiel, from its expenditure of
life and money, had become Very unpopular at
home.
An orle'rly 'entered, and said
o A  ahy, closely veilel, wishes to see you
upon hali ness of import e11, Si' IIenry
A lia-lyr ind oil lu-iness ?'
"    's, Sir henry !''
" A huit her - t hough I am in no humor to
talk With women!"
The soldier disappeared, but soon returned,
ushered in tite lady, and then retired.
With lis custolnary politeness, the British
general bowel and handled the lady a chair,
while he remained standing to hear what her
business was.
She threw lack her veil, a+d he who had no-
ticed her figure and ldIemued it superb, almost
started lack at thie majestic beauty of her coun-
tenance.
Having described her once, we need not do
it again, except to say that tile had but added
to and ripened her beauty. The lady was Luona
Prescott.
"Whom have I the honor to address ?" asked
the general, as he bowed a second time.
"An Arnrican lady, sr !" was her reply.
"If America produce 1 many as fair, I should
fear for the loyalty of the king's officers."
"I came not here, sir, to list is to words of
gallantry, but upon business !" said she ; and
the colr so rOss 111101 hr cheek, and the light
grew brighter in her dark eye, that he knew

that she was not one with whom he could
trifle.
"Well, lady, if a loyal officer can confer with
a reblc lady, as you confess yourself, on business,
1 am at your service 1"
And Sir Ienry seated himself.
You and your king would, at this juncture,
be glad to create disaffeiction in the Continental
army by the defection of one of their bravest
and most popular officers, would you not ?" she
asked.
Most undoubtedly his majesty would desire
anything which would hdl tocrush this wicked
a11 most unnatural rebellion !' re phed the
wily officer. Who is the person of whom you
It does not suit my purpose to name him
yet, I would first know what you would do to
gain him.'
1)You speak very bol lly, fair lady.''
"' U  tils tim', Sir Henry Clinton must have
got used to boldness from'relsh.'
So used to it, fair lady, that I generally
take summnlary means to pul a stop) to it. But
yourl case is an cxcepItionl.  flake your propo-
sition distinctly, and I will as distinctly answer
it
The accession of a general officer from the
American ranks to your cause would be desir-
abgle, would it not ?"
* If popular with the Americans, yes-if not,
no!''
Is Benedict Arnold popular with them, and
has he proved dangerous to you ?"
"on do not m1ean hin, lady ?"
," I mean him sir'!"'
You speak of an in lossihility, lady. Amer-
ica has had no braver, r 11' i' servant in her
rants. 'th etlst to draw to  word fr t ei , he
will be the last to sha;the it !You are mock-
ing me
Sir--does this look like mockery ? Forget-
ful of msy S x, I com her1 befre you to make
a proposition which I knew would he to your
interest to accept! I can gain over Benedict
Arnold to your cause, and when lie comes he
shall not come em0pty-h.lined. Either an army
or some important post shall lie dclivired by
hiimsM, and wvith hhinselft, wh len lie 01)111!"
h  What will you demand if this is done ?"
Nothing "
"You are to me a mystery, lady. What in-
fluences you in this mat er?'
"'The only feeling wicl is stronger in wo-
ma's bosom than livk-tue !"
And as she hissed t hat last word through her
lips, she so looked the passion of which she
spoke, that he started back in actual fear from
her.
"Then you are a victim -of his-he has
wronged you?"
"No, sir--no man could wrong me and live !
It matters not to you mAcy I hate him, you may
know in time, or you, may not!  All thatI ask
of you is, to write to him, and make him offers

I

39

4
.  i
1 tT
i
t
t1t .
i S
. y
S
t
t
s
f
F
S
t
f
14
6
f
A
1
SS
. to
7
t
a
F
r
4

.                       1,

r }:


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

of rank and money if he wi:l leave his own and            CHAPTER XXV.
juin youssi' srvie.-to do it in your own name ! ARNOLD IN PIRLADELPIIIA--THE FULL OF TIDE
I will see that/vour letter teabces him ; or you       AND FIRST OF Elm.15
tmay sient  a n'iesenger of your own, and he  Major-General Benedict Arnold sat in one of
shall gotsnI cone safely !"                the finest rooms of one of the finest houses in
Upon what Eafeguard ?"                  the city of Philadelphia.  And upon his coun-
"'This p   fro Arnold's own hand," replied  tenance, the color of which was heig htened by
the lady, hti:iling Clinton a paper,         dissipation, a shadow of care and of annoyance
11 real it, ast cid:                     rested. Why should care sit there ? Placed as
" This is a pass for one Jrames Prescott and  a favorite of the corunander-in-chief in com-
his fiends, to go and coen  when and where he  mand there, with a salary adequate to his rank,
p1leas1s- '                                  what could annoy him ? Like some showy men
"Yes, sir; aiil at prese nt, and for months  of the present dayl hle had heen  proud of his
I st he has tn)15' known ie as Jaisies Prescott, position, and had'gone fir, far bysind his means
his ad, th :b im baiiis s -n isitlithuh"/it lie loved  to make it appear glorious.  lit' was in debt,
oe inth en i nInch I wear i''         and dunned upon every liands., and none but a
1 hiv  I   11h r-t iiI.  Vou ilhave already  proud andI sinst ivye mian ican know the wiors'r
deciiu.    i, noull dive Iin Itosfurther ?''  than inquisitorial Iiitrture that a dun, a deribsh
"   . s, e!''                           dun inficts !''hery nss er trouble mc, I try sot
"  will i n.' the of ir you propose, lady, and  tis deserve their visit s, hut i' they conie, my old
I will trust ti  vol aii I tol no o-I r tin ci nvsev it six-shooter should I 1!aceC theist or tile beyond
to him. 1 nil lo n  e ysou a  phi'r by wlsich  the reach of tort ure.
ii ean o'f! y emasnnuiseate ivi mIIn', and a j uBtt this is oft t' trail, excise me, gentlemen,
passI by v. ich yiii u Vour  me-sin  g re may  and forgive mne, ladies-iy readers, for the di-
cross our lhus ~.s Any money whieli you may  gression.
need-'-                                        That Arnold was in trouble, could le seen by
I nei tne, sir! All the gold in Eiglanl his looks.  A st-p srusledl him.  Isls favorite
ca      : hu v'v w Ir fr miiy lips!" aid, Mastir Iuns Preseott, entered.
L'e-  ni', lil, I nI ant so sin'l ee ! Will  "  s'James, I iai really glad to see you," said
you al's hV k   eI itl'snirme iof 'Vshngton's the iteeral.
mssovstiii  1-fOr I prunr oiiu' s  inteniL toreturi  " Why so, sir, why to-iglit more thai.
to  I'hsiladI1,l'                           usuisI a'5''
"I il d1 - Iiin'thuin', sir, ibut wh t I have toll  " Because I ans ssia, veRv sail ! You have
yost. 1 2'' , mthif vs' ':si mim-tieii, inlu' Gss- U'-ever advise Iite w Il-yet "I fear you cannot
cml Arntsi i ti I1 bni' t'be Au' rei srvics, andt advise mie nion.  W istii site of Gats and
to ii liveri'  li' ri mniay snlt- in'is 'ati, all my eneimies, General Wailiitsmgton pIlaced moe
or .sitisup imt i n  l-I i Isis ehr:ss' e to you. 'Ihast here, I was too imuich el-itcd, atid is entertain-
I-i no t.0-ri  - n - , limitsis went t heivn miiy iicsncome ; m         and the
.- lily,' doit:. ani thi- first cir'ontet in   i- I death of youri cousi-in Litonia, who suPplied tme
la. shrilln n n' -  b -- usr hyii ' with funls ev'n before I asked aid, has left, mne
- I sv ih  ni n i i v r. sr ti r' tini  ,' of ri-wasd, -ci-  its a  position  th it  ismisn-"t eiililrlsiiiig''
buit  wr   .s nr  ltie  mnil pas   a  i'n, rlnd  I  "i' it  isis  it u ie  t  ibe s  1 whil' life  is  left.
mt  i  ret  ''n."                           Y   st  arofd'stfo ltsi it hy lints nlot yet set.''
'e tsn :;l- pan.l, :il rs-le-t-d iut a iio-  "No, nii hers ! ~To-night  looked on both.
un: r. ti a'it dwuvn :anl wrviote the irequired  Au-I vet I mins totl csheshe whsomt i sio loved is
dii. ne n  -. ssr                           !       31a v (5w5 mit hI 'Ir si lit r buricil 1! So
--al ui  lterItohim wi' vi.-tsr own seal, she wrote mu' ! As-',
th- - 'is' e iuIay  iss lit it , 'utisiie,'' sail I the  'Anti vt this very igit, general, I saw you
lay                                          pving i-scry st ti'alun'ii to abes Shsippen, at Col.
I1V t 1' r   innrr  'oui  if funsh  Iupii 'o'r  onlt's "Pratt's iiiri',.'
per- ,n"'' Hu'- ISir Iln-'y.         ~          iTue; ,tam', trut'-not that I loved your
I feat' r isa.  My iv' titan's a  nisu ill npritct cosutsit, or lien hmoirs-ss'y, ratheri-, the less, bu' be-
ite' 'ut  Ar 1' ''m:.\m. i5, a nd vl'in r  rI  'i-s  fm'i  int- li t5ause, pie11cniitrily', I stias its a  great stri-t.  Miss
ots," shsi '' dl, ini ai 5 one5 oif pquit sa: casm.  Shippsn is an his's !  I not only owe a large
" ! T l t,sanifortun  h e'  wit hii 'o,'said' -sm  prl 'i'ately', hist. I  io a  de'fautilte'  to  hie gov-
Sir il-tnr',', :s ihe msld the letter with Ihis own ernnt'it.  Tish' is nit kniowvn yet, anti I know
signet. '                                    that you will notihetIray mi.  ut could I mar-
"I ihsyTomsir-somlwillhrtfrom       imeryher, ecld ' i lier tortim) "o retrieve my-
often ; assd uni Imyt isjt is accomle i she  be  self, that I coushl standi firm oince more.',
sutre I will Ciiitiili'.'''Will she a cc'it youth " asked the youth;
blhe bowesd, an-d Sir lleinry was alone,  and there was somse feeling in his tone when he
spoke.
-  "She has!"
" A already, and upon so short an acquaint
ance ?"

" Yes ; but what excites you, who are usually
so calm, James ?"
"Only the thought that that woman could be
so easily won," said the youth ; and there was
bitterness in his tone.
" Will her fortune make you all right ?" con-
tinued young Prescott.
"Yes; I shall owe the government nothing !"
"Nothing?   You who have been cheated of
rank and position, you who have been wronged
from the first hour when you drew your sword
in their cause! You will owe them nothing?
No, no, you will not, and the paltry dollars
which so trouble you now, should not count
with them against your services. But your
services in their cause will never be appreciated!
I who have see them can say so."
A packet for General Arnold," said a eerv-
ant, entering, and handing a packet to the aid,
and then retiring.
"A packet for me?" said Arnold, taking it
and breaking the seal, while the aid sat down
and took up a book in a careless way. But his
eyes were not upon the pages, but over them,
and closely watching the emotions depicted
upon the face of Arnold, as he read the first
offer of Sir henry Clinton.
And strange emotions were painted upon his
face, while Arnold read the letter. Anger-
contempt-and then a different feeling, for
plausibly did it appeal to his injured pride and
to his ambition. A second time he read it, and
then a third. Then for some minutes he strode
to and fro in thought, while his young aid
seemed to be reading his book very attentively.
At last he paused, and spoke:
"James, what are you reading?"
-An old copy of Shakspere, sir," replied the
aid.
"Is there any play there which depicts the
character of a traitor ?"
'Yes, sir, there is a most damnable one in
the play which I am reading-it is Iago, who is
a traitor to Othello."
"Pshaw! a woman affair-I mean a traitor to
his country ?"
"None that I have yet read of, sir."
"None yet-none yet! Leave me awhile,
James, I an in trouble, and need rest. I wish
to see you early in the morning-early, James."
"Yes, sir! The matter works well !" mut-
tered the aid, as he left the room.
"Shall I take the offer and damn myself for
ever if the American cause succeeds?' solilo-
quized Arnold, as soon as he was alone. "He
speaks truly; I have been wronged-wronged
on every hand. That one noble heart, Wash-
ington, alone has been Just to me. And he,
too, who is the soul of honor, would; turn
against me, if he saw that I had committed an
error in my financial matters. If I were to take
this offer, and he to fall, mine would be the
blackest ingratitude! No, I will not take it--
at least not now, for my marriage will enable
me to face all creditors, and in future I will so

L1i

live as not to be harassed by them again ! No,
I will not think of it, at present at least."
CIIAPTER XXVI.
CLOUDS ARE GATIIERING EvEIN wILE THiE nIRIDAL
FLOWEIRS InLOOM.
But a few weeks later. Married to Miss Ship-
pen, one of the wealthiest and most prominent
belles in Philadelphia, living in a style of ex-
travagant splendor. it might have been sup-
posed that Benedict Arnold was happy. As yet
his fame was unsullied, and though envied by
many, and slandered by some, none could les-
sen him in the esteem of his commander, the
immortal Washington. Was he happy? To
learn, we must visit him.
To and fro is the same room where he last
met us, lie was pacing very nervously. He did
not look happy, even though surrounded by all
the evidences of luxury and the trappings of
wealth.
lie rang a bell, which was answered a moment
after by a servant in livery.
"Tell Mr. Prescott, my aid and secretary,
that I wish to see him!" said he.
In a short time the young man entered.
" dames, I sent for you because I need your
advice. In my brightest hours you have been
my friend ; be so now when clouds darken my
pathway!" said the general.
Your natal star is yet in the ascendant, sir!
It has not even reached its zenith !" said the
young man, confidently.
"Talk not to me of stars now, James--when
your cousin lived I could think of such mat-
ters of romance, but now earthly annoyances
drive all such thoughts from my head
Why, what have you to annoy you, gene-
ral ? With rank and pover-tarried to the
belle of the city, your position seems one to be
envied, rather than one to complain of."
" You are in error, James. I lack that which
alone wives power to man-wealth ! I am pes-
tered to death by duns-illy paid for my serv-
ices, have been unfortunate insotie private
speculations ; and now Congress is about to ap-
point a committee to investigate my official
acts financially. It is enough to drive a man
to any act of treason to be so wronged by those
whom I have only served too long and too
well !"
"Has not your lady a fortune in her own
right ?" asked the aid.
"No-not that she can command, although
in time she will doubtless inherit money !" re-
plied the general.
"You ask my advice, sir, and I will give It.
I would,,were I in your place, request the com-
mander-in-chief to relieve me from this expen-
sive and inactive position, and to give me a
command !"
"But I am not fit for field-service-.-my
wounded leg is too weak still !"
"True, sir, but I did not mean that kind of
service-some military post-for instance, there

i
ty,
i
f
d.
jr
i
:,
t
p
t l
S"
11
n    e
1
i
5
.a
s
;i
i
'4
.               ,
it
y -
r
:

41

40

THE CURSE FULFILLED.


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

is West Point, an important fortress, a trusty
and honoiri.ilile posjoi ion, which commands the
Ilighlan lI of the llu !son. his Excellency,
General  bsiriington, is your friend, in spite of
all that rb e andu envy has done to retract
from ; our writ, and will not refuse any favor
that you ask:'
" You speak truly there, James-I believe
that lie ir my friend, and trusts me implicitly.
I wish I hal a~k d fir that appointment weeks i
ago, ro:iths ago,. be fore I became involved in
r ay lm-  t ro llS!  James, I have a secret
to revl to you!    It lies heavy upon my
heart, al u-o nofshare it with me, for I know
tot wii ti di! Nesuer was a man more tempt-
l  t   n  I -
'leni . ,I sir?  To do what?" asked the
ai 1, wit hiv I asnrod surprise.
'To cio nit ircason to my country !' said
Arnolld, pr loi'g the packet of Sir Henry
t1  toin   ui i   bOlo-om.
" II  I that:" lie continued ; " and then when
you think  of rry troubles and the wrongs which
have be i don toure-do not wonder that I
have panmii and pondered upon my answer, or
whether to atus er it all, or to send it to General
Washington hiwiif!"'
Arnold watched the face of his aid very
elreIly i. lie perirsed the document, as if he
would reirl t hire the sentiments which he felt.
But no uniioua n was visible upon the ever-carn
face of t w ioun roan.
W ien lie hil pt rushed the paper, he very
carefully a folded it, and handed it back to the
general.
" What do you think of the offer?" asked
Arnold.
"rThat to your military talents and influence
in the caute, it is most complimentary-to your
honor' ns a patriot, nrost insulting!" was the
reply.
" Vet nit more insulting than the formation
of this aci''ursed ('ourt of Inquiry, from those
who should Ilie my friends !"
"True, sir, thatis aggravating, but yet they
may not ust ain the charges against you!"
"TIey will-warped by prejudice and with
the eviliece of those who wish to rise upon my
ruin, I tel tlit they willI"
"'The, sir, if I fell, I would not fall alone!
Like Samenui, I would pu11 down the house
upon thiwe u ho crushed me
"'our aleice is good, James, and suits my
own nature. lut how to do it, is the question.
Set your wits to work my brave lad, and plan
for me. So you think it safe to reply to this
letter?"
" I hardly know-verbally, by some trusty
agent if at all. Letters are awkward things if
they get into wrong hands. How did the letter
reach you ?"
"That is true-you are prudent and faithful,
and whatever may be my fortune, you shall not
be the loser  i But you asked how the letter
reached lie. It was sent by private hand-I

know not who brought it, but it bears the seal
and crest of Sir Ilenry, and is in his hand-
writing !"
Yes, sir, that is evident.  Yet I would ad-
vise you to destroy it, for you know not whom
to trust. You have enemies who would ask no
better chance to crush you, than to bring a
charge of treasonable correspondence with the
enemy ; and that, if proven, would, by the rules
of war, be sure to bring death-a disgraceful
death-a a penalty
True-you understand the rules of war well
for a young soldier!"
"I have a good teacher, sir!  But when do
yon expect these impertinent commissioners,
sir ?"
"Every hour. I have already been furnished
with a copy of their charges !"'
"Then, sir-it is too late for you to make
your application for a change to West Point
before their investigation ?"
"Yes-but why do you urge that change,
James ?"
"Because, sir, if the caus' which now looks
so dark, should fail, with such a strong and inm-
pirtant post in your possession, you could
make almost any terms for yourself !'
"That is true, again. Your foresight is far
superior to mine. Should I determine to open
any negotiations with Sir henry, you must be
my messenger. There is no one wlhm I can
trust but you !"
" And yet even I may ie faithless ?" said the
youth, with a strange smile.
I fear not that!  I would trust my life and
honor with you !"
"And yet, general, the advice I have given
you nay ie your ruin! I am almost sorry that
I gave it!"
"Fear not, James, I shall never blame you !
In truth, had you not given it, the probability
is, that my course would be the same. I have
borne ; wrongs enough to drive any officer to
desperation. Others, without merit, promoted
over me-my services forgotten, or unheeded at
ay rate.  That republics are always ungrate-
ful is a truth proved by every history. Mon
archs can be just and grateful, if they will!
But governments which change almost as often
as the wind, possessing no stability, cannot be
depended upon!   If this were but an empire,
then would my past deeds have given me power
and rank-means to feed and support my tower-
ing ambition-for that I have such, do not
deny!"
"'Some gentlemen wish to see General Ar-
nold !" said a servant, entering.
"Admit them-Ill warrant they are those of
whom I spoke !" said Arnold, in a bitter tone.
"Shall I remain, or leave you, general?"
asked the aid.
"Remain, James, and note carefully all that
happens and is said !" replied Arnolb. " I feel
that a crisis in my fate is fast approaching!"
"Your star is not yet at its height 1" said the

young man, in an encouraging tone.. "Fortune
has vet many a smile for you, and I hope that
you will not despond
"Never while life lasts, and I have you by my
side !" replied Arnold, cheerfully, as ie heard
the footsteps of the advancing company.
CHAPTER XXVII.
ARNOLD'S DESPERATION-TIE FIRST FALSE STEP
IS TAKEN, AND IT LEADS-WHERE?
It was but a short time later, and to and fro
General Arnold strode with his face flushed, and
his whole frame quivering with excitement.
in his hand he held the decision of the court of
inquiry, or court-martial, which had been held
upon him. It found hin guilty of having upon
one occasion used public wagons to convey some
private property of his, though he paid all the
expenses of the teams ; and also, that lie had
granted protection to a vessel wishing to leave
li'hiladelphia, without consulting the comman-
der.in.chief, though knowing the character of
the vessel, he deemed it right. All of the other
charges had fallen to the ground, and these it
would seen were almost too trivial for notice,
especially in view of what he had done for the
country ; yet private malice so wrought them
into crimes, that he was sentenced to be repri-
manded by General Washington.    No keener
pang could be infilieted upon his proud heart,
which had already borne so much, than this.
He felt that a reprimand from him who had been
his earliest friend-who had been the first to
place him in the pathway of fame, would dark-
en his name forever!"
I would be the last to apologize for a traitor ;
but when all had been bright, brave, patriotic,
up to the hour when his proud and sensitive
spirit was galled into madness by wrong, it is
but just and manly that all which is extenuating
should be written down in his favor. his after
sins were as dark and fearful as his first marks
in the world had been brilliant, it is true ; but
back with the eye of charity let us look through
the cloud of darkness, upon such light as can be
seen through it.
To and fro, with that unjust and cruel sen-
tence in his hand, he strode, while bitter curses
rose from his lips.
"Yes, James," he said, to his aid-"yes, they
have run my cup of bitterness over! Forbear-
ance is with me no longer a virtue. I have
been a faithful friend to America-have poured
out my blood like water for'her-but now it
would afford me pleasure to fight as fiercely
against, as I ever have for her! Yes, I am free-
dom's foe now, if freedom is in this land. Mine
has been the hand to help to build up the cause,
and mine shall be the hand-the first and fore-
most to help to pull it down I Go to Sir Henry
Clinton, meet Iis overtures with my free assent
-to you I leave all, and will abide by any
agreement which you may make !"
"Will you apply for the command of West
Point, sir?"

I

II

3   r
Y
e
3
k,

"Yes, and get it, if it can be procured by art
and dissimulation! They have made me ap-
pear as a villain ; and by high Ieaven they shall
not be disappointed in their estimate of my
character! I will crush them and their cause, or
die in the attempt!"
"Please give ate a letter to Sir Henry Clin-
ton, to attest that I am your agent!1" said the
aid ; and his eye flashed, and his face reddened,
and his limbs quivered with nervous excite-
ment, while Arnold sat and wrote the letter.
"A little higher and his star is at the zenith !"
muttered the youth. "And then-then down,
down forever into eternal darkness, where infa-
my shall crush its light, shall it descend 1"  -
' The letter was written and given t the youth.
At the same time, Arnold offered him a purse
of gold to defray his expenses.
"No, sir, keep your gold, I have money, and
will make the British general pay my expenses.
Ie and his master are richer than us!" said the
young man.
"That is so !" replied Arnold, "and fear not
but that I will dlaw heavily upon them. That
which I meditate and will perform, must be
well paid for, for it is a fearful risk for me to
run! Name, honor, all will be lostif I do not
succeed. If I-do, then my success will gild my
actions, and I will still be hailed as a hero ! He
only is criminal who fails in action!  I may
even lose my young bride !"
"No fear of that!" said the young man, with
a covert sneer, which Arnold did not notice.
"She, as well as her family, are more attached
to the king's cause than our own.  The fear of
the confiscation of their property has made
them endure the patriot name and cause 1"
"I believe that you are correct in that,James,
but it is singular that I did not think of it be-
fore !"
"I have seen it in a thousand things !" said
the aid. "But let me advise you, general, not
to reveal any of your secrets to her ; few wo-
men can keep a secret !"
"I will be cautious, but now away to New
York, to Sir lien-y Clinton, disguised as best
you can, and hurry matters through; for every
hour that I am now in the service of America
is to me an hour of misery !"
"A pass through our lines might be neces-
sary !"
"Yes, it is well thought of! What name
shall it be in?"
"That depends upon my disguise. I think,
by removing my moustache, I could go as a
woman-as a Quakeress, perhaps I Write it as
Deborah Brierly, if you please, sir!"
The pass was written, and the aid hastened
away, as if he feared that Arnold's mind might
possibly change, or something occur to prevent
his journey.
"The die is east!1" muttered the general, as
soon as he was alone. "I cannot retract now
if I would, but it is a fearful risk. Yet it must
be met boldly ! And why should I shrink

42

TAE CURSE FULFILLED.

48

x
}


44                   LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,

THE CURSE FULFILLED.                   45

who have faced death so often ? Yet it was
where honor would have been my pall and not
infamy !
And he shuddered as if the icy shadow of
the future had fallen upon his soul. And well
he might ; for already were the dark clouds
gathering which would blacken his name for-
ever !  Already was weaving the net which
would forever ensnare all of life for him that
wai worth possessing.
CHAPTER XXVIII.
wimAQte(ITO  AN) Tiiy REaiiNAND-TI E ivona
ASKEDi AND GRANTED.
There was in Gte ral Washington a loftiness
f presence whih commianded respect alike
froni friend and foe. A respect not allied with
fear-a respect which no tyrant could command,
a feeling that lie was souitlhing purer, older,
hitter than a mere ordinary normal. Selected,
it would seem, lv the hand of the Almiglty-
e lucated, too, for t he very position which lie
held, destiny marked him, indeed, to be theI
father of a nation of freedom.
No envious hand could blacken lts fame.
Slander recoiled front him, like a bounding ball
east against marble; treacht ry could not betray
him ; and death, the merciless, spared him un-
til his work was done, and then gntly laid his
hand upon him, and led him away to heaven,
to receive the reward of the just.
And never, perhaps, 'lid Washington appear
in more angelic light than when duty called
him to use the word of reproof. Never, per-
haps, except in the case of Lee, at the battle of
Monmouth, did such words pass from his lips
in a harsh tone. And there lie seemed to feel
intuitively that Lee was a traitor-one who
would have been worse than Arnold, if he had
possessed the same opportunity, and had one
half the provocation-for he was ten times as
cynical, and lacked the enduring fortitude of
the other in every point of his character. This is
a matter of op men, it is true; but from one who
has studied is country's history very closely,
and also examined the prejudices of the various
writers of that history, and found many a trace
whereby he can track treason in men highly
lauded, who only lacked the opportunity, not
the inclination to be traitors. And Lee was
one!
But to return to my paragraph--Arnold
stood before Washington, to receive from him
the reprimand adjudged by the court-martial.
The light of kindness shone warmly from the
great chiefs eyes ; and there was a shade of
sorrow upon his face that such a duty devolved
upon him-for he was, and ever had been, Ar-
nold's friend-could see his faults and allow for
them ; while he admired his impetuous valor,
and a natural generosity in his character that
few others would see.
lie spoke very kindly to Arnold, using these
vords:
Our profession is the chastest of all. The

shadow of a fault tarnishes our most brilliant
actions. The least inadvertence would cause
us to lose that public favor which is so hard to
be gained. I reprimand you for having forgot-
ten, that in Irolortion as you had rendered
'ourself formidable to our enemies you should
have shown moderation to our own citi.ens.
Exhibit again those splendid qualities which
have placed you in the ranks of our most'dis-
tinguished generals. As far as it shall be in
my power, I will furnish you opportunities for
retaining the esteei which you formerly had."
Even before Wahington ceased to speak, his
voice was tremtulous, and his eyes moist, and it
was evident that he suffered as much or more
than he to whom he was obliged to administer
reproof.
And Arnold must have felt the reproof even
more deeply thain if it lad been harsher. lie
tould have steeled his already rebellious spirit
against that; but kind words pierce deeply into,
a heart that is not all given over to evil.
"General !" said lie; "you say that you will
give me an opportinity-to regain the esteem
which my eneimes have robbed me of! For
the sake of the past I ask it! My wounds are
not suflicienctly healed to endure the fatigues
and hardships of the field ; but let me entreat
a position where I can be free from my present
expenses and trammeled position, and where
future fidelity and the duties of a soldier can
be verified."
Washington paused thoughtfully, and looked
Arnold in the eyes, as if he would read his
every thought.
" What position is there in my gift where you
can be useful to your country, sir, and do credit
to yourself ' ie asked, at last.
"The command of West Point, General, until
I am able to take the field."
Washington hesitated a moment, and then
remarked :
"It is a most important post, and requires
to be guarded with unceasing vigilance ;for the
enemy have a desire to re-open their route to"
('anada, by the valley of the Hudson and Mo-
hawk. But until you are ready to re-enter the
field for an active service, you shall have the
position."
"Thanks, myCeneral'"cried Arnold, scarcely
able to conceal his joy at the result of his ap-
plication.
He was now on the road to complete his
treachery ; and with all the hidden evil of his
nature he contemplated the path without paus-
ing to look for obstacles in tIe way.
CHAPTER XXIX.
ANOTHER INTERVIEW WITH CLiNTON-DEEPER AND
DARKER oRowS TIHE PLOT.
Sir Henry Clinton, who had wondered at the
long delay in procuring an answer to his offer
to Arnold, was delighted at last at the reappear-
ance of the person we have known for some
time as James Prescott, dressed again in her

woman's garb, and bearinga letter to him from
General Arnold-offering, upon certain condi-
tions, to leave the service of the Americans for
that of the king ; and also pledging himself, if
he could get the command of a post or a divis-
ion of the army,to make dhe delivery of the
one or the other a portion of his treachery.
"The general places a high value upon his
return to allegiance to the king !" said Sir
henry, after he perused the letter of Arnold,
"His position enabled hium to do so, sir! lie
is trusted by Washington-the idol of the army
-and thought much of by the people !"
"But he has not been so popular of late?
"Not with a few leading men and officers,
who are envious of his talents and fame, sir-
but they have striveinin vain to crush him;
and you will see him i a very few days in com-
mand of one of the most important fortresses
in America-West Point
The British General started in unfeigned sur-
prise when hlie hear this declaration. ,Ie knew
the value of that impervious post-the Gibral-
tar of the Iludson---knew nothing but treachery
could ever place it in the hands of the British;
and that, when it was gained, the upper valley
of the Hudson-the teemimg riches of the Mo-
hawk and Schiharie valleys, and, above all, the
free passage to Canada, which Burgoyne risked
so much to gain, were his own. And with the
possession of that line also, lie would cut off
the intercourse with the Eastern and Middle
States-deprive Washington of a large field
for supplies for his Southern forces; and do
more to crush the patriot power here than by
any other means. In truth, the possession of
the upper Hudson, and the rich region there,
had been the British desire from the commence-
ment of the war.
"If Arnold will put that post in my posses-
sion, there is'nothimg im his demand which I
will hesitate to grant!
He shall do it, sir !" replied the lady. "It is
the act of all acts that I have reserved for him
When he bas sold himself, and betrays his
country, thea my olbjet is accomplished !"
"You must hate him very bitterly to lead
him to do this !" said Sir henry.
"No act of mine has been, to him, like hate,
sir! I have periled-my life to save his-I have
been his best adviser so far. What my motive
is, is for myself to keep alone. But I wished
him to rise to the topmost ladder before lie fell
-and he has ! He can rise no higher as a sol-
dier, either in rank or reputation ; but one act
of treachery will simk him forever, and then I
shall be almost satisfied, and the ruling action
of my life will have been accomplishe !"
"What a strange creature is woman!--an
angel in her love, and a fiend in her hate !"said
the general, in a thoughtful way, but not ad-
dressing himself to her.
"Before you study out the character of wo-
man, Sir Henry, we will plan out the manner
in which this enterprise is to be accomplished

-for it must be well planned, to be safely per-
fected!"
"Thatis very true, fair lady ; and as on Gen-
eral Arnold's part you have full power to act,I
shall be glad to hiave you lay out the plan b
which this most desirable object can be effected.
I would like if General Lee could also be ap-
proached. He is a valuable general to the
rebel cause !"
"Excuse me, Sir henry, you err there. He
is morose, self-willed, anidunpopular alike with
officers and men. Neither he nor Gates would
be of any real benefit to you. The latter is
imbecile, and owes all the name he'has to for-
tiuie, and that only. The possession of such a
pure patriot and noble snan as General Schuyler
would indeed be a benefit to you; for the
Americans would yield in utter hopelessness, it
they saw such mei as he give up or leave the
cause. But while lie and Green. and Putnam
and Morgan, and Wayne are true and in th
field, your work is not done. But Arnold is
the one you want, must have, shall have, and
the only one with whom I will hr.ve anything
to do!"
"You exhibit a remarkable knowledge of
these generals, lady."
"Why should I not, sir ? Disgtuised, and
acting as a confidential aid to General Arnold,
who has no suspicion of my sex, but believes
that Iam dead-for I represent to him the cousin
of the one I really am--I have met these gener-
als on and off the field. My situation enables
me to hear the opinions of others about them,
and to know myself how they stand-how they
act. I am a woman, it is true ; but having
nerved myself to a certain object, every energy
of my mind has been kej*constantly in action.
That one object is ever uppermost iiin my mind.
It accomplished, and I care not what next oc-
curs ! How this war ends-what party suc-
ceeds, matters not to me. I serve you now not
for gold, but because, by so doing, even though
it benefits you, I shall obtain my object. "1!t
I saw General Arnold raised to the pinnacle oil
which lie stands, I worked against you-fmr-
nished him with funds-encouraged him witi
the thought of my love to rise, and lie sue-
ceeded.  Then when I laid the plain which,
with your aid, I will execute, I had the report
of my death borne to him. I have since not
only encouraged, but brought about his mar-
riage with another, and one who is not unfriendly
to your cause. All this, sir, for one object,
and that to eternally crush him !"
"Lady, you astonish me! Were your talents
all enlistedagainst us, I should fear you more
than any general that you have named. A De
Stael and a Maintenon were dangerous foes to
more than one government in the old world-
you, in the same field, with all their talent, and
a fiercer nature, would have shaken kingdoms,
while they only ruled weak-minded men I"
"' I do not seek your fhatte:-y, Sir Ienry-but
let us think of this business. Some conafde4-

I


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

teal flierr of yours, empowered to act, must
neat Arnold anda s+ tt e the final conditions. lie
a- nit i lait  uic ee, and will not come to
a      o any j o c  oitaity. lor any prelini-
srx air*aa, n at Is will still act as your mes-
r,,"    iutb iil niatters another must take
- 1i   link of it, anal sliet one so soon as
\ \ ,'  t Point-fur you seem to feel cer-
mi t bit hi will get that lost.''
- 1 invgw he n ill; fir he will ask General
Wa'iiun tani fr it; and the latter is deeply at-
tic +t to 111thim, anl full of confidence in him;
ti:i t u,for th  sake of his past wrongs and
ens:.ccs, do an thing that he can for him."
+ '1 bn n 1dv. 1 will be prepared to open,
+:  a '!  couriiiiications with him. And in
t m e. a a f a f.. sf hours I will prepare a letter
for ia  in cipher, and  give you the key.
1    i ie. it ite oler you a room and refresh-
ian iit-, rn iha you to tel easy, and that every
ae., t a u have confided to me of your reasons
or cntrpiajang him, are safe with me."
I be lly lid, and permitted the general
to eat lier to an apartment, where she could
anit titahaprepanration of these documents.
'I I APEIR  X X X.
AI.Niii aS-tiEITaN troN TIIE FIELD OF TRiA-
ioN-lllS \iEiSSENGER ARIvIIES.
liaik-listen to the peal of cannonry rolling
away aniiwng the clefts of the rocky highlands,
fari p and down the placid bosom of the Hudson,
echoig as if an hundred guns replied to every
one that was fired. And close following it, the
sound of the rolling drum, the cheerful bugle,
and the shrill fife. And still following this, the
gla I eiouts of hearty' oiced men.
What does it mean. It is Arnold's welcome
to the command of West Point.  his desire is
acotiiplished-he is in possession of the for-
tress most necessary to the American cause.
And while he gazes upon that brave and true
garrison-while he stands there with a flushed
and proud face-he is calmly thinking of de-
livering them over to the enemy-calmly study-
ing how to do an infamous treason. And be.
side him stands his young wife, and near her
the babe she has so lately borne to him, resting
in the arms of a servant, gazing with wonder-
ing eyes upon the glittering and noisy pageant
before it.
Oh, if lie has forgotten the call of honor,
patriotism, duty, all that should bind him like
links of gold unto his country, why does not
the thought of the sorrow which his dark acts
must bring upon her heart-the love, and pride,
and hope now beaming on her face, which he
must crush-the scorn which she must endure
with him-rise to his mind. Why does he not
think of that day so surely to come when the
budding youth of his child will be frost strick-
en by that cold world which will point to him
and say, there goes the son of a traitor !
Madness-utter madness not to think of these

things, but he is beyond thought now. The
frenzy of wrong is in his brain: ambition to rise,
even upon a young nation's wreck; has usurped
all that was good in his soul he is lost, lost
forever.
In that group, looking on with pride at the
grand display, is old Elnathan Goodrich, still
chief valet to his master, but little dreaming,
however, of his intended treachery-else he,
humble and dependent as he is, would scorn
him and turn away from him, even as the Jews
did from Judas, after he had sold his Lord and
Master into their hands.
The troops reviewed, and dismissed, and Ar-
nold turns away to go to his quarters-notin
the massive fort, not within its rocky intrench-
menta, but to more comfortable quarters in a
mansion near by-from    whence he can more
easily steal forth to meet the emissaries of
America's foe, and avoid the watchful eyes of
officers and vigilant sentinels. 1-Hi every stet
and movement now mark the coolness and de-
liberatioti of the man beset uon error, who
will not turn back from the line ie has marked
out, even though it leads alone to infamy, and
'ruin.
Before he gains the portals of the house
wherein lie has taken up his quarters, he ob-
serves a young horseman covered with the dust
of rapid travel, riding swiftly toward him from
"below," and a pleased smile gathers upon Isis
face as lie recognizes his aid.
" Al, James, I am glad to see you ?" lie cried,
as the youth reined up his panting steed and
dismounted. "I hope you enjoyed your visit
to your friends -"
"Very much, sir; very much, I thank you !"
said the youth, as he handed the reins of his
horse to a groom who approached.
"Come to me in my private office as soon as
you have changed your apparel, and refreshed
yourself," said the general. And then with his
fair wife leaning fondly upon his arm, lie en-
tered the mansion.
An hour later, he was seated by a table, upon
which lay writing-materials, and official pa-
pers, nani opposite to him was his confidential
aid-upon whose calm face could be traced a
look of intense satisfaction, while he watched
the countenance of Arnold, who was reading
Sir henry Chunt' a's last letter.
"It is well-Sir Henry seems inclined to-be
very liberal," said Arnold, as he closed the doc-
ument, and carefully placed it ia an inside
pocket of his coat. "When will the officer he
sends to close our final conference, arrive ?"
" Very soon, as quickly as possible ; he has
chosen one with whom he can trust such im-
portant negotiations. When one of the British
war vessels moves up the Hudson, within a few
miles of this post, so near as not to excite par-
ticular suspicion, nor to get within range of our
batteries, the officer will be on board, and will
expect you to visit him 1"

'No-lie must come to me! ,I will not trust
iiyself into the lion's claws until I have full
assurance and security of good faith, upon his
part. Ths toay be a pints to inveigle me so
that Icannot retreat, and then to sacrifice inc."
" taeral ! do you think I could pander to
your  ryi:y ' cried the youth ; and a flesh as
of weiinled feehing came over his face.
a N, James, no, not you! You are the last
in the world whom I would suspect of an inten-
tion to injure me!  But I fs ir the treachery of
the Iitisltgeneral.  To get me in his power
lie iii. .t do anything."
iur ijure himself, and lose that which lie
cares fir almost as much as the securing of
yourelf : tse possession of this fortress ?"
\ell, the oticer can meet me on shore,
ieat tie vessel, under cover of night, both of
us ,.ng disguised : there can be no danger in
Perhaps not !" said the youth, thought-
fully.
"Well, you have done well so far, James,1
an you tst arrange all up to the very close.
Of course when I go, you will go with me
"Never fear, sir, but I shall be with you to
the s e!" said the youth.
Illd Arnold noticed the slightly sarcastic
tone, and ttsg flash of hate, which caine almost
snake-like from the eyes of the youth, his sis-
picions of some treachery to himself, of some
itmpetling power besides a wish to serve him,
which actuated the youth-must have been
arouse.l
You will personally watch for the arrival
of the vessel, James ! It will not do to intrust
another with a hint which might lead to the
disecrv of our secret !"
Yit.iwish shall be obeyed, sir!"
"Iaho deh matter can be arranged soon !"
stid A rnold, thouightfuI y'.
" Wly do you feel in haste, sir ?"
" I have two reasons. The sooner the work
is done, and the danger of premature discovery
is past, the easier I shall feel. Again, General
Washington, who is son to come north to visit
the French general, Count de loelhambeau, at
IIartforl. has written to me, that upon his re-
turn lie will visit this post. lie has Ctse eye of
an eagle, and almost the perception of a god
and if the least suspicion of intended treachery
upon my'part falls on is uind, my star is set,
atnd seitforever !I"
"Could you iot turn his visit to some more
account than all else?" said the nil, more wily
than the fiend who seduced Eve from duty to
her Gusd and husband.
"What do you mean " asked Arnold.
"A dukedom and its rental-roll might be
yours, by one act?"
"And that act is what, James? do not speak
so vsaueiy."              O
"To deliver Washington into the hands of
the Iritish general, with this fortress.  With
him in their power, the English would close the

ci
a'

war in a month. There is no one in this land
who can fill the place of Washington, either in
the council or the field. With his loss the dis-
heartened people would submit, and kiss the
hand which smote them 2"
" Deliver Washington !' muttered Arnold ;
and his face grew white, and his frame shook as
with an ague at the thought.
"Deliver Washington to the    eadsman's
block or the hangman's cord, or tlshat lie might
be caged as a wild beast, and shown to wonder-
ing eyes in Europe, as a fallen champion of
freedom-as one hike Wallace, an lHofer', and
Tell-who had been destined to strike for free-
dom, and strike in vain."
Wickr d, God-forsaken, and devilish as he was,
Benedict Arnold shuddered at that thought.
" lie his been my friend!" he imurmsured.
My friend, when all else were my foes
Yet whieni you have corst  atea yotr
bargain withs Sir hlenry, lie witllhue the lirst amid-
loudest to condemn you, and would sign your
heath-warrant with an unshrimking hand l"
I believe he woil, for ie would dueem it
his dut, ! And from duty he never shrinks! II
love sins, Jates, and had I iot b en so wrong-
ed, never, never, have given ims cause as I may,
to hate mise!'"
Lore, sir, is a scarce thing in this world. It's
name is very often only a cloak for deceit?"
" True, yet you are young for a philosopher !"
And the heavy-hearted Arnsold smile faistly.
It is not age, sir, but experience which
tiacls piilosophly! Btt I will go to y duty,
thre apparoaceh of Ctse English vessel roust be
watched!"
Anl again Arnold was alone. "Deliver up
Wassintgtoi"-he murmured, in seep thought--
dehiver up my patron and friend ? It were a
most ungrateful act, yet I will think of it ; for,
as Jmses says, a dukedom might henisv rewvard!
But it must he thi etjict of special negotia-
tion ! I woil think of it."
Oh, when the wrong is before you, never
pause to think, for he who does, is lost !
CHAPTER XX       .
TttE FLOWER OF TIIE iRITISH ARMY QUIvERS ON
TtIE STEM-a itS STORATHIG vtoWILL citusIlIT.
'rell Major Andrd, my adjuitant-geniral, tsat
I wish to see him," said Sir -henry Chmto  to
Iis orderly, after lie had dismissed the emitsary
of Arnold with documents to that ebihr'otie
traitor.
In a brief time, a young and noble-looking
officer entered the room, one with dignity, in-
tellect, and hoor marked upon every express-
ive littesita .t of Isis face.
Yost wished to see me, Sir Henry !" he said,
as lie bowed upon coming im.
I dial, major, sit down !" replied the English
nohieman ; "I have an important matter upon
which I wish to confer with you I"
"I amnat your service, Sir Henry," said the
young officer, sitting.

47

THE CURSE FULFILLED.


v

48

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

"I have a secret and most dangerous mission
upon which some one must be sent; and, after
thinking of all my officers, I know of none with
whom I can intrust an expedition that is deli-
cate and important so well as yourself. You
are suave in your manners, possess a diplomatic
turn, and have nerve and courage ; and you can
comprehend my ideas without the necessity of
my committing them to paper."
"You flatter me, my general."
"I do not. I knew your worth when I
placed you, although a subordinate, in so im-
portant a position upon my staff as that which
you occupy."
"Thanks, Sir Henry ; I am ready to under-
take the mission, provided it be honorable,
utbelv disregarding any danger which I may
incur
No duty for your king should he consider-
ed dishonorable, major !" said Sir henry.
"'There is but one duty in war-time vhich I
consider dishonorable, general, except that of
unnecessary cruelty to the helplesss-such as
the butchery of disarmed prisoners, or the em-
ployment of sasages to scalp women and child-
ren at a premium
"And what is that, major ?"
"The duty of a spy, which, in all nations, is
considered so dishonorable that it is punished
with a disgraceful death ! I am ever ready and
willing to die for my king and country, but I
wish to die a so'dier's death !"
"The wish is honorable ; but, with the mis-
sion which I desire to intrust you, it is q1ues-
tionable whether you could ie considered a
spy by the rules of war. It is true that I wish
you to visit a rebel fortification, or, at least, the
commander of one !"
"Then if I do not do it under a flag of truce,
or with arms in my hand, in net of hostility, I
surely would be considered a spy, and so dealt
with, if taken "
Sir Henry looked annoyed.
"I fear that the use of a flag of truce would
endanger, and, perhaps, dest-oy the object of
the errand ; in truth, I feel sure that it would
perhaps draw suspicions upon that man with
whom I must communicate and negotiate
through some able and responsible officer. And
hostilely you cannot go ; for we wish to draw
him over to his majesty's cause, and to get pos-
session of the fortress which he holds!"
"May I ask, if it is not wrong to put the
question, who this officer is, Sir Ilenry'"
"It is Major-General Benedict Arnold !" re-
plied the British commander.
"Impossible !" cried Andre. "lie is one of
the first and most desperately patriotic gener-
als in the American army-I would as soon
think that Washington could himself be cor-
rupted!"
"And yet this same incorruptible general has
been corresponding treasonably with me for
months 1" said Sir Henry, with a smile. "And,"
be added, "it only wants the payment of the

}

moneys into his hand, and, the filling out of his
commission, to close the act which will deliver
West Point to us, and secure his services to our
side
"By Heavens ! there seems to be no honor
in man!' said Andre, excitedly.
"You speak as warmly as ii yen were friend-
ly to the rebel cause," said Sir henry.
"You know that I am not, general; but I
am so attached to the profession to which I be-
long, that it pais me to see a soldier sell him-
self to dishonor, even though he be an enemy,
and by his act renders us a benefit !
"But, my dear major, we must not be so nice
in our distinctions of honor, in a case like this.
lie is but a rebel to his king, and returns to his
lawful allegiance I"     ,
'For a price !" said Andro, scornfully; "for
a price, and not from a sense of duty ! ie would
for a hrice as soon betray us again "
" Not when a halter would hang ready for
him upon both sides. his very treachery will
guarantee his fidelity to us. Ifesides, having
the coninand of the entire 'Hudson, and its ad'
vantages, will en: ble us to close this hateful
and unprofitable war speedily. I know that
no warmer desire animates your heart, which
sighs so often for old England and a loved one
there, whose hand but awaits your return!1
The young officer blushed deeply at this al-
lusion, but evidently not front  displeasure.
After a moment's thought. he d.ail
"The defection of Arnold. and the yielding
to us of \\est loint, woll  e invaluable in-
del to our cause. It is sail that the place is
almost iiiqregnable."'.'.
That is s but the most important thing
wil lbe its effect on the army, of which Arnold
was a very idol. Other officers wi.l follow him-
the men will desert-:the people despond be-
neath the blow, and Washmigton will distrust
all around li; for he puts more trust in Ar-
nold than in any one else
It will be so, perhaps, sir; hut yet indiina-
t;on may aroute them beyond lespondence, and
the name of traitor become so hateful, that all
others will dread to ussunie it
Well, major, these are points which it is
useless for us to argue. Am  I to understand
that you wish to decline this vision, imiport-
ant as it is 1"
"Sir Ienry, if you order me upon it, it is not
for me to refuse it! I only say that it is a duty
repugnant to my feelings as a man and a soldier.
Sincerely-as impregnable as they say West
Point is-I would rather be the leader of a for'
hora hope to storm its battlements than to be
the negotiator for its delivery by a traitor to
the cause which lie has espoused !"
Sir Henry seemed to be more troubled than
ever.
"I have no officer of high rank," said he,
"with sufficient tact and prudence to do what
must be done.'
"Then, general, I must do it-give me you

TIlE CURSE FULFILLED

i

49

instructions, and make such preparations for
my departure as you deem best," said he, with
a sigh and look of gloom which seemed to
shadow a presentiment of his coming doom, so
sad and sorrowful.
CH APTER XXXII:.
MiDNIGHT TREASON - THE MESSENGER, AND TIra
VULTURE IN HER NEST.
It was night, and upon the bosom  of the
Hludson dark and gloomy shadows lay-sha-
dows from the black clouds in the sky over-
head, and from the gray cliffs and tall trees
upon the shore. And a low, gloomy ripple
was on the waters, made by the breeze which,
with  a S!len murmur, swept down from  over
the western cliffs, and through the tree-tops
upon the shore. It was a night fitting for the
consmmation of dark deeds.
A few miles below West Point, a sloop-of-war
lay at anchor, lark in hull and dark in name ;
for it was the British sloop "Vulture." She had
crept up in the gloom of the night to that posi-
tion stealthily, as if those who guided her knew
how dark and unholy was her errand. But she
had been observed from the shore, and scarce
had her anchor dropped, when a light skiff, imi-
pelled by only one person, left the land and
gained her side so silently, that no sentinel ob-
served its approach until the person who came
in it stood upon the deck.
Who are you, and whom do you wish to
see ?" asked the started officer of the deck, as
he saw this person step over the gangway.
"Ilist, speak low-h am a messenger to Major_
Andre, whom you have on board, and vish to
see him !" replied the visitor.
The officer led the way to the cabin, and in a
moment the young aid stood in presence of the
Adjutant-General of the British army.
"Where is General Arnold ?"insked And'r,
recognizing the messenger by a signal which
had been agreed upon.
" On the shore, but a short distance hence.
lie will there await you," was the reply.
Why lid he not come on board in person ?"
said AnudrS, impatiently.
"lie preferred to see you on shore, where,
disguised as he is, you can both meet in safety ;
anti would rather not trust himself in British
hands until he held a British coiinission for
his safe-guard, and had -delis ered over the
fortress vhich he holds, as a proof of his fideli-
ty to the cause lie is about to espouse !" re-
plied the aid.
"I do not like to leave my ship," said Andre,
gloomily.  '' The interview might have taken
luhace as well here. Whatever General Arnold
may be, I would scorn to detain him here a'
moment beyond his pleasure, when Iliad passed
my word for his safety",
Nevertheless, sir,"'replied the aid, "lie will
only meet you on the shore, where hme is even
now waiting with impatience. General Wash-
ington is soon expected at West Point, and it is

his wish to consummate matters as quickly as
possible."
"General Washington to be at West Point?"
asked Andr, hurriedly. "What is the object
of his visit there ?"
"Merely a visit on his return from Hartford,
whither he has gone to have an interview with
the French generals. If matters are arranged,
General Arnold will deliver him into your
hands!"
"heavens ! lie canot be quite so base as
that-so near akin to Judis!"
"Y" u understand him   not--when a man
once stoops to wrong, lie knows not where to
stop !"
"YOu penk of his course as wrong, and yet
aid him in it !" said Andre, eyeing the ahl with
a look of suspicion.
SI an only his servant in the matter !" re-
plied the iii, carelessly. " I am paid for my
services, and follow where he leads, or go where
hie bidsi me
" You say lie waits on shore for me. Will
you pilot my boat to the spot ?'
1 will do what is better and more safe for
you. 1 will row you there in silence in my skif,
which is light and small, and less-likely to at-
tract the -ittention of wandering sei u s than one
of your large boats."
" It is well-1 will trust myself to your guid-
anee, for you seen young, sind free from a
treachery which would endanger my life."
" thought soldiers set but'a li hIt value on
their lives " said the aid, in a light tone.
They seek a more honorable le-ti than that
which{I might meet if taken within your liins
said Andre, earnestly. " And though my life
may not be worth much to me, it iiay he to
another!"
"u have you a mother ?" asked the ail, quick-
lv mind earnestly.
" No ! But why do you ask ?" sail Amndri,
whoe ns wrapping his cloak around 'hisum, ani
hd not notice the agitated manner of the ques-
tioner.
only that I hai a mot her once, anil sc swas
remy dear to mtc !' replit d the ill, recovering Is
comtpiisurtie, and leading the ay toithe vessel's
side, that they might enter t hue'skiff.
Iosi' soon will you return, miij i' ?" asked
tie cornmsamder of the vessel.
"kI nowm int, but as soon as possible," re-
plied the iritish officer.
" I tone your detention will not he lengthy,"
said the naval officer ; ' for were are in a star.
row channel hit re, and under' high bmnuks ; and
the cursed rebels have so mnyummiy nsked bat-
teries that we know not when one will open
upon us-especially whm daylight discovers
us to the people up this way."
"I hope to be tack long before daylight,"
said Andie, as he descended the gangway lad-
der into the skiff.

i
.'
t


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

50

CHAPTER XXXIII.               have been shed over his "untimely end "-and
mx A.Ar.    AND TIIE v ULTURE STAr.TLED FROM  whom I hold to have been mrallya mIuc a
v l3 '   ND -T" lrLMA           criminal as the other-for he hie
Alone       N the gloomy shade of the trees upon  and pa i his price for treo-teonward
that shoe, mthoo   rn d  await ng  the  return I as rapily  as  tey could  throu  the  t
of h  re, nstigo -,rnteoficial agemt of Sr  rush, and soon reached the od( lt. Antis
of hey ins in.g r  ew it  atide _not alone  rwas atrtled to hear a crash in the woods as
fHenry i drntin +1,'I.l ast-yrut fir lns, they ap1roaclied the broken entrance of the
for hs  d arktv 'ohat cuild those thouldtrts h oihun--                  \   l
base hun e  nfhe atst glories of his career,  " Be nt alarmed, major," said  troll.
which he wae alen. it to dim forever by the acts " Only the horses of myself and e star there
wo  sich to h e  c insum nated  ?  f  the  cause  anul, ht rimig  our  steps, they  e
o sl   on ie ii It cruihi forever ? \ hat sliow their im p1at1 lence, probably.''
whicr l s coue  In  ie ld to  he  a  te ror  to  I:a ure, Andret entered  the  lin n in a
hie er   er   'i nrvott-l' as  t ach ictiereas- few momurn lit5, t the anid of flu mnt reel, and tin
ii. !;tif  cli  c k  thclatrte h I  i~ tt i  uS hr' I t', ii~ tl  iitli  a  miathiof  itrlii'toe-the
l ak thtliefy braterilhe'ssdobefore             1lo poirus  ala l
I            a k I"  e  mututcared.  " N  "  Co-f cos"  cam e   in  vogue,  ucceed 1 in
n x t i t t i   i t  lat  i r   -n +: l it   I  oi tbl  t atl i i  I  c u l l   l i g h t i n r g   a  s m a l l  "d a r k   l a n t e r n . ''
m   o      et              i  a  f h r  It  r v aled  th e  outl  ines  of  thu" ' h u l, sw 'iri'
te  nt        him     fa       wat a ir ci rule  yrdit'  suny , l'rto+, r  xiotin ,  no  fumiitre hut  an  ollI m e i,nut1
tuatl'  x !   ~t  arugtr Ct iii e in flut'it fl!t/t-c,  l "tui  )tillu tl i  ic Shairl1eles(f tllth e nu  +)-tiutt'dh
da v  t',r  Yr t Itl1l 1 c+ll look s re iin liu.t rv, who met thi antlrireo
h tt f        - i   t r is it d it ot th frit tint. Ainit waii n l ,ttiti
uon it. ftr t  ia  -lie di  too  ly. fir  n  idr i, w h  ntO  sign  rif his  rinkl ior It  tsih-
t o xi   i r  uf i  nc   I  l 'I li  - r- atuit him  lInt the  thin, h lri   fot rmtl t lsh
s   i      1 e  nti  hing  :ti  ate  ill  ig ery , tn'e  tiin  nostn1,   anli  t iret e lt  dm,
t  W'-' it ili   VIf    r dr  thy  tarry so t tid i ito anii what he  was.
tl i                 thIit alw  dt' l  - .\s Ai le  there o it i n his  aunti  mnifitarin
f              li ilftto Im  fear of r. d s -el h, h  re  (a hed  th ;i gaul', sc h  n fo
I«f flrj b, fr  I hi , irf  li  cort iry  aid  also  that  aii' xx« i nst.ll
c,_   .I l i  lcire  t''  a p  t''' ix r 'u tl  itl  ra'   to  dtifenti lire's If  r:tiitt
etz  , ,!  t  r   b   a  eI  , ',  ",, 11[1on tathe  rnwd+ ,   n  'ready 1o +lt.i   t~d i  ced  the
i      bi  he - h.ih a r thul 1  ciiy  to dh i uti g en iwr .  ti
In   t    ir"iio  the4ci xtf ti n' c i f '' n  ri, r'  r , r t ii'! i g  toit , a n r'11li
na               ch,  an I  Ar whi  dr. -s xxn uM.  tiux r I"  'In  Iitr'fu'a
th     - ar II''eI1              -iiiari 'i iiii ir ntl t ! , in  nuty think'
Imeeiit    t Ihirt. hmt it was  o  n h It r qtiiira dl gisr  t  it Iasl  t i l
^rkli   ri     l  i  i  ituut  ..ti i  ti  i,"  repulird  anahre.  'l'tcx ti' ile
Iar  thi  Ij ' \ilfrl'  a'l  d  it e titor.  s''-tms  stechid I, alt1  ouir  coinfrecew ir i  h
t t I t i  i t«c ii n ra l  A rn il d  "  w  ias  th '  1 ro bs e Ila l i t' a r y  len g t try,  I  p r :s u nt '  I  h ere+ is
ta '   -                                1o tanier of a discover'-
rt   . }, Walk bck ithi me,, maijir, Sr a de-  " Mir' to .c-that is, mtre uda r titan S
uciIt ii a  ens' I ekret  lear  yottrsil  m  er e oif a i lic t .ll   -i t r'ii  nt il
S t'  r  I  i nsr'  tort' alI f ,r tamt trig  a Is it,   hits e  youit ir  armed   A esel to   retii  t dheli
darkl i t  t ' tt ", "ie  l +# +tii t «' Amtllyt I atiri til",t li.Iiiti  t'ii ii'inrlttls  r u-ie
c0                   ti aiit k u ', oirle    ,  rit e   as tltr  w h I  n t  r e  w i
a n d  u .-  t 1 1 .  n e  c a n  0 " , ,r  a ci t f   "t  u r  s n n c   P i t  n   i i l e .rre d  o
ae  c n it t xorc mrr lttrieh ii cases hhe  ''\Well, general, we will at one' 1trr'  r
reatitt s, n  r tooi  btis-t i hrave ht e h yrnrtor to  re  it thinewit
th   aI  th t t ert                 cotm10(t untr mf  m  Il  itannsic covetvs sr
r ''      -ir htli    sten- our litt a   i' ,'  in ' o t  i  nmk, -   ht ttrt
f r  I 'xt I i li"  t  i tur  ie arl y tnsIi hii ptnlr." I meris  yi enetoitl  sai l  A rit
it   c  rra ele d   irmik iiin Ir   nl  the  o tum nt w ii- t et re i nt 1trIr  rirl
t   h lc itimt cuns  a'ch  is iehi  l  to  the  " Alo," hue ailedi, " the wtritten  ti irrf  i
the dtark It it .t1 is tire) wrent, tire aid muot- 1 i-ry Sir pay yrou teni thiiousrihviii in w
red aItt t ti    yur1, the momit that 'ou arr                       i
tee '. hi it irt Arnold, your star of glrr'vy t Yrk'."--N'y ows ltlk
li in  I  et  forever ! i'ver  tir i  shal  ' It is kioi ly  tine,  '  tPi  musta
hain's lni hrt faIl tir ein th' birotas r, totitl memn  of tire  mamniner  in  whih ll 'ethourt  mthe losse
unk     natmt itaie sw itr pridt e  'Thte' h In ret rier p  akeni to nc uire  it'   nt rr'owitrirt thtt' ri youf
fit i"' rint h at t,' aii  ht rce fto rth  i  i i !  in  n tio  'ith r  i ,  f   mt1  rsn  wo
,IIt in"i to li hh'"'              thit tire ollhcem's anti miii n of tth r . rp.ctrime asn h
'     tr cr t Irs  the traitor and thie suo nsri  , r ist to ithe  dear ,x t r sit trance osi
oftit-li, in  av 'h Isas as guilt  s him  so complete as tstC
wheom ir ai urnrul-th ough oceanS~ oh tea,  s tle.''

L

t

THE CURSE
"I presume they would, general ; but with
the most of the arms so placed that a select
party could seize them, andwith the sentinels
drugged so that at a given hour we cold in
silence occupy the place-according to the plan
-with a powerful force, I think there would be
no danger of much resistance. It would then
be folly ; and when you, their supposed gen-
eral, ordered those who had seized arms to lay
them down, they surely would not refuse."
"I think not," said Arnold, "llowsoon can
you move up troops?"
"i Almost unmetdiately. To-morrow night, if
it is a night like this ; for they are embarked
in transports and vessels but a few miles below,
atd rruld move up the stream at a very short
mnotce."
"I mayhave the rchestprize in all America
vithlun the walls of the fort, or att miy own quar-j
tears, to-morrow night," said Arnol'd, trying to
appear careless, though let'emiibled when he
made the announcement.
"Ah!-iwhat is prized so highly ?" asked
Andre', as if he knew not that the traitor meant
George Washington-the man so great and
good that even his enemies could not repress
their r'evererce for Iis character.
What would your king do if he had the
piersm of General'Washington in his power ?"
The same that e huts done to other great
rebels, probally-behead him,"replied Andr.
I asked with another meaning. What would
hie do frr hiim iwho rendered the service of de-
livering hin up ?'.'
Not hreimg his agent, but only that of Sir
Henry Clinton. I could not say," replied Andre',
dryly.  "But ih d you asked ie what I would
do, 1I would not hesitate in my answer."
Arnold lid not like the looks of Andre as lie
said this, therefore he did not press the ques-
tion home to him ; for he dirl not care to quar-
rel with hum then, and a rude answer might
havi been given.
After a brief pause, Arnold said:
" I expect that General Washington will be
at West Pomit to-morrow, or rather to-tlay ; for
it is already approaching the morn of another
day."
"Then I must hasten to be gone. Iave you
thie promised drawings and plans of the works
ready for me ?"
"They are here," said Arnold, handing him
the pipers spoken of.
" Are the posts where the sentinels are sta-
tioned all marked ?"
"They are ; and so accurate a description of
the grounds anI all the approaches are iven,
that no one can mitake them, much less a sol-
dier luke yourself," replied the traitor.
Then, general, if to-morrow night is dark
and favorable, hke the present,,-we will make
the attempt, The countersign ar.d parole will
Ie-' .
Washngton   and Congress.' to-morrow
night. If the night is not favorable, ' Brittania

FULFILLED.                               51
and Clinton' the next. But I shall have a faith-
ful man ready to meet and guide you; for you,
I presume, will head the enterprise."
"That honor i.e reserved for me by Sir henry
Clinton," replied' Andre. "Is there anything
else for us to think of ?"
"Not that I am aware of," replied Arnold.
And they rose to return to the river side.
At that moment, a heavy, rumbling sound
was heard in the' direction of the river.
"Heavens! what is that?" asked Andre,
quickly placing his papers within his coat.
" It is a sound which I have heard too often
not to recognize it," replied Arnold, far more
agitated than the other. "It is the movement
of the artillery, down upon the banks of the
river."
And in the very election of the place
where I landed !"
"Even so," replied General Arnold. "Some
one must have discovered the vessel in which
you came, and is planting a battery to play
upon her."
"General Arnold, I would not doubt you-
but if this is a plan to involve me and mygu'-
eriment, and perchance to take my life, yours
shall first pay the forfeit," said Andre, sternly -
and his hand was upon the butt of one of his
pistols when he spoke.
"Sir-I who never have been guilty of a
small action, nor of this great act of treachery,
till forced by my country to dlo it. would scorn
so mean an act as your words infer. I would
not be a traitor to youi; and I swear to you that
I do not know anything more of the matter
which now excites us than vou."
"I will, I must believe you, general. Lut how
can I regain my ship ?--day is actually showing
the first gray of dawrn."
"I know not; but here comes my aid    he
may tell us. In heaven's name, Jaimes, what
means that noise ?"
"Sonic of Wayne's artillerymen, sir, having
found out that a British vessel hd ventured so
far up the river, have got down their light bat.
terry to pay their compliments to her.'
Can you not order them raway ?" asked
Andre of Arnold."
I impossible !" was the reply ; "for my mo-
tives would be suspected in a moment."
'' True; but you can row me on board iin
spite of their fire, my brave young man," said
Andre, appealing to the aide.
"I could, sir, if they haid not planted their
battery within ten feet of where rmy skiff lies,"
was the disheartening answer.
What can I do ? I must regain the vessel
or get below in some way," said'Andre, passion-
ately.
" I will see you safe beyond our lines at every
peril !" cried Arnold, " hut, to do it, mount
my aid's horse, and with mne rife to my quar-
ters ; and there, furnished with a change of
dress, I will arrange for your safe eondvet to a
place of embarkation below."

r
-
i
f
S
t
,
(q
r       .4Y  ].
I        '
i
"T -

s
Y
i
t
4
a
t
i
P

,


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

" I have no choice, I must do it.  I never  HiM who rules all destiny cried: " hold, the evil
e ioulil have If: my ve'sel," said Amtlre, as they  goes no further !"
proceed d t,1  t i' liorsev.                  At that moment three mien who, without pay,
A nl i 1 look  u-l tone were very sal. The  without naameiii1-iilite. without rank or emolu-
presi'ntt im.at if in ing evil aireaty lay heavy  mint, were serving  their country-literally
upon lis hi irt. Ilow true it is tlhat       " fighting on their owvn hook-as did one of my
"'C " . ebt, ca t their shatotws before."  blood, whose name is not yet forgotten, nor his
As t lev rh' 'l, the thunder of the guns  death all unavenged, were seated near the road
frot ihe' I.itt ry. an the cheers of the artller- which rung with his wirse's heavy steps, en-
itcLai. Iih   lV upon their ears, but it did  gagl in the nit incident, nor yet classic, but
tliui a ii o', for a hr wlne1 the 'ound of the ir tite-killing gaimie of " sevei-ulp.''
liiir~ir-  bi i :'fi  11i  i th Jd litled  up  aloiin  the  rocky   e tIc ri '   ri1 13 1 ii'iaeh1  ,  te  pl r   eto their
roii~ 1.--                                   feetIi olipeil their cairl.,seiz.ed their rude fire-
lois, antl in a moment barred his way.
t' I I.\i'"'l'! l.-\V ho arte Von, a:transit'r, a dwl hlithier bound,
i i : -+  ii ii ii t I r  ' 'ir  ire,  stiiil  mu  aiisi i're  .  era  1' au li ir, the  fore-
'     :       +  ;I  i  I; n ra!.      mte  i    .ost of the'three, sihll e aivak'inig Andre
'1'  i    . n l'1 the  uiu-,   tty fio 011 ni h 1itaant daiy-diieams of a fair and fond
I,   ry irin 'hr  h.   o                                  ,,
-h,,i*'*  r r'iomrii.h r acc  y "1 romni  en cuc ale . i;u, getiit emen ." he ask-
!l"  lit  (.           li   i i ii  itt for ' I'vli    ' r o ity '- rcphaii l  W illiams, the  most
l :t i l ,'i nitil tihe     io        ' imicrt y, mitiimting  ihis reply
w.' , in, : mi a tle' i       mi- et d a  0n of tat th ey behged to the 1iUnti-h side of the
hlu                    e i    pi fromia b m,        m if. "I!" sail \ndyr', ioyit all his
ens-, ttotn re cal i n ill tIie i'511:ri it franieiiss of thme
_i.,               u '"~.   1to i'  iut if  iivair iniale ule   \ o""ii  . i.
r' tn'n.        in       .\ii 1! 1   n bir le  a  '  thiioe  iitr'   uiiiiwrs sealed  lis donmi.
1 ;t _H.   uro  1 '  (  Xvik ivi  11i 1 ,slint, ani lit us se' wihat you are
I t  1, +1  ,1   n haryii  un'ii iti'v li.iiti1' .. ide  of!  cried  Van  itI. t hc 'iyn er  of thi'
Ttt ~ ss  l~ s  tiiitlVc, mt al d la s115 thr ,anlem, :i'  i F 1 1l la  brolle r11m.
- ' :p.-  i ii1   itt ld by       '   t' lle   I am m  eaiit haste-let me
t  :c  "  H     b1r, tt   u i :t;  all  A  me r t'  a ! ' .  ma  l  Amide, e ntii i re h  un m  ned at the
ps                  I rci n .  : . a  ias souitihwda. r rairl.'liLi't t' :min sudmttiti'n' "if the dangir which
""tlu    i  '"5+"!  =i  .\anin  t- f only  t,} n w  e e dhnt5V1i') it  v i.  '' i  you  w11h1 goblt, here  2s
01.                   or;, ' it'ii ' a  iri hii  v I - sm  a  len  s iof it.' and+  htdrw  forth  the netted
ct 'u                  ii td t fi r  niii' f:lull'r' 1 1 .iie liy hils so slim' to hu nt, and  showed
) .                         t ' n g'lbt tei .rim  m t- i  iebic l  li  it.
.    r1 Iin. 'u si 'till it y' .oi en IP iib -''i of the coeuiitrnmnin tlasled when
tTn  n3.'""t   v*E uf"c:- h irn a lsn:h 1)t h  b~j le  ktwy  an  fi he  ttun :e . sm ht.  or they  twere ;very
at1 '      t    1  u ;;Er u  bl ;t,1  rCu  E a n ay.  n,  r. )t lint tile' o hatst  re phed s . .  .
i   sr  ii tit  il inii   (If thii  "  It looks c lvh Ih tith  roil ,  if it is, it would
- r t'! -"        ' i ii  I  lirni'hhli'i uirniii an Jmetiicr lsu inil. Vie do hot waiint your
: ',.1  t Iri h t  nills  m neytt iii   ! )in uoiout .''
h      - 'ah.  Ah  p a d on ,i ''ll\. bii ii .a\niAm'i'anl, thei?  I was but
n hh-h horHer  j'y't ni i,' n i Oiiii''ii I Sthiiouln id I tifi'iiiwas from below.
: ,  t "" t'L I ~n~ :i I"lusbh  1nIi ti uth i atminot, ibut :ani.\metrican hike your-
er              r     e      ' ...  ful  tI n  than  h lies.  litre  is timy l1es  fri  tlthe  irate  (G'u-
ti   r '     ' lt mi mii li iii inivsilprove  eral Arnoli, of West oimt, from whom I cone
v' r           i    t+o a 'rirt d 'ree, fi' indi upon w hse biusine s I amt hotiut .'' cried
it+                   anIt   I p':t.ike tim a great Ant ir, d rawitmg out and priesett ing tihe paper.
iiriiuin  s the  im.  lu ulhh og toik it mind ari'iwly exaniiiiied .t.
b                  .i  t. I  r 1',t iCi.Ii iiis. tie  '' All looks f.ur so fitr as the p:1s is concerned'"
'u           i      h' i i' i i  l r, ianen l  hebal sl he ;'' lut .m\ii'ric.iis se blom  carry gold.
,  '  iiraii t rmi i  ti iat is ii   iuiiiistiitmount ilan  sunIiiit to a search
r '  '.  1  .: i- ! . f la r r o ow n, 1ht'ei" G entle me'n, tutakem y w atcl, anid le t n meass.
tr.ltck'ii     My' husiesis urgent ."
;+- t.;sa-I  hrse.la rdnt t'at '"\\'e nee d  noin t  ches  to tell us  when  to (o
So:r linty .I) imoutnt, or we wrill help 30 0"
t, i r if (  is uw itvii the dial of his wat the stern really.
t{."         o 1  'w, b iwat'' is m i t' t t ' hophoes if  Anid ri' hesit:,ted a mio:ent; hail le been
ini m: t.'  ' in a '1uu'Clhtug freemtn, marked  ardch, even though those three strong men,
ii.h' turi 'i'  ii' tt iterluri se which was  atr'med as they' were, were li  odds, he would
ist ndud to e eush that natou, and the voice of 1 have.struggled for life and liberty. But acting

529

upon the advice of Arnold,he had left his arms
with his uniform, behind. Thinking that their
search might not be so thorough as to discover
the papers in his boots, he dismounted. The
pockets of his coat, waistcoat, and breeches, and
even the lining of his hat, were all carefully in-
inspected, and no evidence found whereby to
detain him.
"I guess he's all right, let him goI" said
Williams.
"Guessing work won't do for meI" said
Paulding. "Off with your boots, sin"
Andre turned pale as death.
"There is nothing there," said be, "the
ground is damp, and I shall catch cold ; I am
not a well man now !"
"Off with your hoots !" thundered Paulding,
who had noticed hi agitastion. "You caostand
on your head till this examination is over, and
if you catch cold, we'll doctor you up !"
Andrd still hesitated, and' Paulding rudely
raised one of his feet, and drew the boot from
it. As he did so, the secret came forth, the fatal
papers fell to the ground. Paulding took them
up, and inspected one after the other.
"Plans of the fortification of West Point !"
he muttered. " Countersigns, paroles, etc., etc.
You are a British spy, sir !"
"Not a spy, hut yet a British officer, I ac-
knowledge," replied Andri, who saw that fur-
ther concealment was useless.
"You can mount your horse, sir, and we will
take you back to the nearest post, where the
commanding officer will know best what to do
with you, and be better able to comprehend
these papers than we who are poor and igno-
rant !" said Paulding.
"You shall no longer be poor if you will let
me proceed to the British lines.  Nay, if you
doubt me, go with me, and, besides this purse,
watch, and the horse which I ride, you shall
each have a hundred golden guineas I"
"Mount, I say, you are our prisoner I"
thundered Paulding.
"I will give you a thousand golden guineas !"
groaned Andr6.
There was a moment's hesitation, while each
man glanced in the flushed face of the other. A
thousand guineas to men who scarce ever had
handled one o sons of toil, whose hands were
hard, and  pose brows were dark with the stain
of labor ! A thousand guineas to them ! what a
temptation ! It woulk buy a thousand of the
brawling patriots of the present day - haa
bought the editor and his press, the congress-
man and his vote, the judge on the bench, and
the governor in his chair I God, what a trial I
When Andre saw this hesitation, joy crept
within the clammy portalsof his freezing heart,
and Hope's light beamed from his eyes. But oh,
how quick his sudden exultation changed when
front every lip of those priceless patriots came
the holy words
"asrsaa GOLD cANNOT BUT us! "
Enshrined forever be they upon the records

.,,,'

I

L

I

58

of all which is immortal in history ! Engraven
be they upon every true American's heart.
Mothers, lisp them to your babea   Fathers,
teach them to oursons  Would to God that
in letters of gold, visible to every eye, like the
star they were written eternally in the sky
above us, that they may shame the recreant
sons of patriot sires into a remembrance of the
duty they owe to such fathers, to their country,
and their God!
But I forgot the patriotic politicians of the
present day have no God but gold-no duty but
what is iaid for !
"I will give ten thousand guineas to be liber-
ated and sent on my way. One of you may go
to Sir Henry Clinton with a note for me, and
get the money !" groaned Andre. "I will stay
till he returns!"
"You will stay until you prove that you are
not a spy ! All the gold in Eniland cannot buy
us ; we know and will do our duty ! Mount, or
we will help you to!" was the stern answer,
Andr6 groaned, and his heart sunk, for he
knew that all was lost for him, but he obeyed
the order. He was mounted, and they return-
ed, one leading the horse, the two others guard-
ing him with watchful eyes, and ready arms on
either side.
CHAPTER XXXV,
COL. JAMESON'S WEAKNESS, ANt) ANDRE'S MES-
SAG TO Says A TaAITRn'SI'SFE.
There was great excitement at the advanced
posts of Colonel Jameson, when the three brave
and incorruptible patrolmen brought their
prisoner in. Every man at the post was
aroused with a feeling of pride and patriotism,
when they learned what princely bribes the
brave capt6rs of such a prize had scorned and
refused.
The colonel, impressed with the calm dignity
and gentlemanly bearing of the prisoner, knew
not what to do. And not being sutlicientle
scholarly or erudite to fully understand te
meaning of the papers found upon Andri; und
as Arnold's name was only upon the pass, and
he not acquainted with that generals hand-
writing, and one who could not dream of the
treason of so brave a man and so great a patriot
as Arnold was supposed to be-was all the more
easily mystified.
When Andre requested to be privately ex-
amined by Col. Jameson-for the major at once
saw an advantage in such a course, for intui-
tively he read the good and easy character of
the man-Jameson acquiesced without hesita-
tion.
"I am glad, colonel, now that we are alone
and free from those ignorant mep, whose' pre-
tended patriotism was only based upon a desire
to reahse a large sum of money, and whose
eupidity I have fairly tested-I am glad that,
alone with you, whose intelligence and gentle-
manly bearing assures me that I speak  to a
patriot and a man of honor, I can reveal myself

t'
;
i
7. .
F f
i
t '
.y
f !
y
t   S
1
1
e
i
t w
i}r
}t
i
f
i   i

THE CURSE FULFILLED.


f

in nyi true character !" said Andre, with a suave
dissinulation that proved indeed how great a'
diplomat he was. "I am not the man whom they
believe me to be ; and, I assure you, upon the
honor of a gentleman, that I am not, nor have I
been, a say ,"
The i honor of a gentleman" in those days
was something, and not, as now, too often an
idle wrd ; anuid what with Andro's flattery and
this inastisolemn observation, poor Jameson was
indeed in a qua:idary. IIn had no efficient offi-
eer noar to aid or consult, and he was perplexed
dreuiflly.
.1 dear sir," said he, addressing Andre in
the ku! bt tones, "if you are not that which
ou utid to the men you were, pray, who are
you r
p rivate gentleman engaged in the patriot
caue, with heart and foitune. I am a friend
of t; i wral Arnold's, and his pass is genuine. I
beg that you will at once dispatch an express
with all eseed to him. I will write but three
lines to lin, or you may write them yourself,
stating only that Mr. Anderson has been de-
tained at your post; and I have no doubt but
that lie n'll hasten in person to assure you of
ity true character, and of the injury my unjust
dete nuon bty those boors han done the cause."
"Thor- cm be no harm with the express-I
will Cu l1 it," said Jameson; "write your note,
whiil- I go and mount an orderly."
"f I  erish, I can at least save Arnold, and
enable lim, with energy, to yet fulfill our plan.
hy ee niiisuiiiating with the troops below," said
Andi-whose every impulse was noble, even
though we deem Iis correspondence with Ar-
nol,.:n the first placea crime. And he hastily
wrote a note, so guarded that none but Arnold
could comprehend its meaing, yet it fully re-
vealeil thic (anger of both.
The colonel came in a moment later, and the
note was at once dispatched in all haste.
After the express had been sent, Colonel
Jatmson, knowing that General Washington
was 'p1cted above, enclosed the papers taken
upon Anri', and an account of his capture to
his euc'ltency, and, mounting another orderly.
bade it ride and meet the general on his road
froth 1artford, and to give him the dispatch.
is lit e returned to the room where Aadr6
was coposetdly seated, he mentioned this act,
and froit that hour Andrsl gave himself up asa
lost man. Yet he kept his self-possession, con-
versed pleasantly, and partook temperately of
refreshments, which the good-natured and hon-
est colonel offered him; and no one, to look
upon his frank and manly face, would deem
that in his heart he felt assured that a disgrace-
ful death was his inevitable doom. He as a
soldier well knew that the papers found upon
his person would convict him as a spy, for no
man in the British army was better acquainted
with al the rules of war than he. But he
nerved himself to meet the fate before him as a
man and as a soldier.

CHAPTER XXXVI.
THE ALARM--TUE TRAITOR'S ESCAPE-TnE WARN-
ING OF LUNA.
Arnold having been infurioed by avant-cour-
iers of the approach of Gtneral Washington,
made every preparation to receive the illus-
trious chieftain with all of the honor due his
rank and position. No one who saw with what
perfect calmness and decision he gave all of his
orders-even to the dressing of the officers and
men--or noticed how carefully he made his
own toilet, would have dreamed that he was
already a traitor to his country.
The preparations duly made, he returned to
his own quarters, there to await in quiet--if the
hell within him could leave him quiet-the ar-
rival of Washington. All that was noticed pe-
culiar in his conduct on that day was the fre-
quency of his potations. lIe undoubtedly wish-
ed to stifle feeling by the free use of spirits;
but false is the idea which prompts such means
to acquire the desired end.
It was a few hours later. Washington had not
come ; but having diverged from his intended
route to view a spot designated for a post in-
land, lie sent on two of his aids, to say that he
would soon be with his favorite general. And
while Arnold was cheerfully conversing with
these gentlemen, and witnessing their enjoy-
ment of the refreshments before them, the
courier from Colonel Jameson rode up at breath-
1. ss speed, anddhanded the general the brief
dis patch of Andre.
dhadta thinderbolt struck him to the heart,
no heavier blow could have come upon Benedict
Arnold. IIe turned white as a ghost, and
gasped for breath. Had not his back been
turned to the officers, they could have seen his
guilt in his very looks. And had not the tired
courier been busy in loosening the girths of his
panting horse, le, too, must have noticed it.
With a choking effort, Arnold mastered an
emotion which he knew would be his ruin were
it not controlled ; and bidding the orderly take
his horse to the stable and there rest until the
reply to the dispatch was ready, lie turned to
the ottheers, and said '
"Make yourselves perfectly at home, gentle-
men ; I have a few orders to give, and then, with
you, will await the arrival of our beloved com-
mander."
ie said this as calmly as if the flames of hell
and the fear of death and dishonor were not
burning in- his breast. Then he passed into
another apartment where his wife and babe
were, the young mother toying with the inno-
cent in her lap.
The moment he looked at them, all of the
man that was left in him welled up in his bosom,
and tears started to his eyes. le knew that in
his rapid, desperate flight, he could not bea
them with him-he knew not what their fats
would be when hate assailed and cursed his
name-when his vile defection should be known,
as soon it would.

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

"What is the matter. my husband ?" asked
the terrified wife-looking with strange fear
upon his pale face, his quivering form, and tear-
ful eyes.
I-Ic stooped, kissed her and the child, and
then whispered a few words in her ear. How
terrible to her young heart they must have
been. With a low moan she sunk lack in bet-
chair and fainted. Again he kissed her cold,
pale brow, and then hurried forth from the
house.
Oitside, he met the faithful Elnathan.
Where is my aid ? he asked, hurriedly.
"I saw him jest now a talkin' to the sojer that
brought you a letter," said Eltithan ; "and
then he got on a horse and rode down toward
the river."
" llave my horse here instantly," said Ar-
nold, turning paler still at this news ; "and if
any one inquires where I have gone, say that it
is to visit an outpost."
",lest so." said the phlegmatic Yankee.
In a few moments more, Arnold was mounted,
and riding madly away toward a place where a
barge was usually moored for the purpose of
crossing the river. his pace, when upon horse-
back was usually so rapid, that no one noticed
it now particularly, yet he felt as if every eye
Was upon him,
S on lie gained the hank of the river, where
the boat's crew, in their cleanest apparel, were
sitting, expatiatitiguipotn the hotnot- wich they
hoped to have of rowing Washington, the b-
loved of all, across the river, when lie appeared
upon the eastern shore. But just as he threw
himself from his horse, and ordered his men to
take their oars, le heard his name called from a
clump of bushes a short distance in his rear.
Ile turned and saw a figure in white, with
great dark eyes looming out fi-om a pale face
uponiin, and long cutling lotks of ebon lcue
twitting, about features a 1 too well rentein-
bereil.
"G d of Heaven-it is the spirit of Luona
Prescott !
b Beneiit Arnold, your star is set forever;
but u-e will meet agaiti. G--o for the bloodi.
hounds are on 'our track! Go-go ." said
she.
lie needed no second bidding, but almost fell,
rather than stepped, into the boat.
had not these boatmen      before seen him
"rather the worse for wear," as far as liquor
was- concerned, they would  not now   have
been so ready to obey his orders, for tey
thuhhtnodw le wis"lghl evtd
thuh     htnwh      a   sihl    lvtdas gentlemanly drunkenness is politely termed.
They had not seen the figure which he hail; for
it was hidden from them by a thick screen of
bush's.
"Where-away, your honor-which way shall
I steer ?" said the old sailor, vho at times nIl-
ed the after-oar, and at others acted as cox-
swain.
"Down the river, and pull as if the devil

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

was after you-my business is urgent," sail
Arnold, taking the tiller himself.
Used to obeying orders, the mn    henit to
their oars with a will, and the boat rushed
through the water with great speed. On it
went for miles, and the men began to wonder
if their general was not really crazy,; for when
they a ackened their speed, if but for a mo-
ment, he noticed it, and bade them   sternly
"Row on !"
At !ast, as they turned a point, the dark hull
of an English vessel of war lootied tip close
before them. And as he saw the vessel. his eye
flashed, and he muttered to himself: " Saved !
SAE!"
lut saved for what?  Why did not his heart
a-k that?  Saved only to be known its ita u-
diring Gatin upon earttithr-more occurs, u t'nit he
who site his Saviour on his way to .31o:it
Calvary ! But away with reflections, and to the
story I
When the crew saw the English vessel so
close ahead, they stopped pulling ; for they did
not believe that their general knew her charac-
ter, or that, if he did, he would risk himself
near hr.
"Row on-why do you slack your oars ?"
shtouted Arnold. iereely.
"That is an Enghinh man-of-war, yor hon-
or," said the old seaman, humbly touching his
hat as a mark of respect.
O bey my orders l" shouted Arnold, more
fiercely thiouhetfoi'e.
"General, you nay be willing to be taken
prisoner by the infernal Jobiiy B .hIs, but
il-ti e if I am!" said the hioniest coxswain,
blutitly.               .
"Roy on-the -first one that fatirs hies !"
shouted A rnold, drawing his pistols:nitt-I frowi-
in, upon the unartiied crew. " I have business
on hoar-d of that vessel t"
"It is no hottest business, but I will not row
another stroke unless you hoist ait u hite flag.
They will not dare to take us prisoners inlera
flag of truce," said, the blunt old sitant, who
in this exhibited ct'sider-abht  k iuvmmledge tuf he
rules of tear. " if von don't, we'll le having
shti-i hove at sea rsed sn.
As if no verify the w+ords of the Cxit'i-uued
old tars a spiral jet of white smoke tiut-~t ft-itt ,
the brs-port of the "Vulture," a houtiurelot
followed, and a whistling shot flew over their
heads.
Arnold saw that it was necessary to comply
with the action nsuggese  by the  u  otr.
lie hastily dres- a white ha adre-rt-hii'f from
his pocket, ad fastening it to tadehile of his
swrd, rise     e it ier the ir. Anatther mont
passed, antI a svhimx- flag fluttere-d f" mu it- miii a
truck of the vessel. Sullemnly anihsliowly the
nie-i them resumed timeir oat-a, and lulledul oing-.
side of thie sloop-of-war.
Arnolud hastily sct-tited the ladller which had
bet'n l,a.rehl over thte side. anti was met ity the
British commander at the gangway ; for' his


rank, indicated by his uniform, had been ob-
served as he approached.
"Whom    have I the honor to address ?" said
the British officer, politely.
"Major-General Arnold, formerly holding a
commission in the American army, but now
holding the same rank in the army of his Brit-
tanio majesty. I am anxious to be conveyed,
as soon as possible, to Sir Henry Clinton, for
whom I have news of vital importance."
"Are you the officer with whom Major An-
dre, a passenger up the river with me, had bus-
iness, sir ?" asked the naval officer.
"I am," was Arnold's reply.
4 May I ask, sir, where he is?"
"lie has been captured in trying to return to
New York, and I have been obliged to fly in
haste from my post to escape the same fate."
"Captured! Good God, sir! he was the
finest officer in our army," said the command-
er, almost overcome with feeling.
"I cannot help it, sir. His capture occurred
from no fault of mine. The only way to benefit
him is to hasten to Sir Henry clinton and take
measures for effecting his release."
Arnold's attention was now drawn to the old
coxswain of the barge, who, having ascended to
the deck, stood with his hands resting upon his
broad hips and his arms akimbo, looking at
him intently, with an expression of the most
bitter contempt upon his race.
"Why do you stare at me so, fellow ?" asked
Arnold, actually paling before his gaze.
"I wanted to see exactly how a traitor to his
country looked, so that I could remember it
forever afterward," replied the noble seaman,
with fearless candor.
"Captain," said Arnold, addressing himself
to the naval officer, "you will oblige me by
putting this mutinous scoundrel and all of the
boat's crew in irons, and detaining them as
prisoners of war."
And his eyes flashed and his face flushed with
the bitterest anger as he spoke these words.
"I hope your honor will remember," said the
old tar, addressing himself to the naval officer,
"thatwe are American sailors, and came along-
side of your vessel under a flag of truce ; and,
moreover, not of our own free will, but by the
order of that man, whom we did not then know
as a traitor, but believed to be our own true
general, though we thought he acted as if he
was three sheets in the wind."
"Ishall not detain you, my brave lad," said
the honest Briton. "You came under the pro-
tection of a flag, and I would be the last to dis-
honor it."
"I order you to detain those men as prison-
irs of war,,rsaid Arnold, in a rage, exhibiting
eis British commission.
"Your orders will be good with a subordi-
nate military officer, on shore, General Arnold,'
said the officer, stiffly ; "but I am a naval offi-
oar, and only obey my superiors."
Arnold, siasost ehoked with anger, turned

3
i
ij
E
i

upon his heel and entered the cabin, while the
naval commander turned kindly to the old cox-
swain and said :
"My brave lad, you and your companions
are free to return, as I said before; but first
call them on deck, and let them, with you,
drink a pot of good rum to the health of his
majesty."
"Excuse me, your honor, we will drink to
your honor's best health forever ; but, as Amer.
icans, true ones, wearing no false colors, we can-
not drink to the king,!"
"You shall not miss your rum for your scru-
ples, my lad-call up your men. I know how
to honor true bravery and patriotism, and to
detest treason, whether it be under a blue jacket
or an epauletted coat I"
The Americans now came up and drank a
glass to the commander's health, and then push-
ed for the shore. After they were gone, the
"Vulture" got under way and stood down thne
river to New York. Meantime, almost unno-
ticed by all on board, Arnold paced to and fro,
suffering a hell which no mortal man can well
describe. I shall not try. lie had learned a
traitor's first lesson-the scorn of all honest
men, no matter what their rank or station! -
CIIAPTER XXXVII.
WASINUTON DISCOVERS THE TREASON-TREATMENT
OF MRS. ARNOLD.
Not an hour-no, not thirty minutes had
elapsed after Arnold left his quarters before
General Washington arrived there. Surprised
at not being received in a manner suitable to
his rank, and by the commander of the post,
his first inquiry was for General Arnold.
No one had seen him since he rode so rapidly
away, saying that he had orders to give.
"There must be something wrong in this,"
said the general, sternly. "Where is Mrs. Ar-
nold ?"
"Very sick," said one of her attendants ;
"for some time she has been passing ft om faint-
ing-fit to fainting-fit. We do not know the rea-
son."
"Poor lady, there must be something wrong,"
said Washington, kindly. "Let orderlies he
sent out in every direction to seek for the gen-
eral. Something very unusual must have called
him away at an hour when he knew that I
would arrive."
The general had scarcely given these orders,
when an orderly rode up, covered with dust
and sweat, and his horse nearly dead from
fatigue."
"A package for your excellency from Colonel
Jameson," said the orderly. "I missed your
excellency on the road here, and have ridden
hard, for I know that it is very important."
Washington took the paelage and hastily
broke the seal. A frown, dark and terrible,
gathered upon his face, usually so mild ; but
he gave no other indication of excitement, while
I he read paper after paper.

When he was through with the perusal, he
handed the papers to General Lafayette, with
only this memorable remark.:
" WooM CAN wE TRUST NOW ?"
The young and enthusiastic Lafayette had
not the command of feature and of motion that
marked the commander-in-chief. Indignation
and anger both found expression in his face, as.
he read the proofs of Arnold's treason.
"Whom    can we trust, indeed I" he replied,
as he folded up the papers and handed them
back to General Washington. "What shall be
done, sir, iiow ?"
"Double the guards at every point with men
known to be trusty," said the general. "Send
out scouts in every direction, end bid them use
redoubled vigilance. If General Arnold can be
found, have him taken alive by all means. lie
must be made an example of. Send a strong
escort to Colonel Jameson, with orders to con-
duct his prisoner across the river to the strong
post at Tappan, where a speedy court-martial"
shall reveal who and what he is, and assign his
punishment as speedily as possible. Let every
movement be prompt and decisive."
There orders were given in a tone so low, that
none but Lafayette heard them ; and when that
general departed with his aides to put them
into execution, Washington entered the house
and requested to be conducted to Mrs. Arnold.
Uponentering the room, the lady turned her
tearful face upon him, and, clasping her poor
babe to her bosom, rushed and knelt at his feet.
With a noble delicacy, General Washington
waved to the attendants to leave the room, that
they might not hear his words, and then he
gently raised ier, and conducted her to a seat.
"I did not know of his treason until be came
to bid ne.farewell !" sobbed the poor woman.
"I candidly believe you, madam, your pres-
ent suffering assures me of that. I pray you
to be under no alarm for yourself or child.
Whatever I may thin' of the cruel ingratitude
of your husband, rest assured that none of its
effects shall be visited upon yourself!"
Affected by this kindness, the poor lady wept
yet the mor4'; and with the soft tenderness of a
father lie sought to comfort her.
When she was so recovered that she could
speak coherently, she said :
"General, I have but one favor to ask of
you. Let me return to my parents in Phila-
delphia, with my child, there to bury my head
in the shame he has cast upon me, and to di~!
I ask no more."
"Your wish shall be granted, madam, and
such conveyance and escort detailed to attend
you as you would have been entitled to had
not this unfortunate circumstance happened."
Overcome by his noble words, the lady knelt
at his icet and covered his hands with tears and
kisses; but lie again gently raised her, and bid.
ding her have no fear, but order her departure
as she desired, he left her, more composed, to
the care of her attendants.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.
TnE NEWS OF ANDRE'S' CAPTURE BORNE BY THE
TRAITOR TO CLINTON.
With deep anxiety marked upon his counten-
ance, Sir Henry Clinton sat in his room,-wait-
ing to hear the result of the mission of Major
Andr4, upon which so much depended. His
anxiety for the public success of the mission
was not unmingled with personal feeling, for
he was really and deeply attached to his young
and gifted adjutant-general, as in truth was the
ease with nearly every one who knew him.
When an orderly entered and announced
that General Arnold sought an interview, Sir
IHenry's face of gloom and anxiety brightened
in an instant.
"Admit him without delay I" he cried.
The entrance of Arnold alone a nionent after,
and with more of gloom than joy in his face, Sir
Henry felt intuitively that something had gone
wrong, and, as he extended his hand of wel-
come to Arnold, he asked:
"Where, my dear sir, is Major Andre. Does
he not accompany you, or is West Point ours,
and he in charge ?"
"Alas! Sir Henry, West 'Point is not yet
ours, and Andrt is in the hands of the enemy."
"My God-is he lost? They will hang him
as aspy 1"
"Not, Sir Henry, if energetic means are
taken and proper reprisals threatened. I have
already sent a letter to General Washington in
his behalf, exetilp-iting him from all blame,
which letter I wrote while coming down on
board the 'Vulture.'"
For some timn' Sir henry paced to and fro, in
too much agor.y to give utterance to his feel-
ings. At last he said :
"1 (ow did it happen? I pray you to explain
all. To mne it is a terrible blow! No son could
be so dear. If lost, not a man in the army but
will mourn his loss, and curse all that led to it.
Accomplished, brave, generous, high-minded,
he was our idol, lie shrankfrom the mission
because it might place him in a posit ion to be
considered as a s pyli Tell me all, General
Arnold; tell me all, now that.! am more com.
posed !
Arnold now explained all that lie did know
of the matter, which was nothing beyond the
manner in which Andre attempted to return to
the city, and the note which he had sent Arnold
after his capture.
"Unfortunate-so unfortunate, when all was
so well concerted for the surrender of your
post !" said Sir Henry, after Arnold had con-
eluded his brief narration.
"All that can be done for his release by me,
and all that I can do to prove my devotion to
the kmng's cause, Sir henry, shall be done!"
said Arnold.
"I 'do not doubt you, general," replied the
British chief.
"Nor, I hope, do you blame me for this un-
toward mishap 1" continued Arnold. " The ar-

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

566

LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

67 '


58                           LUONA PRESCOTT, OR,
rest of MajcrAndre  alone disconcerted the plan  nor ever near so jnstly. Because Napoleon
of acio~ which would surely have given on  was htviali of huouiu life: in his amhiii is aims
\ec'L Point, and root prohatlyviav replied lie would sacri tice his dearest oftle, his
General Washington himself a prisoner in your hravest men. Lookat his advance to  mussia,
hands-for that was my intention 1          and thtn at lis retr-at-himself lcailiiig, not
" Well concerted! Truly so! The Provi- covering it.   In every great battle that e
dence wlich seens so won erfully to work for foti he aed not how  ta y ie litst, e only
andl protect thia tman, must have worked in this that lie ganed the victory. Bithetw.'tii \ash-
instaice. An itfieer with a flag al priopols  iglon and Napolen there can o aCoilirison
must at once ie dispatched to the Aiierica lie aute. Niapoleon Iyi have ici a more
hea'l-qitar era to save time, that we can do all scintitie soldier, or rather a bNtcoa r, but
that is po ible to save Anidri !"   -        iuiwgtha was the goater man. h o sacri
t It nd! be nell, Sir Henry; and, in the  tic ut wiat le wouldtitke for his country,
mantmll, if you wil permit it. Sir lLenry, Iytne niimay tin    e a worshiper of the
wtatue    f ma  n s their siikio  g  r ao l tijish  Fatier  of  iy  c u trt'y.  So  I  am,  hut not  a
ca i  m' l  fur  ittuelung  t ys e lf  i,  that  of  li  lut d  one, t iand  my  dear  parents  c ul no t  ha:e
neJt~t'.  fIt twill nrgaw  thiounds fi to t1t ieii  - Ias e  i d  mtie  het ter  than  when  they t' li ed
rtm   ;  I i nill lie able ii raise a force of fe  tirgi  e Vastiituis iititto hea i, their
se ru t r+c rim  thlieu  w ho  sill  he  niore  te t  rri ,   -t t  k.  I  dni't  e iti e  h1 al I  iuial , a  .hiltI
t   t~ :' ilt t r tri +ll  dthatcould  1 lleudlon-  t  as"""i tii+;  itt'''' it fliit'I 1111is tah lf.   .  Bit
thm  mn   rtopthat coul    e Iiice.'un-  l're1  in ch-ar oifttthe  trilagang m11 .1  iraintof
de ir is to t  i i k  lhst  in  tlh at  m t  tern.  g miti al  a  pr p os  r  i lections.  1.c itl tr,  (ni  v i 1 1(oi
Frl  I1  ilit '  it  cite t Lanriti '. it  iiI
j aI  L g'iii   B t  cxc  le  til e if  at yrceu rt  1  ciwi  W hen  t he  n trs  of  A rnlll s  esc pi e 'r iached
tliau  i t ut" excuse t ne ftit  p e clrt t   i a's of AntrI, Iy t' iheSCtItwi'hi na to
t Ik : t 1 'r st i  e r  o ni'   A nt' ilt  n.  ti l  'i'uI 1y  - v iii .  i dt'1  t t m  to  h is  l i c e  ot tif   tinl  t ori  i l i ,  a
p it ahit p. nri t e  iii,  oi'r  le t r ,'  a n ol   3 s; tm -it' ti iit   a  l L t'r sutti l  pit sei  o v er  h is   fac e,  tl  lie  w a s
pai'"t b  l o~~u"n t+ , :-or  lle ny  ,  larn'  " "  '  ... h  t"  o  ttrut'
h i ht1'' i t 1  t ait  inti r e  i   mtti' ' u'ati r ,'w 1 1 n  rot it  h a '  s av   e  te  b y (ein'   ll,  ta p .
, i 'b  i  u-   n l or et tit l r f nrg tte  tI t,  ( t  ri-   t etfl rt  hut  t aitors  are  etivards  m  i  iri trea-
er tl  A  r  l   h ad ni  f t y ter c  f rlieiar I o thetln  t  th at  son,   a l   se1itcha i  iii  ev e'r I' t  oitu g It.  V I h tuti hon or
ierartliatl, one' fInaitithtillaliatitr gillt"iti'Is,
IrIotoediatllelytektioilli' that he twas the
CH AP'I' F  XXXI.             Aijtiut t"'lu   tiil of the Britishn iinuv. ut de--
TLNAT iAN'S  ti sTtts-ItONA  IN  sitItT  AGAtN.  -l tl th tIt:W Si   y. 'I!ittttaut', ,iillthat
It  w  bust t  it i t th- w atti fift '  W  iift. u  o" ,tuvi   slit',  e it I  t)  nullitit wuu t halii the
i' d-u  kmiiLi ly v  ted  itMrs. Aruuld,  i   i' d  l th nteiiii ofli l o t  th e Ai
thtrt-1, tltat tie  buit's cretwi  retiurtiur  itho lit !   I'  t et tit itn itout iu iof ea ntintr s,"'  aid lie,
bei  t o lit s  in itnl  fihtr it  . ii  at. uitu I  a ndoiutti  hu l ,ti ntv bt ratith-its it' e toder
A riob!Iit to  f, c ins trc'ly .  I he  termall~i i't.tl t t  o lInsamy  own  umform  and ss ~undets fr
of  Arni il's  treao n  :and  flili t  was  at  t one  -st  ~~dtli  it\  YiItitrt  t.  ute
connu ea at, d  by ttv themIi,  ait  he in s which  ta  n  -it- h Ot :rue!turuof
ilt th  i lit  hel'ti  scrtiuptlously   ithl ien  tt  i't  tnduAttir   e  b-ot ht  ol fth', et tiandnt'+' Ii   of
t it', i  t I itie, tts,   tiiw  frio tillt' eii'ar,  as S iumtd diitil  uot to  h}'iti' t i  t 'he  " k'y ofitt   O i
if iii  ii  a  t  oif thew at. tbroutgh thie t upt .  btt i if  " i  triot hitit itutiwil t lhe wi 'v ine cthe
Aol! tiltiii lr tttttuutt iii !l :liithe  ttt  ii  ts ti-  lI  hi~ ul'    Not  t !!\",h i 'lt' ittiivitoi  i' tchart
A  . ih t m hitilt  , t a nut et'- tll y  f ' t, w l l  hiatt  tit'.in   aitin in  ou r  boi ts,  tun l er  iim  a  united
- ot r   I    ih   nl   a , u n- e ri a llti t ,  w a v - i f  I ' a nldt y  t a  i t ' ,  i ht g 's i 'n i s e d  i s   it   c it   i l i a ,     uit tu g hi t
ai  rit b, if tie l h   Latiiit  tit  Otti C  r  tir it a   iak  hv  the  watlihful  patr'ols  -lit a' i  you
t h! ii  .  2   t h e  k  rn - ti t  n oti   a n t   tt ' c' r llC e  to !  ie i t it h  h u e . Te  la t  a t.  ii tu 'r,
ai;' I(h  ut rii  r iA tI  I  tlintt uuui of  thteutiti i!liltit  aiitll it'tlttit 'out lit  trhit ' tt  tttit  V  t 'ihti-
n~~ t. Gint  a Arn'Id-lino  atioelft i t1m  a ~ it  ii i {hte  Worl'd  Mist ge'itnrls wonid ' have
th  t     n li mfi   e   t hscs-iu rn  oft s t u'it' hin r  iii  ai' th bort  sh ri t  a t it a speedy  d  tth  your
Ur  u i                                         h11n~un4 it \\alliitnton  deem lt  fintat  L a et e.-
1  'I ti.:r arrival, Gi tneral Wahitnet io  i  i et asit  -  i  t       e t  e b
fr  hi  h I't'a  crewt', tian ul' t  Rly  sut ?i el il atm ilt ti e tt 's, att  tjtielis it  terrible,
i l  e'' it it' ly. a.d  fottih, thatmt theti' ctti et  tutgii th s in-t  'ii i  ht'i wiflf Itae t i
hat  nit it N :ly It hn ufbl.u , e-s, butI m  tIme ltittir  h i t' ittini  orueh'rl  a Cuutti't rvtht'  tirunft  getiru
pit' 'nilt c r' erhititthul:i ant  te spke t 'to  thtuim  l  t -  a  irlyto  ct'  tenll  tiihi'' the'  iituf'etOtite
luu l. i I v. ti  iiuet' itft i te  I mtltir' hintrett uin tn.  B'  tieni ft'\  enttl. f dtl ' aS  b.an'ted of
thai  . 1 e.hi  itt re' ii tug  a c omniusittiit tihe  ha itii  a  p tb re'dlititis  CuutiCititiUS citt ann
5uii' 1'  ti  whth hliete  wtas  devted,  .  N.iuileot n  hittioziu~ nti  atc'e t1 i t i atril ith    it'nge,
w a. e.  r  I 1  ftr  wittto ig  ihie  atct  tno iti t itt   -adinttstorythat-bfo w Gile'. fito i nilltti ii its
his s e' cus, buht iot more so than \\iashingtoun, partieul irs you tmay reat1in history-hot' Chin-

ton first entreated, then raved and threatened,
but all uselessly ; for Vashington knew no duty
but to his country-nofcar but of his God.
*      *       *  *
We will return to West Point again for one
scene, and then dash away upon the steed of
our romance into other scenes.
Not one of all that garrison, or of Arnold's
private household, perhaps his wife excepted,
felt so bitterly and suffered so keen a grief as
old Ehnattian Goodrich. lie had been with
Arnold through nearly all of his battles, had
been constantly by his side, and had learned to
look upon aits a being second only to his
Creator. lie had not be in regularly enlisted,
but had set'ved and acted as Arnold's special
body-'servant-and now he felt as if he was dis-
graced forever.
"Jest to think of his turning' traitor! I-wish
I'd a let lii die at liidgetield, or at Bemis's
heights. Woe's the day I ever left New Lou-
don with him--I shall be ashamed ever to show
my had tiee agin
" Yet there you must go, EInathan !" said
a sweut, voice behittid hin ; and he started, for it
was twilight, and lie had wandered down by the
river sidle.
"Gracious goodness    O Lord - O Lord
--it is the seirit of Miss Lonua !" he cried, as
lie turned iua saw Luona Pirescott, dressed in
the sate robe of white in which she had terri-
lied Arnold so mttuch in his flight.
Not a spirit, hut i-eulth anttaid blood. Come
and take me by the hand, Einathan," she said,
kindly.
"''ite Lord said suomuthin' like to that after
lie rio 'from the de'adl--I readitt in the Bible.
Be you really a livin', Miss Lotat ?" said he, as
he advntanced andt tuched her hand.
"cYes, as yo see, Eunathan!"
Anl you ulidn't die and  e buried at New
London, as IBurhara writ me and the gin'ral--
cuss hitu ttt I should name him afire you,"
said he. " You know what lie's been agoiu'
an' doing? "
" Yes, I know all, EInathan
"i Bt Master J ntes was so sure of it, he e'en
almost eried when hi' talkeul to toe of it !''
"Mauster Jtunes was given somewhat to ly-
ing!" replied Luonu  with a smile ; " but that i
is not what I want to talk to talk to you about.
You nmst go back'to Bairbara, and tell her I'll
be thereohire long "
" Then nse knows that you're alive ?"
" Yi s, tn knows why I wished sty death re-
ported ; but of tlht tino more.  You are old,
tind must serve no more. 'ake this purse of
gold anl go tom, and do as I ale you !"
"Butt where's Muster Jiurams, Miss Lona ?"
"What is that there ?'"said Luona, pointing
to soni ohjuet in the distance.
Ehtithat tuirntl to look.
"I lou't see toth n'," said he, innocently.
"No, nor dil you ever when you was want-
ed to; go, brush your master's clothes I" cried

L

-          5'x

THE CURSE FULFILLED.                   59

a sharp voice behind him, in a tone so like that
in which the "aid" usually addressed him, that
he turned quick as thought, expecting to see
Jaes Prescott standing before him.
But only Lona was there, snuiling at his
perplexity.
He looked intently at her a moment, and
then a sudden thought seemed to spring upon
his brain.
"What a cussed old foolI've been " lie mut-
tered. "I might a know'dit all the time. Cous-
ins ain't in the habit of looking' as nigh alike as
brother and sister. Elinathan Goodrich is a
pesky old fool, hardly fit to tend babies now,
or hold open a churchyard gate to let folks go
by. You've been Master James all the time,
and I've often been so sassy to you. Forgive
me, Miss Lona, for I didn't dream it was you."
" You are not to blame, Elnatharn ; but now
obey my orders. Say nothing about what you
have seen or know about me, except to Bar-
bara. Go at once; no words."
The old man turned slowly away, muttering
as lie went:
"How she must have loved imnn !-the darned
cuss that he is-to have dressed up in mian's
clothes and follered him so. I might have
knowed it afore. Master James was so shy of
the officers, so proud like, 'he wouldn't have
nothing' to say to 'em; and when We was in quar-
ters, must have a room all to himself. 'Ihis is
a strange world, and stra ge creeters are in it."
CILAi iTRXL.
ARNOLD WAKES To MSisnY---TII tDARKiCST DEED
OF ALL CoNCoCttD.
"God of mercy-if mercy there is for one so
cursed as I-what next must I endure? Andre
is dead, and I aloneu'am blamed for it on every
hatdl Sir Ienry Cinton shudlers when I ap-
proaclt him, the other oflieers all shun me, the
very women in the streets put down their veils
when I advance, and the little children say
that's he' as I go by. Not a soldier except my
own corps of refuge's, deep-stained 'in sin as I,
seem to feel the least respect fot mie, and that
is because 1 am the head devil of them all. It
is unbearable.  In my own ind my name is a
bye-word of shame; if they speak of a villain,
they mall him Arno'd Even Washitgtc~nou curses
me, and offers a price for my personthat ho
may gibbet roe as he did Andr6;. By heavens,
but I'll hi revtesngedI I suppio0e that event my
own wife and child will bekept from me !"
Thus soliloquized Benediet. Arnold, as he
walked in the garden in the rert' of his qmtflr-
ters (on a soot now known as tire Atlantic Gar-
dens in New York, front on Bradway. rear in
Greenwich street). a few days after Ailro had
suffered.  To look upon his sunken cheek and
'hollow eyes, one woubl think that.like lis pro-
totype, Judas Iseariot, he would have hung
himself rather than suier so. But there are
mren who lack the courage to lie by their owna
hand, who would leap laughing: into death's


I

60

LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,

arms upon the battle-field, and Arnold was one
of that kind.
"I suppose," said he, continuing his solilo-
quy, "that even my poor old mother has been
taught to hate ine."
"She is dead 1" said a voice close behind him,
which made every nerve and fibre in his frame
quiver.
"Dead ?" lie moaned, as hi turned and saw
Luona Prescott sanding in the pale moonlight
there, looking herself like a spirit-messenger
from the tormbl.
" Yes ; the tre ason of her son was a constant
s ame to hr; tihy pointed the finger of scorn
at her as sire i it aibing the street, and cried,
'there is ch  n ho bore Benedict Arnold, the
traitor!'  She bowed ier head in grief, went
home and d  i of a broken heart!"
SGl-1Ii Ga-this is too much !" moaned
Arnold. Ils brain reeled, and he fell senseless
to the grunal.
Ilow Ilong lie lay there lie did not know ; but
when lie rmsecvred, the dew lay damp upon his
hair aii cloth s, anI he was alone.
"C in Lonra l'rcecott be alive?" lie asked
himself.  'twice have I Eeen her since my
fatal fall. and atre wore the very look of death,
yet her vie  was"s it was in he I I cannot be-
lieve iii-  p  ri'trsi."
eve a '  i   titsin lira -y s  wire  raised  toward
that Ir i iin of the sky to which he had so
often looked niths superstitious belief in "des-
tiny."
"My ear is gone, lut hers still shines," lie
said. '' Eine uvt be giving ."
For some rimoments lie Remtied buried in
thorough, si dip, sr s id, that it could not he
spo, nv. ; .t it ist wor-is caine.
1My iiti r 1. ah-of is broken heart! And
they m i     wmi  shie was ir trd-they nho
dwell  i re I wii s i"rn, imu'ed sianieos limger
at it r uhm wa uliiI. -s of my fault!  Be her
mcmny I i cr I mill have revenge! .'iy
shall I:mi-v Wm avd  i whit Benedict Arnold is.
They hiiil 1 iit call me evii for nothing. 'lhey
shall tin that hre andl n iv"are in myo track
wherever I go, and I will be terrible if I cannot
be grit.  i w L inldon shall lie in ashes, and
death shall ri ap a heavy harvest there. I must
have t pilam+ e iiinit or I shall die. Sir usury
Clinton will -d ny me nothing that takes me
from his lirnece.  It is not yet his retiring
hour, I rat s, e hint instantly.  Mother, recre-
ant thoui your son may 'be, he will yet ie-
ven  'e tiher-e!' .
Ani lhe i-rrid away from the garden to ful-
fill 's  p  r,
Sr llvirv Clinton sat in his reception-room
with s  n e rnal of lis favorite officers. Wine was
on th t.ble before thmei, hut though they were
l 'art ii n  'if  it,  iine of its cxliil rating effects
sem vid1 ti-i ible either in the couintenuicea or
coner-t-.ati+i of tiho-e prrneent.  Rather did an
air of glom poinervade both tone and look.

An orderly entered, and said : "Sir Henry,
General Arnold wishes a special interview upon
a special and important matter."
"For Heaven's sake don't have him up here,
Sir Henry," said one of the oldest officers; "if
you do, 1 must leave."
"And we," repeated several others.
"Tell General Arnold to take a seat in my
office, and I will be there as soon as I am dis-
engaged !" said Sir Henry to the orderly, who
saluted and retired.
"No, gentlemen," said he to his officers, after
the soldier was gone, "do not think that I
would obtrude a rian upon your company, un-
necessarily, whom  I myself abhor.  But we
have got him and must use him.  He is in the
king's service now, and it is too late to help it.
Excuse me, and pass the wine among yourselves
until my return. Officially, I eaniot refuse to
see hini, nor 3 ou to act wih him."
With these words, Sir lleury left the room,
and went to that in which Arnold awaited
him.
" What can I do for you, general?" he in-
quired, as he entered.
"I came, Sir I Ienry, to a k fir active service.
I wish work to do  Ii ve tbeen used to activity
and cannot live withorurt it."
hs there any part uculir paiiit where your
kn wledge of i he eonutrv w ill eiiatde you to
strike an ujurious blow to the enemy ?" asked
the British general.
'There is onepoit, a port from which very
many of the private rs nre fitted out that so
annoy your transports. It is guarded by two
small forts, hut I an take i wi twelve or fif-
tre'e ihundredtr m n.  It is Nmw Liiidon-i-a most
ohunxious anl relbellious hole, which ought to
be iid stroyed.'
" Yes I thiee yout toliime that you were
born tter."
" I uas,'' replied Arnold--either not noticing,
or aflfct ig not, to notice the deep cut im the
words of Sir lenry ; " ani for t hat r iison know
how best to alproaeh and capture it without
loss."
"Very well, General Arnold, you shall be
gratilie im your desire: ii thie morning I will
take steps to organize rn expi edition which you
shall command. Goodnight, sir!''
" I will show them  that 'I r on was a fool to
me in burning and destroying !'' muttered Ar'
gold, as he also left the room  to return to his
own quarters.   ' lle spared sonic, I will spare
none! Traitor, iilain, they call ime, andl'l1
merit the name as far as it can go. No one
shall say that I avim unfaithlti to the cause
which I have espoused at last! "
CIIAI''EIR XLI.
A TANKEE CONFAB BETWEEN ELNATHAN AND DAn-
nAaA-LUONA AT HOME ONCE MoRE.
Elnathan and Barbara were alote in the cot-
tage of Luona Prescott, for the old father had
lain down to rest, to that rest which awaits us

THE CURSE FULFILLED.

61

all, and which seems to be the h rdest to be got
by those whe seek it most, and to conic first to
those who most dread its approach. Elnatsan
had told her over and over againhis thousand-
and-one tales of his fights with the Britishers
-how he'd shot one, bayoneted another, etc.,
ending always with a history of how that
"cussed traitor," Arnold, had -deceived even
him.
And as often had he held a long Bible argu-
ment with Barbara about the right and wrong
of killing men,-she commenimg with the com-
mandment, " Thou shalt not kill," and he refut-
ing with the battles of David, front that with
Goliah upward.   These arguments would be
amusing to the reader I know, but no "report-
er" having been present, they are lost to f-
turity, like many an exquisite "Candle lec-
ture" of the present age.
" Miss Lona said, when you left her at West
Point, that she'd be here soon ?" said Barbara,
interrogatively, on this occasion.
"Jest sa !" replied Elinathan.
" Well, don't you think, brother, that 'soon'
has most gone by ! : You've been here a con-
siderable time, and she isn't here yet."
"Jest so
"Well, but brother Elnathan, where do you
suppose she is ?"
" Iiain't got no idea, Barbara, not none in the
world."
"Maybe she's a trapesing after that good-for-
nothin'~traitor vet!"
"Jest so! But if it is, it's for no good she
owes him. lie's got a wife nud baby for one
thing, and another is, I tell you-she is a patri-
,t. Crepass! if you'd seen how she fit at Bea-
mus heights, you'd never have taken her for aj
woman!"
"But she is a woman, for I've seen her cry,"
said Barbara, emphatically.
"What's that? I've seen Gineral Schyler
cry over a lot of women and children a suffer-
in' when we-took Burgoyne. But he didn't cry
none when they burned up his fine house and
mills."
"No ? Then I s'pose he swore some wicked
words, didn't he ?"
"No-he only lighted his pipe, and went to
smoking, and said he reckoned they'd feel sorry
for it souse day"
"Now, Elnathan, ain't you a tellin' me a
story ?"
"I'll take my Bible oath that I ain't, Bar-
bara."
"'Then he was a real Christian man, if he
was a soldier."
"Jest so," said Elnathian.
"I wish I had Benedict Arnold here jest one
minute and a half," said Elinathan, after a long
pause, during which Barbara's knitting-needles
had been going with unusual rapidity, a habit
with her when she was thinking hard.
"You will have your wish shortly, then, El.
nathan," said a voice at the open door,

t

Ii

Barbara screamed faintly, and dropped her
knitting-work on the floor, while EInathan
jumped from his chair as if Satan had attacked
him in the rear ; or, what is worse, a hornet had
stung him.
" Hevings and earth, Miss Lona, you creep
on folks jist as the Injins used to, or our sent-
eries at Burgoyne ; you e'en almost skeeredime
out of my wits."
"Provided you have any left," said Luona,
advancing from the door-way to which she had
so silently approached.
"Jest so," said Eliathan. "But what did
you say? Is Benedict Arnold going to come
here ?'
"his fleet will be in our harbor to-night;
he is on his way here to burn and destroy I"
"Thunder I i must go and 'Jarm the town.
Colonel Ledyard is in Fort Griswold; he'll
pepper 'em ; I nust go and stir everybody up."
" You'll do no such thing ." said Luona,
calmly but firmly. "You have always obeyed
my $orders-have you not ."
" Jest so, Miss Lona. lut-"
"I wish and will have no buts or ifs and
ands, in this matter. I will be ohbeyed !" said
Luona, almost fiercely. 'It is necessary that
he should do this last disaeefiul act to eter-
nally damn him in the eyes of the civilized
world, and add a deeper dye to his treason to
his country !"
"Jest so; that is if you say so, Miss Lona,
but it seems kind o' hard that folks should be
killed or burned in their bed by this murderin'
cuss
"And onebristian. I'd fight agin' him my-
self, though 'twould be awful unbecomin' in a
woman of my age and expe'rience," said Bar-
bara, picking up one of her knitting-needles,
and brandisliing it in ti, air.
And I'll load iiy old nuslket, and put it
out of his power to commit more sin1" said
Elnathan, fiercely.
" You will not harm him. Death is too good
for him," said Luon, firmly. " To live, scorn-
ed as he now is, by all the world, even by his
own employers and associates, is a thousand
times worse punilmsnt than deathh
"Jest so; but he'll do so much harm if he
lives," said Elnathan, deprecatingly.
"No, his race for evil is nearly run.   The
odium which wjll come upon hint for this act
will cause the Briiish, for their own sakes, to
withdraw 1dm from the service-at least, in this
country."
"But suppose, Miss Lona,-he should come
and burn up this louse, what would become
of us Y" said Barbara.
"I shall be here, and lie would rather face
his God than me," said Luona, proudly. Fear
not for yourselves, but obey my orders im-
plicitly, and without a doubt!"
"If you say so, we must, Miss Lona, but I
would so like to have just one crack at him,
to see if the devil would protect his own1"

f


LUONA PRESCOTT ; OR,

'

I

And with this Elnathan settled down, while  without a shudder, had passed the house where-
Luona entered the apartments from which she  in he was born-leaving there, as elsewhere, a
had been so long absent, there to meditate    man to appl the torch when the signal was
upon her feature course, and prepare fur it.   given-stood before the cottage of Luona Pres.
Cott.
CHAPTER    XLII.                  Strange. the reader will say that as yet no
Til TIAITOR AND 1118 PLAS-HIS EVIL DEMON     alarm had been given. Not strange, for every
LEAUS HIM ON.                  moving being met had plerish(d quickly by
At the very hour when Luona Prescott was    steel, or had been silenced before the alarm
acquainting tier servants that Arnold was in- could be made.
tending the de-tructitn of the town of New     " Can she be living ?" muttered Arnold to
London, I, np1rotebirg with his sqiiadrun, lmirnself, aloud, as he stood upon the door-step.
wonder covur of tight, was arranging his di-  " If so, and here she will wake, the time to
bolical 1Lns for the completion of the dirktst  start thie blaze lacks not more than ten .ninutes
decd of it If--of twh it was truly the crown-  now!  Can she be living, or have I seen a
ing p-int of lis nfamry. his troops were mostly  spirit, and dreamed 1 heat d her voice. If she
refu get s anI n hliit lirttil oilfici rs lie had wit i is living, she at luast shall yet he nine, for the
him were of a class to suit his purposes-fir  old lire yet burns in my vein, ! What ho!
Io gentleman woobl sers e with hin, and Sir Luona Prescott, are you lhere-"
nHenry ltiton would force none to go, and      And he struck heavily upon the door with
ony perntititthd Arnold to call for volunteers. the massive hilt of his sword.
By artfully alvatncortg the prospect of plunder,
he titus secured som t u ercenatry wretchesiit CIIAPTERXLIII.
fur any tdef--frtm tthe kil liti of an old woman  T EI t I In. LI CO N C I U SCii ON.
down to the hut cliery of an o eIlir with his oin  Upon leaving Barbtira at  Eliithan, Luona
sword aft-r ie hi of suirr ndereI it.      'rte+tt went ito tltii room  wherein her
 Arn i Ili  his Ila Ittitiers on board of another hal died. It was-as it ever liad been
his vt-;41, tniltd, is utider the g iidtance of ttry  since ht r tiother passed iaway-drptel in som-
pilots tih y vajirtacte 1 the  ntirb, l e, with  lie btick. There was the bel esite which
1lts of (+  tI'town aI the neighorinig tforth- ste knelt when she swore It avenge that dying
eations drawi by hi    own hat ndit, laid ifrI  iot hers wrong -to te h-lier ytung life, all
hi it, a-itt d to each lits sepatirite duty. To  of Iii atnd lieutttty that ther-- 'was in it to one
one and t bte strtt,-t' party was assigned the eus. IIad she so fir fulfilh l (l that oath!
eatture of tort Irsvoldt ; to antthir, iort IlaI she inot periled lift-, uea t fortuii, endured
Trumbiiitill; to niii-th-r. th leerunt iii if c try  aird' ,hi p, le ever ti i i lut n  imtiipure
vel tanillit or iin the sic'. 1l1- comttiatni  naitntiti, all for the ile t l ai shte not
of thti- f  turt witilt  Iih ais ti tire his native ttowti,  stt-e   hIt er  heartita aini till I ovi .--lie ieyes
he assutii d nsitti lf, fur r atons ihic liwe will agtainst all at trictitt cotnotnitit wi hitier age
loonli It rn.                               atd s-x, fror t his one suyt et ?  Greater, you
To e acli ti -er liis special istrtuctions were    ,i tthive followed her so far, ta Inswer just
given wit h a mtnun which Sho e v 1how care- as at Ii as I.,
ally he hadI stuli , -Ihiei ltllisth plan. On short',  There, with its dark tdr wiiry arontid it, hung
ever sir it was itrked out for a dilT, r-tt ti' Por rait of twr miothtir, aid, :s ii the  ale
bandi-t tlthy ti-hie reserve to li'tiseltf  Ibe  I glit f thue smgl  cii-ane itnil hib sithe be , it
liglititt of the tir-t incendtitry torch was to be semedt-tnt:tI to look tiln n h i ia ssitilei toltnt her,
the signal for all, and then t he order was to  tears tart ed in the proud, cold girls tyes, and
gst  a i  t  inter, to  use  ni'' eilrcy  I  IIow  faith-  site si :i
fully -wa it carrie+l tit ! lb ailer, turn to his-  " wouldd , mother, that mty twork were done,
ttry fir d-  titna, hvticb ymii n ill it tid inti lis that whe'er thioti art in~ anothtier world, I
story, for I ttve an ioItted track to follow, tiItt seek thee there !
tht civica all ltii trtm Il-yt even too biin- AI n then si nicd the ticatle hdtwn upon
r n i- is cull It -eri i fir the seems ih  teltitIttle table- bietfore t pi:eturi , andI iglited
did1  ot'' r,  hiti ,  tu ii  tntw  cannot  d-plict  ther candh lts, tuntiltth'ro tm  was  in:  arla of
them, fur tt v na tc a shick to all thatins l0ht. But the clontl sutties Hi ttdoor emitted
humt~ in, e+"i iimt   i l tp 1tu~irehsintg day !  no bght ~tit t nd lt'ee rele of her'own ision.
"iowly, ind it perfct sitt ice, the fleet of ll1w starting evertn tlin  eulE. lEv ry article
tie'n  i  ti h im i term  a-hii a  o, d 1; with  cares  o f futrnlirnre ' i lrapIle+1in  btlactk.  Having  ar-
each nt dt  ar ii -i dri1pped I in the Wattr ran-ied -th futntitiur-'ett ln   i-ielf, Luona left
winch I e, tht- itmird, rt i s ti tlh' shore. Clo Ik  the rotli fruit a bititltwiI!-, ani wtht n she re-
e   itt i t in :ut' t'it' dlmonsi ae-re fottit, turi-I shte- ais d ms-el ti1-itk-w'ih con-
advitc I sith ipi st Itt1p. tte,  aI it.:n all wi, rt ttri-te wahiti ier ntwt tile fice ain white neck
ra  I t tl- fir itt itgitrti  light of hell ndut lhhbrtiIi, to it- t  mkitite heir ltk very
whiali-   t .ll tel tt- ihi to btigin the work ofl- htuitiftil.
d   Ii att  vi-atatnit.                     Slit tow drew frott   ac-th lthe pilottw of the
It was untidight, and LUen- dict Arnold, who, bed where her mitother lhid died a saill casket.

First she took from it the miniature, painted  I
upion ivory, of a young man who, at a tirst k
glance, would have been taken for Benedict s
Arnold, so like himi was it ; yet it was not he. b
And after gazing upon it for a little while, she  a
laid it down on the black table-cloth, and drew  c
forth a package of letters dark with age and
much worn, as if they had been read many
times. She had sea echy done this, a-thn Bar-
bart knocked at t.e door. Luoia went to it,
amid the woman, pale with fmrighit, said that hier-
self anai  Einathan had heard stealthy steps
about the hituse.3
"It is well-tie hour has come at last !" said
Luonia, as site moivel fnrom  the room to thle  l
fromt i r, h  i ng Iltrhara to stay witl, Elat
tha iii the kitchen, and by no means to leave itt
until shteetcaldthitu.i.
She arrived at the door, and was about to  -
openi t to look out, whin Arnitoli's lud sum- 
moni thundmered u in Ii, i' iar. Witthout a 11o-
ment's hesitation sit threw open the door, al,
answered, in as sweet a tone as had ever fallen
upon his ear
Yes, Benedict, ant waiting for you-come
in ,,
11l1' would have started back, but her hand
was already upon his, and her large dark eyes -
fixed u ton h   i i with a testerie strength that
seemed to force him to'follow her, whether he
would or nit,
Whit means this, Lunna-T cannot stay-
I have business atat !" said he, shuuddering as
he looked at the dark h mungs all about himm,
and at the face, now stern in tue brighter light,
of the portrait of the I low Prescott.
No, Bnedtet, sit dowi by this table with
te. I know 3ou have hutsiness, know all about
" - but lust you have business here. I wiltnot
detaimi3y1u.You did not use to wish to so
hurry from me-am    I less beautiful than I
was?"'
Amd nashe smiled so sweetly, and looked so
-avishin gy betutiful, that, fIorgetful of the
past, present, future, allt ildtie titter loveli-
ness,.lie kmelt at tier feet amid Iluitilre-d
"Angel !"
But as he pressed her hand to his lips, and
6unud it icy cold, he hardly needed her words
to mk Mtit ealnrige.
"Do nt kneel here. Benedict!" she said;
my mother died in this room i"
"Youribusiness, your business !" said he;
I must away-but wll come aguin to see you.
No harm shall come to you !"
"Oh, to-I do not fmr harm--hut look here,
Benedict, here is a keepsake for you! Is not
this a pretty picture ?" and she handed him the
miniature front the table.
"Why it is meant for myself, though I never
wore such a dress !" said he.
"No-it is the likeness of your father at your
age!' -
"lIow did it come into your possession ?"
"I will tell you directly, Benedict-sit still,

62

will detain you only a few minutes. You
now you called me angel just now, and that
eemed so like old times. But we'll talk of that
y-and-bye, wjen you know how much of an
angel I amh Observe these letters, do you re-
ogmize the hand writing .
" Yes-tpy father wrote such a hand. Were
hey his"alsf?"
"They were another's-, but he wrote them !"
" Explain, and quckly fur 1 must go!'"
Well, I yill hasten,Blenetlict. Your father,
shortly after he was married, met a lady as
your  more innocent, and all as beautiful as
you think  I at. You, however, were born
before hie met this lady. le felt a passion for
her, told htr he loved ier, gave her that pie-
ture, wrote tie those litters ;lii saie, not
ktiir w  lie  as miirried, loved hi in return
-loved him so madly and so b indily that she
forgot all on earth but him; and, ird by his
soft words, fell is woman only canfall!"
lut why this itle taole toime .
"it is not idle-on it your past destiny has
depended-on it now r ts your fate. Dare not
to move utit  ion  hear allI m
Ici' eyes as-i-tt-d to hiotld hini as by a spell--
he dild not offer to move ; but, rigid and pale,
sat looking at ier, while she contmiuet
"Your father ruined that poorgirl, nd when
her . shame became known, her other sunk
broken-hearted to the grave, and the poor girl
in diespair fledti far ity to those who did not
know her. There, courted for her beauty and
her virtue-fr' she who sinned onice for love
would never 'in again-she liltt a wealthy and
an honorable tan, who wooed and wlhed her,
even though she told himt all, aid did not sle-
etive him. Frotm their union sprang a laugh-
ter, but three or ffur years younger than you.
ier fatter djd, unil then her mother, wealthy
and a widow, moved to the place where le lived
who haid betrayed het' and d inenblii mother
broken-hearted'down to the grave. She came
to work his ruin, and she wrought it. She sent
him a disr'aetuktruu t ti ihisgrve, ad
she wvouldthatve worke-iyet-mtortie rinmthin, but
she reserved it for a later day ; for not one life
-no, imr fifty, could repay her for all ter sul'
ferineos !
f M n ast shelay uponter det-athbetl andthen
for the first time she told her own dautghte-
then grown up to the itimage of what she once
had heen-alI this tale; amiul matide tier swear a
terrible oath to follow that man's son to perdi-
tion-to raise him by every art tas high as man
could be raised, and then to dash him down-
down so low that the veriest be ar upon earth
would scorn to be his friend .  hie did it. She
made him love her-she point-d hin out the
path of fame, and with cheering words and
ready purse she helped him omi and upward!
life rose in famea, a hero, and bec-lme-the idol of
a nation-hlaudel on every htnd, anil trusted
with toundl-iRs power ! ~And through all this
she was by his side. Donnming male attire, she

I I

63

ii

THE CURSE FULFILLED.


= }}}{{{
:*
{j
{1
7
}
f
t

LUONA PRESCOTT; OR,

i'

fought where he fought, and saved his life that
she might damn it forever, blast his name, and
bring hiin to shame. In his confidence she
kinew his plans. aided him in his temptations,
aid finally worked him to do a Gced that made
him hateful to his country-for she made him
a traitor--miade him AroLD TIlE TRAITOR!"
With cold sweat starting froinevery pore,
his eyes almost bursting from his head, every
vein swelling into blackness, Arnold hadlisten-
ed to her while thus she revealed the plot of
his c levat ion an+3 his fall
"hinl -oLnona Prescott, did you do all
this ? ' hhouteid, as lie rose to his feet.
" Ah ! Jnediet, I wis an angel, but now-"
she raid, im tones of such sweet mockery, that
though be had raised his hand to strike her, it
did not fall.
Seeing him pause she rose, and while her
dark eye flashed, and her tall form dilated, her
voice rose. and she said
" Yes, J en-liet Arrtol. I have kept my
oath to her: .You are scorned by the very big-
ars in the street -- despised by those ye
serve-
She paused, and heari the crackling of
flams, and 'h fi' icf g ins, and the shouts of
the rmadl, eud s ildi r, and the shrieks of the
dyine.
Ah! your   e ils are at work-one word,
and then e andelel y 1 hemr! I l as e hated you
throuil hf, and I hate and scorn you--ay,
Spit 111)011Von U n1
So f 'rfuti.y wr'ult up was Arnold by this
list act, tha t lus o uorl, airealy drawn, was
plinr d into h r trast to the very ilt.
' I haik ~ ivon, wrerch, that was all I asked ;
now go and lo*k it the body of your old
mt    r. nm !ui oilm. of sour riscreazits have
Nr   i'y ci.. n ,r this !' cried lenona, as she
si'o k lack upon the b-d where her mother had
iii.

a

64

"My mother alive ?" lie groaned.
"Yes, and sick in bed--she will roast well-
ha I ha !I ha !" shrieked Luona.
Arnold, horrified, started to fly, hut was met
by Elnathan with uplifted sabre, whoshoutei
"I've got the cuss! I've got the cuss !"
"Let him pass !" shrieked Luona "let hiin
pass-to live is his curse
The old man dropped his sword, and Arni
rushed by, with distraction in his looks.
"las the cuss hurt ye, Miss Lona?" asked,
the old man, as e tottered toward the bed.
No answer came fiom her white lips; with
that last shrieking curse which followed Bene-
dict Arnold till lie died, her spirit fled to join
her mother's in another world .
*    *     *    *    *    *    *
Arnold heeded not shot, nor shout, nor
shriek, nor crackling flames, as he flew from
that terrific scene, but sped with mad haste to
the spot whereon had stood the cottage in
which he was born. had stood, I 'say ; for
when lie got there, its last timbers werefallin
in. One moment he stood before it, then reeled
and fell ; and of all that occurred in New Lon-
don after that, lie knew nothing.
lIe was borne insensible on board of his yes
sel ; and, from that hour, I defy the historian to
write with truth that lie was ever known to
smile. lie lived on for tears, scorned, detested
by every one, insulted on every hand. The
wealth whichli e gained by his infimy melted
from his hands; and poor, miserably poor, and
utterly wretched, he died !
The curse was fulfilled to the uttermost. And
oh, how bitterly!
Ilader, my task is done-the historian can
furnish you with the history of the other hor-
rors of the night; for me the curtain has fallen,
so far as this tragedy is concerned.
But we will soon meet again I do not say
farewell, but only au revoir.

CHAPTER I.
I NTR ODUC T ION.
Let me introduce you, my friend, to one of expected discharge of a pistol in the hands of
the bravest heroes that ever drew a sword in a younger brother. He then made a voyage
defenceof American hberty--JosIUA BRNEY.  to Cadiz and Genoa, and in 1775 saile for
I am about to weave a portion of his life into Italy. On this trip the mate was discharged,
the web of romance; and if, spider-like, I can and Barney promoted in his place. The can-
inveigle yon into the web, l'iI strive to keep tainbhemgtaken sick, thenavigation and whole
you there until you acknowledge that Amen- charge of the vessel devolved upon Barney,
can history and romance can be so blendid as who was then not quite sixteen years of age.
to kee alive the fire of patriotism in the In July, 1775, he went to Alicant, where ina
breasts of all true Americans.            vessel was engaged by the Spaniards in the
And before I haul the romance tacks aboard, transport service, they being engaged in an
I will say a word in regard to the birth and expedition against Algiers. But the expedi-
early prestiges of my hero. He was bern in tion failed, and he returned home. On his
Baltimore, in 1759. His father was a farmer, arrival at themouth of the Chesapeake bay, his
and lived near that city. He received a plain  vessel was boarded by an offieerfrem the Brit-
English education, and at the early age of ish corvette King Fisher, and there, for the
eleven was placed in a retail store in Alexan- first time, he heard of the Battle of Bunker
dria, but he was "like a fish out of waters" in Hill, though he was boarded on the first of
such an employment. Unlike some of our    October, 1775. The ship was searched, her
molern counter-jumpers, he had a soul above arms and letters taken from her, and Barney
ribbons and shoe-laces. In 1771 he returned  was grossly insulted by the English officer,
to Baltimore, and insisted upon going to sea. who-called him "a brat of a Yankee."  From
For several months he cruised in a pilot boat, that time he bore a grudge against John Bull
siled by a friend of his father, and learned a which henever forgot. Immediately on land-
good deal of the coast, especially around the ing, he sought a berth on board the sloop Hor-
Chesapeake and Capes of the Delaware, gain- net, Captain Stone, and having received a
ing a knowledge which was of immense benefit fiag from Commodore Hopkins, the first
to him afterward. His father, fioding that ever raised in Maryland, he beat up for re-
nothing would break his inclination for the emits, and in one day got a full crew for the
sea, apprenticed him in a brig to a Captain vessel.
Drysdale, who made a voyage from Baltimore  Now, having given you a starting point, so
to Cork. Their passage was rough, but they  far as my hero is concerned, I am ready to
arrived safe, and soon after the vessel was make sail on the course of my story. And
sold. Barney returned to Baltimore, where, having got my "bearings," taken "distanee
soon after, he had the misfortune to lose his and departure." I11 open a fresh chapter by
Heather, who was accidentally killed by the un- way of an anchorage.

1±I

THE
MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.


I

TIIE MAN-O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

CIIAPTER IL
TIlE CHASE.

It was Oefoher. 177. A heavy gale was
blowing from tthe north ward. Two vessels-
one was a ehit, the other a rakish fore-topsail
schooner both armed-were standing off the
coast, leavmtn the Capesof the Delaware. Both
were unlre reef-d sails  Trie ship contained
Benjamin Franklin. then bound on his mission
to Fran -e -t he schooner was the gallant litt e
Wasp. to which Barney had been transferred
from the Uiorne'. It was singular that his first
experience in armed vessels was in these sling-
ing birds as P, lily called the bees.
The Wasr convoyed Franklin's ship until
she was well hegond the line of cruisers
which in festel our cast at that time, and then
her Captain, barleyey Alexander, put about to
return to the Debaware.
It was a clear rrorning when they re-sight-
ed Cape Genlopen,and at the same time made
out several sail 1a) Ing in the roads on that side
of the bay.
"What kind of craft do you think they are.
Mr. Barney Y ' asked the captain, as the former,
who was perched on the foretopsail yard,
looked at them through a spy glass.
"British m-n-o'-war, sir. Blast'em, lowe
them the worst kind of a grudge I" replied
Barney.
"Are they heavy vessels ?"
"Yes. sir-1'w sure one of them is a large
frigate. and the other is a frigate or a large
sloop-of-war"
"Too heavy for us-I'll stand off, and then
try the Cape May channel," said the captain.
The breze was pretty fresh, and hauling
more to the east ward now. But the gallant
little Wasp st aiered along under a whole
topsail uait-arl, foresail and jib, and soon
was up abreast of tie Cape May channel.
Her head was now laid for the entrance of the
bay.
But she was not to slip in without notice, or
an attempt being made to bring her to. The
British ve-sets hal evidently, from her rake
and rig. discovered her character, and were
under a press of canvas standing across to cut
her off.
"She must hear the topgallant sail," mut-
tered the certain, as he saw that his chance to
slip by the enrony's cruisers was slim.
" She'll srani it, and the squaresail, too,
sir," said Barney-" the wind is well on our
quarter"
The aiditionl sail was added, and with the
bows fairly buried in foam, the little, schooner

stood bravely on her course. The British
ships, covered from the dece almost to their
trucas with canvas, were coming up  After
about two hours run, the leading vessel ltffed
up, and a cloud or smoke was seen to puff out
from her bow. Tnee the spray from a shot,
as it strict the eater nearly a quarter of a
mile short of the schooner, rose in the ar.
"Too weak winded," muttered Barney.
Then turning to the captain of the Wast, he
said : "If you please, sir, I think our Long
Tom could measure the distance a little better
th in that."
"Try it, Mr. Barney, if you like," said the
captain.
"Thank you, sir," replied the youthful offi.
eer. " I owe the beef-eating rascals a grudge."
Carefully sighting the gun. which threw a
thirty-two pound shot, Barney applied the
match. Although the leading ship was full
two wiles off, the eff-ect of Barney's shot was
to knock her foreyard in two close to the
slings, and to derive her of the use of both
the foresail and foretopsail for a time.
"Splenaid. Mr. Barney, splendidly 'cried the
captain, in delght
" Shall I give her another, just by way of
complitnent, sir?"
"No, sir-not until we get further up the
bay. Every shot we fire will deaden our
headway-they are too heavy for us, and I
see there is a brig larger than us standing out
too. if the wind should die away, their noats,
with so many men, might give us a deal of
trouble."
Tue three British vessels, now finding itim-
possible to cut off the schooner before she
would place a middle-ground between them
over which they could not pass, for they were
provided with tory pilots, now stood up the
tienlopen channel, pressing every stitch of
canvas which they could set, determined to
overhaul her before she could reach a point of
the river protected by the American batteries.
But a stern chase is ever a long one. Ttie
schooner had a little the advantage in distance,
hot they had greatly the advantage in canvas,
for all three carried studding sails, and the
schooner had none On-on dashed the Wasp,
like a deer before the hounds still keeping
just out of gun shot until nearly night. Toen,
as the breeze began to die away, the enemy
began to gain.
"It would be accursed luck if we were
taken at last," muttered the captain.

5

THE MAN.O'-WAR'S-MAN'S GRUDGE.

"We will not be," said Barney, calmly.
"How can we help it if they close with us?
They have one forty-four gun frigate, one of
twenty-eight, and that brig has eighteen.
There is but one way-we can run the schoon-
er ashore, escape in the boats, and blow her
up."
"There is another way, sir," said Barney,
with an air of confidence.
"I'd thank you to point it out, sir," re-
plied the captamn,,less assured than his young
officer.
"We are within three miles of Wilmington
creek, air; I krow the way into it, and there
is plenty of water for us, but not enough for
them. We will be protected, in a great mea-
sure, from their guns by the trees growing at
the mouth, and after running up a little way,
we can takein sail and lay the schooner broad-

side on ; and if they want to come in with their
boats, we'll take the old grudge out of them
with a little grape and canister."
"Your idea is good, Mr. Barney-I will fol-
lo w it."
"And, sir," continued Barney, "after we
get in we can send word up the river by ex-
press to the galleys, and they can come down
and pepper the British, for it is likely they'll
lay at anchor till daylight."
"Trueagain, Mr. Barney," said Captain
Alexander.
In a short time, under his skillful pilotage,
Barney had the Wasp inside the creek, and in
a posture for defence. The British vessels, as
he had predicted, anchored outside.   An
express was also sent immediately to Com-
modore Hopkins, who was furier up the
Delaware.

I

1

"

f
'


TUE XAN.O'-WAR'S-MANfS GRUDGE.

CHAPTER IIL
Tns rnT.

All that night the crew of the Wasp lay on
their arms on deck read} for and expecting a
beat attack. Neither Barry or the comman-
der closed an eye. They knew that if not at-
taeked at night, they would te, most probably,
in the morning.
Bt the nignt passed without an alarm, and
before the gray cf the ocmiog dawn, thewind,
which had been so strong, died away into a
breeze so gentle that it hardly lifted the short
night pennant at the masthead.
Suddenly the boom of a sing'e gun, evidently
of very heavy cstbre, care thundering over
the water. In a few moment it was repeated,
and shortly gun aftergun opened loudly in the
morning air.
"The Commodore is down withthe galleys,
I expect sir,' said Brnev. "Wthyourper-
mission, 1'd tate a boat and pull to the mouth
of the creek. and see what is up"
"Do so, Mr Barney, but hurry back," said
the captain ; "if there is a chance, I wish to
improve it "
"Not worse than I do-mv old grudge never
will be satisfied," said Barney,as he ordered
a boat lowered, that he might proceed to re-
connoitre. lie was not gote long, for ere the
first gleam of the rising sun had reddened the
eastern sky, be retsrnrd and reported that the
galleys, in full force, had attacked the vessels,
which were anchored in the river a short dis-
tanee below the mouth of 'he creek. The two
larger vessels were some ways out in the river,
but the brig lay close in shore, having follow-
ed the schooner the night previous much
nearer in than the rest.
There was not breeze enough to enable the
vessels to get under way, and the galleys and
gun boats, propelled by cars and sweeps, were
enabled to chose their own position, and to do
considerable execution. The British vessels
got springs on their cah es, and prepared to
make the best defence they could, but their
ehanees were precarious wiibout a breeze.
"Cant we bring the schooner into action,
Mr. Barney ?" asked Alexander, fatning with
impatience, as the rapid discharge of cannon-
ry and rising clouds of smoke told him how
busy they were outside.
"Easily, sir-by warping," replied the
young master's mate, who was acting as first
officer under the commander; "and it we
could only lay the brig alongside we could
take her. Standing off, ane is too heavy metal
for us."

Acting under Barney's advice, and by his
assistance, Alexander now bad the sehooner
warped to the mouth of the-creek.
The officers and crew of the brig were oc-
cupied in returning the fire of the galleys, and
watching their attack upon the larger vessels,
and were not aware of the proxitaity of the
schooner, until a thirty-two pound snot crash-
ed throughtheir bulwarks, dismounting one of
their carronades, and killing and wounding
nearly a dozen men. It is about as comfort-
able to be caught between two fires as it isfor
married man to he caught by his wife kiss-
ing a girl whom he has been courting under
the pretence of being single. If he isn't under
two fires, who is?
In less than half a minute, another shot
from the saucy little Wasp crashed into the
brig, hitting her just above wind and water,
and knocking a hole in her large enough to
have shoved a man through. At that moment
a gentle land breeze began to ruffle the leaves
in the tree tops.  The commander of the
schooner saw it.
" Aloft, men, and loose the top sail!" he
cried-" loose the to gallant-rail, too. Mr.
Barney, clap the canvas on her-we'll board
that fellow."
"Good I That's the tune I like, sir. One
more chance to take out my grudge for John-
ny Bull, and show him what -'a Yankee brat'
can do," shouted Barney, himself springing
aloft tojourry the men in their work.
Before the commander of the brig knew
that a breeze was springing up, the Wasp was
under canvas, and standing down upon himin
a course which enabled her to rake him fore
and aft, without his having hardly a chaneeto
return the fire. The gun-boats, seeing the
schooner come out, now centered their fire on
the larger vessels, and left the brig to be han-
died by the Wasp.
"Stand by to let everything go by the run,
and grapple as I lay her aboard I' shouted
Alexander, as he bore down. "Mr. Barney,
you will head the boarders."
"Ay, ay, sir,'' was the cheerful response.
"Strip to the waist, men-we've got work to
do," be added, as he threw off his coat and
bared his right arm, with which he sustained
a keen and heavy cutlas
Tbe next mo nent, amid the rattling of pis-
tols and musketry, and the yells of maddened
foemen, the hulls of the two vessels crashed
together, In an instant, sheets and halliards

q

'

yt
r     ?
i


                                          
             
         
       
   
